21 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amid row, Channi takes charge as Punjab CM||Congress leader and former Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday took oath as the new Chief Minister of Punjab with former party president Rahul Gandhi and other party leaders attending the swearing-in-ceremony. In his first remarks after being sworn in, Mr. Channi asked the Centre to withdraw the three contentious farm laws. The Chief Minister said his party stood firmly with the farmers agitating against the “black” farm laws. However, the change of guard came amid reservations being expressed by former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar over AICC in-charge Harish Rawat’s statement that the upcoming Assembly election would be fought under the leadership of State president Navjot Singh Sidhu. The controversy forced the party into damage control, with Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala saying the elections will be fought under the leadership of both Mr. Channi and Mr. Sidhu. Two deputy Chief Ministers — O.P. Soni and Sukhjinder Randhawa — also took the oath of office along with the Chief Minister. Mr. Channi is the first Dalit to head the government in the State. Apart from Mr. Gandhi, several Congress leaders, including AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat and Mr. Sidhu, were present when Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy. Former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh skipped the event even as he extended his best wishes to Mr. Channi. ‘CM undermined’ Hinting that the turmoil in the party may not have been entirely settled, Mr. Jakhar, speaking ahead of the swearing-in, said it was “baffling” to hear from Mr. Rawat that the Assembly election would be contested under the State party chief instead of the new Chief Minister, which he said, “undermines the Chief Minister’s authority.” Taking to Twitter, Mr. Jakhar said, “On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr. Rawats’s statement ...is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection .” Addressing a presser after taking charge, Mr. Channi said there would be zero tolerance towards corruption in his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/channi-takes-charge-as-punjab-cm-amid-row/article36580737.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 vaccine export to resume||India will resume the export of COVID-19 vaccines under its ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme to fulfil the commitment towards COVAX (COVID-19 Vaccines Global Access), Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday. “We are resuming Vaccine Maitri next month in line with our motto ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’,” the Minister said. The surplus supply of vaccines would be used to fulfil India’s commitment towards the world in the collective fight against the virus, he added. COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and the World Health Organization. Speaking about increased vaccine production in the coming months, Mr. Mandaviya stated that more than 30 crore doses would be made in October. More than 100 crore doses would be produced in the coming quarter (October-December), he added. Highlighting the importance of indigenous research and production of COVID-19 vaccines, he observed that India’s vaccination drive had been a role model for the world and it was marching ahead with great speed. “More than four times, we have crossed one crore vaccination administration in a single day since the drive commenced,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-vaccine-export-to-resume/article36580734.ece
21 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nearly 90% of 18-plus in State covered by first dose||Nearly 90% of the State’s eligible population (persons above 18 years) has been covered by the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, Health Minister Veena George said here on Monday First dose has been administered to 89.84% or 2,39,95,651 persons, while 37.35% or 99,75,323 persons have been covered by both vaccine doses. Wayanad district had earlier reached 100% coverage of the eligible population with one vaccine dose and Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Idukki and Ernakulam districts were also nearing total coverage of their target populations, Ms. George told mediapersons . She urged those who were yet to take the shots to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest as the death rate was high amongst the unvaccinated. Vigil to continue The vigil against the pandemic will continue and everyone, including the fully vaccinated persons, will have to follow all universal precautions such as masking and physical distancing against COVID-19. Public functions and get-togethers will have to be avoided for a few days more. She said that the government had increased the proportion of RT-PCR tests as instances of those turning positive while remaining asymptomatic were nearly 75%. School reopening Ms. George said that the Health and the Education Departments will be holding joint meetings, led by the respective Ministers, to thrash out the operational details of school reopening and the preparatory work that was required. Clear-cut guidelines will be issued on how the school reopening will be implemented, she added. The seroprevalence survey report, which is expected to be released later in the month, will give more clarity on the State’s COVID-19 situation and help the State take future policy decisions Dengue outbreak She also dispelled reports which had appeared in some sections of the media which gave the impression that dengue serotype 2 was new to Kerala. All four serotypes of dengue virus have been reported from across the country and all four are endemic to Kerala. Kerala experienced its last major outbreak of dengue in 2017 and this outbreak was particularly serious because two serotypes of dengue virus – DENV1 and DENV2 – were co-circulating in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearly-90-of-18-plus-in-state-covered-by-first-dose/article36581133.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||False campaign by Opposition failed to halt YSRCP victory march, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said the false propaganda unleashed by the opposition parties could not halt the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP)’s winning streak that began in the 2019 general elections, when it won an unprecedented 22 out of the 25 Lok Sabha seats and 151 Assembly constituencies out of 175. The party’s phenomenal victory in the ZPTC and MPTC elections proved that its popularity has not waned a bit over the last two and a half years as more than 95% of the promises made in 2019 have been fulfilled. This is what earned it the people’s trust, he observed, while expressing his gratitude for the people’s support in successive elections. In his address to the people from his camp office, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy recalled how the YSRCP decimated its arch rival Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the 2019 Assembly elections with over 50% vote share and maintained its record thereafter even amidst conspiracies hatched by the opposition parties. The YSRCP-supported candidates won in 10,536 out of 13,081 gram panchayats for which elections were held subsequently. The ruling party scripted history in the elections for urban local bodies as well. The YSRCP won 8,249 out of 9,583 MPTCs and 628 out of 638 ZPTCs now. The party was indebted to the people for giving it such a decisive mandate, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government struggled a lot because of the obstacles placed in its path by the opposition parties and due to the COVID-19 pandemic. ‘Vicious campaign’ “A section of the print and electronic media carried out a vicious propaganda against the government to favour the TDP but to no avail as people saw through their bad intentions. Their single-point agenda appeared to help the TDP in dethroning the Chief Minister so that N. Chandrababu Naidu’s appetite for power could be satiated,” he alleged. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the TDP was not admitting its failure in spite of the fact that the ZPTC and MPTC elections were fought on the basis of party symbols. Nevertheless, the YSRCP would work harder for people’s welfare and never forget the affection showered on it, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/false-campaign-by-opposition-failed-to-halt-ysrcp-victory-march-says-jagan/article36580740.ece
21 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Assailant taken into custody after attack on DIET staff||The police arrested 31-year-old Naveen Shetty of Kundapur in Udupi district on the charge of attacking three women employees of the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET), off Jail Road in Mangaluru, on Monday. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that the assailant went to DIET, which is situated adjoining the Mangaluru District Prison, at around 1 p.m. He asked for a teacher in DIET saying that he had to deliver a gift. When staff members of the institute questioned him, the man attacked them with a machete, injuring Reena Rai (45), Nirmala (43) and Gunavati (58). As staff members raised an alarm, the police from the District Prison, autorickshaw drivers and others rushed to the spot and caught the assailant. Later, Barke Police took the assailant into custody. Reena Rai is a First Division Clerk, Nirmala a stenographer and Gunavati is a Group D employee. Nirmala suffered a head injury, while Reena Rai has a cut over the left eyebrow and Gunavati has an injury on her back. They were admitted to two private hospitals and their condition is stable. The police are yet to establish the reason for the attack. The assailant claims to be a former student of DIET and has been an employee in a court in Kundapur since 2018. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara visited the victims along with the police chief. He said that only clerical staff were at DIET on Monday, as the teaching staff were on the field to oversee working of primary schools after offline classes started for Classes VI and VII in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assailant-taken-into-custody-after-attack-on-diet-staff/article36581251.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||KTR files defamation suit against Revanth||The ongoing political spat between Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy took a legal turn with the former filing a defamation suit against the latter in a local court here on Monday. Mr. Rao, son of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, sought a slew of directions including an unconditional public apology from Mr. Reddy, who is also Malkajgiri MP, and an order to restrain the latter from making scandalous and defamatory statements against him. The Minister wanted the court to declare the MP’s statements on him as scandalous, libellous and defamatory. Perpetual injunction He sought a perpetual injunction against the MP from making such statements at any public platform through any form of media by dragging his name into the ongoing investigation by Enforcement Directorate (ED) over the role of Telugu film personalities with regard to a drugs racket case. The Minister also wanted the court to direct the MP to take down his comments on him made through Twitter, Facebook and Youtube. He asked the court to instruct Revanth Reddy to issue an apology to him through social media. Mr. Rama Rao requested the court to make the MP pay the costs of the suit. The Minister said the MP’s scandalous allegations not only constituted a civil wrong of defamation, but also a criminal offence of defamation. His counsel N. Naveen Kumar stated that the Minister was “still in the process of collecting details of the extent of defamation”. The Minister therefore had the right of seeking relief of claiming compensatory damages from the MP, the counsel said in the suit. The Minister accused the MP of assassinating his character by describing him as a “liar and looter” in a tweet. This was gross abuse of rights and dignity since the MP could not justify or prove any such allegations, he said. The petition was under scrutiny and likely to be heard anytime soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ktr-files-defamation-suit-against-revanth/article36581076.ece
21 September 2021||Vijayawada,||Govt. to roll out online movie ticket system||Information and Public Relations and Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah has announced the government’s decision to soon roll out an online ticket system for cinemas after a meeting with producers, distributors and exhibitors on Monday and claimed it has the support of the film industry. Mr. Venkataramaiah told mediapersons that a delegation of Tollywood, comprising Dil Raju, D.N.V. Prasad, Adiseshagiri Rao, D.V.V. Danayya, C. Kalyan and others, extended their support to the government’s online ticketing initiative. He said online issuance of tickets was intended to ensure entertainment (movies) at government-set pricing and that it would bring in the much-needed transparency by curbing the sale of black tickets which help in tax evasion. Assurance The government would positively respond to any request that benefits public and its sole aim was to make entertainment available to the audience at affordable rates, Mr. Venkataramaiah said, promising to look into problems faced by Tollywood due to COVID-19. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Kalyan said completion of four shows by midnight and 100% occupancy were discussed. Industry representatives would have talks with the Chief Minister in the near future to resolve any issues that remain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-roll-out-online-movie-ticket-system/article36580725.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Mysuru student tops all five streams in CET||Mysuru-based Meghan H.K. has bagged the first rank in all five streams in the Common Entrance Test (CET) 2021. The test, held on August 28 and 29, is a gateway to professional courses which includes engineering, agriculture, yoga and naturopathy, veterinary science, and pharmacy. A student of Pramati Hill View School in Mysuru, Meghan secured the first rank in all of them. Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) officials said this was possibly because ranks were allotted only through the CET scores. Hitherto, the authority used to allot ranks by a combination of II pre-university marks and CET scores for some streams. This year, as many 2,01,834 candidates registered for the test of which 1,93,447 appeared. As many as 12 candidates who tested positive for COVID-19 were allowed to write exams and separate arrangements were made for them. As many as 50 candidates bagged 60/60 in the biology section. Six candidates got all answers right in mathematics and three in chemistry. According to KEA, 1.83 lakh candidates secured ranks to make them eligible for engineering seats, 1.52 lakh for agriculture, 1.52 lakh for veterinary, 1.55 lakh for naturopathy and yoga, and 1.86 lakh candidates for B. Pharma and Pharm D. courses. Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said that the document verification would begin from September 30 and students had to verify the documents physically at the designated centres. The ranks of around 7,000 candidates were not released because they had not submitted the required documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mysuru-student-tops-all-five-streams-in-cet/article36580779.ece
21 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Jayant gets khaps’ stamp of approval||At a social event that has political ramifications, leaders of different khaps in western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana on Sunday presented the traditional headgear to Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary and formally anointed him as the successor of Chaudhary Charan Singh’s legacy. It not only meant that from now on his name will be preceded by Chaudhary in social and political gatherings, but his word will carry weight in socio-political issues. Traditional seat Held in Chhaprauli town of Baghpat district, the traditional seat of the Chaudhary family, the event marked the “rasma pagdi” ceremony of Mr. Jayant’s father and former RLD president Ajit Singh, who passed away in May owing to COVID-19 related complications. With thousands in attendance, observers said the event was mounted as a show of strength by the RLD. It came days after the mammoth Muzaffarnagar panchayat, where a section of the media got the impression that the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the farmers’ protest against the contentious farm laws in the region, was going to be the political face of farmers as well. Among those who presented the headgear was Naresh Tikait, president of BKU and head of the Balyan Khap. Speaking to presspersons, he reiterated his call for voting against the BJP and appealed to the public to vote for those who could defeat the ruling party. In a short speech, Mr. Chaudhary said he would work to live up to the faith reposed in him. “This headgear, your blessings would act as an armour in facing any situation,” he said. Interestingly, Rajendra Singh, head of the Gathwal Khap, who is known to be close to the BJP, was also present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jayant-gets-khaps-stamp-of-approval/article36580946.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC not to interfere in reopening of schools||The judiciary would not interfere with the States’ decision on reopening schools, the Supreme Court said on Monday. The decision to open schools was entirely that of the States and the court would not “queer the pitch”, a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna stated. The judiciary had neither the data nor the expertise to pass “omnibus” directions to the States to open schools and resume physical classes, especially when the lives of children were at stake. “Governments have to tread with the greatest care when opening schools and exposing children to the virus... If so, courts have to take greater care, that too, with no data at hand,” Justice Chandrachud observed. The court was dealing with a petition filed by a student who wanted governments to take time-bound decisions to open up schools for physical classes. Justice Chandrachud said the petitioner should focus on his studies rather than file public interest petitions with no or little data to support his contention. “Different States have different situations regarding COVID-19...,” Justice Chandrachud noted.   “The situation may vary according to factors like the size of the State to density of population. It’s the decision of each State to see the areas where there is a spike in cases and act accordingly. Ultimately, it’s best to leave it to the governments to decide. We cannot take over governance,” he noted. Justice Nagarathna pointed out that teachers had to be vaccinated and children had not been vaccinated yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-not-to-interfere-in-reopening-of-schools/article36581190.ece
21 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Jayant gets khaps’ stamp of approval||At a social event that has political ramifications, leaders of different khaps in western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana on Sunday presented the traditional headgear to Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary and formally anointed him as the successor of Chaudhary Charan Singh’s legacy. It not only meant that from now on his name will be preceded by Chaudhary in social and political gatherings, but his word will carry weight in socio-political issues. Held in Chhaprauli town of Baghpat district, the traditional seat of the Chaudhary family, the event marked the “rasma pagdi” ceremony of Mr. Jayant’s father and former RLD president Ajit Singh, who passed away in May owing to COVID-19 related complications. With thousands in attendance at the venue, observers said the event was mounted as a show of strength by the RLD. It came days after the mammoth Muzaffarnagar panchayat, where a section of the media got the impression that Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the farmers’ stir against the contentious farm laws in the region, was going to be the political face of farmers as well. Mr. Chaudhary said he would work to live up to the faith reposed in him. He asserted that he would not budge when it came to self-respect and dignity of the followers of Chaudhary Charan Singh. “This headgear, your blessings would act as an armour in facing any situation,” he observed. ‘Clear political message’ Describing Mr. Tikait’s statement as an obvious hint as only the RLD has the capacity to take on the BJP in the region, Shokendra Chaudhary of Battisa Khap said the event had a clear political message as heads of 18 prominent khaps turned up in solidarity with the RLD president. “They promised to strengthen his hands in the forthcoming polls,” he observed. Interestingly, Rajendra Singh, head of the Gathwal Khap, who is known to be close to the BJP, was also present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jayant-gets-khaps-stamp-of-approval/article36581191.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC not to interfere in reopening of schools||The judiciary would not interfere with the States’ decision on reopening schools, the Supreme Court said on Monday. The decision to open schools was entirely that of the States and the court would not “queer the pitch”, a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna stated. The judiciary had neither the data nor the expertise to pass “omnibus” directions to the States to open schools and resume physical classes, especially when the lives of children were at stake. Without data “Governments have to tread with the greatest care when opening schools and exposing children to the virus... If so, courts have to take greater care, that too, with no data at hand,” Justice Chandrachud observed. The court was dealing with a petition filed by a student who wanted governments to take time-bound decisions to open up schools for physical classes. Justice Chandrachud said the petitioner should focus on his studies rather than file public interest petitions with no or little data to support his contention. “Different States have different situations regarding COVID-19,” Justice Chandrachud noted. “The situation may vary according to factors like size of the State to density of population. It’s the decision of each State to see the areas where there is a spike in cases and act accordingly. Ultimately, it’s best to leave it to the governments to decide. We cannot take over governance,” he said. Justice Nagarathna pointed out that teachers had to be vaccinated and children had not been vaccinated yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-not-to-interfere-in-reopening-of-schools/article36580944.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Filters installed in smog tower at C.P.||The Delhi government has finished installation of filters in the smog tower in Connaught Place, which was inaugurated last month. Also, a team from IIT Bombay has started a study on the impact of the tower on the air quality, officials said. “Data generation will take a little more time as we are not operating the fans right now since we are waiting for the humidity to come down,” an official told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/filters-installed-in-smog-tower-at-cp/article36580945.ece
21 September 2021||Vijayawada,||Sambasiva Rao granted bail in fibernet case||A single-judge Bench of Justice Kanneganti Lalitha of the A.P. High Court granted bail to IRTS officer K. Sambasiva Rao, former MD of Infrastructure Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (INCAP) and currently Principal Chief Commercial Manager in the South Central Railway at Secunderabad, in the APSFL (AP State Fibernet Limited) case on Monday. Mr. Sambasiva Rao was chairman of APSFL’s technical and tender evaluation committees, when allegedly irregularities took place in the finalisation of tenders worth Rs. 329 crore, as per the CID probe. Appearing for the State during the hearing on Mr. Sambasiva Rao’s bail petition, Additional Advocate General Jasti Nagabhushan said there was probably an angle of money laundering and it would be reported to the Central government agencies concerned after getting the CID report.  The High Court is likely to take up on September 21 the petition filed by Mr. Sambasiva Rao for quashing the proceedings initiated by the CID against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-grants-bail-to-sambasiva-rao-in-fibernet-case/article36580662.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC not to interfere in reopening of schools||The judiciary would not interfere with the States’ decision on reopening schools, the Supreme Court said on Monday. The decision to open schools was entirely that of the States and the court would not “queer the pitch”, a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna stated. The judiciary had neither the data nor the expertise to pass “omnibus” directions to the States to open schools and resume physical classes, especially when the lives of children were at stake. “Governments have to tread with the greatest care when opening schools and exposing children to the virus... If so, courts have to take greater care, that too, with no data at hand,” Justice Chandrachud observed. The court was dealing with a petition filed by a student who wanted governments to take time-bound decisions to open up schools for physical classes. Justice Chandrachud said the petitioner should focus on his studies rather than file public interest petitions with no or little data to support his contention. “Different States have different situations regarding COVID-19...,” Justice Chandrachud noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-not-to-interfere-in-reopening-of-schools/article36580735.ece
21 September 2021||Jaipur,||All eyes are on Rajasthan||The political developments in Punjab have had a ripple effect in Rajasthan, where the promised Cabinet expansion and reshuffle, as well as political appointments have been inordinately delayed. The rival factions in the Congress here expect that a power-sharing arrangement will be worked out soon. The camps led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy, Sachin Pilot, have been at loggerheads for more than a year.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-eyes-are-on-rajasthan/article36580730.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Bengal riots: final arguments in SC on Sept. 28||The Supreme Court on Monday scheduled West Bengal’s appeal against the Calcutta High Court decision to hand over the post-poll violence cases to the CBI, for final disposal, on September 28 as the first case of the day. A Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose asked the parties to complete all pre-hearing formalities, including the filing of documents, by Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-riots-final-arguments-in-sc-on-sept-28/article36581189.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||Porn case: Raj Kundra, aide get bail||A magistrate court in Mumbai granted bail to businessman Raj Kundra on Monday in a case of producing and streaming pornographic content. Mr. Kundra along with his aide Ryan Thorpe have been granted bail on a Rs. 50,000 cash bond or surety. They were arrested on July 19 by the Property Cell of Mumbai Police after a pornographic racket was busted earlier this year. The FIR, however, dates back to October 2020 and was filed by the Cyber Crime Cell for alleged broadcasting of nude erotic content on an online platform. In February 2021, a raid was conducted by the Crime Branch and two women were found shooting for a pornographic movie at Mr. Kundra’s bungalow. As per a chargesheet filed in April, Mr. Kundra was involved in producing and streaming pornographic content through apps called Hotshots and BollyFame. Around 51 movies have been seized from Mr. Kundra’s personal laptop. On September 15, a supplementary 1,467-page chargesheet with statements of 43 witnesses was filed by the Crime Branch of Mumbai Police, which named Mr. Kundra, Mr. Thorpe and others. Following this, the accused filed fresh bail applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/porn-case-raj-kundra-aide-get-bail/article36580942.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||Porn case: Raj Kundra, aide get bail||A magistrate court in Mumbai granted bail to businessman Raj Kundra on Monday in a case of producing and streaming pornographic content. Mr. Kundra along with his aide Ryan Thorpe have been granted bail on a Rs. 50,000 cash bond or surety. They were arrested on July 19 by the Property Cell of Mumbai Police after a pornographic racket was busted earlier this year. The FIR dates back to October 2020 and was filed by the Cyber Crime Cell for alleged broadcasting of nude erotic content on an online platform. In February 2021, a raid was conducted by the Crime Branch and two women were found shooting for a pornographic movie at Mr. Kundra’s bungalow. As per a chargesheet filed in April, Mr. Kundra was involved in producing and streaming pornographic content through apps called Hotshots and BollyFame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/porn-case-raj-kundra-aide-get-bail/article36581274.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||Porn case: Raj Kundra, aide get bail||A magistrate court in Mumbai granted bail to businessman Raj Kundra on Monday in a case of producing and streaming pornographic content. Mr. Kundra along with his aide Ryan Thorpe have been granted bail on a Rs. 50,000 cash bond or surety. They were arrested on July 19 by the Property Cell of Mumbai Police after a pornographic racket was busted earlier this year. The FIR, however, dates back to October 2020 and was filed by the Cyber Crime Cell for alleged broadcasting of nude erotic content on an online platform. In February 2021, a raid was conducted by the Crime Branch and two women were found shooting for a pornographic movie at Mr. Kundra’s bungalow. As per a chargesheet filed in April, Mr. Kundra was involved in producing and streaming pornographic content through apps called Hotshots and BollyFame . Around 51 movies have been seized from Mr. Kundra’s personal laptop. On September 15, a supplementary 1,467-page chargesheet with statements of 43 witnesses was filed by the Crime Branch of Mumbai Police, which named Mr. Kundra, Mr. Thorpe and others. Following this, the accused filed fresh bail applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/porn-case-raj-kundra-aide-get-bail/article36581188.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Paying obeisance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paying-obeisance/article36580950.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Bill to protect illegal religious structures||With the demolition of a temple at Nanjangud in Mysuru triggering a backlash from Hindutva outfits as well as the Opposition, the BJP government on Monday tabled the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021, in the Assembly to protect religious structures already constructed illegally in public places. It safeguards religious constructions in a public place that exist before the date of commencement of the Act “in order to protect communal harmony and not to hurt the religious sentiments of the public.” It does not, however, apply to “unauthorised religious structures and constructions in public places in future,” says the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bill-to-protect-illegal-religious-structures/article36580780.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. mentality exposed: BJP||The BJP on Monday attacked the Congress for its alleged “lip service” to the idea of Dalit empowerment. This followed Congress Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat’s statement that the Assembly election campaign would be run under Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Navjot Sidhu. “The Congress mentality with regard to Dalits has been exposed by Mr. Rawat’s statement,” BJP MP and party national secretary Vinod Sonkar said.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-mentality-exposed-bjp/article36580726.ece
21 September 2021||bengaluru,||HC imposes Rs. 10 lakh cost on man for misuse of PIL||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed an exemplary cost of Rs. 10 lakh on a fish supplying agent for misusing PIL provisions against a firm over a personal dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-imposes-rs-10-lakh-cost-on-man-for-misuse-of-pil/article36580781.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Plea in High Court seeks AAP derecognition||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre, Delhi government and Election Commission to respond to a petition seeking derecognition of the Aam Aadmi Party for organising a Ganesh Chaturthi event using public money. The matter will be heard again on November 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-in-high-court-seeks-aap-derecognition/article36580948.ece
21 September 2021||Pune,||BJP leader detained at train station in Satara||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya was detained at the Karad railway station at Satara in Maharashtra on Monday after the Kolhapur district administration issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leader-detained-at-train-station-in-satara/article36581275.ece
21 September 2021||BELAGAVI,||Water supply disrupted in most Belagavi areas||Drinking water supply has been disrupted in most areas in Belagavi city, due to labour strike and some technical glitches. Belagavi’s 10 of the 58 wards have 24 x 7 water supply. The rest get water twice a week. But water supply has been disrupted since Saturday last. Some densely populated areas such as Tilakwadi, Wadagaon and Shahapur have suffered erratic water supply for over a week now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-supply-disrupted-in-most-belagavi-areas/article36581053.ece
21 September 2021||Pune,||BJP leader detained at train station in Satara||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya was detained at the Karad railway station at Satara in Maharashtra on Monday after the Kolhapur district administration issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure against him. A video clip later surfaced showing the BJP leader being escorted out of the station by police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leader-detained-at-train-station-in-satara/article36581192.ece
21 September 2021||MYSURU,||Weight training session for lead jumbo||The weight training for Abhimanyu, who is carrying the 750-kg golden howdah during the Jamboo Savari, began on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weight-training-session-for-lead-jumbo/article36581277.ece
21 September 2021||Chennai,||‘Bring deemed varsities under govt. purview’||The high-level committee led by retired High Court judge A.K. Rajan has recommended bringing in all the deemed universities under the State government’s purview. The panel, constituted to study the impact of NEET, submitted its report to the government two months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bring-deemed-varsities-under-govt-purview/article36580833.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Excess September rainfall shrinks monsoon deficit to 3%||The September rainfall in India is 27% more than what is normal for the month. With a fresh rain-bearing pressure system forming in the Bay of Bengal, it is also likely that the withdrawal of the monsoon, which normally starts by September 17, is expected to be delayed. Until August-end, a crippling rainfall deficit had brought India dangerously close to a drought-like situation with a nearly 9% deficit, but a resurgence of rain since September has narrowed the deficit to 3%. ‘Not unusual’ Delayed monsoon withdrawals are not unusual. In 2019, the southwest monsoon commenced withdrawal on October 9, and last year, the withdrawal began on September 28. The monsoon also saw delayed withdrawals in 2017 and 2018. From September 1 to 20, rainfall was in excess in all regions of the country. Central India saw an excess of 71% over what is normal and northwest India 26% above normal. The monsoon completely withdraws from India around mid-October. There are no signs of monsoon withdrawal from North India for the next 10 days, Mrutunjay Mohapatra, Director General, India Meteorological Department, said in a statement on September 16. Anti-cyclonic wind According to the department, the monsoon withdrawal from northwest India takes place if there is a cessation of rainfall activity over the area for continuous five days. An anti-cyclonic wind has to form over the lower troposphere, and there should also be considerable reduction in moisture content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/excess-september-rainfall-shrinks-monsoon-deficit-to-3/article36580472.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Channi and Sidhu are the faces of the party, clarifies Congress||Amid a backlash from within the party and criticism from political rivals, the Congress went into damage control to clarify All India Congress Committee (AICC) Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat’s statement that the party would contest the State Assembly election under Navjot Singh Sidhu’s leadership, Stating that Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Mr. Sidhu will be the faces of the party, AICC chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said while Mr. Channi will represent the government, Mr. Sidhu will be the face of the party in the election, adding that Mr. Rawat’s statement was “misconstrued and misrepresented”. The AICC spokesperson was forced to issue a “clarification” after the BJP, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) attacked the Congress for “insulting” a Dalit Chief Minister. ‘Made to hold seat’ The BJP alleged that the Chief Minister was “made to hold the seat” for a Gandhi family loyalist, referring to Mr. Sidhu. “Our faces will be Mr. Channi and Mr. Sidhu, as also ordinary Congress workers and leaders who will be supporting them. If anybody says one or the other will be the face, intentionally or otherwise, it is being misinterpreted by the media,” Mr. Surjewala told presspersons. Mr Surjewala, however, chose to ignore comments from former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar who said Mr Rawat’s statement undermined the newly appointed Chief Minister’s authority. ‘Unwarranted attack’ The Congress chief spokesperson attacked the party’s political rivals for “unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably” attacking the candidature of Mr. Channi. “I want to tell all our friends in the media, please, you also do not grudge the young Dalit leader and the role assigned him to as Chief Minister of Punjab... We urge the BJP, the Akali Dal, the BSP and the AAP to stop insulting Dalits and spreading lies about them,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channi-and-sidhu-are-the-faces-of-the-party-clarifies-congress/article36580640.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||SC seeks details on jabs for the disabled||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Union government to explain the steps taken by it to facilitate persons with disabilities to gain easy access to COVID-19 vaccines in order to equally protect them against the novel coronavirus. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna issued notice on a petition filed by the non-governmental organisation Evara Foundation, represented by advocate Pankaj Sinha, saying it had raised a “significant issue”. The court directed the government to respond in two weeks. The petition has sought adequate provisions to be made by the government to vaccinate persons with disabilities at home. It urged the court to direct the government to give preference to persons with disabilities while scheduling vaccination slots. It also sought a dedicated helpline, besides the CoWIN portal, for them to book vaccination. The petition argued that protection for persons with disabilities was explicitly required under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. The obligation of the State to make available quick and easy access to COVID-19 vaccine for them fell within the “principle of reasonable accommodation”, the petition said. The Bench said it wanted to know what steps the government had taken to resolve the “genuine grievances” of persons with disabilities. The court also issued notice in a separate petition filed by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights seeking easy availability of vaccines for pregnant women and nursing mothers. Advocate Vrinda Grover, for the commission, said the petition was originally filed in May during the second wave. The government had since then framed operating guidelines for pregnant and nursing women. “There is a need to conduct scientific research to see the virus’ effect on pregnant women and lactating mothers... There is need to ensure continuous monitoring,” she submitted. The court asked the Solicitor-General to give details on the implementation of the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-details-on-jabs-for-the-disabled/article36580658.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Buddha collection on display soon||The National Museum’s extensive collections are set to be displayed in new locations in the city, with galleries on Buddhist art expected to be opened within the next few weeks. Work is also under way to prepare the arms and armour collection and the freedom struggle collection for display. The Buddhist galleries, located in the Archaeological Survey of India’s former offices next to the National Museum, were set to be opened within a week or two, a National Museum source said on Monday. The National Museum building on Janpath is among the buildings proposed to be demolished as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project and the museum itself has moved to the North and South Block. However, the plans for these projects and timelines have not been announced. At the same time, parts of the National Museum’s collections are being moved to new galleries, including in renovated barracks at the Red Fort. The National Museum’s gallery on arms and armour of India would be shifted to the Red Fort within the next two months, the source said. Freedom struggle In addition, the gallery on the freedom struggle from 1857 onwards was being developed by the National Museum at the Red Fort and would take about four or five months to complete, the source noted. The Jammu and Kashmir display was also being developed by the National Museum, the source added. In a reply to the Lok Sabha in August, Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy said the museum on Buddha was being “developed in a renovated century-old majestic building and spread over an area of about 15,000 square feet, surrounded by a lush green landscape”. He added it was a first-of-its-kind museum on Buddha and would include over 200 objects dating back to the 1st Century CE. Mr. Reddy had further stated that the museum on the freedom struggle would have an interactive approach and tell the stories of those who fought for Independence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/buddha-collection-on-display-soon/article36580652.ece
21 September 2021||Srinagar,||Zero ceasefire violations on LoC: Army||The Army on Monday said ceasefire violations by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir had dropped to zero this year, but “60 to 70 Pakistani terrorists” are still active in the Valley. “There has been no increase in ceasefire violations. This year, there has been none. At least in the Kashmir Valley, there have been no incidents of ceasefire violation,” Lt. Gen. D.P. Pandey, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Srinagar-based Chinar Corps (15 Corps), said during a function in the Valley. He said the Army was prepared for any situation though there has been “no instigations from across the border”. Lt. Gen. Pandey said there were a few attempts of infiltration “though not adequately supported”. “There were two infiltration attempts. One was neutralised in Bandipora recently. Another operation is on in Baramulla’s Uri for the past 24 hours after we felt an infiltration attempt was made. Whether they [infiltrators] are on this side or returned to that side is not clear. We are quiet alert. We will ensure minimal infiltration takes place,” the Army officer said. Lt. Gen. Pandey said the police figures suggested that 60 to 70 Pakistani terrorists were active in Kashmir. “The strategy seems that these Pakistani terrorists do not attack themselves but force locals to carry out some activity and get killed in encounters. This results in angst among the local militants’ family and friends against us. That seems their strategy,” Lt. Gen. Pandey said. He appealed to the local youth to shun the path of violence. To a question on the likely fallout of the Taliban takeover on Kashmir, the Army officer said, “Why are you worried? You are safe. You will be kept safe. There are enough efforts [in that direction]. Whoever picks up a weapon will be neutralised, either by killing or apprehending. If anyone wants to surrender, he will be welcomed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zero-ceasefire-violations-on-loc-army/article36580469.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar warned against adopting Constitution: Oli||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emissary S. Jaishankar warned against passing the Constitution in 2015, former Nepalese Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli has said in documents submitted to his party. The set of “political documents” was submitted to the standing committee of the Communist Party of Nepal-UML, which met on September 19. The meeting was called to mark the anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution on Monday. “The Indian diplomat who arrived as a special emissary of the Prime Minister of India threatened the leaders of the political parties not to promulgate the Constitution and that it would not be accepted if it was done against India’s suggestions,” said the papers from Mr. Oli’s collection. “He said the consequences would be negative,” said the documents written in Nepali. The democratic Constitution was adopted on September 20, 2015, but India till date has not welcomed the development, saying it “noted” the Constitution. The adoption took place soon after Mr. Jaishankar, then Foreign Secretary, paid a visit to Kathmandu during which he met the leaders of various political parties, including Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’. Ever since the adoption of the Constitution, successive governments in Nepal have promised to carry out amendments to satisfy the demands of greater representation of the Madhesis in politics and state institutions. However, these amendments have not yet been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jaishankar-warned-against-adopting-constitution-oli/article36580617.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Bengal riots: final arguments in SC on Sept. 28||The Supreme Court on Monday scheduled West Bengal’s appeal against the Calcutta High Court decision to hand over the post-poll violence cases to the CBI, for final disposal, on September 28 as the first case of the day. A Bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose asked the parties to complete all pre-hearing formalities, including the filing of documents, by Friday. The court decided to go ahead and hear the final arguments on September 28 as the respondent parties, some of them represented by senior advocates like Harish Salve and Mahesh Jethmalani, were already present in the hearing on caveat. During the brief hearing, senior advocate Kapil Sibal began with a submission that the victim in one of the murder cases was alive. Justice Bose, after a consultation with Justice Saran, asked whether the CBI and the Special Investigation Team (SIT) were doing an investigation or an inquiry. Mr. Sibal clarified that the CBI had been entrusted with cases of murder and rape while other cases were with the SIT, which was monitored by a judge. At this point, Justice Saran, the lead judge on the Bench, asked Mr. Sibal how long he would take to complete his submissions. “Two or three hours,” Mr. Sibal replied. Justice Saran said that then it would be better to hear the case continuously without any interruption on another day as the first case of that day. The parties consented to September 28. Charge against panel In the previous hearing on September 13, West Bengal accused a committee appointed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to look into “post poll violence” of “apparent bias”. The appeal challenges a five-judge Bench judgment of the Calcutta High Court transferring the investigation of post poll violence cases, involving murder and rape, to the CBI. The High Court, on August 19, directed the State to immediately pay compensation to the crime victims. The judgment was based on the NHRC committee’s findings on July 12. West Bengal had argued that the panel members were either “members of the Bharatiya Janata Party or were closely associated” with it. It named committee members Atif Rasheed and Rajulben L. Desai in this regard. Mr. Sibal orally referred to another committee member, Rajiv Jain, during the hearing, though the State’s petition did not refer to him. “The inclusion of the aforesaid members in the committee indeed gave rise to a reasonable likelihood of bias and vitiated the independence of the entire committee, especially given their admitted leadership position within the committee and their rank when compared to others in the committee,” the West Bengal petition in the Supreme Court said. It contended that the transfer of cases to the CBI should be done only in “rare and exceptional cases” and not because unsubstantiated allegations have been levelled against the local police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-riots-final-arguments-in-sc-on-sept-28/article36580620.ece
21 September 2021||JAIPUR,||All eyes on Rajasthan after changes in Punjab govt.||The turmoil in the ruling Congress in Punjab, leading to the appointment of a new Chief Minister, has had a ripple effect in Rajasthan, where the promised Cabinet expansion and reshuffle as well as political appointments have been inordinately delayed. The rival factions in the Congress here expect that a power-sharing arrangement will be worked out soon, after the Punjab episode. The camps led by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy, Sachin Pilot, have been at loggerheads for more than a year, though Mr. Gehlot seems to have control over the ruling party with the majority of MLAs being in his support. The Pilot camp, however, feeling more confident after the developments in Punjab, expects a decisive move by the high command in Rajasthan as well. Change in stance? Mr. Gehlot, who has so far refused to act under any pressure for making the changes, is likely to soften his stance after an unambiguous statement made by All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Ajay Maken that the roadmap in the State was ready. The delay in Cabinet expansion was attributed to Mr. Gehlot’s ill health. Mr. Pilot reportedly met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi over the weekend and had a discussion. On the other hand, the State’s decision to transfer 25 IAS officers on Saturday was seen as a move for political management ahead of the Cabinet reshuffle. Sunday’s resignation of the Chief Minister’s Officer on Special Duty, Lokesh Sharma, was also linked with the Punjab episode, as he had posted a tweet making an indirect criticism of the Congress high command over the change in leadership. Mr. Sharma has been associated with Mr. Gehlot for over a decade and his resignation is yet to be accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-eyes-on-rajasthan-after-changes-in-punjab-govt/article36580632.ece
21 September 2021||Washington DC,||PM-Biden bilateral ahead of Quad meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Joe Biden will meet on Friday for their first in-person discussion, the White House announced on Monday. In a publicly released schedule, the bilateral was listed first, followed by a summit-level meeting of Quad leaders. “…In an interesting way, the bilateral discussion between the U.S. and India will help reinforce and give momentum to the Quad discussion because many of the topics are very much interrelated,” a senior administration official said in response to a question from The Hindu, while speaking to presspersons on a briefing call. Afghanistan and, more broadly, counterterrorism will be part of the agenda for the bilateral discussions, the official said. India has been concerned that Afghanistan will become a safe haven for terrorists and a base from which they can step up attacks on the Indian territory. The two leaders will also compare notes, the official said, on a range of regional issues and developments. It is likely they will discuss dynamics with Beijing as part of this. Focus on COVID-19 The main areas of consultation and announcements for the Quad Leaders Summit on Friday will be around addressing the pandemic, as per the senior official. At a virtual summit in March, Quad leaders launched a vaccine initiative — supplying at least a billion vaccines in Asia by the end of 2022. On Friday there will be announcements on moving that goal forward. The official also told presspersons that in the list of Quad outcomes will be one related to its core objective for the region — “...an overarching commitment at the core of the Quad to promoting a free and open Indo Pacific,” the official said. On last week’s launch of a trilateral security partnership for the Indo-Pacific, AUKUS, the senior administration official reiterated that the deal was “unique”. “This is for Australia, and it is based on a unique set of circumstances involving the Australian case.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-biden-bilateral-ahead-of-quad-meet/article36580696.ece
21 September 2021||Kolkata,||Western Ghats offer major additions to flora||The Botanical Survey of India, in its new publication Plant Discoveries 2020 has added 267 new taxa/ species to the country’s flora. The 267 new discoveries include 119 angiosperms; 3 pteridophytes; 5 bryophytes, 44 lichens; 57 fungi, 21 algae and 18 microbes. In 2020, 202 new plant species were discovered across the country and 65 new records were added. With these new discoveries the latest estimate of plant diversity in India stands at 54,733 taxa including 21,849 angiosperms, 82 gymnosperms, 1,310 pteridophytes, 2,791 bryophytes, 2,961 lichens, 15,504 fungi, 8,979 algae and 1,257 microbes. “The year 2020 will remain marked in global history for the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, with the havoc it caused and still continues in 2021. This overwhelming addition of 267 plant taxa to Indian flora, which were discovered as either new species or as new distributional records for India, is nowhere less than the average number of new plant discoveries made from India during the past one-and-half decade,” said A.A. Mao, Director of the Botanical Survey of India. Balsam blossoms Among the new discoveries this year, nine new species of balsam ( Impatiens ) and one species of wild banana ( Musa pradhanii ) were discovered from Darjeeling and one species each of wild jamun ( Syzygium anamalaianum ) from Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu and fern ( Selaginella odishana ) were recorded from Kandhamal in Odisha. There are 14 new macro and 31 new micro fungi species recorded from various parts of India. An assessment of the geographical distribution of these newly discovered plants reveals that 22% of the discoveries were made from the Western Ghats followed by the Western Himalayas (15%), the Eastern Himalayas (14%) and the Northeast ranges (12%). The west coast contributed 10% while the east coast contributed (9%) in total discoveries; the Eastern Ghats and south Deccan contribute 4% each while the central highland and north Deccan added 3% each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/western-ghats-offer-major-additions-to-new-flora/article36580644.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Centre’s stand on Batra plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre to express its stand on a plea by Manika Batra, who was left out of the Indian contingent for the coming Asian Table Tennis Championships in Doha, challenging the Table Tennis Federation of India’s (TTFI) mandate of compulsory attendance at the National Coaching Camp to be selected. Ms. Batra, in her plea, also alleged that on one occasion, national coach Soumyadeep Roy “pressured” her to “throw away a match” to enable one of his personal trainees to qualify for the Olympics 2020. The 26-year-old, the highest ranked Indian women player internationally, said she not only refused to comply with such an “unethical, illegal and immoral request”, but also immediately communicated this to the Adviser, TTFI. The High Court said the allegations against the coach were serious and the Centre should be a little proactive. It posted the case for September 23. Senior counsel Sachin Dutta, appearing for Ms. Batra, argued that by virtue of a rule on mandatorily attending the national camp, Ms. Batra’s chances for the 25th ITTF Asian Table Tennis Championships, 2021 had been scuttled despite her fulfilling all merit-based criteria. Counsel for the federation denied all allegations. “After the conclusion of Olympics, the respondent no.1 [the TTFI] issued rules and regulations dated August 4, 2021 [received by the petitioner on August 27, 2021] informing her that attending of the National Coaching Camp is compulsory, failing which she would not be selected for any upcoming international event,” the plea said. Ms. Batra said table tennis is an individual sport which requires specialised training. “Only the personal coach would know the strengths, weaknesses, skills and areas which a player should focus and strengthen. However, these rules do not permit any personal coach / support staff,” she argued. The Commonwealth Games gold medallist and Khel Ratna awardee, in her plea, also highlighted that the TTFI was carrying out its selection processes in a “non-transparent manner”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-seeks-centres-stand-on-batra-plea/article36580627.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Drug hoarding: HC stays court proceedings against Gambhir||The Delhi High Court on Monday stayed the proceedings before a local court here against BJP leader Gautam Gambhir, his foundation and other connected parties in a case related to the alleged illegal stocking and distribution of COVID-19 drugs. The court asked the Drugs Control Department of Delhi to respond to the petition by Gautam Gambhir foundation, Mr. Gambhir and his family members who are accused in the case before December 8 — the next date of hearing. During second wave The Drug Control Department had earlier informed the High Court that the Gautam Gambhir Foundation has been found guilty of unauthorisedly stocking, procuring and distributing Fabiflu medicine to COVID-19 patients, when they were in short supply in the capital during the second wave of the pandemic. The Department has filed a complaint against Mr. Gambhir — Member of Parliament from East Delhi —, his foundation, its CEO Aprajita Singh, his mother and wife, Seema Gambhir and Natasha Gambhir, respectively — who are both trustees in the foundation. ‘Not sold for a price’ Advocate A.N.S. Nadkarni, representing Mr. Gambhir and others, submitted that no case was made out against his clients as the foundation was distributing free COVID-19 medicines through a medical camp and that it was an admitted fact that such medicines were not being “sold for a price”. The Department’s lawyer, however, said a license to deal in such medicines was necessary and the law did not distinguish between sale and distribution. The petition stated that carrying out a charitable activity during an unprecedented catastrophe did not require any licenses and initiating criminal proceedings for such acts would be a gross miscarriage of justice. They clarified that neither Mr. Gambhir nor any of the other trustees had any intention to violate the law and that “it was the compelling circumstances of the deadly pandemic compounded by mass deprivation and inability to afford medicines that compelled the petitioners to take this humanitarian step of organising a medical camp, in the face of the pandemic, to help the needy”. The petition claimed that the procurement of medicines made by the foundation, under medical supervision and against documented invoices, did not obstruct the supply chain of the medicine in any manner. “The fact that almost 2,400 strips of the total approximately 2,600 stripes were provided to the participants of the camp within the span of 16 days, is in no uncertain terms indicative of the fact that the medicines were indeed given almost immediately after procurement,” the plea said. The court had earlier queried how Mr. Gambhir was able to buy COVID-19 drugs in bulk amid shortages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-hoarding-hc-stays-court-proceedings-against-gambhir/article36580962.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||President honours Brig. Saraswati||In a virtual ceremony on Monday, President Ram Nath Kovind conferred the National Florence Nightingale Award 2020 on Deputy Director General of Military Nursing Service (MNS) Brig. S.V. Saraswati for her contribution to the MNS as nurse administrator, a Defence Ministry statement said. The award is the highest national distinction a nurse can achieve for selfless devotion and exceptional professionalism. “As a renowned operation theatre nurse, Brig. Saraswati has assisted in more than 3,000 lifesaving and emergency surgeries and has trained residents, operation room nursing trainees and auxiliary staff in her career,” the statement said. She has prepared patient teaching materials and improvised drape kits and suture packing for cardiac surgeries, it stated. She has also served with the UN Peace Keeping Forces at Congo. Brig. Saraswati hails from Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh and was commissioned into the MNS on December 28, 1983.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/president-honours-brig-saraswati/article36580654.ece
21 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Not appeasing any community, says Yogi||Pitching the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya as an achievement of the BJP government, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked if the Opposition parties were capable of building the temple. “Would the SP have been able to carry out the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Could the BSP have done it...,” Mr. Adityanath asked. Addressing an event in Jaunpur where he launched several projects, Mr. Adityanath said a 500-year wait had come to an end on August 5 last year when Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the temple in Ayodhya months after the Supreme Court ruled in favour of it. As U.P. approaches the 2022 Assembly poll, the Ram Mandir has emerged as one of the major points discussed by the ruling BJP in its campaign and events. Listing schemes and welfare projects launched by his government, Mr. Adityanath also said that all communities were benefitting from them. The government did not look at anyone's face or ask for their religion or caste while distributing the benefits, he said. “ Vikas sabka, lekin tushtikaran kisi ka nahi (Development of all, but appeasement of none),” Mr. Adityanath said in a veiled attack on the BJP’s opponents, in particular the SP, which it accuses of appeasing Muslims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/not-appeasing-a-community-says-yogi/article36580954.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||India to resume export of COVID-19 vaccines||Meanwhile in a release issued on Monday, the Health Ministry said India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has crossed the 81 crore landmark (81,73,95,763) on Monday. “More than 85.68 lakh (85,68,026) vaccine doses have been administered till 7 p.m. today,” the release said. It added that out of 81,73,95,763, 64.8% or 60,88,10,164 eligible people had received the first dose and 22.2% or 20,85,85,599 persons had received the second dose. The Ministry said the vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from COVID-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-resume-export-of-covid-19-vaccines/article36580470.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||SC not to interfere in reopening of schools||“The situation may vary according to factors like the size of the State to density of population. It’s the decision of each State to see the areas where there is a spike in cases and act accordingly. Ultimately, it’s best to leave it to the governments to decide. We cannot take over governance,” he noted. Justice Nagarathna pointed out that teachers had to be vaccinated and children had not been vaccinated yet. “The government is ultimately responsible to bring children back to school. Government is answerable. We cannot direct them to open up in a time-bound manner. We have just come out of the second wave. There may be a third wave, though it may not be as devastating,” Justice Chandrachud remarked. The issue of whether to send children to school for physical classes or not and when to do that concerned the “complexities of governance which makes it eminently a case on which the court should not interfere”. Addressing the petitioner, he observed, “Let us leave something to the democratic way of life we have chosen... Let us leave it to every State to decide”. Advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra, for the petitioner, said the plea was not meant to be “publicity seeking”. Instead, it focused on the psychological and physical damage children were being subject to by not going to school. Many thousands of children also depended on schools for their midday meal. Justice Chandrachud agreed that there was a need to balance the need to keep children safe from the virus with the requirement to keep them physical and mentally healthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-not-to-interfere-in-reopening-of-schools/article36580618.ece
21 September 2021||Chennai,||Webinar to explore emerging careers in law||A webinar on ‘Emerging Careers in Law’ presented by SAI University, in association with The Hindu , will be held from 5 p.m. on Wednesday, September 22. Sriram Panchu, senior advocate, Madras High Court; Justice Prabha Sridevan, retired judge, Madras High Court; Bahram Vakil, founder and senior partner, AZB & Partners; Ananth Padmanabhan, Dean and Associate Professor, School of Law, Sai University, and K.V. Ramani, founder and Chancellor, Sai University, will speak as part of the webinar. The discussion will be moderated by Soma Basu, Deputy Editor, MetroPlus, The Hindu . Parents and students who wish to register for the webinar can log on to https://bit.ly/2Xy2QDH or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-to-explore-emerging-careers-in-law/article36580624.ece
21 September 2021||Muzaffarnagar,||Girl raped in U.P., video shared on social media||A 17-year-old girl was raped allegedly by two men who also recorded a video of the crime and shared it on social media sites, the Uttar Pradesh police said on Monday. The accused, identified as Shubham and Ashish, have been arrested. The incident took place on Sunday in a village under the Bhopa police station, Station House Officer Subhash Babu said. A case of rape had been registered against the accused. According to the complaint lodged by the girl’s mother, the accused lured her into a garden on the pretext of getting her a guava from a tree and then raped her. The incident came to light after the video of the crime was circulated on social media sites, the police said. Bid to rape woman In a separate incident, a man was booked for allegedly trying to rape a woman in a village under the Kotwali police station area. The accused, Bobby, tried to rape the woman who was in her field on Sunday. However, she raised an alarm and he fled from the scene, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/girl-raped-in-up-video-shared-on-social-media/article36580625.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||Kangana appears in court after final warning||After being given a final warning, actor Kangana Ranaut appeared before a Mumbai magistrate court on Monday in a criminal defamation case filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. Summons were issued to her in February. Last week, the court gave her a warning, saying it would issue a warrant against her if she failed to appear on Monday. Ms. Ranaut has filed an application seeking the transfer of the case to another court, calling it “biased”. Advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, appearing for her, said, “This court has passed orders against her multiple times without giving reasons as to why she should remain present in a bailable, non-cognisable offence.” The matter will be heard on November 15. The Bombay High Court early this month refused to grant Ms. Ranaut any relief and dismissed her plea to quash all proceedings against her. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere said, “There was no procedural illegality or irregularity in the metropolitan magistrate’s order initiating the proceedings.” Mr. Akhtar filed the complaint under Sections 499 (defamation) and 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kangana-appears-in-court-after-last-warning/article36580629.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Channi takes charge as Punjab CM amid row||Mr. Jakhar said, “On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr. Rawats’s statement ...is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection.” Addressing a press conference after taking charge, Mr. Channi said there would be zero tolerance towards corruption in his government. “Electricity tariff will be reduced and to smaller houses, free water supply will be provided. Also, domestic water bills will be waived for the poor. This government is of the poor, for the poor and with the poor,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channi-takes-charge-as-punjab-cm-amid-row/article36580630.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Cong.’s mentality shown with Rawat’s statement’||The BJP on Monday attacked the Congress for its alleged “lip service” to the idea of Dalit empowerment. This followed Congress Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat’s statement that the Assembly election campaign would be under State unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. The Congress on Sunday replaced Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.) as Chief Minister with Charanjit Singh Channi, who has become the State’s first Dalit-Sikh Chief Minister. ‘Dalit CMs replaced’ BJP MP and party national secretary Vinod Sonkar recounted instances where the Congress had replaced Dalit Chief Ministers of the States ruled by it with those from other communities after it returned to power in those States. “The Congress mentality with regard to Dalits has been exposed by Mr. Rawat’s statement,” the BJP MP added. “The party has made Mr. Channi the Chief Minister with only six months left for the election, and Mr. Rawat then says that Mr. Sidhu will be the face of the campaign. In 2004, they did the same to Sushil Kumar Shinde in Maharashtra, where they made him Chief Minister in the last few months, and after winning the election under his leadership, replaced him with Vilas Rao Deshmukh. In Rajasthan, too, in 1980, they made Jagannath Pahadia the Chief Minister with only one year to go for the election, and when they won the same, they replaced him with Shiv Charan Mathur,” Mr. Sonkar said. ‘Quotes misrepresented’ The Congress itself clarified Mr. Rawat’s statement later. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said Mr. Rawat’s quotes were “misrepresented” and that both Mr. Channi and Mr. Sidhu would be the face of the campaign, one representing the party and the other the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-is-congresss-lip-service-to-idea-of-dalit-empowerment/article36580637.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Jairam Ramesh says U.K.’s quarantine rule is racist||Former Union Ministers Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor on Monday slammed the U.K.’s COVID-19-related travel rules, under which Indians vaccinated with Covishield would still be treated as unvaccinated. Mr. Tharoor said that because of the restrictions he had even pulled out of a debate at the Cambridge Union Debating Society and from the launch events for the U.K. edition of his book The Battle Of Belonging . Passengers who are not recognised as being fully vaccinated with authorised vaccines and certificates under England’s international travel rules are required to take a pre-departure test, further PCR tests on Day 2 and 8 of arrival, and self-isolate at their given address for 10 days upon entry, according to the rules. Tweeting on the restrictions, Congress leader Mr. Ramesh said, “Absolutely bizarre considering Covishield was originally developed in the U.K. and the Serum Institute, Pune has supplied to that country too! This smacks of racism.” Mr. Tharoor said, “It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine. The Brits are reviewing!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jairam-ramesh-says-uks-quarantine-rule-is-racist/article36580645.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||EPFO adds 14.65 lakh net subscribers in July||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) added 14.65 lakh net subscribers in July, an increase from the 11.16 lakh net additions in June, according to the provisional payroll data published on Monday. In a statement, the Labour and Employment Ministry said of the total addition, 9.02 lakh members had joined the EPFO for the first time. “Around 5.63 lakh net subscribers exited but rejoined EPFO by changing jobs within the establishments covered by EPFO. This shows that majority of subscribers opted to continue their membership with EPFO, by transferring their past accumulations from previous job to the current PF account rather than applying for final withdrawal,” the statement read. With 3.88 lakh new subscribers from the 22 to 25 age bracket and 3.27 lakh in the 18 to 21 age group, the Ministry said this pointed towards first-time job-seekers joining the workforce in large numbers. Over 62% of the net addition came from Maharashtra, Haryana, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-adds-1465-lakh-net-subscribers-in-july/article36580660.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Sareera sareeri concept||The Upanishads say Ekam eva adviteeyam. This means that there is only One Supreme Brahman. In Ramanuja’s Visishtadvaita philosophy, it means that there is none superior to the Supreme One, or equal to Him. It does not mean nothing else exists in this Universe, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. There is only one Brahman. Advaita philosophy argues that nothing exists except Brahman. When we see other things, it is because of our illusion. They are not real, but illusory, goes the Advaitic argument. But there are portions of the Vedas where apart from Brahman, other things also are said to exist. So how does one reconcile this with the argument that nothing else exists except Brahman? That is why Ramanuja said that indeed there is only one Brahman. But other things are real too, and are not illusions. He used what are known as the ghataka srutis, as a bridge to link both ideas present in the sacred scriptures, namely the existence of only one Brahman, but the existence of many other things too. He pointed out that the world was the Lord’s body, for the Lord pervaded everything. This is the sareera sareeri concept of Visishtadvaita. A contemporary example can be used to explain the idea of the One and the many. Suppose someone holds a clock in his hand and says, “How many clocks do I have?” We would reply, “One clock.” But although he holds only one clock, the clock itself has many parts. Likewise, the world has many things — sentient and non sentient. The Lord is present in all. He is the atma (sareeri) and the world is His body (sareera). Thus, we have One Brahman and many other things too. In just one verse, Nammazhvar gives us the whole idea of the unequalled One and the rest of the world, thus establishing what Ramanuja elaborated on later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sareera-sareeri-concept/article36580642.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||Patil is Cong. RS bypoll nominee||The Congress on Monday nominated senior party leader and Gandhi family loyalist Rajani Patil for the Rajya Sabha bypoll from Maharashtra to be held on October 4. The seat had become vacant after the death of party leader Rajiv Satav in May. The tenure of the seat is till April 2026. Ms. Patil, 62, is currently the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Jammu and Kashmir. She was sent to the Rajya Sabha in 2013 and had won the best parliamentarian award then. In 1996, Ms. Patil had won the Beed Lok Sabha seat in Maharashtra for the Congress. Ms. Patil is known to have close relations with the Gandhi family. She started her career in electoral politics by getting elected to the Zilla Parishad in the 1990s. According to party sources, a number of names — including that of senior leader Mukul Wasnik, former union minister Milind Deora and widow of Rajiv Satav, Pradnya Satav — were in contention for the seat. Ms. Satav is now likely to be nominated to the State Legislative Council. The tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, is likely to have a easy victory in the 288-member Assembly, with the support of more than 160 MLAs. The Bharatiya Janata Party has the highest 106 MLAs in the House, followed by Shiv Sena (56), NCP (53), Congress (43), Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (3), Samajwadi Party (2), AIMIM (2), Prahar Janshakti Party (2), MNS (1), CPM (1), Swambhimani Party (1), Rashtriya Samaj Paksh (1), Krantikari Shetkari Party (1), and Independents 13. One seat is lying vacant since the death of Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar in April. BJP names candidate The Opposition BJP also decided to contest the bypoll. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil announced the candidature of Sanjay Upadhyay, general secretary of the Mumbai unit of the party. Mr. Upadhyay would be filing his papers on September 22, Mr. Patil said. Apart from Maharashtra, Rajya Sabha bypolls will be held in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry. The last date for filing nomination papers is September 22. The scrutiny of papers will take place on September 23 and the last date for withdrawal of papers is September 27. Voting will be held on October 4 and counting of votes will take place on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patil-is-cong-rs-bypoll-nominee/article36580631.ece
21 September 2021||SRINAGAR,||Warning to government staff in J&K||A fresh order by the J&K administration on Monday said employees’ attempts to approach the offices of the President, the Prime Minister, the Lieutenant-Governor or the Chief Secretary on service matters were being viewed seriously. It said the government had observed that some officers or officials working in various government departments of J&K were bypassing proper channels and approaching the higher offices. “These acts, being in violation of the J&K Civil Services Conduct Rules, 1956, have been viewed seriously by the authorities,” said the order. It warned that violation of these instructions shall invite strict disciplinary action under the Rules. The Lieutenant-Governor’s administration has issued back-to-back orders on government employees in Kashmir this month to set stricter rules for them.Recently, an order warned employees of termination from service “for association or sympathy with persons involved in any act of sabotage, espionage, treason, terrorism, subversion, sedition, secession, facilitating foreign interference, incitement to violence or any other unconstitutional act”. It warned that failure to report relatives or persons connected with any foreign government, associations; foreign nationals known to be directly or indirectly hostile to India’s national and security interests; and unauthorised association with a suspected or known collaborator or employee of a foreign intelligence service, would entail serious action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/warning-to-government-staff-in-jk/article36580621.ece
21 September 2021||Allahabad,||Top seer found dead in Allahabad||Mahant Narendra Giri, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, was found dead on Monday at Baghambari Math here, police said. The Parishad is the largest organisation of sadhus in India. According to Inspector General of Police K.P. Singh, Mahant Giri’s body was found hanging from the ceiling by his disciples. Police said that a suicide note was found at the site. He had also delegated various responsibilities to his disciples in the note, the police said.  (Suicides are preventable and help is just a phone call away. Call Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health - 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 am -7.30 pm.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/top-seer-found-dead-in-allahabad/article36580694.ece
21 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Channi as new CM a gimmick, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday said the choice of Dalit MLA Charanjit Singh Channi as the new Chief Minister of Punjab for a short period was nothing but an “electoral gimmick” by the Congress. It would have been better had the Congress earlier nominated Mr. Channi as the Chief Minister for a full term of five years, said Ms. Mayawati, who is a Dalit leader and currently an ally of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab. Reacting to a statement made by senior Congress leader Harish Rawat that the next election in Punjab would be contested under the leadership of Navjot Singh Sidhu, “a non-Dalit”, Ms. Mayawati said this showed that even now the Congress did not “fully trust” Dalits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channi-as-new-cm-a-gimmick-says-mayawati/article36580633.ece
21 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Jayant gets khaps’ stamp of approval||At a social event that has political ramifications, leaders of different khaps in western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana on Sunday presented the traditional headgear to Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president Jayant Chaudhary and formally anointed him as the successor of Chaudhary Charan Singh’s legacy. It not only meant that from now on his name will be preceded by Chaudhary in social and political gatherings, but his word will carry weight in socio-political issues. Held in Chhaprauli town of Baghpat district, the traditional seat of the Chaudhary family, the event marked the “rasma pagdi” ceremony of Mr. Jayant’s father and former RLD president Ajit Singh, who passed away in May last owing to COVID-19 related complications. With thousands in attendance at the venue, observers said the event was mounted as a show of strength by the RLD. It came days after the mammoth Muzaffarnagar panchayat, where a section of the media got the impression that the Bhartiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the farmers’ protest against the contentious farm laws in the region, was going to be the political face of farmers as well. Mr. Chaudhary said he would work to live up to the faith reposed in him. He asserted that he would not budge when it came to the self-respect and dignity of the followers of Chaudhary Charan Singh. “This headgear, your blessings would act as an armour in facing any situation,” he observed. Describing Mr. Tikait’s statement as an obvious hint as only the RLD has the capacity to take on the BJP in the region, Shokendra Chaudhary of the Battisa Khap said the event had a clear political message as heads of 18 prominent khaps turned up in solidarity with the RLD president. “They promised to strengthen his hands in the forthcoming elections,” he observed. Interestingly, Rajendra Singh, head of the Gathwal Khap, who is known to be close to the BJP, was also present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jayant-gets-khaps-stamp-of-approval/article36580635.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP appoints two national vice-presidents||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Monday appointed former Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya and former West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh as the party’s national vice-presidents. The Lok Sabha MP from Balurghat, Sukanta Majumdar, was made West Bengal BJP president. While Mr. Ghosh had come to the end of his tenure as the State unit chief in West Bengal, Ms. Maurya, the first Dalit woman to be Mayor of Agra, will, in all likelihood, be deployed in the Uttar Pradesh election as a Dalit face. Ms. Maurya had resigned as Governor of Uttarakhand two weeks ago. The organisational appointments were announced together, in an attempt to fill the gap in the national team’s organisational structure. Many appointments have been made since Mr. Nadda’s ascension to the post of BJP president. Mr. Majumdar has been appointed West Bengal BJP chief to replace Mr. Ghosh who fills in a vice-presidential slot in the national team vacated by Mr. Mukul Roy, who has now returned to the Trinamool Congress. Mr. Majumdar is known to be close to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-appoints-two-national-vice-presidents/article36580638.ece
21 September 2021||Pune,||BJP leader detained at railway station in Satara||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya was detained at Karad railway station in western Maharashtra’s Satara district early on Monday after the Kolhapur district administration issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC against the former BJP MP. A video clip later surfaced showing the BJP leader being escorted out of the station by police officers and security personnel. “Police stopped me at Karad under prohibitory order,” he tweeted, adding that he would address reporters at the Karad Circuit House to expose one more scam of senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif. Last Monday, Mr. Somaiya had accused Mr. Mushrif and his relatives of being involved in a Rs. 127-crore money laundering scam. He was scheduled to visit the properties owned by Mr. Mushrif in Kolhapur in this regard on Monday. On Sunday, Mr. Somaiya had alleged that he was being detained at his own in Mumbai and had launched an attack against the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “Who in the Thackeray government has given these orders restricting me from going out of Mumbai?” said Mr. Somaiya, who had already set off for Kolhapur on Sunday from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus by the Mahalaxmi Express. Before leaving he had tweeted: “Thackeray Sarkar Dadagiri; Notice is for Kolhapur District NO ENTRY, but not allowing me to move out from my house...Mulund Police wants to arrest me, but no warrant, no order...it's total illegal.” On Saturday evening, Kolhapur District Collector Rahul Rekhawar issued a restraining order under Section 144 (1) (3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973 for September 20 and 21 prohibiting the assembly of five or more persons in public places in the district. Mr. Rekhawar said that the move was to preclude a law-and-order situation that could arise in the view of Mr. Somaiya’s anticipated visit. Officials further said that Mr. Mushrif, too, was expected to arrive at Kagal constituency on Monday. ‘Baseless allegations’ Dismissing Mr. Somaiya’s allegations as “utterly baseless” and “without any shred of evidence”, Mr. Mushrif claimed that the BJP leader was “woefully uninformed and was uttering ill-informed allegations at the behest of BJP State president Chandrakant Patil”. Mr. Somaiya, who has been targeting senior leaders in the MVA government with alleged scam exposes, said he had already filed a complaint and submitted documents with the Income Tax authorities in Mumbai and was in the process of giving documents to the Enforcement Directorate. Stating that he had had an unblemished reputation throughout his political career, the NCP leader said that the BJP was playing these “low political games” as they had no standing in Kolhapur. In July 2019, a team of the Income Tax Department had raided Mr. Mushrif’s residence and factory premises in Kolhapur. At the time, it was widely believed that the raid on Mr. Mushrif’s home was owing to the NCP leader’s alleged refusal to join the then Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP-Shiv Sena coalition government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-leader-detained-at-railway-station-in-satara/article36580641.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||HC to hear appeal against Tejpal acquittal||The Bombay High Court at Goa on Monday said it would virtually hear on October 27 the Goa government’s appeal challenging the acquittal of former journalist Tarun Tejpal in a case of rape and sexual assault in 2013. Advocate General of Goa Devidas Pangam appeared before a Division Bench of Justices M.S. Sonak and M.S. Jawalkar and sought a date to commence the hearing. The Bench then decided to take it up on October 27 virtually, as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta is expected to appear on behalf of the Goa government from New Delhi. On the last occasion, a request was made before the Chief Justice to have a hybrid hearing (physical and virtual) due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Mehta had earlier said, “The system expects sensitivity over jurisprudence. We owe it to our girls.” Acquitted in May On May 21, 2021, special judge Kshama Joshi at the Mapusa district and sessions court, Goa, acquitted Mr. Tejpal of all charges of rape by a person in position of control, rape by a person in position of authority, assault with the intent of outraging modesty, assault with intent to disrobe, and sexual harassment. The Goa government immediately filed an appeal before the High Court challenging the acquittal. On November 7, 2013, Mr. Tejpal’s junior colleague accused him of molesting, undressing and attempting to perform oral sex on her in the elevator of a five-star hotel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-to-hear-appeal-against-tejpal-acquittal/article36580659.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||Bodies of two boys found after they had drowned during idol immersion||The bodies of the two boys who had drowned on Sunday night during the Ganesh idol immersion at Versova beach in the western suburbs of Mumbai, Maharashtra, were recovered on Monday. The search for the third boy was on, said officials. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, five boys had ventured into the sea to immerse the idols. The lifeguard and the locals managed to rescue two of the boys, while three were declared missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bodies-of-two-boys-found-after-they-had-drowned-during-idol-immersion/article36580649.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rajnath, Austin hold telephonic conversation||Ahead of the first in-person meeting of the Quad leaders later this week, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday held a telephonic conversation with U.S. Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin and discussed bilateral and regional matters, including developments in Afghanistan. “They discussed defence cooperation and looked forward to working closely,” a Defence Ministry statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-austin-hold-telephonic-conversation/article36580656.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||ED arrests MD of company in Rs. 900 cr. money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested the managing director of Usher Agro Limited and other group companies in a money laundering case of more than Rs. 900 crore. The accused has been identified by the agency as Vinod Chaturvedi, who faces the charge of bank loan fraud. The probe is based on a First Information Report registered by the CBI in January 2019, against the firm, Mr. Chaturvedi, Manoj Pathak and others. It is alleged that the group took loans and siphoned off the funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-md-of-company-in-rs-900-cr-money-laundering-case/article36580661.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||45% of storm drains cleared||The Greater Chennai Corporation has completed desilting of 1,918 stormwater drains, clearing 45% of the identified stretches, according to officials. The civic body had identified 4,254 stormwater drains for desilting in various zones of the city. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu inspected the work on Monday, and advised officials to speed up the work ahead of the onset of the northeast monsoon. Mr. Anbu, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and other officials visited M.R.C. Nagar Main Road, Whannels Road, Ethiraj Salai and West Cott Road to check the progress of work. Recycler machines were used on some of these stretches. Kodambakkam zone put up the best performance with 59% of the drains desilted. Of the 285 stormwater drains identified in the zone, 144 had been desilted. Ambattur, Anna Nagar, Adyar and Valasaravakkam zones registered more than 50% progress in the work. Deadline set Mr. Bedi said the work would be completed ahead of the deadline of October 15. “There is an intensive drive this week in view of the Tamil Nadu government mass desilting campaign. Desilting is being undertaken all across the city. Around 1,000 workers were cleaning silt catch pits, and around 1,400 contract labourers were clearing the stormwater drains,” he said. Latest technology Pointing to the adoption of technology in cleaning the drains, Mr. Bedi said, “In addition to this, there are seven pressure jet rodding trucks which are being used to loosen out the deposited silt in between the manholes of stormwater drains and amphibian vehicles, which are clearing the water hyacinth and obstructions in the canal maintained by the GCC and the Public Works Department.” “The Chief Secretary has directed all departments to co-ordinate and there was an inter-departmental meeting on Saturday involving the PWD, the GCC, Highways and other departments to prioritise various issues under the chairmanship of the Additional Chief Secretary of the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department and the Additional Chief Secretary of the PWD,” Mr. Bedi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/45-of-storm-drains-cleared/article36580853.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges PM for 50 lakh more COVID-19 vaccine doses||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the supply of 50 lakh additional doses of COVID-19 vaccines and an equal number of 0.5-ml auto-disable syringes or 1-ml/2-ml syringes to Tamil Nadu every week. “This will enable the State to vaccinate all the uncovered eligible population by October 31 and administer the second dose to those who are due for it. I request your early intervention in this regard,” he said in a letter. Mr. Stalin said Tamil Nadu was capable of utilising 50 lakh doses every week — five lakh doses a day for six days a week and 20 lakh doses at the mega drive on the seventh day. “I have directed my officers to liaise with officials of the Ministry of Health, Government of India, and provide the necessary information to enable the State to get the additional doses.” Until September 19, the Union government had supplied 3.97 crore doses and 2.21 crore 0.5-ml auto-disable syringes to the State. By deriving more doses out of the each 10-ml vial, the State had vaccinated 4.13 crore persons at government vaccination centres. “...despite the levels of vaccination achieved, it still has a large eligible population which is yet to get vaccinated, and this section continues to make the State vulnerable to the infection. Considering the capacity of the State and the uncovered eligible population, the State has no other option but to continue mega camps at regular intervals, besides the daily vaccination,” Mr. Stalin said. Mr. Stalin also thanked the Union government for supporting the State’s initiatives to curb the spread of the contagion and allotting adequate vaccine doses to Tamil Nadu. But he pointed out that the State remained below the national average in many parameters of vaccination, primarily because of the inadequate pace of inoculation in the first four months. “This is despite our best efforts, since taking over, exhausting the supplies within two to three days of receipt. Hence, our State urgently needs additional supplies to compensate for the deficit,” he contended. Two mega vaccination camps organised by the government were a “resounding success”, he said. Tamil Nadu vaccinated a record 28.91 lakh persons on September 12 and 16.43 lakh persons on September 19. The State crossed the 4-crore mark in vaccination and administered over one crore doses within the first 19 days of this month. “In spite of such an increase in the pace of vaccination, the State is still below the national average since it continues to get lower quantities than the other States in terms of per capita allocation. Unless the allocation is increased substantially, the State will always stay below the national average...,” he said.  Tamil Nadu is capable of utilising 50 lakh doses every week — five lakh doses a day for six days a week and 20 lakh doses at the mega drive on the seventh day||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-pm-for-50-lakh-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses/article36580843.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against amendments to AIADMK constitution dismissed||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed a writ petition which sought to quash an order passed by the Election Commission on May 4, 2018, accepting the amendments made to the AIADMK constitution at the general council meeting held on September 12, 2017. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu held that the Election Commission’s acceptance of the amendments did not appear to be out of order since it was just a ministerial act performed on receipt of communications from the authorised representatives of political parties. ‘Approach civil court’ The judges said the Election Commission could not be expected to interfere with the internecine issues of every party and find out whether its rules and regulations had been followed scrupulously. Still, if the petitioner had any grievance, he could approach the civil court seeking an appropriate remedy against the party, the first Division Bench said. The petition was filed by advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi. He claimed to have joined the AIADMK in the presence of its former general secretary Jayalalithaa at Kovilpatti on December 6, 2000. He renewed his membership in 2014, and it expired in 2019. Thereafter, it could not be renewed because the party did not take any step for renewal, he claimed. Sasikala’s appointment He said that after the death of Jayalalithaa on December 5, 2016, the party’s general council appointed her close aide V.K. Sasikala as the interim general secretary. However, the Election Commission did not approve of her appointment and the resolutions passed at the general council meeting held on December 29, 2016. In February 2017, the then Chief Minister, O. Panneerselvam, submitted his resignation, but only to make a volte-face within days and claimed to have been coerced into resigning. In the meantime, the Supreme Court convicted Sasikala in a disproportionate assets case, and she had to be jailed. Therefore, she appointed her nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran as the deputy general secretary. However, factional disputes arose during the by-election to the Radhakrishnan Nagar Assembly constituency, which fell vacant owing to the death of Jayalalithaa, and hence the Election Commission froze the AIADMK’s ‘two leaves’ symbol in March 2017. Thereafter, a general council meeting was held on September 12, 2017 and passed 12 resolutions. One of them was to substitute the posts of coordinator and co-coordinator for the all-powerful post of general secretary. Mr. Panneerselvam and Edapaddi K. Palaniswami were appointed to these posts respectively by way of another resolution. Opposing the drastic changes to the constitution, the petitioner said the Election Commission ought not to have approved the amendments. He insisted on holding intra-party elections in accordance with the constitution as it existed in 2016.  Factional disputes arose during the by-election to the R.K. Nagar Assembly constituency, which fell vacant owing to the death of Jayalalithaa||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-amendments-to-aiadmk-constitution-dismissed/article36580870.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,661 people test positive in T.N.||No death due to COVID-19 was reported in Chennai on Monday, but the district reported 206 fresh cases, even as 1,661 people tested positive for the infection across Tamil Nadu, pushing up the overall case tally to 26,74,041. As many as 16,984 people are under treatment, either at home or in healthcare facilities, according to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. Coimbatore (211) and Chennai (206) continued to report the highest number of fresh cases. Erode (117) and Chengalpattu (111) followed them. Only three districts reported fresh cases in single digits: Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi reported five cases each and Theni registered eight cases. The bulletin said the discharge of 1,623 people after treatment pushed up the total number of recovered patients to 25,94,697. In Chennai, 5,47,901 people have been infected so far, 5,37,409 people have been discharged and 8,449 people have died. At present, 2,043 people are under treatment. As many as 23 more persons died (five at private hospitals and 18 at government hospitals), taking the toll to 35,360. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of deaths, five, and Nagapattinam reported four deaths. A 41-year-old man from Salem died on the day of admission at the Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on September 18. He tested positive on September 12. The hospital cited COVID-19 pneumonia as the cause of death. The oldest person to die was an 84-year-old man. He was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on September 16 after testing positive two days earlier. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on September 18. About 56% of the people in the State have received their first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. As of date, over 4.37 crore doses have been administered in the State. Speaking in Tiruvallur on Monday, the Minister said vaccination was not taken up on Monday as the government had exhausted its stock of vaccines. The State received one lakh doses of Covaxin in the afternoon, and the vaccination drive would be taken up on Tuesday. The scheme of providing 25% vaccines to private healthcare facilities had failed as many were hesitant to pay exorbitant sums. The Chief Minister had appealed to the Union government to increase vaccine procurement to 90% from 75% for the free vaccination drive through the government. But the Union government had not fulfilled his wish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1661-people-test-positive-in-tn/article36580845.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin inaugurates park, ration shop in Kolathur||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday unveiled various welfare schemes in Kolathur constituency, which he represents in the Assembly. The schemes were implemented at a cost of Rs. 83.55 lakh, an official release said. Among the facilities inaugurated were an integrated child development centre, a playground, a ration shop, and a park. The Chief Minister planted saplings near the ration shop and distributed certificates and prizes to 157 students, who had completed their Tally course. He distributed welfare schemes to beneficiaries at the Kolathur MLA’s office. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, Chennai North MP Kalanidhi Veerasamy, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar MLA Thayagam Kavi, and Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-inaugurates-park-ration-shop-in-kolathur/article36580866.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajan panel wants deemed varsities under government’s purview||The high-level committee, led by the retired High Court judge, A.K. Rajan, has recommended that all deemed universities be brought under the Tamil Nadu government’s purview. The committee, constituted to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical admissions in the State, submitted its report two months ago. “As far as the deemed universities are concerned, an Act has to be passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly to bring all deemed universities of Tamil Nadu under the government’s purview, as under Act 3/2007, and the President’s assent has to be obtained,” according to the last of the seven recommendations made in the 165-page report. Act 3/2007 refers to the Tamil Nadu Admission in Professional Educational Institutions Act, 2006, passed in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. It received the President’s assent in 2007. However, sources in the government told The Hindu that the government was not inclined to accept the last recommendation. Incidentally, the committee's report was the basis for the government to table a Bill against the NEET in the Assembly last week. It went through. “Some of the legal experts opined that it [the Act for bringing the deemed universities under the government’s purview] may not have been legally correct. The part that recommended an Act against the NEET and admission on the basis of the Class 12 marks was taken up, and the Bill was passed,” an official said. Though the report recommended bringing “all deemed universities of Tamil Nadu” under the government’s purview, another official pointed out that since the committee was constituted to study the impact of the NEET on medical education, “it most probably could have meant only those deemed universities that offer medicine as a course of study”. One of the opinions received by the committee contended that the NEET nullified the opportunities for students of the tribal and rural communities and the oppressed sections to pursue medical education. “Especially, it has helped the private and deemed universities prevent the students of the oppressed sections from pursuing medicine,” the report said, citing the feedback. “After the NEET, students who got a mere pass were able to get admission at private medical colleges by paying a huge amount of money. Rich people can buy seat by paying Rs. 25 lakh per annum at deemed universities even if they get a low score, and the total cost of the entire course would be around Rs. 1.50 crore,” the report said, again citing the feedback. When contacted, one of the members of the committee told The Hindu , “Education is in the Concurrent List, and the State government can enact laws to bring deemed universities under its purview.”  Education is in the Concurrent List, and the State government can enact laws to bring deemed universities under its purview A member of the committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajan-panel-wants-deemed-varsities-under-govt-purview/article36580868.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ambattur zone conservancy workers stage protest||A group of conservancy workers from Ambattur zone of the Greater Chennai Corporation staged a protest at the zonal office on Monday, alleging lack of safety measures and increased workload. All the protesters were engaged by the Corporation under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM). The workers, a majority of them women, alleged that they were not provided gloves, masks and other safety gear, particularly while doing waste segregation. A woman, who did not wish to be identified, said they were set targets to deliver certain quantity of bio-degradable waste into the composting yard. “Since people do not segregate waste at source, we end up segregating with bare hands as we are not given any gloves,” she said. With the Corporation shifting more conservancy operations to night, the workers said they were the worst affected. No timings V. Hariprashanth said that shift timings were not fixed. “As more streets are now added to night operations, some divisions ask workers to work for more than eight hours at night,” he alleged. According to him, women often had to wait after finishing their work to return home as buses were not available in the early hours when their shift got over. “Importantly, in Ambattur zone, only NULM workers are engaged for night shifts, and not the permanent workers,” he said. Denying the charge that the workload had increased, an official from Ambattur zone said steps were being taken to ensure that all workers had adequate safety gear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambattur-zone-conservancy-workers-stage-protest/article36580856.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Indian automobile industry is a success story, says top official||Arun Goel, Secretary, Union Ministry of Heavy Industries, said the Indian automobile industry is a success story, and has attracted huge investments. He was replying to a query on U.S. auto major Ford’s decision to shut shop in the country, and whether it was a setback to India. “The Indian auto industry got investments worth $34.5 billion in the five years preceding the COVID-19 outbreak. If the Indian auto ecosystem was not attractive, why would that investment have come in?” he asked at a press conference in Chennai on Monday. Mr. Goel also pointed out that excluding the pandemic period, the auto industry’s domestic sales and exports had grown at a compounded annual rate of 8%-10% in the last five years, and jobs had been created. He interacted with industry players in Chennai on the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the automobile industry rolled out by the Centre. To a query whether the government would ask Ford to reconsider its decision after the announcement of the PLI scheme, Mr. Goel said the government rolled out schemes for the industry as a whole and not for a particular player. “We are offering a level-playing and attractive field when compared to anywhere [else] in the world. Our role is that of a facilitator, and we want to attract investments through the PLI scheme. It’s up to each company to decide how they fit in based on their corporate strategy,” he added. Mr. Goel said the PLI scheme envisaged the manufacturing of advanced automotive technology products in India, and it will cover all sectors of the industry. “We have asked the auto industry to give us a list of products which are being consumed and not being made in India because the supply chain is either absent or weak. We have asked them to provide details like data on import/export. Our experts will scrutinise the details and we will notify the eligible products,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-automobile-industry-is-a-success-story-says-top-central-official/article36580849.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Passenger books an entire business class for pet||On the morning of September 15, the crew of Air India at Mumbai airport were in for a surprise as they had an adorable white furry passenger carried into the business class of the aircraft. A woman passenger had booked 12 seats, the entire business class in the Airbus 320 to ensure a comfortable flight for her Maltese Bela from Mumbai to Chennai. One way fare for a single business class seat on the flight is about Rs. 20,000 and the passenger may have spent about Rs. 2.4 lakh to ensure a comfortable flight for her pet. Air India sources said while was rare for a passenger to book the entire business class, it was not uncommon to see pets taking a flight in the economy class. “We have seen dogs and cats on numerous occasions in the economy class; once, we even had hamsters on a flight from Delhi to Chennai,” a source in Air India said. For those who wish to carry their pets, Air India says it can be done either in cargo or cabin but there has to be a health and rabies vaccination certificate. “Also, the weight of the pet should be less than 5 kg and the animal must be carried in a soft-ventilated bag or kennel,” the source said. The flight AI671 left Mumbai at 9 a.m. and landed in Chennai at 10.55 a.m. with the fur ball getting all the attention as it walked out of the terminal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passenger-books-an-entire-business-class-for-pet/article36580860.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SC stays HC order permitting use of temple land to construct Collectorate||The Supreme Court has stayed the operation of an order passed by the Madras High Court on February 12 permitting the State government to take 35 acres of Nareeswarar temple land at Veeracholapuram on lease for constructing a collectorate for the newly carved-out Kallakurichi district. Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari granted the interim stay on an appeal preferred by activist Rangarajan Narasimhan. According to the appellant, the government had initially decided to acquire the temple land for a paltry consideration of Rs. 1.98 crore and issued a Government Order to that effect on September 19, 2020. He opposed the move and filed a writ petition in the High Court. Subsequently, the State came up with another G.O. on November 28, 2020, deciding to take the land on lease instead. Interestingly, the second G.O. valued the property at Rs. 12.89 crore and arrived at a monthly rent of Rs. 1.3 lakh being 0.01% of the value of the property. Though the value of the property had been increased manifold within a short span of time, the fixation of the value was still flawed since the land was actually worth over Rs. 336 crore, the appellant claimed. HR&CE Act He pointed out that Section 34 of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Act of 1959 requires the sanction of the Commissioner if a temple property had to be alienated for a term exceeding five years. Accusing the HR&CE Commissioners of according such sanction for every other State project without considering the welfare of individual temples, the litigant said, the November 2020 G.O. does not even specify the period of lease. Mr. Narasimhan also contended that the move to use the temple lands for constructing buildings for the offices of the Collector, Superintendent of Police and others was in violation of the provisions of Tamil Nadu Change of Land Use (from agriculture to non-agricultural purposes in non-planning areas) Rules of 2017. He said the State had taken advantage of the absence of trustees to maintain the temple properties. Though he had brought all these issues to the notice of the High Court in his second writ petition challenging the government’s decision to take the temple land on lease, the court refused to interfere with the decision to take the property on lease but decided to fix a just compensation by conducting a fair valuation. Aggrieved over such an order, the litigant had moved the present appeal before the Supreme Court and obtained a stay.  Though the value of the property had been increased manifold within a short span of time, the fixation of the value was still flawedThe appellant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-stays-hc-order-permitting-use-of-temple-land-to-construct-collectorate/article36581327.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Diploma in well-being for police officers launched||Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Monday launched a three-month NIMHANS Diploma Course in Psychological Well-Being for Police Officers. The programme was launched in association with the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS). On July 29, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin presided over the passing out parade of 86 Deputy Superintendents of Police, and launched the training of newly recruited sub-inspectors of police on September 1. At these programmes, the Chief Minister stressed on the importance of creating “master trainers” in the Police Department, who will train the police personnel on physical and mental well-being. The launch of the diploma course is a first step to achieve the objective of the Chief Minister. Dr. Pratima Murthy, Director of NIMHANS, Bengaluru, presided over the inaugural function, and delivered a speech through video conferencing. Mr. Babu released the course brochure and addressed the master trainers. Among the 246 candidates of the online course, 112 are from the Police Department and 134 are private counsellors. After obtaining the diploma certificate, the trainers will give well-being training to 1.3 lakh police personnel and 3 lakh families of police personnel. This course will be conducted in all districts. Additional DGP (Welfare) Shailesh Kumar Yadav will coordinate the conduct of the diploma course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diploma-in-well-being-for-police-officers-launched/article36580862.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC judges to inspect Srirangam temple||Justices R. Mahadevan and P.D. Audikesavalu of Madras High Court on Monday decided to pay a visit to the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam, Tiruchi district to find out whether sufficient arrangements had been made for the devotees to circumambulate on the second Prakaram (pathway around the sanctum sanctorum) named as Rajamahendran Tiruchutru in honour of King Rajamahendran who ruled between 1058 and 1062 AD. The judges asked the litigant Rangarajan Narasimhan also to be present when they pay an official visit to the temple. The decision was taken during the hearing of a writ petition filed by Mr. Narasimhan in 2017 complaining about the temple management having prevented access to the second Prakara though it was a very essential part of Vaishnavism to circumambulate the sanctum sanctorum to invoke the divine blessings of the Gods. After the filing of the case, devotees were allowed to the second Prakara but the entry was highly restricted. Wondering why the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple could not devise a proper method for the devotees to perform Pradhakshina (circumambulation) as it had been done by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam, the litigant told the court that the number of devotees visiting Tirupati was much higher than those who throng Srirangam. Yet, the Tirupati temple management had created a natural course of Pradhakshina for every other devotee, he said. The petitioner also expressed his reservations about the restrictions imposed by the Srirangam temple management with respect to permitting entry to the second Prakara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-judges-to-inspect-srirangam-temple/article36581236.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP has come to power to plunder the country’||The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) staged a black flag protest across Tamil Nadu on Monday to condemn the “anti-people policies” of the BJP government at the Centre. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri led the protest at the party headquarters, Satyamurthi Bhavan, in Chennai. Mr. Alagiri said the protest was aimed at protecting India’s history. The country did not have amenities or infrastructure when it became independent. The first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, opened many public sector companies, government hospitals and insurance companies. “The Congress opened these public sector companies. He brought in a policy of mixed economy.” “Indian Railways is the second biggest in the world; coal companies and insurance companies are with the government. But [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi is selling all of them. What is the need to sell railway stations? They [the BJP] have come [to power] to plunder the country. We condemn this very strongly...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-has-come-to-power-to-plunder-the-country/article36580838.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pressure Centre to free Rajiv case convicts, Panneerselvam urges CM||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Monday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to exert pressure on the Union government for the premature release of the seven life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. Referring to Law Minister S. Regupathy’s reported observations that no pressure could be mounted on the new Governor, R.N. Ravi, he said people were under the impression that the DMK government had diluted its stand on the issue, as it did in the case of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. In a release, he demanded that the Chief Minister personally mount pressure on the Union government, and through the Members of Parliament and Members of the Legislative Assembly belonging to the DMK and its allies. Nine persons expelled In another release, Mr. Panneerselvam and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced the expulsion of nine members of the party belonging to the Uthamapalayam panchayat union in Theni, the home district of the coordinator, for their role in a no-confidence motion against the chairperson of the local body. Among the expelled were six councillors of the panchayat union wards. The AIADMK leaders nominated two organisation secretaries, Mythili Thirunavukkarasu and P. Ganesan, for the work relating to civic elections in Kancheepuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/put-pressure-on-centre-to-free-rajiv-case-convicts-panneerselvam-urges-cm/article36580847.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6,372 people fined for not wearing masks, Rs. 12.74 lakh collected in four days||Zonal enforcement teams, comprising police personnel and Greater Chennai Corporation staff, have fined 6,372 people in four days, including 2,010 people on Sunday alone, for not wearing masks. The teams collected Rs. 12.74 lakh fine in four days. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi, Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal and other officials, including those from Avadi and adjoining districts, held a meeting to chalk out a strategy to increase compliance. It was decided at the meeting to conduct a special drive from Thursday to September 26 to strictly enforce wearing of masks by the public, and physical distancing. From Thursday, zonal enforcement teams have been enforcing the rules and imposing fines on the violators in places wherever public gathered in large numbers, such as markets, wedding halls and other places. Static surveillance teams were deployed as part of the drive. Fifteen zonal enforcement teams have been formed to enforced the rule on wearing of masks. Besides the GCC staff, the teams included 200 police personnel and 1,000 volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6372-people-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-rs-1274-lakh-collected-in-four-days/article36580854.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Director’s defamation case adjourned to October 4||A metropolitan magistrate court on Monday adjourned to October 4 the trial proceedings in a defamation case filed by film director Susi Ganesan against poet and filmmaker Leena Manimekalai. In 2019, Mr. Ganesan filed a defamation case against the poet, who accused him of sexual harassment when the #MeToo movement started. Last year, he filed a petition seeking to impound her passport as she planned to go to Canada for film-related studies, and the trial would be delayed if she was allowed to leave. However, the metropolitan magistrate court last November passed an order closing the petition filed by Mr. Ganesan after recording the undertaking given by the poet that she would appear before the court as and when necessary. Meanwhile, Ms. Manimekalai was offered admission by the York University, Canada, for a graduate programme in film which began in Fall 2020 on a full-time basis. She said it was mandatory for her to travel to Canada as part of her studies. She informed the court about her travel plans. The passport authority last February had issued a show-cause notice seeking explanationas to why action should not be taken to impound her passport. In August, yet again the passport authority issued a show-cause notice. Despite replying to the notice, her passport was impounded on September 9. She recently moved the Madras High Court against this action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/directors-defamation-case-adjourned-to-october-4/article36580861.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Admissions open to IIT-M’s EMBA course||The Indian Institute of Technology Madras has called for applications for its executive MBA (EMBA) degree programme. The two-year programme is designed for mid-career working professionals and offers exposure to social media and internet marketing and global business, besides cyber security and applications. The last date to apply is October 19. The programme from the Department of Management Studies includes three projects that apply theory to live business problems. Applications will be available from Monday athttps://doms. iitm.ac.in/emba Blended learning (physical and virtual) classes will be held over alternate weekends beginning January 2022. Candidates with a first class in bachelor’s degree and a minimum of three years of industry experience can apply. There will be an entrance exam and a personal interview in virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admissions-open-to-iit-ms-emba-course/article36580857.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Food delivery agent robbed, one arrested||The Kodungaiyur police on Sunday arrested a 19-year-old youth for allegedly robbing a 20-year-old online food delivery executive of a two-wheeler, cash and valuables. M. Sivaprakasham of Kodungaiyur was attacked and robbed by two men when he was going to MKB Nagar to deliver a food parcel on Sunday, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-delivery-agent-robbed-one-arrested/article36580864.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK releases two lists||The AIADMK on Monday evening released two lists of candidates for the rural local bodies elections in seven of the nine newly carved districts. A senior leader of the AIADMK said a tie-up with the BJP would be finalised shortly. In Kancheepuram, the AIADMK fielded nominees in all 11 district panchayat wards and in 75 panchayat union wards out of a total of 98 wards. The numbers of candidates named for the two rural local bodies in six other districts were Chengalpattu-14 district panchayat wards (total: 16) and 139 panchayat union wards (154); Vellore-2 district panchayat wards (14) and 19 panchayat union wards (138); Ranipet-9 district panchayat wards (13) and 81 panchayat union wards (127); Villupuram-24 district panchayat wards (28) and 229 panchayat union wards (293); Tirunelveli-10 district panchayat wards (12) and 104 panchayat union wards (122); and Tenkasi-12 district panchayat wards (14) and 120 panchayat union wards (144).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-releases-two-lists/article36580839.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for killing his mother||A 31-year-old man was arrested on Monday in Velachery police station limits for allegedly murdering his mother after the woman refused to give him money for alcohol. The victim was identified as R. Lakshmi, 53. On Sunday, her son R. Moorthy, who was inebriated, quarrelled with her and stabbed her with a knife in a fit of rage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-killing-his-mother/article36580863.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ED examines Fisheries Minister||Minister for Fisheries Anitha R. Radhakrishnan was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate in Madurai in connection with a money laundering case. According to sources in the agency, a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering (PMLA) Act was filed against the Minister and his family members on the basis of a case of disproportionate assets registered by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption in 2006. The case against the Minister was charge-sheeted in 2019, and is pending trial in a designated court in Thoothukudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ed-examines-fisheries-minister/article36580871.ece
21 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mass cleaning exercise launched in city||Collector G.S. Sameeran in the presence of Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara launched a mass cleaning exercise in the city on Monday. The exercise aimed at dredging natural drains and cleaning storm water drains was a part of the State-wide exercise launched by the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department ahead of the North-East Monsoon season, Mr. Sameeran said. The exercise would be carried out in the city and other urban local bodies, including the three municipalities, in the district from September 20 to 25. And, in the city, the Corporation would be cleaning 1,500 km drains, he added. A release from the civic body said on the first day it would clean 42.35 km drain deploying 10 earthmovers, excavators, 68 lorries, 73 small goods carriers, five chain saws and 600 spades for the exercise. The Corporation said the objective behind the exercise was to ensure free flow of rain water by removing blockages, prevent inundation of low-lying areas, stop sewage mixing with rainwater, eliminate mosquito breeding sources and thereby, reduce chances of people contracting dengue or other such fever. At the launch of the cleaning exercise, City Engineer A. Lakshmanan and other senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mass-cleaning-exercise-launched-in-city/article36580925.ece
21 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephants damage ration shop, houses near Valparai||Three wild elephants which have been roaming near Valparai damaged a ration shop and two houses on Sunday night. The Forest Department has deployed its frontline staff to drive out the elephants, a female and two calves, to the forest and avoid further damage to houses in the locality. Forest officials said the elephants have been straying into human habitations at Ettiyar, which falls under Manombolly forest range of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve, for the last several weeks. On Sunday night, they broke the doors of a ration shop at Ettiyar and fed on rice kept in at least two gunny bags. The elephants were chased away before they started taking the remaining gunny bags. The same elephants also damaged the doors of two houses, possibly in their attempt to look for soft food items like rice. Another herd of five elephants have been frequenting human habitations at Mudis. The frontline staff are conducting patrols to drive them back to forest. Manomboly forest range officer A. Manikandan and his team are also giving alerts to residents in the two localities about the movement of elephants to avoid close encounters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephants-damage-ration-shop-houses-near-valparai/article36580917.ece
21 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||108 ambulance crew attends labour of tribal woman, takes coracle ride to save newborn||A six-member crew of the 108 ambulance service on Monday attended the labour of a tribal woman near Sirumugai in Coimbatore district and took a coracle ride across a river to take the newborn to the nearest primary health centre. The ambulance crew stationed at Mettupalayam received a call at 6.25 a.m. from Melur, a tribal village near Sirumugai. Two ambulances were immediately dispatched to the location. While the first ambulance took a forest route to the village, as the direct road to Melur was cut off after a bridge on the stretch at Lingapuram was submerged due to high water level in River Kanthayar, the second one was sent to Lingapuram where it was stopped on the banks of the river. The second crew took a coracle ride to cross the river and reached the village on two-wheelers arranged by people who stood on the other side. “The woman was in the advanced stage of labour when the first crew reached the place around 7.30 a.m. She gave birth to a boy baby as the crew was about to shift to her to the ambulance. The Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT), who are trained to handle deliveries, attended the labour and took the child to the nearest PHC in a coracle,” said G. Vignesh, supervisor of 108 ambulance service in Mettupalayam region. Ambulance pilot Nandagopal said the forest route to the village was around 5 km, whereas the distance to the village from the river was only 2 km. The woman, M. Deepa (27), was taken Sirumugai PHC in the ambulance after the crew shifted her baby. The mother and child were later shifted to Government Hospital, Mettupalayam. S. Selvamuthukumar, GVK EMRI’s (which operates 108 ambulance service) programme manager for Coimbatore district, lauded the EMTs Ajith, Vijay, Mary, pilots Nandagopal, Arul Kumar and Sukumaran. Residents of Kanthavayal and Melur have been demanding the government to construct a new bridge across River Kanthayar, which flows into Bhavani Sagar Reservoir, so the easy roads to their villages were not cut off when the water level rises. Kanthayar swells when water level increases in the reservoir, which has vast water spread areas in Sirumugai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/108-ambulance-crew-attends-labour-of-tribal-woman-takes-coracle-ride-to-save-newborn/article36580913.ece
21 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK, allies stage protest||Political parties in the Secular Progressive Alliance led by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam staged a protest in Coimbatore against the Central Government’s policies. In response to a call by the alliance leadership, party leaders in the district and cadre hoisted black flags atop their houses to register their protest. All the office-bearers of the five district units led the protests. Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik said the protest was against the Government’s refusal the repeal the three farm laws, to order a probe in the Pegasus snooping case, failure to reduce fuel prices among others, he said. Members of the Coimbatore District Pradesh Congress Committee led by working president Mayura S. Jayakumar hoisted black flag at the Spinning Mill Workers’ Union office in the city to register their protest. Sources said leaders of other parties in the alliance also participated in the black flag protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-allies-stage-protest/article36580904.ece
21 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two buildings sealed for plan violation||Coimbatore Corporation on Monday sealed two buildings that were being constructed in violation of approved plan. A release said that Town Planning wing officials in the Central Zone sealed a building on Vinayagar Kovil Street in Rathinapuri (Ward 48) as the owner was constructing four floors with 16 houses, which was in violation of the permission given for two floors and four houses. The officials also sealed another house on the same street where the owner was constructing a building with four floors with nine houses as against the approval given for two floors and three houses. In another development, Corporation officials took possession of a 39 cent reserved site in Sri Ramakrisna Layout (Ward 32). Sources said the promoter had prepared a bogus layout sketch by hiding the approved plan and regularised the layout to usurp the 39 cents. A team led by Executive Engineer S. Ravichandran inspected the place, measured the site earmarked for public purpose and took possession of it by placing a board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-buildings-sealed-for-plan-violation/article36580905.ece
21 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for stealing 59 sovereigns of jewellery||The Thudiyalur police have apprehended two persons in connection with the theft of 59 sovereigns of jewellery from a house at Edayarpalayam. The police said that the accused, Kannan and Suresh, were apprehended on Sunday while investigating another case and found that they were involved in the theft of 59 sovereigns of jewellery from the house of A. Gobalraju at Edayarpalayam recently. According to the police, Mr. Gobalraju, a railway employee, left the house as part of work on May 25. On September 8, his neighbour informed him that the window of his house was found open. The grill of the window was also broken. The police said that Mr. Gobalraju reached the house on September 12. He later lodged a complaint with the Thudiyalur police. A senior police officer said that they were on the lookout for one more person who is suspected to be the accomplice of Kannan and Suresh. The officer added that the police team was trying to recover jewellery stolen by the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-stealing-59-sovereigns-of-jewellery/article36580911.ece
21 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Plea against holiday for Gandhi Jayanthi||Mahatma Gandhi Ashramam, Anamalai, has petitioned the district administration against declaring Gandhi Jayanthi on October 2 a government holiday. On the day, the administration should take steps to conduct the Jayanthi celebrations in schools in the interest of students. It would be an opportunity for students to learn about Gandhiji, whose birthday the United Nations observed as Non-Violence Day. Declaring the day a holiday was a disservice to the Father of the Nation, it said and added that the day provided an opportunity for school managements to conduct various events and competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-against-holiday-for-gandhi-jayanthi/article36580926.ece
21 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Inspection carried out in newly electrified railway section||Abhai Kumar Rai, Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) for Southern Circle, Bengaluru, along with other officials from the Southern Railway inspected the recently electrified Podanur-Pollachi railway section on Monday. A release said that the statutory inspection commenced at Podanur Junction at around 9.30 a.m. The CRS and other officials checked the various electrical, engineering and signalling works in the section while proceeding towards Pollachi Junction. Mr. Rai checked the electrification-related works completed in the section and competency of the staff to work in the electrified section, the release said. Some of the locations covered during the inspection include the Sectioning Post at Chettipalayam, Sub-Sectioning Post at Kinathukadavu Junction and the rail overbridge and foot overbridge at Pollachi Junction. Rajesh Kumar Mehta, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer, Southern Railway, Chennai; Sameer Dighe, Chief Project Director, Railway Electrification, Chennai and Divisional Railway Managers Trilok Kothari (Palakkad Division) and A.G. Srinivas (Salem Division) were among the officials who accompanied Mr. Rai during the statutory inspection, according to the release. Following this, a speed trial and current collection test run was held in the section. A special train formation hauled by an electric locomotive left Pollachi Junction at 3 p.m. and arrived at Podanur Junction at 3.38 p.m. The train formation included an observation car with equipment to observe and record various aspects of the electrification works, the release said. The electrification project commenced in August 2020 and progressed in stages such as mast erection, installation of over head electrical (OHE) equipment and wiring. The total route kilometre electrified under the project is 41 km and track kilometre electrified is 43 km. The Podanur-Pollachi railway section was energised on September 1 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspection-carried-out-in-recently-electrified-railway-section/article36580931.ece
21 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Award given||Public Relations Council of India recently awarded the ‘Chanakya Award’ to the Managing Director of Sasi Advertising R. Swaminathan. The award is given to PR professionals who have “contributed to enriching the PR profession and recorded extraordinary performance with a minimum experience of 25 years,” a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/award-given/article36580922.ece
21 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ather Energy opens retail outlet||Electric vehicle manufacturer Ather Energy has ventured into the retail market in Coimbatore by opening an experience centre at Ramnagar. 400 deliveries According to a company press release, in association with Rajdurai’s E-Vehicles, Ather Space has completed 400 deliveries in the last three months. Tamil Nadu is the second State where it has on ground operations in three cities. Expansion plans “We are already looking to expand to a few more cities by the end of the year,” the release quoted Ravneet Phokela, chief business officer, Ather Energy, as saying.  Under Ather Grid, it has seven charging stations in Coimbatore and plans to add eight to 10 charging stations. The release added that the company is present in 18 cities and plans to expand in 50 by the end of this financial year. Most of its expansion is in partnership with dealers. Ather Energy’s factory in Hosur is supported by the State government under its EV Policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ather-energy-opens-retail-outlet/article36580920.ece
21 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Saplings planted||Saplings were planted at the Income Tax office campus on Race Course road to mark 'Azadi ka mahotsav' celebration of 75 years of Independence. M. Bhupal Reddy, Chief Commissioner of IT, Coimbatore, and officials took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saplings-planted/article36580923.ece
21 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Senior cartoonist Mathikumar aka ‘Cartoonist’ Mathi launched a website here on Monday to showcase his cartoons created over a period of nearly three decades. A release said that president and head of ABT- Sakthi Groups M. Manickam launched the website in the presence of author Nanjil Nadan, actor Sivakarthikeyan and alternative medicine practitioner G. Sivaraman. The website www.mathicartoons.com will feature 2,000 cartoons.   PSG and Sons’ Charities Trust inaugurated PSG Institute of Architecture and Planning in the city. A release said the college will offer a five-year B.Arch programme with an intake of 40 students every year. Admissions will commence for the current academic yearand the eligibility will be the score secured by candidates in National Aptitude Test in Architecture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36580927.ece
21 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||17 children fall ill after eating midday meal||As many as 17 children attached to an anganwadi centre in Thiruchopuram here fell sick after eating the midday meal served in the premises on Monday. They were rushed to the Cuddalore Government General Hospital after they complained of dizziness and were kept under observation after a dead lizard was found in the food served to them. According to official sources, the lizard was found in the food, prepared for 20 children. The meal was served around 11.30 a.m. and two children complained of nausea and vomiting after consuming it. They were rushed to the hospital. On information, Cuddalore Collector K. Balasubramaniam visited the hospital to inquire about the health of the children. The children are now in a stable condition. Samples of the food have been collected and sent for tests, he said, adding that appropriate action would be taken if the anganwadi staff were found to be guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17-children-fall-ill-after-eating-midday-meal/article36580990.ece
21 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of drainage channels taken up ahead of monsoon in districts||Collector, S. Visakan, flagged off the work to desilt storm water drainage channels in Dindigul city on Monday. The works were being taken up as a precautionary measure ahead of North East monsoon, The State Government has ordered to clear all blocks in the drainage channels between September 20 and 25. A total of 117-km-long channels, including 10 big channels, 19 medium-size channels and small channels in 252 streets, would be desilted. The Corporation has divided the city into six zones. Eight earth moves, two tipper lorries, 16 tractors and two jet rodders would be put to use along with 400 workers to clean the channels. Corporation Commissioner, Sivasubramani, Corporation Engineer, Balachander, City Health Officer, Indira, and other officers were present.  Chinnamanur  Similar exercise began in Chinnamanur municipality which was inspected by Collector K.V. Muralidharan and Cumbum MLA N. Ramakrishnan. A total of 12.324-km-long drainage channels in wards 1 to 27 would be desilted. Several heavy machineries, 70 workers would be engaged in the work. Squatters on the channels should be alerted about the desilting work one day in advance so that the encroachments could be simultaneously taken up. The officials have been asked to ensure that drinking water pipelines and drainage pipelines are properly fixed and potholes on roads set right ahead of themonsoon. Project Director, DRDA, R. Dhandapani, Chinnamanur municipal Commissioner, Shymala, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-of-drainage-channels-taken-up-ahead-of-monsoon-in-districts/article36581021.ece
21 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||85 projects proposed for Erode district, says Minister||As part of gearing up to the North-East Monsoon next month, the district administration has begun mass cleaning activities here on Monday. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy inaugurated the works at a canal on Thayumana Sundaranar Street at Kollampalayam, in the presence of Collector H. Krishnanunni and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan. The works will be carried out till September 25. Addressing the media, the Minister said 85 projects were proposed for the district and steps were taken to establish bus stands at Solar, Arachalur and Kanirowther Kulam. “After seeking opinion from the public, vehicle and transport owners and the Corporation, the bus stand projects will be implemented,” he said. The Minister said experts from Indian Institute of Technology and Anna University inspected the houses constructed by Tamil Nadu Housing Board to ensure its stability and no major flaws were found. The department was in the process of allotting tenements constructed during the AIADMK rule to the beneficiaries. He said though patta could not be given to people living on encroached land, steps would be taken to provide alternative land for them where they could construct houses. Officials said all the major storm water drains and canals, both in the Corporation limits and in other local bodies, would be desilted and garbage would be removed on the same day to ensure cleanliness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/85-projects-proposed-for-erode-district-says-minister/article36581046.ece
21 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tension over denial of entry into forest area||Tension prevailed for a while at Talamalai forest area in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) on Monday when forest officials prevented the villagers of Doddapuram village from entering the forest area to offer prayers at a temple. The people gathered at the Talamalai forest check post and wanted to enter the forest area to offer prayers at the Udumban temple. They said the ragi and other millets they had cultivated in their small holdings were withering, and hence, they wanted to offer prayers at the temple for rain. The forest officials refused to permit them as the temple is located inside STR. Later, the officials and the Talavadi police held talks with the villagers and agreed to allow them in small groups, following which they offered prayers at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-over-denial-of-entry-into-forest-area/article36581044.ece
21 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode dist. reports 117 COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Monday reported 117 new cases taking the total cases to 1,00,811. While 103 persons were discharged, 1,405 persons continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 65 positive cases and one death. According to health officials, 40 cases were indigenous and seven cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 46 cases and two deaths were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Krishnagiri, 33 indigenous cases were reported. In Dharmapuri, 29 cases and one death were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-reports-117-covid-19-cases/article36581041.ece
21 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||800 kg gutkha seized, two held||Bargur police seized 800 kg banned gutkha products worth Rs. 6.63 lakh from a vegetable-laden lorry on Monday. During vehicle checks at the police check post at Bargur, the police intercepted the lorry from Kollegal in Karnataka that was transporting vegetables to Coimbatore. Police found gutka hidden beneath the vegetable bags. Truck driver Mohit and his assistant Selvaraj, both native of Karnataka were arrested. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/800-kg-gutkha-seized-two-held/article36581048.ece
21 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Sivagiri sub-station limits, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on September 22, Wednesday, at Sivagiri, Vettuvapalayam, Kagam, Konthalam, Minnapalayam, Palamangalam, Veerasangili, Kallapuramkottai, Vilankattuvalasu, Ellakadai, Kulavilakku, Karakkaattuvalasu, Kovilpalayam, Aayaparappu, Molapalayam, Parapalayam, Vilakethi, Kuttapalayam, Amman Kovil, Thoppapalayam, Perumparappu, Vadugapatti, 24 Velampalayam, Pannaikinaru, Karattupudur, Kattupalayam, Rakamapudur, Itchipalayam, Muthayanvalasu, Karukkampalayam, Unjalur, Othakadai, North Pudupalayam and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36581047.ece
21 September 2021||Erode/Salem,TAMIL NADU||DMK, allies demand withdrawal of farm laws||The ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and its allies staged a black flag protests at various places in the district condemning the BJP-led Central government for refusing to repeal the farm laws and its move to privatise public sector undertakings here on Monday. At a demonstration organised by Erode South District DMK, Anthiyur P. Selvaraj, party’s deputy general secretary and MP, took part. Functionaries said that the BJP’s policies favour only the rich and are ‘anti-people’ and ‘anti-democratic’. They said that policies of the Centre led to an increase in unemployment, while hike in fuel prices is affecting all the people in the country, except the rich. Members of the Erode Urban District Congress Committee organised a demonstration in which its president E.P. Ravi and its minority wing president Suresh took part. At Sampath Nagar, Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi staged a demonstration in which its general secretary and Tiruchengodu MLA E.R. Eswaran participated.  In Salem, R. Rajendran, DMK MLA, led the demonstration in front of the Salem New Bus Stand. S.R. Parthibhan, MP, representatives of various other political parties took part in the demonstrations. here. Members of allies parties raised black flags in front their residences. In Krishnagiri, members of DMK- led front demanded reduction in fuel, gas prices and withdrawal of farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-allies-demand-withdrawal-of-farm-laws/article36581043.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||KTR, Telangana Cong. chief spar over drugs scandal||The war of words between Municipal and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao (KTR) and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy on Twitter over the drug tests intensified and culminated in the Minister filing a defamation suit in the City Civil Court. The bitterness between both the leaders has been quite open and they made no bones about hiding their dislike with accusations and counter accusations over the last few years. However, the fresh war is related to the drug scandal in Telangana involving some celebrities summoned for an investigation by the Prohibition and Excise Department of the State government and also the Enforcement Directorate of the Central government. Mr. Reddy has been alleging that some celebrities involved in the drugs scandal were close to KTR and accused him of trying to save them. Further, Mr. Reddy through his media interactions said KTR had become the ‘Drug Ambassador’ of Telangana. Taking strong objection to the remarks, an angry KTR offered himself for a drug analysis test to prove his innocence and put an end to this ugly spat. He, however, put a rider that let Mr. Reddy also call his leader Rahul Gandhi for the drug tests to prove his innocence as well. Responding to this, the Telangana Congress chief came up with a ‘White Challenge’ concept where he asked people in public life and celebrities to get drug analysis tests done openly to send a positive message among the youngsters. He further said he was offering the challenge to KTR and also former Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MP (now with the Congress), Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, also known to be a strong critic of the TRS chief K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the Minister as well. Giving a political and publicity spin to the entire issue, Mr. Reddy said he would be present at the Telangana Martyrs’ memorial on Monday and also asked KTR to join him to visit any hospital of his choice for the blood analysis of drug consumption. He presented himself at the Martyrs’ Memorial with Congress workers where Mr. Vishweshwar Reddy also joined. He accused the Minister of escaping with irrelevant arguments. However, KTR tweeted in response to the challenge saying he was ready for the tests at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi along with Mr. Gandhi. He further said it was below his dignity to take the test with Cherlapalli jail ‘alumni’ in an indirect reference to Mr. Reddy’s jail term in the popularly known ‘Note for Vote’ case. He also asked if the TPCC chief was ready for a lie detector test in the ‘Note for Vote’ case. Reacting to this, Mr. Reddy dragged the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao into the war of words asking KTR to decide the time and place for the lie detector test along with KCR on the CBI cases on the alleged corruption charges in the ‘Sahara Provident Fund and ESI Hospital Construction’ scandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ktr-telangana-cong-chief-spar-over-drugs-scandal/article36580667.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||GHMC sweeper appointed assistant entomologist||Ambi Rajani’s story was a living proof of the fact that higher education is not a visa to higher opportunities for certain socially-disadvantaged sections. A post-graduate in organic chemistry and a Ph.D aspirant, Rajani was forced to work as a contract sweeper in GHMC, as she had neither the power nor resources to obtain a better job. Her ordeal came to an end after her story caught the attention of Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao whom she met in his office on Monday, along with Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar. She was handed over appointment orders as assistant entomologist on outsourcing basis. “I am extremely happy, and forever indebted to KTR sir. Finally, I am walking from darkness into light,” a beaming Rajani said. She had to don the mantle of sole breadwinner for a family of five, as her husband, an advocate, has been ill for some time. Hailing from the socially disadvantaged Yerukala community of Ramakrishnapuram village in Warangal district, she worked as a daily wager earlier too, even during her post-graduation days. “Both my parents worked as agricultural labourers, and I would go along with them to work. Though my parents paid the fee, I had to earn for books and my commute to college,” she recalled. Despite scoring high marks in Intermediate, and qualifying in EAMCET, she had to settle for B.Sc. in biotechnology, as her family was not in a position to fund her studies outside Warangal. Marriage happened after post-graduation followed by successive child births, scuttling her dream of doctorate and employment in her chosen stream. “My husband’s health issues pushed me to look desperately for employment. I worked for a brief while as a course coordinator in a computer training institute, but lost the job during the COVID-19 lockdown. I applied for jobs in several pharma companies, but faced rejection everywhere due to the COVID economic crisis,” Rajani recounted, explaining the conditions that led to her job as a sweeper. Though initially mortified to work as a sweeper, concerns about her family motivated her to take up the job. Objections by her sisters and their husbands did not deter her. “In fact, I was happy being a sweeper as other jobs are even worse. I tried for a sales job, but found that they pay only Rs. 6,000-7,000 per month for 10 to 12 hours of work. As sweeper, I worked only 7.5 hours and could spend time with my children,” Rajani, who qualified for PhD in University of Hyderabad, said. Retweeting Mr.Arvind Kumar’s post about his meeting with Rajani, Mr.Rama Rao wished her well. “Best moment of my hectic day today… All the very best Rajani Garu in your new role,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ghmc-sweeper-appointed-assistant-entomologist/article36580709.ece
21 September 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Tapping into Kalvarayan Hills’ potential for tourism||The district administration is working on a master plan for developing the Kalvarayan Hills in the Eastern Ghats, known for its picturesque waterfalls and pristine vegetation, into a major eco-tourism destination in the State. The administration, in association with the Forest Department, has identified land at Thalvizha hamlet in the hills for promotion of eco-tourism activities, including guided treks and adventure sports, and other basic amenities for tourists. “We have proposed the setting up of an adventure zone and other basic amenities for tourists in the hills. A consultant appointed by the Department of Tourism will visit the site and conduct a feasibility study over what kind of adventure sports can be conducted in the area. Activities like ropeway have been planned, and the work will begin after a detailed plan is drawn up,” Collector P.N. Sridhar told The Hindu . Waterfalls and valleys Located at a distance of 50 km from the district headquarters of Kallakurichi, the hills encompasses five waterfalls in addition to some vantage points which give a view of the picturesque valley. While Periyar falls located on the Ghat Road has become a potential tourism spot, the other waterfalls — Megam, Kaviyam, Maankombu and Sirukalur — are difficult to access. Megam falls is located 10 km from Vellimalai. Considering its tourism potential, the Kariyalur panchayat has constructed a road for the first 3 km, though the rest of it is not motorable. However, this has not deterred trekkers from visiting the falls. “Kalvarayan hills has very good tourism potential. The area may not offer the best facilities but there are many regular visitors. It is a hidden treasure for nature lovers who want to spend time away from routine life,” an official said. “The administration has planned to develop guest houses in the hills managed by the Forest Department to good use. Trekking routes will be created, and trained nature guides will accompany and educate tourists about nature conservation. Development works, including concrete flooring at the bathing area, providing safety railing, signage and route map to the waterfalls, have been planned. Forest guards will be posted in all the waterfalls to ensure safety and surveillance will also be stepped up,” Mr. Sridhar said. Herbal, bamboo farms The proposal also incudes a bamboo farm spanning 10 acres at Moolakkadu village and a herbal farm at Kariyalur. “We plan to have 60 varieties of medicinal plants. Saplings will also be sourced from the tribal people. In addition, an organic millet farm has been planned on 39 acres of land at Serapattu village,” the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tapping-into-kalvarayan-hills-potential-for-tourism/article36581333.ece
21 September 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Kallakurichi records 30 new cases||Kallakurichi district reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 30 new cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 30,728. Two women aged 45 and 62 years died of the disease taking the toll to 207. The district saw 30,144 recoveries and 377 were active cases. In Cuddalore district, 32 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 63,039. Villupuram district reported 22 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 45,251.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kallakurichi-records-30-new-cases/article36581338.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Kerala auto driver wins Rs. 12 crore in lottery||The confusion over the winner of the first prize of the Kerala Thiruvonam Bumper Lottery, worth Rs. 12 crore, has come to an end with Jayapalan T.R. from Maradu, Kochi, submitting the winning ticket at the Maradu branch of a nationalised bank on Monday. The development brought the curtains down on day-long speculations about the real winner of the lottery after Saithalavi, 45, an expatriate worker from Panamaram in Wayanad, initially claimed to have won the lottery. He works as a help at a restaurant at Abu Hail in Dubai. The draw was held around 3 p.m. in the State capital on Sunday and the winner of the first prize could not be identified immediately. It was reported that the first prize was won by a ticket bearing the number TE 645465 sold through a wholesale agency at Karunagapally in Kollam district. On Monday, sources at Meenakshi Lotteries, a retail agency at Statue Junction, Thripunithura, near Kochi, claimed that the winning lottery was sold from there. Mr. Jayapalan, an autorickshaw driver, told the media that he had bought the ticket from the Thripunithura agency and would use the prize money to meet his liabilities. He added that he had no plans to leave his work, something he has been doing for more than three decades. Mr. Saithalvi had initially said that he had purchased the ticket with the help of a friend in Palakkad. Though the friend was to have brought the ticket to Mr. Saithalvi’s house in Wayanad, he was yet to arrive there. Winners get Rs. 54 crore Around 54 lakh tickets, each priced Rs. 300, were sold across the State for the Thiruvonam bumper draw. A sum of around Rs. 54 crore is paid to winners in different categories, including the six second prize winners who get Rs. 1 crore each.  (With inputs from Wayanad bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-auto-driver-wins-rs-12-crore-in-lottery/article36580676.ece
21 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Sabarimala airport plan faulty: DGCA||The proposed construction of the Sabarimala greenfield airport on the Cheruvalli estate near Erumely here in Kerala, appears to have hit hurdles with the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) finding fault with its design and techno-economic feasibility report. According to a report by the regulatory body, the site-clearance approval sought for the airport is not in tune with the Greenfield Airports Policy. Aerial distance “The proposed site has an aerial distance of 88 km and 110 km from the Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram airports respectively. Whereas according to para 8.1 of the Greenfield Airports Policy, no greenfield airport would be allowed within an aerial distance of 150 km of an existing civilian airport,” according to the report. The agency has come down heavily on the techno-economic feasibility report prepared by Louis Berger, a private consultant, stating that it seems not reliable. “The appended map/charts to get the site clearance approval are not signed or authenticated by the surveyor and the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), the nodal agency for the project, as the content of documents varies at various places,” it added. The DGCA takes special notice of a disclaimer given to the Louis Berger report, which states that “any reliance on this report by any third party or external agency shall be solely at their risk and cost, with no obligation/liability on part of Louis Berger. No representation or warranty is given as to the reasonableness of forecasts or the assumption on which they may be based and nothing in this report is or should be relied on as a promise, representation or warranty”. The three-page report prepared by the DGCA carries adverse remarks on the space marked for the preparation of the 2,700-metre runway. In the absence of adequate length and width, a tabletop runway will have to be constructed on the lines of the Mangaluru and Kozhikode airports, it noted. ‘Will address concerns’ Commenting on the issue, Pathanamthitta MP, Anto Antony said steps would be taken to address the concerns raised by the DGCA at the earliest. “As far as Central Travancore is concerned, this is a dream project as the region contributes nearly 30% of the total passenger flow through the airports in Kerala,” he noted. Recently, the High Court had set aside a State government directive to the Kottayam District Collector to deposit the compensation amount before the land acquisition authority for taking over the Cheruvalli estate for the airport. A total of 2,263.18 acres needs to be acquired for the project to be developed in two phases.  This is a dream project as far as the Central Travancore region is concerned Anto Antony Pathanamthitta MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sabarimala-airport-plan-faulty-dgca/article36580674.ece
21 September 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||12-year-old boy chases smart phone snatcher||Appreciation is pouring in from police and local residents for a 12-year-old boy who courageously chased a smart phone thief here on Sunday. S. Chezhiyan, 10, was playing along with his friends in front of his house on 3rd Street in Bharathi Nagar on Sunday afternoon. He had a smart phone with him. An unidentified man snatched the smart phone from the boy and took to his heels. Chezhiyan shouted for help and also alerted his elder brother S. Naveen, 12, who was playing a few metres away. Even while shouting for help, Naveen began to chase the thief. As no one came to his help, the boy chased him for a distance but in vain. However, another mobile phone fell off from the thief’s pocket and Naveen picked it up and handed it over his father, Sundara Pandian. Mr. Sundara Pandian handed it over to Kovilpatti West Police and filed a complaint. Police found that the phone too was stolen on the same afternoon from a house on the adjoining street. They registered a case and are on the lookout for the thief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-year-old-boy-chases-smart-phone-snatcher/article36581409.ece
21 September 2021||Kozhikode,TAMIL NADU||No-dowry bond a must for admission to Calicut varsity||More universities seem to be following Governor Arif Mohammed Khan’s dictum to get a ‘no-dowry’ bond before awarding degree certificates as the University of Calicut has now asked students and their parents to sign such a declaration during its ongoing admissions for undergraduate courses. Two lakh students Students and parents are supposed to give separate declarations. As many as two lakh students seek admission to various undergraduate courses in Calicut University, which has a jurisdiction over six of the 14 districts in the State. It is learnt that the Mahatma Gandhi University too has issued a circular, making anti-dowry declaration a must for awarding degree certificates. The University of Kerala is reportedly awaiting a decision of its Syndicate before issuing an order. A circular issued by the Assistant Registrar, University of Calicut, on September 15 said that the Governor, who is also the Chancellor of universities, had proposed to obtain a declaration from all stakeholders that they won’t demand or accept dowry, either directly or indirectly, or abet its delivery or acceptance. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj ordered to obtain the declaration from parents and students during admissions in the context of frequent reporting of dowry deaths related to domestic violence, the circular said. All colleges This is applicable to all government, aided and self-financing colleges affiliated to the university. Since many colleges got the circular after the first and second allotment for admissions to undergraduate courses got over, such students too will have to give a declaration, along with those who seek to get seat in the third allotment. The students are being asked to sign an undertaking that any breach of the rules or law relating to taking or abetting the taking of dowry shall render them liable for appropriate action. That include cancellation of admission to the university, withdrawal of degree, or refusal to grant degree, the undertaking says. As many as 386 students of the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS), including undergraduate and postgraduate degree holders, gave signed declarations at their convocation ceremony held in Kochi last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-dowry-bond-a-must-for-admission-to-calicut-varsity/article36580671.ece
21 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||200 stolen mobile phones recovered||The Krishnagiri district police recovered about 200 stolen mobile phones and returned them to their owners on Monday. According to the police, special teams were formed to recover the stolen mobile phones. Superintendent of Police Sai Charan Tejaswi handed over the phones to the owners and appreciated the police personnel who were involved in the recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-stolen-mobile-phones-recovered/article36581049.ece
21 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Custodial death case: High Court denies advance bail to policeman||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has refused to grant anticipatory bail to a policeman alleged to have been involved in a custodial death case. The court also took a serious note of the fact that the CB-CID is yet to complete the investigation even three years after the case was transferred to it. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Krishnavelu of Ramanathapuram. In 2012, a team of police personnel tried to nab Venkatesan, an accused in a case. Venkatesan injured himself while trying to escape. He was secured and taken into custody. It was alleged that he was subjected to custodial torture in which he sustained injuries. Later, he succumbed to the injuries. The investigation into the case was transferred to the CB-CID. Krishnavelu said he was working at the police station at the time of the incident, but he was not involved in the incident. Claiming that he was falsely implicated in the case, he sought anticipatory bail apprehending arrest. Justice G. Ilangovan took note of the fact that all the police personnel involved were named as accused. Earlier, the court had denied anticipatory bail to the other accused. Prima facie materials were available to proceed against the accused in the case and it was a case of custodial murder, the judge observed. The court observed that it was unfortunate that even after the lapse of three years, the investigation in the case was still pending, and dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-denies-advance-bail-to-policeman/article36581018.ece
21 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers show what nutrition is all about||A group of anganwadi workers from T. Kallupatti block caught the attention of people at the Collectorate on Monday with their colourful and innovative exhibits for nutritional month celebrations, under Poshan Maah, a programme of the union government. The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) has been conducting a month-long awareness exhibition from September 1, on improvement of holistic nutrition, at the Ccollectorate, with anganwadi workers from different blocks displaying their exhibits in innovative ways. On Monday, a group of anganwadi workers led by Child Development Project Officer K. Koperundevi from T. Kallupatti Block stole the show by creating a live counter to provide health drinks like ‘kambankoozh,’ buttermilk and millet-based snacks, apart from putting up miniature thermocoal models of activities undertaken in anganwadi centres. First 1,000 days “In a portion of our display, we focused on the theme that the first 1,000 days of a child’s life is a very significant window for its growth and nutrition. It includes 270 days of pregnancy, 180 days of breastfeeding and 550 days of nutritional intake of food. We prepared a food pyramid chart that mothers can follow during this period. In another portion, we displayed miniature thermocoal works of regular activities undertaken in anganwadis like first rice-eating ceremony, baby showers for to-be mothers and COVID-19 awareness sessions,” Ms. Koperundevi said. The live counter that served drinks also educated people about traditional grandma’s health remedies. They had also displayed photos of various other activities likecreating kitchen gardens and conducting talk sessions on AYUSH practices for better nutrition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anganwadi-workers-show-what-nutrition-is-all-about/article36581242.ece
21 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||FIR against man who ventured out during lockdown quashed||Bringing relief to a Madurai man, booked for venturing out of his house during the COVID-19 lockdown, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court quashed the FIR registered against him taking into account the fact that it was an unintended casual act. The court was hearing the petition filed by V. Karthikraja. He was booked under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and Section 269 (Negligent Act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. He sought to quash the FIR registered against him. The police had booked him after he was outside riding his two -heeler when the prohibitory order under Section 144 of CrPC was in force during COVID-19 lockdown. Justice G. Ilangovan observed that Section 188 of IPC would not stand against the petitioner as the police cannot file the case and investigate the same without getting proper permission from the jurisdictional Magistrate concerned. A detailed guideline had already been issued by the court, the judge said. With regard to the offence under Section 269 of IPC, the petitioner was simply riding his two-wheeler. It was a trivial matter in which no offence of grievous nature was involved. Even though the prohibitory order under Section 144 of CrPC was in force, the police should have warned the petitioner to go indoors. Instead they filed a case. At the time of the incident, the petitioner was not affected by COVID-19. Therefore, the contention that he would spread COVID-19 was without basis, the judge said. The court took into account the fact that he had also applied for a passport and wanted to go abroad for his livelihood. The court observed that riding the two-wheeler without any reason should not be a reason to spoil the future of the petitioner. An unintended casual act should not take away the prospects of the petitioner. Moreover, the court was informed that the government was going to drop all these cases that were registered against the public during the COVID-19 pandemic, the judge said. The judge took note of the submission and quashed the FIR registered against the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fir-against-man-who-ventured-out-during-lockdown-quashed/article36581245.ece
21 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Traditional annadhanam to devotees resumes at temples in Madurai||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department’s Annadhanam scheme under which food is served to people on plantain leaves, resumed in the city’s temples after a year-and-a-half with COVID-19 protocols and guidelines in place. Under the scheme, temples usually serve meals to the public on plantain leaves, with seating facilities in their ‘annadhana koodam,’ but it was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic since March last year. Since then temples continued providing the meals in packets. On Monday, serving of meals resumed at the temples. Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple Joint Commissioner K. Chelladurai said that the temple had started serving meals, after following social distancing and other COVID-19 related norms. “Around 700 people are served food in a day. Hand washing facility is made available closer to the place where food is served. Only two people are allowed to share a table meant for three. We ensure that there is no crowding of people anywhere in the temple,” he said. Food parcels on 3 days As temples are allowed to function only from Monday to Thursday, they will continue to provide food parcels from Friday to Sunday. Superintendent of Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple M. Angayarkanni said, “From noon to 1 p.m., around 100 people were served food. Hand sanitisers were kept at the entrance to the temple. As some of the people come to the annadhanam regularly, we will continue providing parcels to them during the weekends too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/serving-of-annadhanam-resumes/article36581235.ece
21 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||18 cases of energy theft detected in Virudhunagar, Madurai districts||As many as 18 cases of power theft were detected in Virudhunagar and Madurai Electricity Distribution Circle by the Enforcement Division of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) during the course of a raid conducted recently. The thefts were detected in Kariapatti, Tiruchuli and Pandalgudi in Virudhunagar district and in Tirumangalam in Madurai district. A total penalty of Rs. 6.71 lakh was levied on the erring consumers to offset the loss incurred by Tangedco due to the power theft. The consumers admitted to the offence and chose to compound the case. They remitted a total sum of Rs. 48,000 to avoid criminal proceedings. No police complaint was lodged. People can report energy theft offences to the Executive Engineer (Enforcement - Madurai) on 94430 37508.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-cases-of-energy-theft-detected/article36581024.ece
21 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No clear data available to provide internal quota, say petitioners||There was no quantifiable data available to justify 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyakula Kshatriyas and the President alone was empowered to identify socially and educationally backward classes to include them in the list for claiming reservation benefits, senior counsel for petitioners who are opposing the reservation argued before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. A batch of cases pertaining to internal reservation for Vanniyars was taken up by a Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar on Monday. During the course of the hearing, senior counsel K.M. Vijayan and G. Rajagopalan submitted that there was no quantifiable data available and the State had no legislative competence to effect the internal reservation. The law had to be struck down, they argued. The court will continue to hear the arguments on Tuesday. Earlier, a Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh (since elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court) and S. Kannammal had passed an interim order on the cases stating that admissions made in educational institutions and appointments to public posts by implementing the reservation would be subject to the outcome of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-clear-data-available-to-provide-internal-quota/article36581019.ece
21 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Community Health Centre inaugurated||A new building housing Ansari Nagar Community Health Centre (CHC), built at a cost of Rs. 1.50 crore on the premises of corporation’s zone 1 office, was inaugurated by Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan here on Monday. The Ansari Nagar Urban Primary Health Centre (PHC) has been upgraded to Community Health Centre. It has 30 beds for inpatients and serve 170 outpatients round-the-clock. There are spacious post natal wards, an operation theatre, post operative and labour wards apart from a paediatric ICU that will soon start functioning. City Health Officer S. Raja said, “Madurai Corporation has 31 Primary Health Centres. Already two of the PHCs in Sellur and K. Pudur have been upgraded to Community Health Centres by providing better facilities. The Ansari Nagar CHC will function under the supervision of three medical officers.” Constructed under the National Urban Health Mission, the hospital will also get high-tech surgical equipment at a cost of Rs. 16.44 lakh soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-community-health-centre-inaugurated/article36581240.ece
21 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Trees to be transplanted||Public Works Department is transplanting 15 trees from the site where Kalaignar Memorial Library has been proposed along New Natham Road. An expert in tree transplantation, ‘Osai’ K. Syed, Project Director (Environmental Science), Bharathiyar University, Coimbatore, who has been carrying out the work in the presence of PWD Executive Engineer V. Sugumaran. “We are not disturbing all the trees on the site, but only those trees that are on the part of the site where the library building has been proposed,” said Assistant Executive Engineer (Buildings) S. Pitchai Murugan. Mr. Syed, who has been involved in around 1,000 tree transplantations in various places in the last 10 years, said that about 50% to 90% of the trees used to survive after transplantation. In Madurai, the team has adopted a new technique to ensure faster and assured rejuvenation after transplantation. “Earlier, we used to trim the tree and immediately transplant them. However, here we have trimmed the branches and packed the tips with cow dung. The minor roots are cut and fertilizers applied. The trees are allowed to have fresh shoots,” Mr. Syed said. He said that the trees when transplanted with fresh shoots would be able to sustain the rejuvenation, and at a faster pace too. The trees are planted with their mother soil in the new spots. “Neem, pungai, uthiyan, vilvamaram would be transplanted. Since, tamarind tree will not survive after transplantation, those trees would be removed,” he added. The trees are planted along the borders of the site. The work is expected to be completed in another 10 days. The advent of monsoon is expected to help the rejuvenation process and the trees would be maintained for the next six months.  About 50% to 90% of the trees used to survive after transplantation K. Syed, Project Director  Bharatiyar University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-trees-on-kalaignar-memorial-library-site-to-be-transplanted/article36581247.ece
21 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 130 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 769 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 56.17 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 938 cusecs and a discharge of 1,669 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,422 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Manjalar dam 21, Veerapandi 17, Uthamapalayam 15.4, Kodaikanal 10.8, Shanmuganadhi dam 7.5, Sothuparai 1 and Thekkadi 0.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36581023.ece
21 September 2021||MADURAI/Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu govt. is ready to rethink fuel under GST: Minister||The Tamil Nadu government is ready to reconsider its decision on the issue of bringing fuel prices under the Goods and Services Tax regime, provided the Centre gives up the cess surcharge on petrol and diesel, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said on Monday. He said that though the State would lose revenue after allowing the fuel prices to be brought under the purview of the GST, the measure would help to bring down inflation, thus helping both the country and people. He clarified that the DMK had changed its earlier stand “based on the changing taxation situation”. Despite the phenomenal decrease in the international prices of crude oil, the Union government put up the cess surcharge on petrol and diesel and did not share with the States the revenue thereof. While helping the big companies with reduced corporate taxes, it burdened people with more indirect taxes to make up the shortfall in revenue. A higher tax on fuel led to a higher inflation of essential commodities, and people were suffering because of the double burden, Mr. Thiaga Rajan said. Even at the recent GST Council meeting, the Union government did not express its stand on the issue. “It has been tabled at the meeting as per the direction of the Kerala High Court in a particular case,” he said.  Action sought Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai said that once petrol and diesel were brought under the GST, there would be no need for the Centre to levy cess on fuel. He demanded action against Mr. Thiaga Rajan for his posts on social media targetting those who criticised him. At a press conference, Mr. Annamalai asked why as the Finance Minister of Tamil Nadu, Mr. Thiaga Rajan did not attend the GST Council meeting held in Lucknow and why the government did not send anyone to represent the State at such an important meeting. “When this is asked, they are giving explanations that are very amusing,” he said. Mr. Annamalai said that once petrol and diesel were brought under the GST, which should be under the highest tax slab of 28%, the States and the Centre would endure some losses, but there would be an immediate reduction in the price of petrol by around Rs. 30-35 per litre, according to economists. “When this reduction happens, the real economy will pick up,” he said. Slamming Mr. Thiaga Rajan for his absence at the meeting, he demanded that the government explain why no one was sent for the meeting. “When they [the DMK] were in the Opposition, they wanted fuel to be under the GST. Now they want the exact opposite. People should understand this hypocrisy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-govt-is-ready-to-rethink-fuel-under-gst-minister/article36580841.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC objects to more time for urban civic polls||The Supreme Court on Monday prima facie expressed its objection to extending by six or seven months the time for conducting elections to the urban local bodies in Tamil Nadu. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, asked the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to file an affidavit explaining the reasons for the plea for an extension of time. The Bench decided to hear the matter after two days. “You have gone for Assembly elections, Parliament elections, election rallies... But you will have excuses only about holding local body elections,” the Bench told the State Election Commission. The State Election Commission said the elections to the rural local bodies in the nine new districts would be completed by October 12, and it would need a few months to prepare for the elections to the urban local bodies, factoring in the COVID-19 situation. In June, the court directed the State Election Commission to complete the delayed local bodies elections in nine districts by September 15. It pointed out that the notification had been issued way back in 2019. The tenure of the previous local bodies had also expired. In December last year, the court granted an extension of six months to complete the delimitation and conduct the elections in the nine districts. The court ordered the completion of the delimitation in three months. The districts are Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tirupathur, Ranipet, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. The elections have been scheduled in these districts for October 6 and 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-objects-to-more-time-for-urban-civic-polls/article36580851.ece
21 September 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Aged woman murdered by grandson||A 90-year-old woman was murdered by her grandson and his friend in Perambalur during the intervening period of Sunday night and Monday morning. The police on Monday arrested S. Gokul (20) and his friend S. Kalaiarasan (23) on the charge of killing A.Pachaimmal. Gokul is the grandson of Pachaimmal, a widow. Police said Pachaiammal had been staying with the family of one of her sons Shankar who had died earlier. Gokul is the son of Shankar. Problems erupted between Shankar’s wife and Pachiammal. Gokul allegedly strangulated his grandmother leading to her death. The other grandsons visited the house of Pachiammal on Monday morning only to find her lying motionless. They complained to their father Rajendran, another son of Pachaimmal. Rajendran who suspected the role of Shankar’s wife and grandson behind the death of his mother subsequently lodged a complaint with the Perambalur Police. The offence came to light when the police inquired Gokul. A case of murder has been registered against Gokul and his friend Kalaiarasan who had allegedly killed the aged woman. The accused were later remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aged-woman-murdered-by-grandson/article36580993.ece
21 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G asks MLAs to prioritise the vaccination of U.T. residents||The administration on Monday rolled out a door-to-door COVID-19 vaccination campaign led by MLAs of their respective constituencies in a bid to achieve full coverage of the population above 18 years with at least a single dose in the next 10 days. Addressing the media after inspecting the door-to-door vaccination drive at Pillaiyar Koil Street in Karuvadikuppam of Kalapet constituency, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan appealed to legislators, irrespective of their political alignment, to prioritise efforts to protect people against the coronavirus. Teams of healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and ASHA workers, had been assigned to each constituency and for the next 10 days they would only focus on administering COVID-19 vaccines to those who are yet to take the jab. While urging people who were yet to take a vaccine to do so without delay by availing the extensive facilities being hosted by the government, Ms. Soundararajan said this was imperative not only from the all-too-important standpoint of self protection from the virus and not passing an infection to others, but also because future access to welfare benefits or schemes could require proof of vaccination as an eligibility criteria. She pointed out in an extraordinary situation of a globe-spanning pandemic, the experience across countries had been that in the absence of voluntary participation in preventive interventions was resulting in harsher norms, requiring mandatory compliance. “The rules in a pandemic are framed to prevent transmission. No one has the right to infect others due to one’s laxity... in fact, getting inoculated is one’s social responsibility during a pandemic,” she said. Moreover, the evidence from the data was overwhelmingly in favour of taking the vaccine as 98% of ICU admissions were patients who had not taken the jab, she added. Ms. Soundararajan, who also visited a similar drive at Thiruvalluvar Nagar, was accompanied by MLAs P.M.L. Kalyanasundaram and M. Vaithianathan, T. Arun, Health Secretary, and G. Sriramulu, Health Director. Hospital infrastructure Earlier in the day, the Lt. Governor held a review meeting of the obstetrics, gynaecology and paediatrics departments at the Rajiv Gandhi Government Women and Children Hospital. The meeting was part of an initiative to raise the quality of government healthcare institutions to international standards and sought to obtain feedback on the shortcomings and requirements of equipment and manpower, the Lt. Governor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-asks-mlas-to-prioritise-the-vaccination-of-ut-residents/article36581330.ece
21 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Home Minister summoned to Delhi for RS seat negotiations||The focus on the Rajya Sabha seat has now shifted to the national capital with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s top brass summoning its local leader and Home Minister A. Namassivayam to New Delhi. Mr. Namassivayam was asked to immediately reach the national capital on Sunday after he and BJP local unit president V. Saminathan met chief of the All India N.R. Congress and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy to reiterate the BJP’s claim for the lone Rajya Sabha seat from the Union Territory. BJP’s resolution The party had passed a resolution on Friday staking claim for the seat within the National Democratic Alliance. “The meeting with the Chief Minister happened around noon. Immediately after the meeting, the Home Minister was asked to reach New Delhi. He took a flight from Chennai on Sunday evening itself,” a BJP leader told The Hindu . According to the BJP leader, the Home Minister was summoned after the Chief Minister refused to give a clear picture on whether he was willing to part with the seat. BJP-in charge for Union Territory Nirmal Kumar Surana is also in the national capital. The Home Minister, who is camping in the national capital, was not available for comments but sources close to him said the BJP central leadership had already gotten in touch with the Chief Minister and negotiations were on. “A top leader from Delhi spoke to the Chief Minister expressing the BJP’s interest in the Rajya Sabha seat,” a source said. Amid the stand-off on the Rajya Sabha seat, the Chief Minister on Monday morning had a very brief meeting with Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. “The meeting lasted for about 10 minutes,” said an official in the Chief Minister’s Office. AINRC’s nominee Meanwhile, sources in the Assembly Secretariat said a supporter of former Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, who is considered a frontrunner for the seat in the All India N.R. Congress, had obtained the nomination papers for the Rajya Sabha polls. The BJP also had obtained the nomination papers for the seat, elections for which are to be held on October 4.  The meeting with the Chief Minister happened around noon. Immediately after the meeting, the Home Minister was asked to reach New Delhi. He took a flight from Chennai on Sunday BJP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-minister-summoned-to-delhi-for-rs-seat-negotiations/article36581328.ece
21 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New COVID-19 cases in Union Territory drop to 54||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death while new cases dropped to 54 on Monday. The sole death occurred in Puducherry, taking the cumulative toll to 1,832. The toll by region is Puducherry 1,440, Karaikal 243, Yanam 106 and Mahe 43. Puducherry accounted for 34 of the new cases, which were detected from 4,069 tests, followed by Karaikal (15) and Mahe (5). No new cases were reported from Yanam. The test positivity rate was 1.33%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.85%. With 109 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 867. Of this, 141 patients were in hospitals and 726 cases in home isolation. Th Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,25,517 cases against 1,22,818 recoveries. More get vaccinated Of an estimated 17.42 lakh tests administered so far, over 14.77 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,165 people took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The total number of vaccines, including second dose, administered in the Union Territory aggregated to 9,12,331.  The total number of vaccines, including second dose, administered in the Union Territory aggregated to 9,12,331||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-covid-19-cases-in-union-territory-drop-to-54/article36581331.ece
21 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Construction of irrigation tank begins at Mathikrishnapuram||Sri Aurobindo Society on Monday launched work on the creation of a new irrigation tank at Mathikrishnapuram, near Utchimedu. Bahour MLA R. Senthil Kumar laid the foundation stone for the project in the presence of the project coordinator Shalini Aravindan. According to a release, the irrigation tank once completed will have a water spread area of 17.8 acres with a total volume of 1.44 lakh cubic metres. Rainwater wastage It will prevent the wastage of rainwater into the Bay of Bengal during monsoon. The project is being conducted with the support of the National Council for Science and Technology Communication, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. Staff from the Sri Aurobindo Society, Mullodai Channel Association functionaries Purushothaman and Kamalakannan and Bangaru Channel Association president V. Chandrasekhar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-of-irrigation-tank-begins-at-mathikrishnapuram/article36581337.ece
21 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Dozen houses waiting for power supply for two decades||Residents of a street in V. Shanmuganathapuram in Muthukulathor Taluk have been struggling to get domestic power connection and also proper pathway for a dozen of houses for the last 20 years. After giving petitions to different officials for two decades, the residents again knocked at the door of the Collector on Monday. They handed over a petition to Collector J.U. Chandrakala. “We have tried to draw the attention of the district administration on many occasions, but nothing has worked so far,” said B. Manikandan (29). Since the houses are surrounded by wild growth infested with dangerous reptiles, the life of residents is often threatened by poisonous snakes that enter their houses at night. “Since, it is pitch dark in our area, snakes enter our houses after sunset,” he said. His sister suffered a snake bite two months back and his brother fortunately escaped from a cobra attack last week. The residents complained that they lived in houses constructed under Government housing scheme in 2000 and proper road and electricity connection could not be given to them as the pathway is in the possession of an individual for which he had been “wrongly” given patta. The villagers wanted the district administration to act immediately before any loss of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dozen-houses-waiting-for-power-supply-for-two-decades/article36581026.ece
21 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Poll control room set up in Ramnad||Ramanathapuram police have set up an election control room to receive complaints of malpractices during the ordinary election to various posts of rural local bodies. People can call 04567-232672 to lodge any complaint with regard to the polls, according to police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-control-room-in-ramanathapuram/article36581035.ece
21 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Communal rotation process under way in new urban local bodies: Nehru||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru said here on Monday the communal rotation process in the newly-announced urban local bodies was progressing and the number of wards in the Corporations would be increased as per the population. Responding to questions from reporters on the conduct of elections to Corporations, Mr. Nehru said ward delimitation and communal rotation processes were under way in the newly-announced six Corporations and 29 Municipalities. However, the Chief Minister had advised that the polls be held at the earliest, and officials were working towards it. Mr. Nehru said his party, the DMK, was ready to face the local body elections. On increasing the number of wards in the existing Corporations, the Minister said wards would be divided according to the population. In Corporations with a population up to 3 lakh, the local body would be split into 50 to 58 wards, the ones with a population of 3 lakh to 5 lakh would have 80 wards and Corporations with over 5 lakh population would have 100 wards. Mr. Nehru launched the desilting of channels to Silavari Lake and planting of saplings at Vaikalpattarai. The Minister said that over the next 10 days, channels and storm water drains would be desilted to prevent rainwater stagnation. While 200 waterbodies in Chennai would be rejuvenated, similar measures were on in other urban local bodies. About 9,097 vehicles, 97,550 workers and 4,625 supervisors would be involved in the work, he said. MP S.R. Parthibhan, MLA R. Rajendran, Salem Collector S. Karmegham, Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj and other senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/communal-rotation-on-in-new-urban-local-bodies/article36580921.ece
21 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Communal rotation process progressing in newly-announced local bodies’||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru said the process of communal rotation in the newly-announced urban local bodies is progressing and wards in Corporations would be increased as per the population in the local bodies. Addressing the media in Salem, Mr. Nehru said currently, ward delimitation and communal rotation processes were on in the six newly-announced Corporations and 29 Municipalities. However, the Chief Minister had advised to conduct the polls at the earliest and officials were working towards it. The dates for the electionswould have to be announced by the State Election Commission, he said, adding that the party was ready to face local body elections. On increasing the number of wards in existing Corporations, he said wards would be divided in a Corporation as per its population. In Corporations with a population of up to 3 lakh, the local body would be split into 50-58 wards; for the ones with 3-5 lakh population, it would be split into 80 wards; and in Corporations with more than 5 lakh population, at least 100 wards would be formed. In Chennai, there were 200 wards, he said. Mr. Nehru launched the desilting of water channels at Silavari lake here and launched sapling tree plantation activities for setting up urban forests at Vaikalpattarai. Mr. Nehru said for the next 10 days, water channels and stormwater drains would be desilted to prevent rainwater stagnation. He added that the government had taken up 200 waterbodies in Chennai for rejuvenation, and similar measures were being taken in other urban local bodies to rejuvenate waterbodies that had been rendered useless. Mr. Nehru said 9,097 vehicles had been deployed for cleaning work. He said 97,550 workers and 4,625 supervisors had been roped in for the purpose. New markets and bus stands would be constructed in the newly announced urban local bodies, he added. He added the DPR was being prepared for desilting three canals in Chennai, including the Buckingham canal and Cooum. Measures were taken to expedite underground drainage works and the recycling of sewage water in Chennai. It would be extended to other places in a phased manner. District Collector S. Karmegham, Salem Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj, DMK legislator R. Rajendran, MP S.R. Parthibhan and other senior officials were present.  The dateswould have to be announced by the SEC. The DMK is ready to face local body elections||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/communal-rotation-process-progressing-in-newly-announced-local-bodies/article36581326.ece
21 September 2021||salem,TAMIL NADU||Two sentenced for sexual assaults in Salem||The Special Court for trial of POCSO cases here on Monday sentenced a 65-year-old man to four years of rigorous imprisonment for attempting to sexually assaulting a minor in 2018. The accused Pachiappan of Karupannur was arrested based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s father at Mettur All Woman Police Station. The Court also imposed a fine of Rs. 20,000 on the accused. Another judgment In another judgment, the District Mahila Court sentenced Senthilkumar from Perumanur to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 25-year-old woman in 2012. Based on the victim’s complaint, Kariyakovil police registered a case and arrested the accused. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 11,000 on the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-sentenced-for-sexual-assaults-in-salem/article36581050.ece
21 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||The outflow from Mettur dam was reduced on Monday to 7,000 cusecs of water. According to Public Works Department officials, the water level at the dam was 72.97ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water in the dam was 35,304 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 10,277 cusecs of water. The discharge from the dam to Cauvery river for irrigation in delta region was reduced from 16,000 cusecs of water to 7,000 cusecs of water from 11 a.m on Monday owing to recent rains. East-West Canal The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 750 cusecs of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article36581040.ece
21 September 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||One killed in explosion||A worker, C. Chinna Muniyappan, 60, was killed in an explosion at an amorces unit at Saraswathipalayam here on Monday. He was involved in handling the chemicals in the unit making roll caps when friction caused fire and triggered an explosion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-killed-in-explosion/article36581233.ece
21 September 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Retired SSI attacked||A retired special sub-inspector of police suffered multiple cut injuries in an attack on Sunday. Srinivasan, 67, who retired from service, had enmity with one Velu, 65, of Rajapalayam over a money transaction. Velu had gone to Srinivasan’s house on South Car Street and attacked him with a machete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retired-ssi-attacked/article36581232.ece
21 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Rain, procurement delay may play spoilsport in kuruvai harvest||Delta farmers have alleged that harvesting of ‘kuruvai’ paddy has come under threat in view of the climatic conditions and ‘reluctance’ on the part of the government procurement agencies to step up pace of procurement. As preparatory works for cultivation of ‘samba’ and ‘thaladi’ is picking up, the delay in the harvesting of ‘kuruvai’ paddy caused due to factors such as non-availability of sufficient hands locally and the widespread rain across the Delta districts for the past few days have caused immense worry among farmers who had taken up ‘kuruvai’ cultivation this season following the opening of the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur for irrigation on the scheduled date of June 12, they claimed. Moreover, the non-opening of adequate numbers of Direct Purchase Centres (DPC) by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation like the previous year had compounded the problem, according to general secretary, Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam, P. R. Pandian. For instance, several farmers in the Tiruvarur district have delayed the harvesting process since the Corporation did not open the DPCs at several areas by claiming that the centres could not be opened in view of their locations which is prone to inundation and other operational reasons. Further, the paddy brought to the DPCs were rejected citing moisture content, he said and added that the situation could have been averted had the State government obtained prior permission from the Union government to procure paddy with a moisture content of 22 per cent in view of the climatic conditions predicted by the Meteorological Department much earlier. The Delta farmers who have already been denied an opportunity to insure ‘kuruvai’ crop are now facing a piquant situation with the standing crop getting lodged in the fields due to sudden downpour, he claimed. Stating that though the need of the hour was the availability of paddy dryers, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations of Delta Districts, P. Kalyanam exhorted the State government to revive the mobile paddy procurement exercise to ensure smooth and quick procurement of ‘kuruvai’ paddy. He also urged the State government to consider the Delta farmers’ plea for setting up silos with paddy dryers in every taluk in the Delta districts to procure and store 20,000 to 30,000 tonnes of paddy, a plea repeatedly raised by the farmers since 2007. Meanwhile, official sources claimed that the DPCs to procure ‘kuruvai’ paddy were being opened at places where such requests have come from farmers and the paddy was being procured as per the norms.  State government should consider the Delta farmers’ plea for setting up silos with paddy dryers in every taluk P. Kalyanam Federation of Farmers Associations of Delta Districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-procurement-delay-may-play-spoilsport-in-kuruvai-harvest/article36580992.ece
21 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Copper plate inscriptions confirm donation of land to temple||A study of copper plate inscriptions purportedly created and presented to Sri Bhakthavatsala Perumal Temple, Thirukkannamangai, during the erstwhile Nayak regime has revealed that Nayak King Vijayaraghunatha Nayakar had bequeathed 400 acres of land to the temple, according to epigraphist K. Panneerselvam of the Archaeological Survey of India. Talking to reporters here after inspecting the inscriptions on the granite walls of temples at Thittai, Thiruvedikudi and Karanthattankudi on Saturday, Mr. Panneerselvam said that the Department received the copper plates from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department recently on instructions from the Madras High Court. The deciphering of the inscriptions resulted in the confirmation of an allegation made in a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) moved before the Madras High Court stating that some 400 acres of land had been bequeathed to the Thirukkannamangai Sri Bhakthavatsala Perumal Temple in 1608 and the donation had been recorded as copper plate inscription. The PIL alleged that the said copper plate was missing from the possession of the temple managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department and hence the PIL. Responding to the allegation, the Department informed the Madras High Court that the copper inscription plates were in its safe custody. Subsequently, the Madras High Court had ordered that the details on the copper plates be deciphered by the ASI, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/copper-plate-inscriptions-confirm-donation-of-land-to-temple/article36580989.ece
21 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||House site pattas distributed||House site pattas were distributed to 50 families living in 23-Velur hamlet near Kathiramangalam in Thiruvidaimaruthur taluk. According to official sources, these families living on the roadsides were pleading for free house site pattas for a long time and they had submitted petitions to the District Administration regarding this. Subsequently, suitable land measuring 1.33 acres, including 0.54 ‘areas’ of private wet land, was identified in the village and the land category was modified for creating a residential area named as ‘Senthamizh Nagar’ to accommodate these 50 families. The private wet land was bought at a cost of Rs. 2.45 lakh by the Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribe Welfare Department and the entire 1.33 acres was subdivided to accommodate roofless families and for creation of basic infrastructure facilities for them, sources said. The free house site pattas were handed over to the beneficiaries by Government Whip Govi. Chezhian and Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver at a function held at 23-Velur village last week, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-site-pattas-distributed/article36580999.ece
21 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of sewage and stormwater channels gets under way in districts||Collector K. Senthil Raj has initiated a massive exercise to avert flooding of the city during the ensuing northeast monsoon as the coastal town has experienced flooding since 2018. As Thoothukudi is always prone to floods during the season, the district administration has started clearing all sewage channels in the town. According to Dr. Senthil Raj, all departments will be involved in desilting of sewage and stormwater channels and clearing of bushes in vacant lands as well. The Departments of Revenue, Local bodies, Public Works and Highways, which had chalked out a plan, will execute it to avert flooding during heavy downpour. “We can focus on two things by clearing the channels and bushes. Firstly, we can avoid stagnation of water in residential areas. Secondly, we can conserve more water through ‘Catch the rain’ concept. This time. through successful planning, we can minimise the usual negative impact of northeast monsoon in our district,” the Collector says. The plan is to categorise all the channels into highly vulnerable, vulnerable and normal channels and work out desilting and clearing the channels in six days from Monday to Saturday. On Sunday (September 27), the left out channels will be cleared. The officials will then focus on draining the rainwater into the channels to be taken to the sea. “We solicit the participation of non-government organisations, community-level organisations, NCC / NSS/ Home Guards and philanthropists in this noble task that would save the people from flooding during monsoon. I request the public too to contribute for desilting of channels and clearing of bushes.” Dr. Senthil Raj said. Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan was present. Tirunelveli In Tirunelveli, the Corporation has deployed its workforce in all four zones under its jurisdiction for clearing blocks in sewage channels ahead of the northeast monsoon, which is expected to start mid-October. Since the clogged drainage channels give a lot of headache every year for Corporation officials due to flooding of low-lying residential areas, the six-day-long exercise started on Monday. Armed with safety equipment, the workers have been deployed to remove the blocks in the sewage channels. Similar exercise has got off started in Nagercoil with Minister for Information Technology T. Mano Thangaraj inaugurating it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-of-sewage-and-stormwater-channels-gets-under-way-in-districts/article36581408.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Remove encroachments and widen Vayalur Road: residents||While the plan to ease traffic congestion on the Vayalur Main Road outlined by Minister for Municipal Administration, K. N. Nehru, has been largely welcomed, local residents, however, emphasise the need for clearing encroachments and widening the existing arterial road. On Sunday, Mr. Nehru announced plans to develop the left-bank of the Uyyakondan canal as a full-fledged road and also build a new link road to Vayalur via Woraiyur. Mr.Nehru said that Uyyakondan canal bank would be widened and developed as a 60-feet road after necessary clearances were obtained from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. He also said that a new link road would be developed from Woraiyur to Vayalur, though he did not indicate the exact alignment of the road. Residents of Somarasampettai and nearby residential colonies have long been demanding the development of the canal bank as a full-fledged road. Many already commute regularly along the bank to avoid the heavy traffic on Vayalur Road. It is a shorter route to reach the city from Somarasampettai in quick time, residents point out. Although the Minister’s announcement was largely welcomed, a section of residents says it is imperative for the authorities to provide some immediate relief as the Vayalur Road was literally bursting at its seams due to ever-rising vehicular traffic on the road. Scores of residential colonies have mushroomed on both sides of the road over the past couple of decades. It is among the fastest growing residential belts in the city, given it’s proximity to the city. The two-lane road, once a village pathway, is now unable to cater to rapid urbanisation and manifold increase in volume of traffic. With encroachments shrinking the road further at many places, everyday commute to the city is proving to be a nightmarish experience for hundreds of thousands of residents. A large number of farmers from Vayalur and beyond also use the road for transporting their produce to the Gandhi Market in the city everyday. “Vayalur Road is now busier than the Thillai Nagar Main Road. It is very difficult to cross the road. Given the rising population density and heavy traffic, including lorries transporting construction material, the road badly needs to be expanded. Some expansion of the road is possible if encroachments were removed,” observed S. Pushpavanam, Secretary, Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, and a resident of Kumaran Nagar. Echoing his words, V. Sundararaju, a retired District Forest Officer and resident of Srinivasa Nagar South, said that it has become very difficult for motorists even to join the traffic on the Vayalur Road as the traffic was so heavy. “One cannot cross the road due to the continuous stream of oncoming traffic. Many shops and buildings have been built right up to the road. If the encroachments are removed, the road can be widened. While the plan to develop alternative roads are welcome as long term measures, we are in dire need of some immediate relief,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachments-and-widen-vayalur-road-residents/article36581003.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Students conduct vaccination awareness programme||Students of the Department of Social Work, Bishop Heber College conducted a COVID-19 vaccination awareness programme at the Central Bus Stand on Monday morning. The awareness programme was conducted in association with the Tiruchi Corporation. A group of 70 students from the department formed a human chain and raised slogans, distributed pamphlets and pasted awareness stickers on autorickshaws and buses. The students hoped that these activities would increase the awareness of the importance of the COVID-19 vaccine. The students raised the funds for the pamphlets and stickers themselves. The students also prepared props such as a model of the COVID-19 virus and a syringe, using which they showcased a small street play. Students of CSI Good News Industrial Training Centre helped distribute the pamphlets to the public at the bus stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-join-hands-with-civic-body-to-conduct-vaccination-awareness-programme/article36580997.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Twin murders: operation against antisocial elements launched||A couple of murders committed by armed persons in the last one week within the city police limits has prompted the police to launch ‘storming operations’ against antisocial elements. Investigators probing the twin murders - one reported in Gandhi Market police station limit and the other in Golden Rock police station jurisdiction - were quick in cracking the two cases by arresting the accused. The killing of a 21-year-old murder case accused who was hacked to death by armed persons inside a public toilet near the Thennur Road Over Bridge here last Monday was quickly followed by another murder in which a 22-year-old man was done to death by an armed group on the Ponmalaipatti Road last Wednesday. Both victims had previous cases against them in different police stations. The twin murders were seen as an act of revenge and out of previous enmity. Posters put up within the city in memory of one of the murdered victims apparently conveying a veiled threat message, raised apprehensions of further violence. Police sources said teams were constituted in all the four ranges: Cantonment, Golden Rock, Fort and Srirangam - to go after antisocial elements and their associates. Storming operations were carried out all over the city on Saturday and Sunday which led to the arrest of 101 persons who were remanded, said the Commissioner of Police A. Arun. Among the arrested persons over 60 of them are those against whom history sheets had already been opened. It was a targeted operation carried out against history sheeted antisocial elements and their associates who could disturb public peace and order, Mr. Arun said adding that the city police would soon be opening history sheets against the associates as well. Special police teams have been constituted to go after a few more antisocial elements who were absconding, Mr. Arun said. Meanwhile, the City Police arrested five persons in connection with pasting posters that conveyed a veiled threat message.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twin-murders-operation-against-antisocial-elements-launched/article36581004.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||DMK, allies stage black flag protest||Cadre of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and its allies staged demonstrations at various public places by holding black flags on Monday opposing the ‘anti-people’ policies of the Union government. They raised slogans opposing the three new farm laws and demanded their withdrawal besides condemning the steep hike in prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas and the privatisation of public sector undertakings. DMK functionaries raised black flags in their homes to express their opposition to the adamant attitude of the Central government in pursuing ‘anti-people’ policies. In Tiruchi, the demonstration held in front of the party's principal secretary’s office in Thillai Nagar was led by the party's central district unit organiser Vairamani. Protests were also held in Vannarapettai, Kumaran Nagar Junction, Alwarthoppu and Kodappu road junction. The demonstration by the Indian Union Muslim League members was led by their party’s national president K. M. Kader Mohideen in front of the party office here. Speaking to reporters later, Mr. Kader Mohideen urged the Centre to withdraw the ‘anti-people’ policies and take steps to solve the problems faced by the farmers. In Pudukottai town, a demonstration was held near the party's district unit office led by the DMK north district unit organiser K. K. Chellapandian. In Perambalur, functionaries raised black flags in their homes. Demonstrations were also held in Tirumanur, Ariyalur, Sendurai, T. Palur and Jayamkondam in Ariyalur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-allies-stage-black-flag-protest/article36581006.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Slight dip in COVID-19 cases||The central region reported less than 300 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday with 290 persons testing positive for the viral infection in the nine districts in the region. There was a marked increase in the number of patients who succumbed to the illness. Twelve deaths were reported on Monday, of which five hailed from Thanjavur, four from Nagapattinam and one each from Tiruvarur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. The number of cases reported in most districts in the region had witnessed a dip. Ninety patients reported COVID-19 positive in Thanjavur and 49 in Tiruchi. Nagapattinam district recorded 40 fresh COVID-19 cases and Tiruvarur recorded 36. Pudukottai district reported a slight increase in fresh cases with 31 patients reporting positive. In Mayiladuthurai district, 15 fresh cases were reported, and in Karur, 13. In Ariyalur district, 10 patients reported positive while Perambalur continued to report the least number of fresh cases among the central districts with six fresh cases reported on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slight-dip-in-covid-19-cases/article36581011.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Residents oppose merger of panchayats with Corporation||A group of about 500 residents of Keezhakurichi and Chozhamadevi panchayats on Monday petitioned the district administration opposing the proposed merger of their panchayats with the Corporation. The residents raised slogans in support of their demand in front of the Collectorate before they handed over the petition to the Collector. The residents opposed the proposed merger on the grounds that it would eventually increase house and property taxes and result in the withdrawal of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme which they said would affect their livelihood, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-oppose-merger-of-panchayats-with-corporation/article36580995.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NEP-2020 poised to transform educational system, says Minister||The National Education Policy 2020 is poised to transform educational system in the 21st century, Minister of Education Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday. Significant progress has been made in the implementation of NEP 2020. The transformation of the educational system focussing on knowledge-development has reflected in start of engineering programmes in five regional languages in 14 colleges this year, the Minister said after inaugurating (virtually) a women’s hostel and Centre of Excellence in Advanced Manufacturing at National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T). The National Education Policy 2020 empowers States with flexibility and power of choice, enabling aspiring youths to learn by overcoming barriers, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan said. The Minister inaugurated the new facilities in the presence of NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas. Chairperson of the Board of Governors, NIT-T, Bhaskar Bhat, presided over. The new women’s hostel on the campus has been constructed with a capacity to accommodate 400 students. The Centre of Excellence in Advanced Manufacturing, created at a cost of Rs. 7 crore houses state-of-the-art facilities of 3D metal printing, Femtosecond micro-machining system, laser shock peening system and high-temperature indentation tester offering services like metal printing, marking, texturing, micro-channelling, micro-drilling, micro-cutting, laser shock peening and imaging. These additions will further the research and innovation climate at NIT-T, Prof. Mini Shaji Thomas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nep-2020-poised-to-transform-educational-system-minister/article36580988.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temples resume serving annadhanam||After a gap of more than a year the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department on Monday resumed its usual practice of serving food to the devotees, instead of handing out packets in view of the pandemic, at major temples in Tiruchi region by adhering to the COVID-19 safety protocol. The move was based on instructions from HR & CE Minister P. K. Sekar Babu. A senior official said the practice of serving annadhanam to devotees had resumed in Sri Rangathanaswamy Temple at Srirangam and its sub shrines besides at the Samayapuram Arulmigu Mariamman Temple and its sub shrines. The devotees were served food by observing social distancing in the places. The practice had been suspended ever since COVID-19 pandemic broke out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temples-resume-serving-annadhanam/article36581008.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||RPF Raising Day celebrated||Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel of Tiruchi Division celebrated the 36th RPF Raising Day on Monday. A parade was held at the Divisional Railway Manager office campus here in which RPF Senior Divisional Security Commissioner, Tiruchi, S. Ramakrishnan took the salute. A week-long programme is being organised by conducting blood donation camp, tree plantation and organising public awareness programmes. During the function, six RPF personnel were honoured with ‘certificate of commendation’ for their excellent work done in 2021, a press release from the Tiruchi Railway Division said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rpf-raising-day-celebrated/article36581009.ece
21 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||DMK, Congress, MDMK stage demonstration against fuel price hike, farm laws||DMK, Congress and the MDMK cadre on Monday staged demonstration in various parts of the southern districts in protest against the Central government’s farm laws, fuel price hike and monetisation of government assets. Led by Palayamkottai MLA and DMK’s Tirunelveli District secretary M. Abdul Wahab, the party cadre hoisted black flag near the party office here and raised slogans against the Centre’s farm laws and other “anti-people policies,” which had resulted in unprecedented inflation and unemployment. They said besides withdrawing the farm laws, the Union government should take positive steps to control the fuel price hike. The ongoing “outright sale of public sector undertakings and the Centre’s assets” to private firms should be stopped immediately. The Narendra Modi-led Union Government’s failure to control phenomenally rising prices of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas, had hit the people from all walks of life hard and indirectly jacked up the prices of other essential commodities, they said. Similar agitations were organised in various parts of Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-congress-mdmk-stage-demonstration-against-fuel-price-hike-farm-laws/article36581411.ece
21 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Residents submit petition seeking basic amenities, sewage channel||Seeking basic infrastructure facilities in their hamlet and construction of sewage channel, petitions were submitted by residents at the Collectorate on Monday. In his petition, S. Seevalaperiyan, secretary of Tirunelveli District Farmers. Tractor Drivers and Farmhands Protection Association, said the drainage getting generated at Azhagiyapandiapuram in Maanur union was stagnating on a vacant land in the village after crossing a dilapidated bridge. When a lorry crossed the damaged bridge, the structure was damaged further to make the stagnation of sewage worse. Despite repeated appeals from the public, the village panchayat administration did nothing to clear the sewage, which had now become potential breeding ground for mosquitoes besides causing other health hazards. Hence, the Collector should instruct officials to clear the sewage by through construction of a sewage channel, Mr. Seevalaperiyan said. A group of beedi workers from Melapalayam submitted petition seeking official intervention to ensure early disbursal of their wage arrears, while residents of Aayankulam near here submitted a petition declaring that they would boycott the coming civic polls if basic amenities, including drinking water, street light and road, were not created in their hamlet. When a transgender, accusing the police of stealing 1.50 sovereigns of gold ornaments from the house and verbally abusing the law-enforcers, attempted for self-immolation in front of the Collectorate, the attempt was thwarted. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-submit-petition-seeking-basic-amenities-sewage-channel/article36581413.ece
21 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Thousands file nominations for civic polls in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi districts||All nine panchayat union offices of Tirunelveli district witnessed huge crowds on Monday as candidates filing nominations for the coming civic polls gathered in large number with their supporters. With Monday being ‘Full Moon Day’, considered to be auspicious, a large number of candidates filed their nominations even though the exercise started on September 15. In Tirunelveli district, 1,885 nominations, including 1,234 nominations for village panchayat wards, 483 for village panchayat presidents, 162 for panchayat union ward councilors and six for district panchayat ward councilors, were submitted. So far, 2,996 nominations had been received for 2.069 positions in Tirunelveli district. Since the candidates were accompanied by their supporters, who were brought up to the union offices in vans, absolute commotion and traffic snarls prevailed near the spots throughout the day. More than 30 vans that were carrying the supporters of the candidates to Palayamkottai Panchayat Union Office were parked near Ramar Temple Ground. Police struggled o regulate chaotic traffic along the 20-feet-wide Langarkana Street Road on which the Palayamkottai union office was situated. There was no physical distancing and none of the supporters of the candidates were seen wearing masks as it was a free-for-all situation in and around the panchayat union office. In Tenkasi district, 2,285 nominations, including 1,503 for village panchayat wards, 556 for village panchayat presidents, 211 for panchayat union ward councilors and 15 for district panchayat ward councilors ,were received. So far, 3,708 nominations had been received for 2,274 positions. In Kanniyakumari district, 11 nominations — one for Muttom panchayat president and remaining 10 for village panchayat wards — were received on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thousands-file-nominations-for-civic-polls-in-tirunelveli-tenkasi-districts/article36581415.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps being taken to introduce alternatives to plastic bags’||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan said on Monday that the State government has been taking efforts to introduce biodegradable alternatives to plastic bags. He along with Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj launched the mass cleaning exercise of the Tiruppur Corporation at Ward No. 56 in Zone-IV on Monday. Speaking to mediapersons, he said that the usage of plastic bags is particularly high in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts as these were industry-heavy regions. The biodegradable alternatives will be introduced in a “step-by-step” fashion and efforts were on to study whether the existing plastic waste could be used in laying of roads, Mr. Saminathan said. A press release said that 3,030 Corporation workers will be involved in this exercise to clean 1,506-km-long storm water drainage spanning all the 60 wards ahead of the north-east monsoon. The wards were split into six divisions for the mass cleaning exercise, which will continue till September 25. Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati and Tiruppur South MLA K. Selvaraj were present at the launch. Meanwhile, tension prevailed for a short while as a snake was found during the cleaning exercise at Ward No. 56. Those at the event did not harm it as the snake slithered away into a bush, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-being-taken-to-introduce-alternatives-to-plastic-bags/article36580932.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two govt. schools closed for disinfection||The district administration on Monday announced the closure of two government schools in view of students testing positive for COVID-19. Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh said in a release that the Government Higher Secondary School in Veerapandi within Corporation limits will be closed for three days from Monday to Wednesday for disinfection as four Class XII girls tested positive. Similarly, two girls and one boy studying in Class XI at Arignar Anna Government Higher Secondary School in Vellakoil tested positive for COVID-19, following which the school was closed for three days till Wednesday, he said. The schools were closed as per the directions of District Collector S. Vineeth and the Health Department, according to the release. As many as 12 school students were reported to have tested positive for COVID-19 on September 17 alone. Over two dozen students from government and private schools in the district have contracted the infection since the reopening of schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-govt-schools-closed-for-disinfection/article36580929.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||World Water Monitoring Day observed||Government Arts and Science College, Avinashi, on Saturday organised a lecture to mark World Water Monitoring Day and International Bamboo Day. A release said that the founder of Vizhuthugal Trust M. Thangavel addressed the students. Rotary Club of Coimbatore – Sulur, which jointly organised the event, would plant 100 bamboo saplings on the college premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-water-monitoring-day-observed/article36580903.ece
21 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Bangladeshi nationals arrested||Seven persons from Satkhira district in Bangladesh were arrested on charges of illegal stay using fake documents near Avinashi here. The police said that the accused, Mahamudul Hasan (21), Abul Khair (25), Badshah (20), Ariful (23), Ali Hosen Malik (28), Alamin (18) and a 17-year-old boy, were staying at Kalampalayam near Perumanallur and working in private garment units. Based on a tip-off, a police team visited Kalampalayam and inquired those staying in rented accommodations in the locality. The seven allegedly produced fake Aadhaar cards, following which they were picked up. The accused were booked under provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946. While six persons were sent to Puzhal Central Prison, the minor was sent to Juvenile Observation Home in Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bangladeshi-nationals-arrested/article36580908.ece
21 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of channels begins||Forest Minister and Coonoor MLA K. Ramachandran said more than nine km of channels that drain excess rainwater in Udhagamandalam town would be desilted over the next five days. At the inauguration of the desilting drive in Udhagamandalam on Monday, Mr. Ramachandran told reporters there was 9.8 km of major and minor drains in the 36 wards in Udhagamandala town, as well as 40 culverts. Due to silting and blockages along the channels, that excess rainwater during the monsoon risked flooding low-lying areas surrounding the stormwater drains and channels. Mr. Ramachandran said the desilting works to be held till September 25 would ensure that there was no flooding or damage to property during the monsoon and also eliminate the breeding grounds for mosquitoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-of-channels-begins/article36580937.ece
21 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 20 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,190 with 20 new cases reported on Monday. While a total of 47,840 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 232. The district's death toll is 1,118. In Ranipet district, 15 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,874. In Tirupattur district, 20 new cases were reported on Monday and the total number of cases stood at 28,795. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 39, taking the total number of cases to 53,983. Of them, 53,028 have been discharged and active cases stand at 293.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-20-new-cases/article36581325.ece
21 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Mass cleaning campaigns kick off in Villupuram, Cuddalore districts||The district administration on Monday inaugurated the mass cleaning of canals and stormwater drains in Villupuram ahead of the monsoon. Collector D. Mohan launched the drive at EB colony, K.K. Road and Tiruchi Road. According to a release, the cleaning camp will be held from September 20 to 25 in rural and urban areas by the respective local bodies. Priority would be given to clearing up all stormwater drains and canals to ease the flow of water and prevent flooding. The entire Villupuram Municipality would be divided into seven zones for the campaign. The Collector directed officials to prevent encroachments in drains and waterbodies, and take precautionary measures at low-lying areas. Mosquito breeding sources should be eliminated to ward off the threat of vector-borne diseases during the monsoon, he said. In Cuddalore district, Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare M.R.K. Panneerselvam inaugurated the mass cleaning campaign at Sorkalpattu. Collector K. Balasubramaniam was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mass-cleaning-campaigns-kick-off-in-villupuram-cuddalore-districts/article36581336.ece
21 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged against Centre||The Centre is keen on helping its corporate friends with reduced corporate tax and not bothered about increasing price of essential commodities that affected the common man, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) Virdhunagar district secretary, K. Arjunan. Participating in a demonstration organised by the Opposition parties to condemn the ‘failures’ of the Centre here on Monday, Mr. Arjunan said that price of petrol, diesel and cooking gas had gone up drastically.  Besides, it had failed to speed up supply of COVID-19 vaccination in the country even as the pandemic was posing a threat to the lives of people, he said. Mr. Arjunan said that the Bharatiya Janata Party had failed to bring an end to the 10-month-long protest by farmers against the three farm laws. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP Dhanush M. Kumar (Tenkasi) and MLA S. Thangapandiani (Rajapalayam) took part in the protest held at Rajapalayam. Ramanathapuram Hundreds of cadres of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and its allied parties hoisted black flags in their houses as mark of protest against the wrong policies of the Centre. Ramantahpuram MP and Indian Union Muslim League functionary, Navaskani, took protest in the protest holding a black flag in front of his residence in Guruvadi near Sayalgudi. Paramakudi MLA, Murugesan, and former MP, Bhavani Rajendran, too hoisted black flags in front of their houses. At Karaikudi in Sivaganga district, Karaikudi Congress MLA, S. Mangudi, led the black flag protest along with his parties. Former Minister and DMK Manamadurai MLA, Tamilarasi Ravikumar too took part in the protest held at Manamadurai. Several cadres of SDPI participated in a protest held at Ramantahpuram led by party functionary, Riyaz Khan. Dindigul Cadres staged a black flag demonstration. DMK MLA I. P. Senthilkumar took part in an agitation in front of the DMK office here. Former CPI (M) MLA, Bala Bharathi, MDMK district secretary, Selvaragahavan, Congress leader, Manikandan, took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-staged-against-centre/article36581034.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 211 new cases||Coimbatore district on Monday reported 211 cases of COVID-19. The district had 2,191 active cases of the disease and 225 persons recovered on Monday. The death toll of the district increased to 2,318 after a 65-year-old woman died of COVID-19 at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 2.1 % on Sunday when 10,070 swab samples were collected and 215 persons tested positive for COVID-19. Tiruppur district reported 91 fresh COVID-19 cases, which took the tally to 92,125. The overall toll remained at 947. The district had 908 active cases and 84 patients recovered on Monday. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Sunday’s data was 2%. In the Nilgiris, 39 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 32,391. The number of deaths stood at 196 while 369 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-211-new-cases/article36580934.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In one voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-one-voice/article36581238.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus Connect||Science Association of Dr. Umayal Ramanathan College for Women, Karaikudi, organised a five-day life skills training programme on ‘Design and analysis of health-oriented kitchen’ to commemorate World Nutrition Week in the first week of September. Dr. Padmini Ram Mohan Rao spoke on ‘PCOD and menstrual problems.’ M. Janaki, Associate Professor, Computer Science, and life skills trainer on health and hygiene, spoke on physical and mental health, traditional kitchen framework, organic foods, herbal remedies, hygienic practices. Proverb dumb charades, riddles and competitions in drawing, slogan writing, millets rangoli, vegetable carving, fruits fancy dress, poster presentation, picture story creation were conducted to make the learning process interesting for the 23 participants. Dr. Jaya gave a special lecture on ‘Healthy lifestyle’ at the valedictory function.   The 9th Graduation Day was conducted at Virudhunagar M.S.P. Nadar College of Education recently. Secretary and Correspondent TJ.Jeyakumar and Principal P. Sureshkumar were present. The chief guest, Principal of VHNSN College, P. Sundarapandian, in his address, said education was the manifestation of perfection already in man. Teaching should be a humane form of approach to steer through the challenges to reach perfection in teaching and learning, he said. President R. T. R. Vanni Anandham, vice-presidents K. A. P. R. R. Chandrasekaran, and treasurer T.K.S.P.N. Muthu participated.   Mepco Schlenk Engineering College, Sivakasi, conducted the graduation ceremony for doctorates, postgraduates and undergraduates of 2019 batch on September 18. S. Subramanian, Chief General Manager (Telecom), Power Grid Corporation of India, chief guest, in his address said that whatever learnt at school and college will serve as strong foundation for the future.   College Union was inaugurated at Jayaraj Annapackiam College for Women, Periyakulam, on September 17. C. Hilda Devi, Registrar, Mother Teresa University, Kodaikanl, chief guest, in her address, said that college union acted as a bridge between students, teachers and the management.    The PG and Research Department of Zoology of Lady Doak College in Madurai organised a two-day conference on ‘Ecotoxicology - impacts, assessment and mitigation’ on September 16 and 17. As many as 135 delegates from institutions in India and abroad participated. Zelieann R. Craig from University of Arizona, Tucson, USA, discussed the impact of phthalates on reproduction in women and Shakhila K. Banu, College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A & M University, USA, highlighted the widespread impact of heavy metals from farmland to food to fetus. M. Ramesh from Bharathiyar University in Coimbatore spoke on unassumable toxic effects of microplastics on aquatic life, and Anbumani Sadasivam of CSIR – Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Lucknow, on risk assessment in ecotoxicology. M. N. V. Prasad, University of Hyderabad, introduced various emerging techniques for bioremediation of toxic pollutants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article36581030.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Campus connect||With the lockdown forced by COVID-19 rendering several people jobless, the role of professional engineers in bringing about technological interventions and skill development to overcome the challenges posed by the pandemic came into focus during the Engineers Day celebration hosted by the National Institute of Technology-Puducherry (Karaikal) IEI Student Chapter celebrated on virtual mode on the theme of ‘Engineers for skill development and employment in combating COVID’. R. Saravanan, Honorary Chairman, IEI Puducherry State Centre and B. Rajaram, Honorary Secretary IEI Puducherry State Centre, spoke. Director K. Sankaranarayanasamy, Director, NIT Puducherry presided over. The 54th Engineers Day was celebrated at A.V.C. College of Engineering, Mayiladuthurai too with enthusiasm through an online event. K. Vaithiyanathan, Associate Director, Verizon, Chennai, spoke on the role of engineers in mitigating the pandemic impact. C.Sundar Raj, principal, AVCCE. Director (Admin) M.Senthil Murugan, were among those who spoke.   National College has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Fermentech GSV Pvt., Thanjavur, for optimising utility of National College Instrumentation Facility. College Principal R. Sundararaman presided over the ceremony P. Sathyavrathan, Director and Chief Executive Officer, Fermentch GSV Pvt. Ltd., delivered a talk on Biopolymer preparation, separation and its characterisation, and interacted with students.   The PG and Research Department of Chemistry of Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College in collaboration with the Chemical Research Society of India (CRSI) (Trichy-Madurai Local Chapter) hosted an e-lecture workshop on ‘Advances in Chemical Sciences’. Ganesan Mani, Department of Chemistry, Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, gave a lecture on the ‘Pincer metal complexes in catalysis,’ and elaborated on the pincer ligand and its types, synthesis, crystallization methods, characterization by X-ray and NMR studies, and applications of pincer metal complexes. In the second session, Shanmugaraju Sankarasekaran from IIT, Palakkad, spoke on ‘Emergence of supramolecular chemistry,’ to highlight the origin and concept of host-guest chemistry, supramolecular self-assembly, coordination-driven self-assembly, formation of supramolecular complexes, and applications of self-assembled metallocycles and metallocages. M.Vasuki, Principal (in-charge) and Head of Department of Chemistry and others spoke.   Emotional intelligence was the focus of a webinar organised by the Department of Social Work by Shrimati Indira Gandhi College. S. Arunan, Operations & Commissioning Engineer Bilfinger Tebodin & Partner LLC, Muscat, briefed students about emotional intelligence as the ability to identify, assess and manage one’s emotions. He highlighted the influence of emotional intelligence on people’s behaviour and elaborated on self awareness and self actualisation. He also gave tips to students on how to manage stress. K. Meena, secretary, K. Chandrasekharan , Chief Executive Officer, and S. Vidhyalakshmi, Principal, Shrimati Indira Gandhi College, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campus-connect/article36580998.ece
21 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Water supply disrupted in most areas of Belagavi city||Drinking water supply has been disrupted in most areas in Belagavi city, due to labour strike and some technical glitches. Belagavi’s 10 of the 58 wards have 24 x 7 water supply. The rest get water twice a week. But water supply has been disrupted since Saturday last. Some densely populated areas such as Tilakwadi, Wadagaon and Shahapur have suffered erratic water supply for over a week now. Some areas, including Mandoli Road, Mazagaon, Ramteerth Nagar, Raghunath Pet and Fourth Gate, have not had water supply for nine days. Areas such as Chidambar Nagar, Jadhav Nagar and Samgameshwar Nagar have gone without water supply for the last seven or eight days. Residential areas on the outskirts — Yellur Road, Hindalga Shahu Nagar, Anand Nagar, Mahantesh Nagar, Shivateerth Colony, Saraf Galli and Shiva Basava Nagar — have not seen water supply for the last three or four days. City Corporation officers say that the problems began with a snag in the outer valve of the pumping station at Hidkal Dam, the main source of water supply to the city. The glitch was resolved in two or three days, but we were hit by a snap strike by daily wage employees and some other workers who supported them, saying that they have not been paid salaries for two months. Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board, which maintains the water supply system, says it is helpless. A senior officer said that such problems are bound to occur as the water supply system in the city is under transition. “As the State government has drawn up plans for providing round-the-clock water supply to the city, the system is now being shifted to the Karnataka Urban Water Supply Modernisation Project (KUWSMP) under the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation (KUIDFC). We have little control over the staff or equipment,” an engineer said. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that he had asked senior officers to hold a meeting with the striking workers and resolve the issue. “If there are technical issues at Hidkal, we will ensure coordination between KUIDFC and the Irrigation Department,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-supply-disrupted-in-most-areas-of-belagavi-city/article36581060.ece
21 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Idol immersion procession concludes||The immersion procession of public Ganesha idols ended peacefully by Monday morning. The procession that had started in the afternoon on Saturday ended at around 4 a.m. on Monday. A large number of youth walked along the procession path that saw around 100 idols being taken out to the immersion spot. Actually, this is only one fourth the number of idols that used to be installed in the city before the epidemic, the police said. The procession started from Honaga, Hindalga, Wadagaon and Khanapur Road and ended in the Old City. Huge crowds gathered at the main immersion tank constructed at the Kapileshwar Bridge Crossing. Members of Legislative Assembly Anil Benake and Abhay Patil walked along with the processionists till beyond midnight. Mr. Patil and his friends had tea at the Eat Street near Goaves at around 2.30 a.m. Meanwhile, Kannada organisations said that some Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti activists had heckled Deputy Commissioner (Development) of the Belagavi City Corporation Lakshmi Nippanikar for not displaying sign boards in Marathi at the immersion pond. “However, the woman fought back and asked the group to leave the stage immediately. We support her courage and conviction towards duty,” convenor of the action committee of Kannada organisations Ashok Chandaragi said in a press release. He sought action against the party workers for creating nuisance during a public festival and obstructing a government officer from discharging duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/idol-immersion-procession-concludes/article36581057.ece
21 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Leopard spotted near school in Hubballi||Forest and police officers rushed to Raj Nagar after some residents said they had spotted a leopard near the playground of the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Hubballi on Monday. The school has been closed now and classes are being conducted online. Some residents called the local police station to say that they had seen a wild animal that looked liked a cheetah or a leopard that roamed around the school grounds, below the Nrupatunga Hills, the police said. A quick combing operation, however, did not yield results. Forest officers said that they had laid traps with live bait at four places. Officers from the Ashok Nagar Police Station have put up boards at various places around the Nrupatunga Hills, warning residents about the wild animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-spotted-near-school-in-hubballi/article36581058.ece
21 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Body donated||Relatives of Jagadish Shivabasappa Jakati (81) of Tigadi village have donated the body of the deceased for medical education and eye and skin for transplant therapy. The octogenarian passed away at KLE Hospital on Monday. He had wished that his body and organs be donated. His relatives gave away the skin to KLE Rotary Skin Bank, eyes to the Eye Bank of KLES Dr. Prabhakar Kore Hospital and the body to KLE University Homoeopathic Medical College in Yallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-donated/article36581055.ece
21 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Takes charge||Basavaraj Hugar took charge on Monday as Joint Director of Kannada and Culture of Belagavi Division. He will be in-charge of Belagavi, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Haveri, Gadag, Uttara Kannada and Dharwad districts. He will be in-charge of all cultural academies, cultural trusts, Rangayana branches, zilla rang mandirs and have general supervisory powers over all assistant directors in the districts. Mr. Hugar is a writer and has published four books of poetry and stories. He has served as the registrar of the Karnataka Lalitkala Academy. His posting is as per the announcement of Minister for Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar that the department will be decentralised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/takes-charge/article36581059.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Time’s up, but many potholes remain||The saga of potholed roads may continue for a few more days in the city. Though Monday was the deadline for filling of potholes and repairing of bad stretched on 1,332-km of major roads in several parts of the city, citizens continue to suffer owing to poor road conditions. Since early September, three persons lost their lives trying to negotiate on roads that are potholed or dug up by various utilities. Earlier this month, Minister for Revenue R. Ashok had given the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the custodian of nearly 14,000-km of roads in the city, two deadlines – September 20 to fill potholes on major, arterial roads and September 30 for other roads. Quality of work While potholes on many roads, especially in the core zones, have been filled, questions have been raised about the quality of work executed. In many places, potholes have just been filled with gravel and mud and not asphalted. However, even this seems to be missing in outer zones, citizens complain, where roads remain unmotorable. According to information made available by BBMP, around 6,552.71 tonnes of asphalt and 796.26 tonnes of wet mix macadem has been dispatched from the hot mix plant from the beginning of this month till September 19. Recently, over 200 miffed citizens came together to protest against the deplorable state of Anjanapura Double Road. The citizens had hired a coracle to wade through the ‘ponds’ on the pothole-ridden roads, while some planted paddy saplings to draw attention to the pathetic condition of the 6.8-km road connecting Kanakapura Road and Gottigere, near Bannerghatta Road. Abdul Aleem, president, Change Makers of Kanakapura Road, said that just 30% of the road has been made motorable by being levelled with gravel. Kanakapura Road, Holiday Village Road, and several other roads in the area remain riddled with potholes, making commuting very difficult, he said. Jagadish Reddy from Varthur Rising said that the condition of most roads in Mahadevapura zone was deplorable. Borewell Road, Old Airport Road, Whitefield Main Road, Varthur Kodi to Gunjur, Chroma Road, Balagere Road to Outer Ring Road and Alasalli Road were just some of the roads that were in a poor condition. Every time it rained, water stagnated on most of these roads, he said. “With several people getting back to work, traffic has resumed. Road rage is rampant given the poor condition of the road, which contributes to slowing the vehicular movement further,” he pointed out. Cables and pipelines The various civic agencies digging up the roads has only compounded the woes of commuters in the city. While roads in the core city are being developed by Bengaluru Smart City Ltd., Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) has taken up laying of underground cables in some localities, while the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) is laying drinking water and underground drainage pipelines in 110 villages. H.E. Chandrashekhar, chairman, Federation of HSR Layout Residents’ Welfare Associations, said that road restoration could be taken up only after Bescom completed the cable laying work. “For the past three months, Bescom has missed its own deadlines. We have raised the issue of slow progress of works at Ward Committee meetings. They have now assured residents of completing works by the end of the month,” he said.  BBMP chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta told The Hindu that until Saturday, the civic body was on track to fill potholes on major roads. “However, the heavy rains on Sunday night and Monday may have disrupted the progress. We are also checking if there has been any recurrence of potholes on roads already filled,” he said. Mr. Gupta also said that the work on repairing 2,500 km of roads dug up by BWSSB in 110 villages would be taken up next month, with the tendering process nearing completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/times-up-but-many-potholes-remain/article36580793.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 29.91% of those who opted to write II PU exam cleared it||As many as 29.91% of the total 18,413 candidates, who opted to write the second year pre-university (II PU) examination, have cleared it. The results were released by B.C. Nagesh, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, on Monday. As many as 5,507 candidates have passed. This includes 4,768 private candidates, 184 repeaters, and 556 freshers. This year, the II PU examination was cancelled owing to the second wave of COVID-19 and all the freshers and repeaters were deemed as pass. The Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) graded II PU students based on their SSLC and first year pre-university marks, which were given 45% weightage each. Internal assessments accounted for the remaining 10%. Students were also given 5% grace marks on their I PU scores. Many freshers and repeaters who had passed then have now failed the exam As many as 592 freshers who were declared as pass had rejected their scores and appeared for the examination, but 36 did not clear it. Similarly, out of the 351 repeaters who had passed the examination, 168 candidates did not clear it. Mr. Nagesh said 580 candidates passed with distinction, 1,939 with first class, and 1,578 with second-class marks. Around 1,410 candidates secured pass class. The highest pass percentage was in Science with 70.83% of the total 96 students clearing it. The pass percentage in Arts and Commerce was 32.06% and 24.98% respectively. Students can apply for copies of the answer scripts and revaluation of marks till September 25. For any clarifications, students can call the department helpline 080-2311330 While 26% of boys cleared the exam, girls fared better with a pass percentage of 36%. Students from rural areas also fared better with 32% clearing the exam, while 28% of students passed the exam in urban areas. Dakshina Kannada district got the highest passes with 49%, while Bengaluru South with 18% was bottom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/of-those-who-opted-to-write-ii-pu-exam-2991-cleared-it/article36580801.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic made access to medical care, support challenging for dementia patients||In India, it is estimated that one in 27 people (5.3 million) above the age of 60 had dementia in 2020, according to the Dementia in India 2020 report published by the Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI). This is projected to rise to 7.6 million by 2030. Also, in Karnataka, 2.25 lakh elders have dementia, while in Bengaluru, the number of people with dementia is around 46,000. And for this population, the COVID-19 pandemic has been, to put in milder terms, challenging. “Dementia requires prolonged management and support. The pandemic made access to medical care and dementia management extremely challenging. Moreover, the closing of daycare services, no admissions at residential and respite centres further enhanced the burden of caring for family members. People with dementia are at high risk of mortality due to COVID-19 which was evident in care homes in the West which were worst-affected during both waves of the pandemic. We faced a similar challenge in our residential care homes and we had to make significant changes to tackle infections,” said Radha S. Murthy, managing trustee, Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT). P.T. Sivakumar, professor and head of Geriatric Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, NIMHANS, echoed the difficulty in accessing support services and threw light on the patients’ difficulty in cooperating with restrictions due to COVID 19. “Most of our patients are home-bound, but those with behavioural problems would not listen to restrictions due to the lockdown, etc. Patients of dementia developing COVID-19 too found it challenging to get treatment in isolation. Many found it difficult to be away from their family and were confused in an unfamiliar place,” he said. Dr. Sivakumar said though there is nothing to suggest that those with dementia faced higher infection, they did have some patients who got affected, and post COVID-19, worsening of cognitive problems was noticed in some - a condition for which there is ‘increasing literature’. Many who had postponed consultations now suffer from more severe problems, he added. Talk about it With World Alzheimer’s Day on September 21, Dr. Murthy stressed on the need for caregivers and society to talk about dementia. “There is a lot of stigma around dementia and mental health as such. Family members affected by dementia and people with memory issues should seek help and not hide the condition. We need to build an inclusive society where people with dementia are also treated normally,” she said, adding that recognising dementia as a health care priority by policymakers, funding allocation, active engagement of NGOs, and strong advocacy efforts are crucial in building a dementia-friendly India. Cost of care The annual household cost of caring for a person with dementia in India, depending on the severity of the disease, ranges between Rs. 45,600 to Rs. 2,02,450 in urban areas and Rs. 20,300 to Rs. 66,025 in rural areas, explained Premkumar Raja, co-founder and secretary, NMT. “Costs increase with the increasing severity of the disease. Residential care cost for dementia ranges from Rs. 18,000-Rs. 80,000 per month depending on the type of care, the severity of the disease, and the requirement of the family caregivers,” he added, stating further that the Mental Health Act, 2017, gives details on advance directives, nominated representatives and minimum standards, though more work needs to be done about financial support. However, the experts acknowledge that Bengaluru is a hub for research in dementia and neurodegenerative conditions. “With NIMHANS, the Centre for Brain Research, and initiatives such as SKAN, there has been active research in the field of dementia diagnosis and treatment. This has significantly increased awareness about dementia. However, the majority of research is being conducted in the areas of diagnosis and pharmacological treatment. There is a lacuna in the field of care research,” Mr. Raja said, stressing upon the need for research that contributes to risk reduction through active ageing practices, improving the quality of life of people with dementia through non-pharmacological interventions and care strategies.  Impact of dementia Dementia is a disease of the brain characterised by progressive deterioration in brain function, including memory, learning, orientation, language, comprehension and judgment. The irreversible decline in intellectual and physical functioning affects the person with dementia and causes significant distress to their family and carers. As per the Dementia India report 2020, 5.3 million people above the age of 60 have dementia in our country. The numbers are expected to double in 20 years. In Bengaluru, it is estimated over 46,000 elders are with dementia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pandemic-made-access-to-medical-care-support-challenging-for-dementia-patients/article36580786.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM mounts counter-attack after Congress kicks up a storm over rise in fuel prices||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday mounted a counter-attack on the Opposition Congress that raised the issue of the steep hike in fuel prices in the House, besides holding protests on bullock carts and bicycles outside to draw attention to it. Mr. Bommai described the protests as “entertainment” and said, “People know that after riding bullock carts and bicycles, you go home in your luxury cars.” He also chided the Congress on the perceived differences between Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee chief D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah. “While riding the bullock cart, the reins were with Mr. Siddaramaiah, but the whip was with Mr. Shivakumar. And both did not have coordination,” he said, adding that this had resulted in some falling off the cart. Quoting the poet While Mr. Siddaramaiah had quoted a verse from 15th century poet Kumaravyasa to describe the hardships faced by people under a cruel ruler, Mr. Bommai used another verse by the same poet which said that a good ruler collected taxes like a “florist plucks flowers without damaging the plant, a bee collects nectar without affecting flower, and a farmer milks without harming the cow”. Mr. Bommai said that while the price of petrol had increased by 60%, from Rs. 48 to Rs. 77 per litre in 2007-14 under the UPA government, the hike was 30%, from Rs. 77 to Rs. 100+, under the Modi-led government between 2014-2021. “The Congress looted the people of the country,” he said, amidst sloganeering by the Congress members. Claiming that compared to the UPA government, the NDA government had substantially increased Minimum Support Price for various farm commodities, he alleged that the farmers’ protest was “sponsored by the Congress and some foreign agents” in the country. The hike in excise duty was used to provide higher MSP and for handling COVID-19, he added. For pandemic Maintaining that it was necessary to raise resources in the present situation through various taxes to protect people during the pandemic, he claimed that the World Health Organization had hailed the manner in which India had handled it. Escalating the attack, Mr. Bommai said that none of the Congress leaders could come close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in stature. This resulted in a heated exchange between the BJP and the Opposition members. Amid the din, the Chief Minister said fuel prices were bound to reduce as the NDA was planning various measures such as reducing oil imports and increasing production of ethanol. However, not satisfied with his reply, Congress leaders staged a walkout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-mounts-counter-attack-after-congress-kicks-up-a-storm-over-rise-in-fuel-prices/article36580822.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC imposes Rs. 10 lakh cost on man for misusing PIL||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday imposed an exemplary cost of Rs. 10 lakh on a fish supplying agent for misusing the provision of public interest litigation (PIL) against a fishmeal and oil manufacturing company due to his personal dispute with the company over a business deal. A Division Bench, comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Mangadum, directed 41-year-old Prashanth Amin to pay Rs. 10 lakh to the Advocates Clerks’ Welfare Fund within 30 days while declining to reduce the amount of cost. The Deputy Commissioner of Udupi has been directed to take steps to recover the cost from him if he fails to deposit within 30 days. Mr. Amin filed the PIL in February this year complaining that M/s Raj Fishmeal and Oil Company, situated at Malpe in Udupi district, had allegedly violated environmental norms. However, the 53-year-old company, belonging to former Minister Pramod Madhwaraj and his family, pointed out to the court that the petitioner had started as a sub-agent to supply fish to the company and later became an agent for regular supply of fish. It was also pointed out to the court that the company had made a total payment of Rs. 95.18 crore to Mr. Amin between 2013-2021 for purchasing fish from him. The company informed the court it stopped purchasing fish from him last year after he started demanding additional amount despite payment of agreed sum, and the present petition was filed to settle a personal vengeance against the company. The company also pointed out that the petitioner had made several threatening calls to the wife of Mr. Madhwaraj regarding payment of amount and the matter was reported to the police. As Mr. Amin had suppressed from the court the dispute with the company, the Bench deprecated his conduct of misusing the process of law to settle score with the company while holding that his conduct deserves to be penalised with exemplary cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-imposes-rs-10l-cost-on-man-for-misusing-pil/article36580797.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doubts raised over number of COVID-19 deaths||Congress member Prakash Rathod on Monday expressed suspicion over the COVID-19 death toll in Karnataka and sought a death audit to ascertain the actual figure. Mr. Rathod said that many people in rural areas had died at home without an RT-PCR test or CT scan and had not even gone to hospital. “The government figures for COVID-19 are too low,” he said. Government data shows that a total of 9.4 lakh deaths have been registered in Karnataka between March 1, 2020, and August 31, 2021, of which 37,423 persons died of the pandemic. Mr. Rathod said Supreme Court had also directed review of number of deaths. Correct figures would help BPL families that lost members to get Rs. 1 lakh compensation announced by the State government, he added. Health Minister K. Sudhakar said that the State had been conducting a death audit since the first wave and specific reasons for death are being recorded. He pointed out that 221 diseases have been identified for reasons of death, and death due to COVID-19/ COVID-19 symptoms were being recorded separately by the Registrar of Births and Deaths. “The figures will be reconciled in December,” he said. He, however, said that identifying those who died at home due to COVID-19 would be technically and practically difficult. Vaccinations The Health Minister also said that so far 5.2 crore persons in the State have received vaccine shots of whom about 25% had received both the doses. “By the end of December, we are hoping that all those above 18 years old will be vaccinated” he said. He said that as the third stage of clinical trials for vaccinating children between 14 years and 18 years are underway, the State was hoping that the vaccine would be made available to this category at the earliest.  The government figures for COVID-19 are too low Prakash Rathod, Congress member   The figures will be reconciled in December K. Sudhakar, Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doubts-raised-over-number-of-covid-19-deaths-in-state/article36580798.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No cut-off marks set for admission to Engineering’||No cut-off marks have been set for those seeking admission to Engineering courses, said Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Monday. Earlier, the department was thinking of introducing minimum marks as an eligibility criteria for students as the candidates had not written the second year PU examinations this year. However, they have now decided against it. Dr. Narayan, at a press conference, said out of 1,93,447 candidates who appeared for the examination, 1,83,231 have become eligible for seeking admission into Engineering courses based on merit. In other streams, 1,52,518 candidates for BSc Agriculture, 1,52,760 for Veterinary Science, 1,55,910 for Naturopathy and Yoga, and 1,86,638 for Pharmacy courses have become eligible to get admission into these courses. Out of the top 10 ranks in Engineering, all, barring the first rank-holder, are from Bengaluru. The number of students who have scored more than 55 out of 60 in physics is 27, while it is 217 in chemistry, 199 in mathematics, and 5,235 in biology. Grace marks of three each in physics and maths have been given, the Minister added. The Higher Education Department said out of a total of around 1.09 lakh seats available for engineering in the State, around 54,000 are available under the government quota. Last year, 34,000 seats were filled in the government quota, he said. “We have decided to give all the eligible students an option to choose seats as we have enough engineering seats available and as the seat allotment will be according to the ranks and only those who are eligible will get seats,” Dr. Narayan said. This year, the number of candidates, who are eligible to get admission for engineering courses has increased by 30,000 . In 2020, 1,53,470 were eligible for engineering admissions, which has now increased to 1,83,231.  We have decided to give all the eligible students an option to choose seats as we have enough engineering seats available and as the seat allotment will be according to the ranks and only those who are eligible will get seats. C.N. Ashwath Narayan Minister for Higher Education   Fact sheet 1,93,447: Total students appeared 1,83,231: Eligible for Engineering admissions 1,52,518: Eligible for BSc Agriculture admissions 1,55,760: Eligible for admission to Veterinary Science courses 1,55,910: Eligible for Yoga and Naturopathy 1,86,638: Eligible for Pharmacy courses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-cut-off-marks-set-for-admission-to-engineering/article36580804.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Rs. 30 crore extra has been paid for machinery procurement’||Congress member P.R. Ramesh on Monday alleged irregularities in the procurement of machinery for the Government Tool Room and Training Centre and payment of Rs. 30 crore extra for it. Speaking in the Legislative Council, he demanded an independent inquiry or a House committee probe. Raising the issue, the Congress member said that the standard document was not followed in drawing up the tender document and the qualification criteria for the supplier was violated. “The Transparency Act was neglected and the bid document was not considered. The pre-qualification tender mandatory for procurement above Rs. 10 crore was not called,” Mr. Ramesh said. Defending the tender process, Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan said, “Everything has been done legally and a pre-bid meeting was held. Show me one violation in the tender.” He said only authorised dealers and original equipment manufacturers had participated in the process. In response, Mr. Ramesh alleged that the Minister was misleading the House. ““More than Rs. 30 crore has been paid in excess. A third-party inquiry would bring out the truth,” he added. Dismissing the allegations, Dr. Ashwath Narayan said no guidelines had been violated and the tender accepting authority has not received a single appeal. “Procurement has been done at less than the estimated rate, except in one case, and [it is] comparable to procurement done at other national education institutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-30-crore-extra-has-been-paid-for-machinery-procurement/article36580812.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Plea against govt. leasing out city airport dismissed||The High Court of Karnataka has dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition questioning the Union government’s decision to hand over Mangaluru International Airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. for operation, maintenance and development. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has followed the most transparent process in leasing out airports. This airport has not been leased out by way of private negotiation. Tenders were issued and the successful bidder has been awarded the contract and there is no violation of any statutory provision of law in the matter, the court said. A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order while dismissing the petition filed the Airports Authority Employees Union, Mangaluru International Airport. The petitioner union has not been able to make out a case for interference in respect of the policy decision of the Union government for leasing out airports, the Bench said, while pointing out that the union has not been able to show any violation of statutory law and Constitutional provisions. Also, it is nobody’s case that the AAI has handed over all functions under Section 12(3) of the Airports Authority of India Act 1994 to the private company as it is pertinent to note that only seven functions, out of the 18, of the airports are the subject matter of the public-private partnership, the Bench noted. Referring to a verdict of the High Court of Kerala, which had dismissed a similar petition filed by the union questioning the privatisation of Thiruvananthapuram airport, the Bench held that the petitioner union “has not approached the court with clean hands as it had suppressed the fact of filing a similar writ petition” before the High Court in the neighbouring State. The union had questioned the legality of the decision of the Union Cabinet Committee taken on November 8, 2018 in respect of privatisation of airports, the subsequent bidding process as well as a Cabinet decision of July 3, 2019 accepting the bid of Adani Enterprises Ltd. and the consequential concession agreement signed on February 14, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-against-govt-leasing-out-city-airport-dismissed/article36581268.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BNP alleges lacunae in Rs. 120 crore expenditure of ward grant||A ground-level report from all the 198 wards by the Bengaluru Navanirmana Party (BNP) found that in more than half the wards, BBMP nodal officers did not know of the Rs. 60 lakh budget allocated to wards for various development works. This, BNP said, showed the complete ‘inefficiency, lack of process and fundamental lacunae’ in the expenditure of Rs. 120 crore ward grants. It also alleged that Ward Committee (WC) meetings were not happening, nor was there any system in place to track if meetings were being held. Only 23% of the wards were confirmed to be holding meetings. Presenting the findings here on Monday, BNP founder and general secretary Srikanth Narasimhan said BBMP announces many projects with much fanfare, and almost all of them end up failing miserably on the ground. “Even this allocation was pre-emptively hailed, termed as a landmark move towards citizen participation in local governance. However, given past experience, BNP has launched a campaign called ‘LekkaBeku’ with the objective of involving citizens and driving transparency in the budget which has been announced,” he said. Rishi Raghavan, Core Working Group member and head of BNP’s Youth Wing, said, “The most important finding was the disorganised manner in which the BBMP functions at the ward level. Many nodal officers are unreachable and there is lack of clarity on who the officer which is a clear indication of a fundamental gap in the process of appointment itself.” Subbu Hegde, Governing Council Member, said the party has recommended measures such as formalising the process of appointment of nodal officers, creation of a communication group between Chief Commissioner and the officers, forcing accountability through mandating uploading of meeting minutes on a central site and creating a simple process for engagement with citizens to finalise the budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bnp-alleges-lacunae-in-rs-120-crore-expenditure-of-ward-grant/article36580791.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to file plea to take back deemed forest land||The State government will file an affidavit in the Supreme Court soon to take back six lakh hectares declared as deemed forest land by the Forest Department, Revenue Minister R. Ashok informed the Assembly on Monday. In his reply to Lalji R. Mendon (BJP) during Question Hour, the Minister said the Forest Department declared nine lakh hectares as deemed forest land and later agreed to return six lakh hectares to the Revenue Department. The government would file an affidavit in the apex court to get back the land to the Revenue Department, he said. He said that under 94-C of the Karnataka Land Revenue Revenue Act, 1964, the government would regularise unauthorised construction of houses on government land in rural areas (up to 4,000 sq.ft) and in urban areas (up to 1,200 sq.ft). The government would be “liberal” in regularising houses constructed on government land if it got the six lakh hectares declared as deemed forest land, Mr. Ashok added. The last date for submission of application for regularisation of houses has been extended till March 31, 2022, and applications will be cleared before March 31, 2023, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-file-plea-to-take-back-deemed-forest-land/article36580815.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Loudspeaker use at religious places questioned||Contending that the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board had not done enough to prevent noise pollution by religious places, BJP leader Y.A. Narayanaswamy said the government did not even have the data on permission sought by religious places to install loudspeakers. “The use of loudspeakers from around 4 a.m. is causing inconvenience to children and the sick. Though an official order prohibits the use of loudspeakers between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m., the rule is being violated,” he said, adding that he was not speaking against any religion in particular. The MLC also said the government had issued notice to 12 religious institutions after he submitted the question, asking about the action taken on the violations. “These notices have not been answered yet.” Minister for Environment, Ecology and Tourism Anand Singh defended the department and said it had taken action as far as possible. “This is happening from the past and it is difficult for the board alone to take action. The department had also asked the police if they would take action,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/loudspeaker-use-at-religious-places-questioned/article36580817.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK questions legality of MP holding meetings||Janata Dal (S) floor leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday questioned the legality of D.K. Suresh, MP for Bengaluru Rural, holding meetings with officials of Channapatna and Ramanagaram taluks in the absence of local MLAs. He asked the State government to come out with clear guidelines on the matter. The Congress MP has been holding meetings with officials on various State and Union government schemes, railways, and infrastructure in the absence of MLAs. “Does the MP have powers to hold such meetings?” Mr. Kumaraswamy asked during Zero Hour. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said MPs and the Leader of the Opposition have no powers to hold meetings with officials, but can seek information on matters of their interest. He said a meeting would be called under the leadership of Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri to evolve guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hdk-questions-legality-of-mp-holding-meetings/article36580818.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unscientific speed bumps will be removed: Minister||Unscientifically raised speed bumps on National and State Highways will be removed and the necessary directions will be issued to Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police of each district, Public Works Minister C.C. Patil on Monday informed the Legislative Assembly. In his reply to K.R. Ramesh Kumar of the Congress during Question Hour, the Minister said the PWD officials had raised speed bumps unscientifically owing to pressure from locals and politicians following road accidents in some locations. Mr. Kumar said there were many unscientific speed bumps on a 52-km stretch between Hoskote and Madikeri Cross, a road developed under the Karnataka State Highway Improvement Project. He questioned the logic behind erecting 33 speed bumps on the road and appealed to the Minister to suspend officials if they failed to look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unscientific-speed-bumps-will-be-removed-minister/article36580819.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||677 fresh COVID-19 infections in State||Karnataka on Monday recorded 677 new COVID-19 cases and 24 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,68,543 and the toll to 37,627. Out of the new cases, 213 were from Bengaluru Urban. The city also accounted for seven deaths. The total number of active cases in Karnataka now stand at 14,358. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.60%, the Case Fatality Rate was 3.54%. Belagavi and Udupi reported four deaths each on Monday, followed by Hassan with three, and Dakshina Kannada with two. While Dakshina Kannada accounted for 102 new cases, Udupi had 63, Uttara Kannada 41, and Mysuru and Hassan 37 each. A total of 4,63,85,349 samples have been tested in the State so far, out of which 1,12,160 were done on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/677-new-cases/article36580796.ece
21 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Meeting favours Constitutional Club for legislators at Balabrooie||Karnataka legislators are set to have a Constitutional Club soon at Balabrooie guest house, a heritage structure in Bengaluru. A decision to this effect is learnt to have been taken at a meeting held in Bengaluru on Monday that was attended by Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy and Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah. According to sources, the meeting decided to set up the club on the lines of the one that exists in Delhi for MPs. It is also learnt that they have decided to send a team of officials to Delhi to study the functioning of the Constitutional Club. The proposal to set up a Constitutional Club is pending for more than 10 years, with the choice of spot to house the club often running into a controversy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-favours-constitutional-club-for-legislators-at-balabrooie/article36580811.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RWH: Govt. facilities should lead by example, say MLCs||As the Legislative Council passed the BWSSB Amendment Bill, which makes installing rainwater harvesting (RWH) mandatory in smaller dimension plots too, members urged that government facilities should set a model in the implementation of RWH. Congress member P.R. Ramesh estimated that about 24 tmcft of water could be harvested from rain annually in Bengaluru if RWH is properly done. “The government should become a model in setting up RWH facilities in its buildings and then insist that people follow it,” he said. He also pointed out that percolation is now not possible in Bengaluru with concrete roads, and not enough space on footpaths. He also urged the government not to implement the law retrospectively. Congress Chief Whip M. Narayanswamy said government facilities, industries, kalyana mantaps and defence installations should also be mandated to have RWH. He also asked how much water can be stored at home through RWH when development has been so haphazard. Another Congress member U.B. Venkatesh said BWSSB should first focus on reducing the seepage from its network, which is about 30% now. “The 1,200 sq.ft. dimension plots should be excluded from RWH, and economically weaker sections should not be inconvenienced,” he said. In reply, House Leader Kota Srinivas Poojary clarified that the provisions would be implemented for new buildings, and assured the House that the suggestions made by the members would be incorporated in the Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rwh-govt-facilities-should-lead-by-example-say-mlcs/article36580799.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Decision on Engineering fee hike after Sept. 27’||The State government, which has decided to hike the engineering fees, will take a decision after September 27. Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said he will convene a meeting with representatives of private engineering college managements to discuss the issue. While the Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges’ Association has demanded fees to be increased by around 30% compared to the previous academic year, Karnataka Religious and Linguistic Minority Professional Colleges Association secretary Shafi Ahmed said that they have demanded a 25% hike. Sources in the department said that they were considering a hike of around 10% as the engineering fees was not hiked last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-engineering-fee-hike-after-sept-27/article36580810.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online screening platform to be launched soon||The Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI), Bengaluru Chapter, is launching DEMCLINIC, an expert-led online screening platform for dementia, in collaboration with Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT), to mark the day. The virtual cognitive assessment platform, said to be the first of its kind in the country, aims to provide timely dementia diagnosis and post-diagnostic support. DEMCLINIC (www.demclinic.com) will provide memory screening for senior citizens with memory issues, interactive videoconferencing with medical experts for dementia diagnosis and management, access to information on care services available across the country, and periodic follow-up, said NMT officials. While the memory screening by psychologists will be available for free, there will be nominal charges for consultations with medical experts. The web portal will allow people to book and get an assessment with dementia experts from their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-screening-platform-to-be-launched-soon/article36580788.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||UAS-B convocation today||A total of 1,012 students will be conferred with various degrees, of which 659 will receive their bachelor’s, 279 their master’s, and 74 students will receive doctoral degrees at the convocation of the University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bangalore, on Tuesday. During the 55th convocation for the academic year 2019-20, in the doctoral degree programmes, seven boys and five girls will be awarded a total of 21 gold medals, a release said. In the Master’s programmes, 16 boys and 17 girls will get 74 gold medals, while in the UG programmes, five boys and 11 girls will be receiving 55 gold medals. UAS-B, with its six teaching campuses at Bengaluru, Chintamani, Hassan, Mandya, and Chamarajanagar, offers six UG degree programmes, master’s degree programmes in 23 disciplines, and doctoral degree programmes in 16 disciplines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uas-b-convocation-today/article36580806.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man dies after coming under KSRTC bus||There was tension in Konanakunte near the metro station after a man came under a KSRTC bus on Monday morning. It was suspected to be an accident but witnesses said the man himself came under the wheels and died. The deceased has been identified as Arun Kumar, 28, a resident of Electronics City, who was working in a private factory. He was living in a PG accommodation. A senior officer from Kumaraswamy Layout traffic police said Kumar was talking on the phone, and the incident happened when the signal turned green. Family members told the police that Kumar was under depression and was living separately from his family over a trivial dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-dies-after-coming-under-ksrtc-bus/article36580794.ece
21 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The Centre for Global Languages, Bengaluru City University, has invited students to register for Certificate-I / Certificate-II / (4 month courses) Diploma, Higher Diploma and Advance Diploma (8 month) courses in French, German, Spanish, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Chinese Languages, for 2021-22. The last date to apply is September 25. Students can register atwww.bcu.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article36580787.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TBM Urja breakthrough on September 22||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will participate in the occasion to mark the breakthrough of the tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urja on September 22 at Shivajinagar underground metro station. In July 2020, TBM Urja started its underground journey from Cantonment. It will be the first TBM to achieve a breakthrough on Namma Metro’s Pink Line from Kalenga Agrahara to Nagawara (21kms). Urja is around 102 metres long and costs Rs. 70 crore. In the same direction, another machine, Vindhya, is building a parallel tunnel, just 70 to 100 meters away from Urja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tbm-urja-breakthrough-on-september-22/article36580795.ece
21 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||HKCCI seeks modification in night curfew order to facilitate business||Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI), a body of industrialists and traders from the region, has demanded that the government modify the night curfew order so as to facilitate business activities in the district between 5 a.m. and 11 p.m. In a letter to the Chief Secretary to the government, HKCCI president Prashant S. Manakar and secretary Sharanabasappa M. Pappa noted that new cases of COVID-19 has come down drastically in the district, while night curfew imposed as a measure to contain the spread of the pandemic has hit business activities that were already crumbling under the weight of series of lockdowns and weekend restrictions since February 2020. “Unlike in other districts, the situation in Kalaburagi district is not that alarming. As on September 16, there were only six new cases in the district and that there are a total of 73 positive cases in home isolation. All the districts in North Karnataka, including Kalaburagi, have reported new cases in single digits or there have been zero cases in the last week. The imposition of night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. will directly hit businesses which are already crumbling under the weight of a series of lockdowns and weekend lockdowns. The hotel industry and bars and restaurants get a major chunk of their daily business usually in the night, after 9 p.m.,” they said, while demanding relaxation to carry out business between 5 a.m. and 11 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hkcci-seeks-modification-in-night-curfew-order-to-facilitate-business/article36581062.ece
21 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Accident Response Service System in Kalaburagi||Keeping in view the increasing number of road accidents in Kalaburagi district, the police have introduced Accident Response Service System (ARSS) to save the lives of victims by administering timely medical aid and shifting them to hospital. Police Commissioner Y.S. Ravikumar speaking to The Hindu here on Monday stated that two four-wheelers have been modified into ambulances equipped with all emergency service facilities. The ambulances have a medical stretcher, first aid and hydraulic cutter, which will help rescue passengers trapped inside vehicles involved in road accidents. A team comprising trained medical staff and police personnel will be on service. As the district is connected with five State Highways and three National Highways, it is observed that casualties are rising in the area, so the need for the Accident Response Service System with a full-fledged team, Mr. Ravikumar added. The Accident Response Service System vehicles will be permanently stationed at two different places — the Rural Police Station and Farhatabad Police Station — to reach accident spots immediately and provide timely treatment and shift victims to hospitals. A helpline number will be launched and the service will be expanded to areas coming under the Police Commissioner. The service vehicles are tentatively scheduled to launch by next month, the Police Commissioner said.  Two four-wheelers modified into ambulances equipped with all emergency facilities to help rescue passengers trapped inside vehicles involved in road accidents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accident-response-service-system-in-kalaburagi/article36581063.ece
21 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Varsity gets patent for anti-cancer compound invention||Mangalore University has obtained its first patent for an invention by its two plant researchers K.R. Chandrashekar and Bhagya Nekrakalaya relating to anti-cancer compound. The invention is titled A process for the extraction and purification of tetrandrine. Tetrandrine is an anti-cancer compound. The invention describes a process for the extraction and purification of tetrandrine from methanol extract of Cyclea peltata , which is commonly known in Kannada as Haade balli, collected from the natural forests of Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod district of Kerala. The Patent Office granted the patent (No 369124) to the researchers on June 11, 2021. It is valid for 20 years from May 8, 2017 since they applied for the patent when doing research at Mangalore University. At present, the two researchers are working in the Yenepoya Deemed to be University in Mangaluru. Mr. Chandrashekar, who retired as Chairman and Professor of Botany, Department of Applied Botany, Mangalore University, told The Hindu that Cyclea peltata (Lam.) Hook. f. Thoms. (Menispermaceae) is an ethnomedicinally important plant used in the treatment of various health problems. It is reported to have anti-toxin function besides playing a role in improving diabetic disorders of skin, like boils and carbuncle and in the treatment of small pox and stomach ache. Pharmacological studies also proved the bioactive potential of Cyclea peltata with antioxidant, antidiabetic, anti-inflammatory, cytotoxic activities and protection against nephrotoxicity and oxidative damage. He said that an alkaloid, small organic molecules containing nitrogen usually in a ring, tetrandrine was previously isolated from Stephania tetrandra , a highly cited ethnomedicinal plant in China which has been reported to show anti-cancer, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, antidiabetic, antioxidant, immunosuppressive, cardiovascular and calcium channel blocking effects. Several studies have showed the effective in vitro and in vivo anticancer mechanism of tetrandrine against different cancers by acting on multiple pathways. The two researchers working on the tissue culture and bioprospection of Western Ghats plants found the presence of tetrandrine in Haade balli . They tested its anti-cancerous potential using cancer cells. Further, they developed a simple process for its extraction from the plants and purification into a single molecule from a complex mixture using simple glass column chromatography technique. “Recrystallised fractions yielded tetrandrine with a purity of 98.63%. Further work on this molecule with respect to increasing its solubility in aqueous medium and clinical trials may lead to the development of a potent anti-cancer drug from a local plant,” the researchers said. Ms. Nekrakalaya is a UGC Women Scientist Post-Doctoral Fellow at Yenepoya Deemed to be University, Mangaluru, and Mr. Chandrashekar is an advisor, Internal Quality Assurance Cell, and a professor of Botany at Yeneopoya Deemed to be University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varsity-gets-patent-for-anti-cancer-compound-invention/article36581257.ece
21 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A good number of students turn up for higher primary classes||Two days after physical classes opened for Classes VIII, IX and X, offline classes for Classes VI and VII commenced in Dakshina Kannada on Monday. And, a good number of students turned up on the first day. Like the reception given to secondary class students on Friday, teachers in many schools in the district received students from Classes VI and VII with warmth. Flowers were offered to them after the mandatory thermal screening. While schools with fewer number of students held classes for three hours in the morning, those with a higher number of students held classes in two batches, one in the morning and the second in the afternoon. Only 20 students were allowed in a class. All schools distributed textbooks to students. At the Government Higher Primary School, Aletty in Sullia taluk, parents worked along with teachers on Sunday in cleaning classrooms and toilets. All rooms were sanitised and a small video of the activity was sent across different WhatsApp groups, with an invitation to students to attend classes. Teachers personally called up parents who do not have smartphones and informed them about the start of classes. “All parents were eager to send their wards to school,” said English teacher Sunil Kumar. As many as 37 students turned up for two classes in Aletty. While those who came from a distance had brought their tiffin boxes with them and left school after having lunch, students staying nearby left for their houses after the end of the day’s classes at 1 p.m. There was not much of studies on the first day in many of the schools and teachers had interaction with students on topics such as how they spent time during the break from physical classes. Some teachers checked assignments and also the progress of the students have made in different learning activities that were conveyed online. Teachers have been told to hold bridge course for students for the next few days. A batch of 10 students of the Government Higher Primary School in Moodambail in Bantwal stayed back in the school after 1 p.m. These students had their lunch in the school and then worked for an hour with teachers for their projects on waste management and biodiversity. Headmaster of Government Higher Primary School, Alankar in Belthangady taluk, Ningaraju said that several members of the School Development and Monitoring Committee took part in doing arati for 64 students who attended classes for Class VI and VII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-good-number-of-students-turn-up-for-higher-primary-classes/article36581266.ece
21 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Teachers thanked for help in preparation||Though he favoured physical classes, the pandemic forced him to return to his house in Kolar where he had to take up self-study for the Common Entrance Test and other competitive examinations, said Reetham B. from Expert PU College in Mangaluru who has secured the second and third ranks in Agriculture, Veterinary, Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences streams of Common Entrance Test. Talking to The Hindu over phone from Kolar, Mr. Reetham, a medical seat aspirant who is waiting for the results of NEET, said that he was in the college hostel in the first year.  He continued to live in the hostel but was forced to return home in April because of a surge in COVID-19 cases. “I am thankful to my teachers who were really helpful in me preparing better for the competitive examinations,” he said. Reetham, who is the son of a radiologist Bayappareddy and home-maker Bharati L., is hopeful of getting good ranking in NEET. “I like to pursue my career as a doctor and serve people,” he said. Of the others from Expert PU College who are among the top 10 in the five streams of CET are Thejas, who is ranked fourth in the Agriculture stream, Sanjana Kamath Panchmal, who is ranked seventh in Agriculture. From the Excellent PU College, Moodbidri, Satwik G. Bhat ranked seventh in Veterinary Sciences and Naturopaty and Yogic Science streams. As many as 42 students are ranked within 500 in the five streams of CET, said the college in a press release. Shishira M. Ayyar and Shreevatsa P. Bhagwat from the Sharada Vidyaniketana PU College, Talapady, were ranked 71 and 87, respectively, in the engineering stream of the CET. There are 13 students ranked till 900 in the five streams of CET, the college said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-thanked-for-help-in-preparation/article36581263.ece
21 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three more arrested for issuing life threat to CM||The police on Monday arrested three more persons in connection with the case related to life threats issued to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle. The Barke Police arrested Rajesh Pavitran, Prem Polali and Sandeep Shetty Adka. On Sunday, the police arrested Dharmendra in the case. In the complaint registered with the Barke Police, State president of the Akhila Bharat Hindu Mahasabha Lohith Kumar Suvarna from Bengaluru accused Dharmendra and seven others of falsely claiming as office-bearers of the Mahasabha and holding a press conference on Saturday to condemn the State government’s action in the demolition of a temple in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district. Accusing the eight men of issuing life threats to Mr. Bommai, Mr. Yediyurappa and Ms. Jolle, Mr. Suvarna said that the accused were trying to create communal tension in the area. Distancing the Mahasabha from their statement, Mr. Suvrana sought legal action against them for misusing the name of the Mahasabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/threat-to-cm-three-more-held/article36580813.ece
21 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||528 pass II PU exam in Dakshina Kannada||A total of 528 of the 1,067 students from Dakshina Kannada and 107 of the 299 students from Udupi district have passed the II PU examination held recently. These students are among the many who rejected the results announced after evaluation of performance in Class X and the first two years of PU and expressed their intention to write the examination. Of the 528 students who have passed from Daskhina Kannada, 31 are fresh candidates, 494 are private students and three are repeaters. As many as 152 students have passed in the Arts stream, 372 in the Commerce stream and four in the Science stream. While 187 are from urban areas, 341 students are from the rural areas. As many as 281 are girls and the remaining 247 boys, said a press release. Of the 107 from Udupi, eight were freshers and 99 were private students. As many as 38 passed in the Arts stream, 68 in the Commerce stream and one in the Science stream. While 73 students are from urban areas, 34 are from the rural areas. As many as 60 are boys and the remaining 47 girls, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/528-pass-ii-pu-exam-in-dakshina-kannada/article36581264.ece
21 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Online contests for students||Pilikula Biological Park will organise different competitions for students of all ages and wildlife photographers for Wildlife Week-2021. Various competitions (drawing/collage-making/essay-writing and photography) will be held online due to the pandemic. Details will be announced on the website, www.pilikulazoo.com. Entries should be submitted through the Google form (link provided in website) before October 2. Also, a free vaccination camp for pets will be organised near the Moodushedde Panchayat Office between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. on October 3. Anti-rabies vaccination for dogs, vaccination against foot and mouth disease for cattle in the surrounding areas will be carried out. For details, visitwww.pilikulazoo.com, or call Ph: 0824-2263300, 9036801602, email:pilikulaoutreach@gmail. com, a release from the park said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-contests-for-students/article36581258.ece
21 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||DC reviews Dasara preparations||Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, who is also the Dasara Special Officer, on Monday reviewed the preparations done for the ensuing Dasara celebrations as suggested by the high power committee and the executive committee. This year too, the celebrations have been scaled down in view of COVID-19 and the Jamboo Savari has been confined to the palace premises with only eight elephants taking part in it. Barring cultural events at the palace premises, other events that usually take place during the festivities have been cancelled. Details As part of the preparations, the district administration had constituted six Dasara sub-committees with each one of them headed by a deputy special officer. These sub-committees collected details on the steps taken by the same committees during last year’s celebrations. The Deputy Commissioner explained to the heads of the sub-committees their roles and responsibilities, and told them to work as recommended by the State committees on Dasara. Commissioner of Police Chandragupta and other senior officials were present. Some suggestions have poured in for expanding the illumination area since all other events have been cancelled. The sub-committees have been constituted for Dasara procession, illumination, reception and invitation, cultural events, cleanliness and arrangements and tableau. They have to function under the purview of the Dasara High-power Committee and the Dasara Executive Committee. The DC had told sub-committees while constituting them to make use of the funds released for the festivities in a transparent manner and in accordance with the rules. They had been asked to work with proper planning and efficiently discharge tasks entrusted to them besides submitting accounts of expenditures and ensuring that government rules are not flouted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-reviews-dasara-preparations/article36581282.ece
21 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘MMCRI denying salaries, allowances’||The Resident Doctors’ Association of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) has sought the immediate intervention of the Minister for Health and Medical Education as it said that the MMCRI has not released the salaries and COVID-19 allowances of junior doctors even after their working in the hospitals for two-and-a-half months. The Association said the MMCRI has denied salaries to the government-appointed junior residents as per the Compulsory Rural Service-2021. “Despite being worked as frontline workers in COVID-19 wards since June 30, no salaries have been given to us and the college administration argues that no junior residents’ posts existed in the MMCRI although the government order mentions 126 JR posts under the Compulsory Service Act,” said the association in its statement. In protest against the denial of salaries, the resident doctors staged a demonstration at the MMCRI here on Monday. As an initiative to implement the compulsory rural service bond taken by the Government of Karnataka, 126 MBBS graduates of the year 2021 who had graduated from various institutes across Karnataka, were posted to MMCRI to work as junior doctors, according to the protesters. The Directorate of Medical Education has not issued any notification to colleges regarding salaries of junior residents. On approaching the Director of Medical Education through the Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors, the director said the medical colleges have to pay the JRs through the funds available with them and this fact was also confirmed by the financial advisor, they claimed. “When the Dean and Director of MMCRI told about the payment of salaries in other medical colleges to the JRs, the dean asked us to take transfer to such institutes and said MMCRI cannot pay them,” the statement said. The Junior Residents of MMCRI said the MMCRI has not given accommodation facilities to them at the institute. “We are still financially dependent on our parents/guardians for food, accommodation, etc., which is not correct after completing the MBBS degree. Also, the Rs. 40,000 salary fixed for an MBBS doctor who has been working through the pandemic, was scarce. We have also requested the authorities to pay us the promised COVID-19 incentive of Rs. 10,000 per month,” the protesting doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mmcri-denying-salaries-allowances/article36581285.ece
21 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CET topper has eyes set on NEET results||He may have topped the Common Entrance Test (CET) 2021 and secured first rank in all five disciplines, but Meghan H.K., a student of Pramati Hill View Academy in Mysuru, has his eyes set on the results of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges. Son of Krishnaiah, Principal of Government PU college in K.R. Nagar, and Leelavathi, Principal of Kannada Medium Nrupathunga PU College in Mysuru, Mr. Meghan was nevertheless quite happy with his feat. “Two-and-a-half years of efforts have paid off now. I am very happy,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Meghan said he believed in a good schedule and strived to meet his daily and weekly goals by practising a rigorous studying discipline. Describing the preparation for the II PU exam and the entrance exam as a “marathon”, Mr. Meghan said it would not be difficult if students deal with it “part by part”. He said discipline played a very crucial role in the preparation for exams this year as classes moved online. “When classes were physical and offline, students were monitored by their teachers, but when it shifted online, students had to become responsible and disciplined,” he said while advising students against competing with others and instead focus on their own improvement. Unlike many students, Mr. Meghan did not cut himself off from his friends. “I used to give some time for friends also,” he remarked. He is grateful to his parents, both with over 25 years of teaching experience, for standing by him during his preparation. Mr. Krishnaiah said hard work and dedication can help anybody reach their goals. Mr. Meghan’s elder brother Likhith is studying MBA in a private college in Bengaluru.  When classes were physical and offline, students were monitored by their teachers, but when it shifted online, students had to become responsible and disciplined Meghan H.K., CET topper in five streams||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cet-topper-has-eyes-set-on-neet-results/article36580805.ece
21 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Meaningful Srirangapatna Dasara this year: Minister||The Srirangapatna Dasara will be celebrated in a meaningful manner on October 9, 10 and 11 this year, according to Minister for Youth Empowerment and Sports K.C. Narayana Gowda, who is also the Minister in charge of Mandya district. A meeting was held on the celebration of Srirangapatna Dasara at Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, according a press statement issued by Mandya district administration. The Jamboo Savari is scheduled to be held on October 9 and discussions will be held with Forest Department and Veterinary Department to facilitate the participation of elephants in the programme. The main streets of Srirangapatna town and government offices will be illuminated during the festivities while directions will be issued to officials to ensure proper power supply. Officials will also be instructed to spruce up the places of tourist interest and ensure that basic amenities are in place at the venues. Arrangements will be made to hold water sports and offer boating facilities at Keretonnur in Pandavapura and KRS backwaters during the festival. Sporting activities such as kabaddi and wrestling will be organised by the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports. The Department of Kannada and Culture will hold cultural and folk art programmes besides poets’ conference to encourage rural talent. People who have made contributions in different fields, besides offering service during the COVID-19 pandemic, will be felicitated. An exhibition will be held to provide a platform for various government departments to publicise their programmes and create awareness among the public. A health camp will be organised by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, which will create awareness about the measures necessary for prevention of third wave of COVID-19 by following precautions such as wearing of mask, maintaining social distance and use of sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meaningful-srirangapatna-dasara-this-year-minister/article36581281.ece
21 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Crop loss survey in Kodagu||With the rains largely receding in Kodagu, the district administration has asked the officials to survey the crop loss this season. The Agriculture Department has been directed to take up the survey in taluk and zilla panchayat limits. Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal told the officials to carry out the survey like it was done in the last three years. “It has to be accurate,” she said, during a meeting in connection with the crop loss survey in Madikeri. She asked for resurvey of crop damage in areas that recorded the highest rains in the last 25 days. She wanted the officers to complete the survey with photographic evidence and submit reports incorporating details on the interventions and steps taken. Coffee Board Deputy Director Shivakumar told the meeting that the Board has done its survey of the damage caused to coffee plants. The damage is not over 33 per cent. Horticulture Department Deputy Director Shashidhar said the chances of berry drop is more in the event of excessive rains. These aspects are being monitored during the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crop-loss-survey-in-kodagu/article36581278.ece
21 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||NAAC gives ‘A’ Grade to Mysore varsity||The University of Mysore has been given ‘A’ Grade by the National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) in the 4th cycle. The accreditation is valid for a period of five years from September 20, 2021. Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar told The Hindu the University had expected a higher grade of A-Plus. “The University could have gotten a better grade if the teacher-studio ratio was improved and more research works were carried out by the faculty. As many as 400 teaching posts are vacant and remain unfilled for many years. The dearth of faculty affected the ratio though the university has well established infrastructure and facilities. If we had the required number of teaching posts, we could have improved in the grade,” he felt. Appeal to govt. Prof. Kumar said 52 per cent of posts are vacant and added that he would urge the government once again to consider filling up the posts at the earliest. “The government had permitted us to fill up the posts in 2020 but it had to withdraw the consent over the pandemic situation.” He, however, said the Mysore varsity has a better grade than other State universities. “The university NIRF ranking has improved from last year and this has improved the university’s standing nationally. The efforts to get higher grades will continue, addressing the gaps.” A six-member NAAC peer committee had visited the university and inspected the facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/naac-gives-a-grade-to-mysore-varsity/article36581280.ece
21 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Weight training session for lead jumbo||The weight training for Abhimanyu, who is carrying the 750-kg golden howdah during the Jamboo Savari, began on the palace premises on Monday. The tusker carried sandbags weighing about 275 kg. The bags were placed inside a cradle-like structure that was placed on “Gaadhi Namdha”, a cushiony bed, and the elephant, accompanied by other Dasara jumbos, walked on the designated route within the palace fort. At around 12.15 p.m., the “Gaadhi Namdha” was secured on the back of Abhimanyu with ropes, and then the ‘cradle’ was tied on top of it. The training began after customary rituals. The elephants walked up to the north gate of the palace and returned, covering a distance of about one kilometre. The rehearsal went off successfully. APCCF Jagath Ram, CCF T. Heeralal, DCF K. Karikalan and others supervised the training. Mr. Karikalan told The Hindu that the weight will be increased with each passing day. From September 27 onwards, the lead elephant will be given training in carrying the wooden replica of the howdah with sandbags. Besides Abhimanyu, Dhananjaya and Gopalaswamy too will undergo weight carrying training. “This is a practice followed for years as part of a back-up arrangement.” The cannon firing to accustom the elephants to the booming sound will also begin soon. In view of COVID-19 pandemic, the authorities are keeping a close watch on visitors and they are not allowed to get close to the elephants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weight-training-session-for-lead-jumbo/article36581288.ece
21 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Forum suggests reforms in selection of VCs||Arguing that “all is not well in the appointment of Vice-Chancellors in the State”, the Forum of Former Vice-Chancellors of Karnataka (FVCK) has suggested that the process of selecting a successor to an incumbent VC should be commenced at least 3-4 months before the post becomes vacant. This helps in avoiding the vacuum that is currently affecting the smooth functioning of the universities, it argued. FVCK President and former VC of University of Mysore and KSOU, K.S. Rangappa, told reporters in Mysuru on Monday that the search-cum-selection committee should comprise distinguished academicians. It is advisable not to include serving Vice-Chancellors in such committees because of their known obligation to the government of the day, the Forum felt. Former VCs S.N. Hegde and Niranjan were present during the press conference. The members said the FVCK is the only one of its kind in the country and has already 70 members with a proven track record of exemplary performance in divergent fields. It would be appropriate if those members are involved in such committees, they felt. Convocation Prof. Rangappa said the Forum is of the opinion that the annual convocations should be held twice or thrice a year so that eligible students need not have to wait for long to pursue higher studies or seek employment opportunities for want of award of degrees. The Forum is planning to hold a seminar in October in collaboration with the University of Mysore in view of confusion and apprehension among the stakeholders on the implementation of National Education Policy. Modalities The seminar will discuss threadbare the modalities of introduction of the new policy. “The Governor of Karnataka has agreed to inaugurate the seminar,” a note from the forum said. The participants include VCs, college principals and PG teachers and students. The Forum said that standing instruction should be given to VCs to fill all sanctioned teaching and non-teaching posts by adhering to reservation and other norms prescribed by the government from time to time. “Considerable financial support was required by the University to strengthen the faculty and infrastructure. Moreover, universities should be encouraged to raise resources by novel means,” it said. Performance The Forum said the government/universities must fix the responsibility to monitor the activities of teachers in terms of teaching and research. Based on the performance of teachers, a good performer must be promoted by providing incentives and disciplinary action must be immediately initiated for under-performers. It sought government support for elevating standards of higher education and in turn will seek to uplift the academic activities of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forum-suggests-reforms-in-selection-of-vcs/article36581286.ece
21 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Joint drill at rly. station||The Mysuru division of South Western Railway and a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) would be conducting a joint drill at Ashokapuram railway station in Mysuru on September 21. “Train derailment-induced rescue and relief operations following the incident will be part of the drill”, said a statement issed by SWR. The exercise would be held from 10.30 a.m. onwards. “The drill is aimed at eliminating potential slippages in saving human lives”, said the statement issued by Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Manjunath Kanamadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joint-drill-at-rly-station/article36581283.ece
21 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Acquittal is higher than conviction’||Although the police are making continuous efforts to bring culprits to book with thorough investigation, the conviction ratio, particularly in rape cases, has not been so effective in Yadgir district for various reasons, including non-cooperation of witnesses. Thus, most of the cases end with acquittals, according to information provided by officials here. Sources said that a total of 277 cases have been registered from 2010 till September 20 this year. Surprisingly, the ratio of conviction is very low when compared to acquittals. Out of the 277 cases, accused in only 13 cases have been convicted and accused in 131 cases have been acquitted. As many as 12 cases are under investigation and 121 cases are on trial, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy has said. As many as 38 rape cases have been registered so far this year in the district. The highest of 46 cases were registered during 2014, while the lowest four were registered in 2010 in the district. “Most of the witnesses from the victim side become hostile and adduce evidence favourable to the accused owing to pressure or lure,” an advocate who did not want to be named said. Courts consider evidence tendered by victims or their witnesses and pass judgment no matter what statement they have given before police during investigation. In most of the cases, the victims and the accused side opt for compromise or settlement out of court due to possible pressure and lure, he added. “The police will always build cases based on statement from witnesses during investigation. But, in most cases, witnesses who have already given statement before police favouring the victims during investigation, surprisingly become hostile and deliver adverse evidence in court indirectly helping the accused to get acquitted. We cannot do much in such cases,” Dr. Vedamurthy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acquittal-is-higher-than-conviction/article36581064.ece
21 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir gets Rs. 3 cr. grant under aspirational districts scheme||Yadgir district has been sanctioned an additional grant of Rs. 3 crore under the Aspirational Districts Programme by the Union government, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said. Addressing a press conference in Yadgir on Monday, she said that the NITI Aayog sanctioned the additional grant on the basis of grade that the district received based on development. Yadgir district has made strides and has obtained a good grade in infrastructure development. Thus, the NITI Aayog has sanctioned the additional grant for the district, she said and added that a proposal is going to be prepared to get the said sum released shortly. Dr. Ragapriya further said that a total of 5,351 applications received from general public seeking J- Form, change of Khata, transfer of rights of lands and encumbrance, court judgments, land conversions, land podi under Bhoomi scheme in August have been disposed of and this will help the district to get 1.39 points on the disposal index following the 2.35 sigma valuation. “Yadgir district has stood in the third place in the State as far as disposals of the applications are concerned. Thus, the Commissioner of Land Survey has given an appreciation letter,” she added. The Deputy Commissioner said that there was 91% achievement in the COVID-19 vaccination drive on September 17, covering 40,941 people against a target of 45,000 in a single day. Health care centres in Kakkera, Kalladavanahalli, Kembhavi, Kodekal, Peth Ammapur, Rajankollur, Surpur City, Balichakra, Gazarkot, Honagera, Malhar, Gurmitkal, Sagar and Shahapur have covered 1,000 people each. Dr. Ragapriya said that agriculture crops in 2,191.68 hectares of land in Shahapur, Wadagera, Surpur and Hunsagi taluks were destroyed due to the flooding in the Krishna in 2021-22. Horticulture crops in 5.29 hectares and electricity infrastructure valued at Rs.49.21 lakh have been damaged. And, heavy rain from June 1 to September 20 this year has caused a huge damage in the district affecting 98 hectares of agriculture crops and nine hectares of horticulture crops, while 366 houses have partially collapsed, 222.27 km of roads damaged and 17 school buildings have been affected, she added. Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankargowda Somanal and others were present.  ‘The district has made strides and has obtained a good grade in infrastructure development and a proposal is going to be prepared to get the said sum released shortly’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-gets-rs-3-cr-grant-under-aspirational-districts-scheme/article36581066.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||September showers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/september-showers/article36580790.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Day ends||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/day-ends/article36581271.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Idlis and dosas||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai sought to counter Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah’s statement on the doubling of prices of idlies and masala dosas at a popular eatery in Bengaluru. He said the price of two idlies was up from Rs. 35 in 2017 to Rs. 38 in 2021, an increase of 4%, while that of malasa dosa had gone from Rs. 80 to Rs. 90.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/idlis-and-dosas/article36580814.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Marching on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marching-on/article36580809.ece
21 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||There is no narcotic jihad, says Vellappally||Responding to the controversial remarks made by Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan on Monday said there was no such a thing as narcotic jihad. Mr. Natesan told mediapersons at Kanichukulangara here that no “holy war was being waged in the name of narcotics.” “Drugs are available on the premises of schools and colleges. It is not right to blame the Muslim community for it.” Mr. Natesan said ‘love jihad’ was not a new thing. “I had said about it a long time back. I got little support and I was portrayed as an embodiment of communalism,” he said. ‘Toxic remark’ He termed the remarks made Fr. Roy Kannanchira, executive secretary, Deepika Children’s League, that Christian girls were being lured by Ezhava boys ‘toxic’. Mr. Natesan said Christian missionaries were converting people to Christianity by exploiting their poverty. “Compared to Christians, Muslims are not indulging in large-scale religious conversions,” the SNDP Yogam general secretary said, adding that not every Christian denomination was converting people. Referring to Fr. Kannanchira, Mr. Natesan said “priesthood is not a licence to say anything.” Meeting KPCC chief On his meeting with Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran last week, he said the former called on him not as KPCC president. “The Congress will not make any impact in Kerala anytime soon. The party can’t stand up to Narendra Modi at the Centre. The move to transform the party into a semi-cadre outfit is unlikely to yield results in the near future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/there-is-no-narcotic-jihad-says-vellappally/article36581177.ece
21 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||K.R. Gouri’s house to be converted into memorial||K.R. Gouri’s residence (Kalathil Parambil Veedu) at Chathanad in Alappuzha will be converted into a memorial and research centre. The decision was taken at a meeting attended by MLAs H. Salam, P.P. Chitharanjan, Daleema Jojo, and M.S. Arunkumar, District Collector A. Alexander, and other officials at the district collectorate recently. Gouri, who died on May 11, 2021, had bequeathed the property to P.C. Beenakumari, her sister’s daughter. Officials said that Ms. Beenakumari had informed her willingness to hand over the property to the government. Project report “The meeting has decided to expedite the process. The officials concerned have been asked to prepare a detailed project report. The memorial will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. The amount has already been earmarked in the State Budget,” said an official. A woman icon of revolution, Gouri’s life, bedecked with an illustrious political career and many struggles, is part of the history of modern Kerala. She choose politics at a time when not many women dared to enter the field. In 1957, she became Revenue Minister in the first Communist government led by E.M.S. Namboodiripad. She piloted the historical Land Reforms Bill, which heralded the end of feudalism in Kerala. Gouri later held portfolios including Agriculture, Social Welfare, and Industries during a political career spanning several decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kr-gouris-house-to-be-converted-into-a-memorial/article36581220.ece
21 September 2021||Hassan,KERALA||Coffee planters seek special package||Karnataka Growers’ Federation, on Saturday, appealed to Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal to restructure bank loans borrowed by the coffee planters, considering the problems they have been facing at present. A delegation of the KGF met Mr. Goyal in Bengaluru and submitted a memorandum with several demands. The demands include a special package for the growers, as they had been facing economic loss due to various factors. “The coffee growers should get benefits on a par with growers of other crops. The compensation paid through the national disaster relief funds was negligible considering the loss suffered by the growers”, the KGF said. The delegation also urged the Minister not to apply the provisions of the Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act) to coffee growers. The Minister, responding to the demands on the spot, contacted the Finance Ministry officials and appealed to them to issue an order not to apply the provisions of the SARFAESI Act to coffee planters. Coffee Board chairman M.S. Boje Gowda, vice-chairman Mahabala, secretary K.G. Jagadish, KGF president H.T. Mohan Kumar, vice president Nanda Belliappa, and former president B.A. Jagannath were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coffee-planters-seek-special-package/article36581150.ece
21 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Murder of minor: chargesheet submitted||The police submitted the chargesheet before a POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ) court at Muttom on Monday in connection with the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl at Vandiperiyar on June 30. The chargesheet was submitted after 78 days of the arrest of the accused. The police arrested Arjun (22) who was living close to the victims' family in the workers’ quarters at the Choorakkulam estate. According to Vandiperiyar Circle Inspector T.D. Sunil Kumar, the chargesheet was filed in record time. The accused was charged with rape and murder under provisions of the POCSO Act and trespassing into the house. Mr. Sunil Kumar said 65 eyewitness, scientific and digital evidence and statements of 250 persons were included in the 300-page chargesheet, which was submitted before 90 days to avoid issuance of bail to the accused who is lodged in Thodupuzha district jail. The incident The girl was found hanging inside the house. Initial reports suggested that the girl, who was alone at the time, may have accidentally hung herself by the rope while playing. However, the autopsy report said she was subjected to severe sexual abuse. The police then arrested Arjun who used to frequent the house.The police said that the accused hung the body inside the room using the rope. As he appeared close to the family, his involvement in the crime was not initially suspected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-of-minor-chargesheet-submitted/article36581221.ece
21 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cycle ride on October 7||Pedal Force Kochi, in association with the District Tourism Promotion Council and other agencies, will organise a 'Save Planet cycle ride' at Thodupuzha in Idukki on October 7 to highlight the importance of travelling on bicycles to protect the environment, a pressnote said. Anyone above the age of 15 can participate in the 5-km ride. The entry will be for first 20 persons registering atwww.pedal force.org. For details, contact 9847533898.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cycle-ride-at-thodupuzha-on-october-7/article36581222.ece
21 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Bell metal craftsmen struggling for survival||It was a huge relief for P. Valsan, who is busy giving finishing touches to Dasavatharam, his new bell metal work. In so many months, it is the only order he has received from a client from Kochi. But not many craftsman like him, who are into making artefacts from bell metal, in Kunhimanagalam village in Kannur district, are fortunate enough to find work during the COVID pandemic. With temples and shops being closed and people reeling under financial difficulties, the artisans in the village, which has a 700-year-old history of making objects such as lamps, vessels, ornaments, and weapons for deities using bell metal, are compelled to think of leaving their work and turning to other jobs for survival. Mr. Valsan said there were around 100 craftsman families belonging to the Moosari community, who were into this craft. However, now there were only a handful of artisans, around 30, despite the work getting great recognition around the world, he said. With the outbreak of COVID-19, many had fallen into debt traps and feel helpless without work, he said. To encourage the artists, a cluster named Kunhimangalam Bell Metal Heritage Private Limited was formed in 2018, with a corpus of Rs. 1.70 crore. About 70% of the fund came from the Central government, but they are yet to get rest of the funds assured by the State government, said Mr. Valsan, who is the managing director of the company. Temples, traders, and the public were not coming forward to buy the products. They were instead going for cheaper materials, he lamented. The escalation in the cost of raw materials had compounded the difficulties of the artisans, said V.V. Sasi, another craftsman from the village. “We are unable to increase the cost of materials even though the production cost has increased several fold during the pandemic. As a result, they are bearing the loss by paying from their our pocket,” he observed. Even traders were exploiting them by trying to purchase the product at discounted prices, claiming that there were no buyers, he said. “I need Rs. 10,000 every month to pay back the bank loan taken for constructing my house. But now there is no income and I am neck-deep in debt,” he lamented. Another craftsman, Chandran, said that they feared that the cluster started here may have the same fate that faced by the Traditional Bill Metal Employees Cooperative Society, which was closed down way back in 1963, without getting any support from the government. He said there was no fixed income and unless the products were sold, they would have no revenue. The government should support them by finding an export market, using the products to give as mementos, arranging more exhibitions centres, he said. The government had earlier arranged camps for people to learn the craft at the centre. However, even that had been stopped. Only the encouragement and support from the government and people would help the age-old art to survive, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bell-metal-craftsmen-struggling-for-survival/article36581135.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro’s Kakkanad extension to cost city’s green cover dear||The trunks and branches of decades-old trees, which provided shade to pedestrians, can be seen heaped on the roadside as the once tree-lined Palarivattom-Kaloor stretch in the city is being cleared of its green cover. The second phase of expansion of the Kochi metro rail to Kakkanad will see a large number of shade trees being cut down in the city. As many as 80 trees, most of them over four-decades-old, have been cut down between the Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium and the Palarivattom flyover junction during the last few weeks. More trees would be cut down for the widening of the road and the construction of the metro track, according to officials of the social forestry wing of the Forest Department. Request cleared The tree committee of the department, the agency which considers the application for the cutting of trees located in public places, has cleared the request for 280 trees to be axed. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has engaged workers for the cutting of trees. Cochin Smart Mission Limited, the agency implementing the Smart City programme in the city, had secured permission for cutting down around 50 trees sometime ago, an official said. It was mostly Gulmohars and rain trees that were cut down in the Palarivattom sector. Most of the axed trees had a girth of 100 cm. The trees must have been planted during the 1980s as part of some social forestry programme, said the official. Those obtaining permission for cutting trees located in public places should sign a contract for planting ten times the number of trees that are axed, as part of the compensatory afforestation programme. Moreover, they should also ensure the protection and growth of the saplings for three years. KMRL had recently purchased 5,000 saplings from the social forestry wing. They had also undertaken the planting of saplings in some public areas and on the holding of a private educational institution in the district, he said. However, the official admitted that there was no effective system to monitor the progress of the compensatory afforestation programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metros-kakkanad-extension-to-cost-citys-green-cover-dear/article36581172.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to revive business on Willingdon Island||The newly-formed Thuramugha Samrakshana Samithi, a combination of trade unions cutting across political parties, has called for rejuvenating business on the Willingdon Island with a view to augmenting the income for ports even as the port authority is straddled with the burden of spending a substantial sum on maintenance dredging for the shipping channel. C.D. Nandakumar of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and one of the founders of the Samithi, headed by the Kochi Mayor, said on Monday that the only way forward for the Cochin Port Trust was to utilise its vast land holding for commercial activities that would cater to the growing needs in areas such as hospitality industry. The port could also utilise its land resources for establishing industrial parks, godown complexes and tourism centres that could attract investments in various areas. According to the Samithi, multinational corporations had cornered the benefits of operating the container terminals at major ports across the country, including in Kochi. The governments had made huge investments for such facilities. Even maintenance dredging in Kochi is being done at the expense of the Cochin Port Trust. The continuous expense in maintenance dredging and concessions being offered by the Port Trust to attract vessels to the container terminal have turned out to be a big burden on the port’s financial operations. Mr. Nandakumar said the port authority would be spending around Rs. 122 crore during 2021-22 for dredging operations to maintain the required depth of the shipping channel. The trade unions are also of the opinion that the closure of the Rajiv Gandhi Container terminal, previously operated by the Cochin Port Trust, had turned out to be a big setback for the port. The Cochin Port Trust had entered into an agreement with a private container terminal operator in January 2005 to hand over the Rajiv Gandhi terminal. The terminal was then handed over to the company for operations in April of the same year. Later, in April 2011, the operation of the Vallarpadam terminal was launched. The trade unions have pointed out that the minimum guarantee throughput and income for the port have not been included in the licence agreement between the Cochin Port Trust and the private company operating the container transshipment terminal.  Only way forward for the Cochin Port Trust is to utilise its vast land holding for commercial activities C.D. Nandakumar Thuramugha Samrakshana Samithi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-revive-business-on-willingdon-island/article36581165.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IAP wants daily cases below 7,000 for schools to reopen||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Kerala has to come down below 7,000 daily by mid-October for schools to reopen from November 1, according to the criteria for school reopening prescribed by the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP). The government had announced on Sunday that students from Classes I to VII and those in Classes X and XII will return to school on November 1. The advisory on school reopening issued by the IAP in the second week of this month had prescribed a three-point criterion to be met at the local level ahead of school reopening. The second criterion said the number of new cases per lakh population per day should be fewer than 20 for the preceding two weeks of school reopening. “Going by the State’s population of about 3.5 crore, the number of fresh cases has to be less than 7,000 per day during the two weeks prior to the date of school reopening. The first criterion was that the test positivity rate should be less than 5% for the preceding two weeks,” said Dr. M. Narayanan, former State president of the IAP. The advisory stated that the total number of new cases should be steadily declining over the preceding two weeks, if the case positivity rate was higher than 5%. On the concerns expressed by some parents about resuming classes for children in primary sections from November 1, Dr. Narayanan said there was no harm as children had more antibody response to coronavirus infection than adolescents and adults. “Children are better placed immunologically against coronavirus infections,” he said. Dr. S.S. Kamath, former national president of the IAP and member of its task force that recommended guidelines for school reopening, suggested that a decision on school reopening should be decentralised. “It should be taken at the level of districts or taluk/city/village/school according to the local situations rather than at the national or State level. The health care system should be adequately geared up to handle any potential outbreaks through meticulous micro-planning. The local COVID-19 statistics should be vigilantly followed. The decision on keeping the schools open should be reviewed every 15 days,” he said.  The advisory by the IAP this month prescribes a 3-point criterion to be met at the local level ahead of school reopening||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iap-prescribes-criteria-for-reopening-of-schools/article36581176.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Local bodies asked to hike user fee for doorstep waste collection||The Department of Local Self Government has asked local bodies in Ernakulam to increase the user fee for doorstep collection of non-biodegradable waste as per the government guidelines. The recommendation came after it was found that 17 grama panchayats were collecting user fee less than Rs. 50 per month. The revised government guidelines related to the user fee for solid waste collection issued in August last had stated that the local bodies could collect a minimum of Rs. 50 per month from households. The local bodies were permitted to collect a minimum amount of Rs. 100 from commercial establishments. An assessment by the department in June had found that 32 grama panchayats were collecting a user fee of Rs. 30 or Rs. 40 per month. Of this, 15 grama panchayats revised the rate to Rs. 50 by August after getting the approval of the councils concerned. Among municipalities, North Paravur and Eloor were found collecting user fee as per the quantity of waste. The normal user fee is applicable up to 5 kg of waste. Each additional kg will be charged Rs. 10. The department has told the local bodies to increase the user fee in tune with the quantity of waste. The local bodies that were yet to increase the user fee informed that a section of the waste generators was reluctant to pay the minimum amount of Rs. 50 monthly. They were found to be either burning the waste or dumping it in the open in violation of the rules after refusing to pay the prescribed fee. The department has asked the local bodies to create awareness among the public on the need to collect and transport the waste as per the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The grama panchayats and municipalities should step up measures to penalise those found dumping or burning waste in violation of the rules. The cooperation of residents’ associations and other voluntary organisations could be sought to educate the public on scientific waste processing, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-asked-to-hike-user-fee-for-doorstep-waste-collection/article36581167.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Hanging power fences may help ward off elephants||The traditional fixed-line solar power fences for keeping crop-raiding wild elephants at bay may give way to hanging power fences. The proposal, aimed at protecting human habitations and farmlands, has been included in the draft master plan prepared in the State to address human-animal conflict. The hanging solar power fence will be installed on pillars of height ranging from 15 ft to 20 ft and stainless steel wires, connected to a power supply point, will be hung from the main line. Pillars will be erected 15 ft apart. The hanging wires will not touch the ground and there will be a gap of around one foot between the ground and the wires. The wires will be arranged such that small animals could safely move under them, as per the proposal. Huge compensation Farmers have been complaining about the crop raid and other damage caused by marauding elephant herds. Each year, the State government shells out a significant amount as compensation for damage caused by these elephants. One disadvantage of the fixed solar power fences is that elephants can easily destroy them by toppling trees on them. The animals are often seen walking across the damaged power lines. The fixed fences also prevent small animals from moving through the area. These issues will be addressed now, officials say. The State may have to fence 685 km to prevent elephant attack. Just a mild shock The mild electric shock will prevent the foray of the animals that come into contact with the wire. The animal will not be harmed. Such hanging fences could be employed across forest fringes. They will be effective in marshy zones too, officials say. The fences were a success in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, according to the master plan document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hanging-power-fences-may-help-ward-off-elephants/article36581181.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Concerns over Mattancherry losing commercial charm||With much of the commercial activity in the famed Bazaar Road and adjacent streets in Mattancherry shifting to mainland Ernakulam, the fear is rife that the historic trading hub from where spices and other commodities were exported to far-off lands would go the Alappuzha way, thanks to extremely narrow roads and what is being termed as high loading and unloading charges. The narrow and bottlenecked roads of the market hampered the movement of lorries, while headload workers charge very high rates, said Mattancherry-based RTI activist Govindan Namboodiri K. “The disruption in ferry service from the mainland to the region during the past five years further affected the prospects of the market, since innumerable people from Ernakulam banked on the ferry (with fare as low as Rs. 3) to reach the wholesale trading hub to purchase commodities at economical rates. The shallow Mattancherry boat jetty must be urgently dredged so that ferry services resume,” he added. Board member of Mattancherry-based Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ICCI) Madhusudan Gupta attributed the diminishing trading activity in the area to no new trade coming in and many of the existing shops and massive warehouses being converted into outlets selling antiques. “There was little emphasis on retail trading, while no effort was made to retain Mattancherry as a lively commercial hub.” He cited this and “militant labour” as reasons for his family, which was into wholesale spice trade in Mattancherry, shifting base to the mainland and diversifying into other sectors. “The government and other stakeholders must take the lead in conserving the heritage warehouses which once stored coir, foodgrains and spices, and convert them for alternative use. There is need to move from labour-intensive to other commercial activities,” he said. Antiques trader Sunny L. Malayil too attributed narrow roads for traders shifting to greener pastures. “Mattancherry remained much the same although shifting of cargo changed from rice barges and dhows, which banked on waterways, to lorries and ships. High loading and unloading charges too drove traders away from the locale,” he said.  The disruption in ferry service from the mainland to the region during the past five years further affected the prospects of the market Govindan Namboodiri K. RTI activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concerns-over-mattancherry-losing-commercial-charm/article36581170.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||773 penalised for parking violations||The Traffic Police have imposed penalty on 773 vehicles on the charge of obstructing safe and smooth movement of motorists and pedestrians, during a two-day special enforcement drive in the weekend. Wheel locks were clamped on another 19 cars and other vehicles which were found to have wantonly violated rules. The special drive will continue during the coming days. A total of 898 motorists were penalised by e-challan. This comes in the wake of a steep increase in parking violations during the past many days. The police also seized five vehicles on the charge of waste being dumped by their owners in public spaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/773-penalised-for-parking-violations/article36581173.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,720 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 1,720 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday. A total of 1,683 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 32 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 14.91%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Thrikkakara (87), Chengamanad (84), Kuttampuzha (70), Ayampuzha (61), Thripunithura (56), Chendamangalam (49), Kothamangalam (44), and Kavalangad (43). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Aayvana, Edakkattuvayal, Keerampara, Chalikavattam, Chellanam, Maradi, Elamkulam, Mattancherry, Ayappankavu, Thoppumpady, Kumbalanghi, Pachalam, Ernakulam North, Panampilly Nagar, Manjapra, and Maneed, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1720-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article36581174.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Order on compensation stayed||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has stayed a single judge’s order directing the Kochi Metro Rail Corporation to pay the remaining 20 per cent of the compensation to persons whose land had been acquired for the rail project. The Bench passed the order on a petition filed by the KMRL challenging the recent order of the judge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-on-compensation-stayed/article36581162.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Registration must for food business operators: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the State government to ensure that all food business operators obtain necessary food licence/registration in accordance with the provisions of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. The Bench, led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar, passed the directive while disposing of a public interest litigation. The court also directed that monitoring be done once in three months. The court further ordered that food safety officers send reports to the Commissioner of Food Safety Department, who shall consolidate the reports and forward them to the Health Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registration-must-for-food-business-operators-hc/article36581178.ece
21 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Hearing on bail pleas adjourned||A Division Bench of the High Court on Monday adjourned to September 30 the hearing on the petitions filed by Swapna Suresh and other accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case seeking bail in a case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) against them. Opposing the bail pleas, the NIA had last time submitted that detention of the main conspirators, including Swapna, was absolutely necessary, given the transnational ramification of the case. The accused had contended that the chargesheet did not disclose sufficient material evidence to proceed against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hearing-on-bail-pleas-adjourned/article36581179.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Trade conference begins today||Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash will inaugurate a two-day conference on ‘India as the Rising Economic Force: Focus - Kerala’ here on Tuesday. The conference is being organised jointly by the Union Commerce Department, the State government, Spices Board, Directorate of Foreign Trade and Confederation of Indian Industry as part of ‘Vanijya Saptah’ in connection with the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. Hibi Eden, MP, will be the guest of honour. Union Minoster of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan will inaugurate a conclave of exporters and industry leaders to be held as part of the programme in Thiruvananthapuram on September 24. Minister for Industries and Commerce P. Rajeeve and Speaker M.B. Rajesh will speak. A series of programmes being organised as part of Vanijya Utsav will discuss and present many unique concepts and ideas to help boost trade, according to D. Sathiyan, Secretary, Spices Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trade-meet-begins-today/article36581160.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||3 missing from women’s stay||Three young women who were staying at the Mahila Mandiram run by the Department of Women and Child Development at Champakkara reportedly locked the doors of staff members of the institution early on Monday morning and scaled down the building using a long cloth to make good their escape. The Maradu police said they had obtained CCTV visuals of the three women who were reported missing from the institution. They include two 19-year-olds, a native of Panangad in Kochi and another from Tamil Nadu, and a 24-year-old hailing from Kolkata. The police have launched a search to track them. Mahila Mandiram sources said they were caught by surprise as the three women locked the doors of staff members and gave the slip after climbing to the terrace. “It appears to be a well-planned escape. None of them had a criminal background. Two of them had been detained after they jumped quarantine. The third from Kolkata was a victim of human trafficking,” they said. The Mandiram, a temporary shelter for women, admits widows, and deserted and destitute women above 18 years who have no one to look after them. Those who approach the institution along with kids are permitted to reside there till the child attains six years of age. The children are then accommodated in other welfare institutions, where they are provided education and care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-women-missing-from-mahila-mandiram/article36581168.ece
21 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Forest dept. to seek custody of 5 in antler seizure case||Forest officials have formally recorded the arrest of five persons, who were earlier picked up by the law enforcement agencies in connection with the seizure of synthetic drug from an apartment in Kochi. The Range Officer of the Kodanad Forest Range office recorded the arrest of Muhammad Favas, Sreemon, Afsal Muhammad Ajmal, and Shabna Manoj at a city jail on Monday in connection with the seizure of a deer antler from them. Earlier, the Forest Department had secured the permission of a trial court here to arrest the accused. The department will soon move the trial court for obtaining the custody of the accused. They need to be interrogated in custody to know about the source of the antler. The accused have been charged under provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act for the unauthorised possession of the antler, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-to-seek-custody-of-five-in-antler-seizure-case/article36581163.ece
21 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||No-trust motion in Kottayam municipality||The uncertainty that has engulfed the Kottayam municipality in the form of an infighting within the United Democratic Front-led council is finally culminating into a no-confidence motion against its chairperson Bincy Sebastian. The motion, moved by the 22-member Left Democratic Front (LDF), is slated for discussion on September 24. Coming amidst a raging infighting between the municipal chairperson and the vice chairman, it presents the first major challenge to Nattakom Suresh, newly appointed president of the District Congress Committee. While the chairperson has accused the LDF of attempting to sabotage administration of the civic body , the Opposition maintains that the motion is in line with a growing popular sentiment against the council. “The Opposition has been preventing the council meetings right from the beginning and it now seeks to bring down the council by creating an unholy nexus with the BJP,” alleged Ms.Sebastian. All eyes on BJP In the 52-member council, both the LDF and United Democratic Front have an equal number of seats with 22 members each, while the remaining eight members belong to the BJP. Considering that the motion requires the support of at least 27 members to pass, all eyes are now on the BJP’s stance. The chairperson, who was selected through a draw of lots, appears to have faced more opposition from within her party than from the Opposition during the first nine months of her tenure. A section of the UDF councillors, led by vice chairman B.Gopakumar, came out in the open against Ms.Sebastian on more than one occasion during the period. The LDF, on its part, has cashed in on the opportunity and accuses the chairperson of creating an administrative impasse in the civic body. To back the argument, it now points to a delay in the civic body receiving an approval from the District Planning Committee to its annual plans for the fiscal 2021- 2022. Taking a serious note of the issue, Congress leader Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, MLA, and the DCC leadership have kick-started efforts to settle the infighting within the UDF. Alignment The party, however, appears hopeful that an alignment between the BJP and the Left parties is most unlikely.  The chairperson appears to have faced more opposition from within her party than from the Opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-trust-motion-in-kottayam-municipality/article36581223.ece
21 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MP asks officials to renovate KV’s buildings||Lok Sabha Member Thomas Chazhikadan has promised action to avoid disruptions in the functioning of the Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) at Kaduthuruthy. He was attending a meeting convened at the chamber of the District Collector here on Monday. District Collector P.K. Jayasree and representatives of the school’s Parent-Teacher Association also attended the meeting. The KV, which started to function in 2015, currently has 504 students in Classes I to X. During the meeting, Mr.Chazhikadan asked the Kinfra General Manager and the HNL Special Officer, who were attending the meeting online, to renovate the school buildings which are yet to receive fitness certificates. The inadequacy of the building infrastructure has prompted the CBSE not to allot Plus One courses to the school. Officials said the construction of the school building could begin only if the eight acres of land given by the State government was levelled and handed over for construction work. Though the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghatan sanctioned Rs. 30.2 crore towards the building construction, a decision on reclaiming the allotted land under the Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act, 2008 is pending with the State-level monitoring committee. The MP has already written to the committee chairman asking to take an immediate decision in the matter.  Officials say the construction could begin only if the eight acres of land given by the State is levelled and handed over||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mp-asks-officials-to-renovate-kvs-buildings/article36581224.ece
21 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,396 test positive in Kottayam, 1,482 recover||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,396 people testing positive for the disease on Monday, a pressnote said here. Of the fresh cases, 1,370 people including three health workers contracted the virus through local transmission. With 133 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Panachikkad , which recorded 78 cases. As many as 1,482 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 6,705. Meanwhile, 49,781 people remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease, the pressnote added. In Pathanamthitta, 561 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but two persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. With 63 cases, Vechoochira panchayat reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla , which reported 52 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed six more lives in the district. With 1,210 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 8,197 ( With contribution from bureau in Pathanamthitta )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1396-test-positive-in-kottayam-1482-recover/article36581225.ece
21 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Comprehensive plan to resolve parking issues in Kozhikode city||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation, in association with the city police, has come up with a comprehensive plan to resolve parking issues across the city, by making use of vacant land under various departments. With more people opting to travel by their own vehicles in view of the pandemic situation, parking issue has become a headache for the Corporation, while the traffic police find it difficult to manage vehicles. The idea put forth by Traffic ASI Manoj Babu was discussed and finalised at a meeting convened by Mayor Beena Philip recently. Besides the land under the Corporation, land that belongs to Public Works, Revenue and Ports departments will be used for the purpose. The traffic police are developing a mobile application to help with the process. In a meeting that was attended by representatives from each department, it was decided that a combined team will inspect the available land to check their feasibility. Moreover, there are also plans to use private vacant plots, if they are available. The Corporation needs to procure no-objection certificates from each stakeholder to go ahead with the project. Executive Engineer of the Corporation has been designated as the nodal officer for the project. It was noted that roadside parking could be encouraged in places such as Thondayad, Meenchanda and Civil Station, where roads have wide shoulders. Space for public parking is sought near autorickshaw and taxi parking bays too. The spaces identified by the joint departmental team will be marked after proper tender procedures. Besides making the space available for parking, the project also aims to eliminate garbage dumping in these places. Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed, Public Works Standing Committee chairman P.C. Rajan, Assistant Commissioners (Traffic) K.C. Babu and P.K. Raju, Regional Town Planner P.A. Aisha and representatives from government departments took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/comprehensive-plan-to-resolve-parking-issues-in-kozhikode-city/article36581140.ece
21 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medical college compound wall construction may lead to a legal fight||The dispute related to the construction of a compound wall for the Government Medical College Hospital may lead to a legal fight between students and the college authorities who are for it and a section of local residents who are against it. Shawn Thomas, chairperson of the college students’ union, said on Monday evening that the construction was being blocked to protect the selfish interests of some people. There are at least 20 small roads in and around the campus, where all sorts of anti-social elements have a free run. Four criminal complaints related to assault against women have been registered in the nearby police station in the past one month. “The students’ union will take legal recourse against those who block the construction. It is condemnable that even people’s representatives are joining hands with anti-social elements who try to usurp government land,” Mr. Thomas added. ‘No proposal’ However, functionaries of the Moozhikkal-Medical College Pipeline Road Protection Committee told the media earlier in the day that they were not objecting to the construction of the compound wall, but the sealing of a road being used by hundreds of people every day for the past six decades. They said that the Moozhikkal-Medical College Pipeline Road, being used by people from Kakkodi, Kuruvattur, and Palath since the setting up of the institution in 1957 is being blocked now from near the Chemical Examination Lab. Many students take the road to reach Medical College Campus School, Savio Higher Secondary School, and St. Joseph’s College, Devagiri. M.A. Johnson, general convener of the committee, said in a release that the Institute of Chest Diseases and the cancer treatment facility would not fall within the campus even after the construction of the compound wall. He claimed that the road being blocked is part of the proposed 12-metre wide ring road that begins from Moozhikkal, passes by Kalandithazham and reaches Kovoor. As per the reply to a Right to Information Act query to the Public Works Department, there had been no proposal to block this road. However, the college authorities claimed that the Kerala High Court on September 6 had dismissed the demands by a section of the residents for a special gate on the eastern side of the compound wall and another to have access to the Olympian Rahman Stadium. The committee functionaries said that if the people will be allowed to enter the medical college hospital through only one entrance, it could lead to traffic pile-up on adjacent roads. Patients in need of critical care may not reach the hospital on time, they added.  The students’ union will take legal recourse against those who block the construction Shawn Thomas Union chairperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-compound-wall-construction-may-lead-to-a-legal-fight/article36581142.ece
21 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hotel owners to stage protest from tomorrow||The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) is launching a protest against the State policy of not allowing dining-in at restaurants. The first phase of the protest will be carried out in front of the Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram on September 22. The association had put hold on the strike announced earlier this month after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s assurance that their plea would be considered. However, there has been no positive move so far and hence the strike, general secretary of the association, G.Jayapal, said. “Even primary schools are opening. We do not understand this bias against restaurants”, he said. The sit-in dharna at the Secretariat will be led by the State level office bearers of the organisation while dharnas will simultaneously be held in every district headquarters and KHRA units in the State, expressing solidarity to the leaders. “We doubt vested interests behind this decision not to allow dine-in in restaurants even when most other sectors have been thrown open. The State government policy is helpful to the online monopolies to infringe on the market owned by small scale businesses in the State”, Mr. Jayapal said. He questioned the discretionary power of the expert panel that advises the government on matters of lifting the restrictions and urged the State to pay no heed to the advice of the officials who do not understand the hardships faced by the common people. “The State should take steps to protect the restaurant sector that creates a lot of employment”, Mr.Jayapal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotel-owners-to-stage-protest-from-tomorrow/article36581146.ece
21 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Chakkittappara is now a ‘digital village’||Surmounting geographical hurdles and a number of technical issues, the Chakkittappara panchayat has successfully completed its ‘Samagram’ mission to ensure digital learning for all students within the panchayat limit. The grama panchayat achieved the feat after undertaking an exclusive door-to-door survey to take stock of the existing situation and covering all the needy students in a phased manner. Perambra MLA and former Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan made the public announcement on the cent per cent achievement of the grama panchayat in the e-learning sector. Local body representatives were also present to celebrate the unique occasion which conferred the ‘Digital Village’ status to Chakkittappara. The grama panchayat authorities said they had mobilised Rs. 15.5 lakh to arrange the digital learning facilities for students who remained out of the e-learning network in remote villages. Optical fibre cables were laid covering a distance of nearly 25 kilometres with an aim to reach out to even the tribal settlements with Wi-Fi connectivity, they said. A local body member said the main challenge was to cover 189 identified students who lived in out-of-coverage areas. The initiative was a total success as we could reach out to them by overcoming a lot of technical and geographical hurdles, he pointed out. To mobilise funds for the digital mission, the panchayat had formed a group of 1,500 volunteers who visited nearly 5,000 households to collect scrap materials and sell them for mobilising the fund. There were also voluntary sponsors who cooperated with the project. Grama panchayat president K. Sunil said the support of all the 15 grama panchayat members was available throughout the implementation process. “We could also ensure the participation of labourers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in various phases,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chakkittappara-is-now-a-digital-village/article36581138.ece
21 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||40.1% aged above 18 fully vaccinated in Kozhikode||As much as 85.46% aged above 18 have taken at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 40.1% people in the age group have taken both the doses. According to District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy, 21,36,364 people have taken the first dose and 8,56,972 have got both the doses. The target population in the district is 24,99,523. As many as 9,23,938 people in the 18-44 age group have got the first dose and 1,60,906 got both the doses. As many as 6,039,59 in the 45-60 age group have got the first dose and 2,93,978 got both the doses. As many as 5,07,322 people aged above 60 have got one dose and 3,11,367 got both the doses. Meanwhile, only 72 local bodies in the district will have lockdown restrictions based on the weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) for the week. Last week, there were 263 local bodies on the list. Right now, only those local bodies with a WIPR above 10 will have curbs on social life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/401-aged-above-18-fully-vaccinated-in-kozhikode/article36581143.ece
21 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kappad beach to reopen today||Kappad beach will be reopen to visitors from Tuesday in line with COVID protocol. The beach was closed following the pandemic-induced restrictions on social life, said a release by the Secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council, Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kappad-beach-to-reopen-today/article36581144.ece
21 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||SSF stages protests against varsity||The Kerala State Sunni Students Federation (SSF) staged a protest by raising pens against Calicut University on Monday. The protest was against the university’s failure in maintaining the academic calendar. By raising their pens symbolically against the university, more than 1,000 students took part in the protest. Similar protests were also held in colleges under Calicut University in Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur, and Palakkad districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ssf-stages-protests-against-varsity/article36581136.ece
21 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||BJP wants all-party meet on narcotics controversy||BJP State president K. Surendran criticised the State government for its apathetic stand towards the controversy kicked up by the Pala Bishop. “Instead of turning its back on the matter, the government should convene an all-party meeting to discuss it,” he said at Tirur on Monday. He accused the CPI(M) and the Congress of trying to reject what the Pala Bishop raised. He said there were thousands of women across the State who had been targeted by extremist groups. He demanded that both the fronts (the LDF and the UDF) should make their stand clear on the issue of ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-wants-all-party-meet-on-narcotics-controversy/article36581145.ece
21 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) communalising controversy: IUML||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) said here on Monday that the people of Kerala would reject the attempts of the CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan to give communal colour to the attempts of the Congress leaders to find a solution to the controversy kicked up by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt. IUML State general secretary P.M.A. Salam said Mr. Vijayaraghavan had communalised the bona fide attempts of the Congress leaders to restore friendship between communities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-communalising-controversy-iuml/article36581321.ece
21 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Pala bishop’s remarks: Chennithala flays govt.||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala here on Monday criticised the government for its stand in the recent controversy kicked up by Bishop of Pala Joseph Kallarangatt. “The government is committing a serious blunder. It is allowing the situation to worsen by remaining a mere spectator,” said Mr. Chennithala. The Congress leader asked the government to shake off its vanity and convene an all-party meeting. “The government’s stand is dangerous,” he said. Warning Mr. Chennithala warned that the BJP was adding fuel to the fire and that Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan was trying to make political gains out of the controversy. “It is sad and unfortunate that the government is toeing the communal line of the BJP,” he said. CPI(M) leader A.K. Balan responded to the Congress’ allegation, saying that the controversy over the bishop’s speech about ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’ was ‘a closed chapter’. Mr. Balan said certain Congress leaders were trying to portray themselves as the apostles of secularism. “The Congress is desperately trying to woo the communities that stood with the LDF in the last Assembly election,” he said. “It is a closed chapter. Those fishing in the muddy waters are pretending to be doves that symbolise peace,” said Mr. Balan. CPI(M) State acting secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said the BJP and the Congress were trying to split people communally over the controversy. He said it was sad to see the Congress toeing the BJP line. “The statements of (the Leader of the Opposition) V.D. Satheesan, K. Sudhakaran and Ramesh Chennithala are testimony to the Congress’ stand. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has already made the government’s stand clear. There is no issue in the State between the leaders of various communities. There is unity between religions. All the statements against it are baseless,” said Mr. Vijayaraghavan.  The Congress leader asks the government to shake off its vanity and convene an all-party meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pala-bishops-remarks-chennithala-flays-govt/article36581317.ece
21 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Speed up paddy procurement in Palakkad: Chennithala||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala here on Monday demanded that the government speed up the paddy procurement in the district. He was inaugurating a meeting of the Karshaka Congress in which the newly appointed District Congress Committee president A. Thankappan was felicitated. Senior Congress leader V.S. Vijayaraghavan demanded that the government should either waive the farm loans or waive the interest during the moratorium. Tamil Nadu Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary Sarvana Kumar was the chief guest. Karshaka Congress district president B. Ikbar presided. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, KPCC general secretary C. Chandran, P.V. Rajesh, P. Balagopal, G. Sivarajan, T.C. Geevarghese, P. Madhavan, C. Balan, and U. Shanthakumaran, were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/speed-up-paddy-procurement-in-palakkad-chennithala/article36581401.ece
21 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A herd of elephants terrorise IIT campus||A large herd of wild elephants terrorised the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Palakkad campus at Kanjikode and its neighbourhood on Monday, causing hours of angst and tension among the people. There were 17 bulls in the herd that was seen in the fringe areas of the Kanjikode forest in the last few days. Sending shockwaves through the residents, the herd started moving towards the populated areas on Monday morning. The herd terrorised the IIT campus, Mukroni and Thalappallam areas for over two hours. The elephants entered the IIT campus by breaking its compound wall. Then they started raiding Mukroni and Thalappallam areas. A large group of forest officers led by Walayar Range Officer P. Suresh chased away the elephant herd by bursting crackers. It took a couple of hours for the elephants to return to the jungle. Four forest watchers were injured while driving away the herd. Local people said that a tusker with signs of musth nicknamed PT-5 had joined the herd, and the tusker was responsible for bringing the herd to the IIT campus. The tusker had been a cause of worry for the people living in the fringe areas in the last two years. Forest officers said that they had enhanced vigil in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-jumbos-terrorise-iit-campus/article36581216.ece
21 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Melsanthis set to be selected on October 17||The selection of the new Melsanthis to the Sabarimala and Malikappuram temples through draw of lots will take place on October 17 when these temples open for the five-day long pujas for the Malayalam month of Thulam, a pressnote issued here today said. The new Melsanthis, to be appointed for a year, will take charge on the first day of the Malayalam month of Vrischikam, when the annual pilgrim season begins. The temple, which currently remains open in connection with the Kanni month pujas, is slated to close on Tuesday might, the press note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/selection-of-melsanthis/article36581164.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Religious leaders meet to ‘heal wounds’||In a bid to put a lid on the ‘narcotic jihad’ controversy, religious leaders came together here on Monday to ‘heal wounds’ that have threatened to affect the secular unity in the State. The outreach initiated by Cardinal Baselios Cleemis Catholicos, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, witnessed a congregation of leaders representing various sects and denominations who sought to restore communal harmony amid growing resentment at Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt’s ‘love jihad and narcotic jihad’ remarks. The participants included Muslim Youth League State president Panakkad Syed Munavvar Ali Shihab Thangal, Kozhikode Palayam Imam Hussain Madavoor, Thiruvananthapuram Palayam Imam V.P. Suhaib Moulavi, Kerala Muslim Jamaat president Karamana Bayar, Thiruvananthapuram Archbishop (Latin rite) M. Soosa Pakiam, and Santhigiri Ashram general secretary Swami Gururetnam Jnana Thapaswi. Notable absentees However, Syro-Malabar Archbishop Mar Joseph Perumthottam and representatives of the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulema and Kerala Muslim Jamaath were conspicuous by their absence despite figuring on the invitees’ list. Addressing mediapersons after the discussions that lasted two hours, Cardinal Cleemis said the Pala bishop’s statement was not the prime agenda of the meeting, though it was organised in that context. The discussions primarily focussed on strengthening communal harmony, he said. While advocating the need for similar inter-religious fora at the local level, the Catholicos also called for restraint, especially on the part of the religious and spiritual leaders, from ‘wounding’ other communities. On a personal level, he felt “narcotics must be viewed as narcotics alone” without elaborating further on the bishop’s remarks. ‘Greater participation’ Referring to the absentees, he said the meeting had only commenced a dialogue that would have to be taken forward with greater participation. Swami Gururethnam said some people had questioned the need for organising a conciliatory meeting. Such opposition was not expected to be long-standing, he said. ‘Tackling divisive efforts’ Claiming that the Pala bishop’s statements were neither condemned nor justified at the meeting, Mr. Munavvar Ali said a strong need was felt to address divisive efforts being made at the grassroots level and on the social media to disrupt social harmony in the State. Bishop Joseph Mar Barnabas of the Mar Thoma Church, Gabriel Mar Gregorios of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, Mathews Mar Anthimos of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, Swami Sookshmananda of the Sivagiri Madhom, Swami Aswathi Thirunal of the Ekalavyasram, Al Ameen Beemapally of the Kerala Naduvathul Mujahideen, and Islamic scholar Ashraf Kadakkal also participated in the talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/religious-leaders-meet-to-heal-wounds/article36581185.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Aapda Mitra’ to be extended across State||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) is all set to extend the Centrally sponsored Aapda Mitra community volunteer programme across the State. Aimed at training physically fit members of the public to quickly and effectively respond to disasters, the programme was piloted in Kottayam district with 200 volunteers in 2018. Now, Aapda Mitra would be extended to the rest of the State with the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), which was funding the programme, seeking to scale it up at the national level, KSDMA officials said. In Kerala, 4,300 volunteers would undergo the 12-day intensive training. The community volunteers would also be equipped with disaster management kits containing emergency lamps, helmets, gum boots, safety goggles, and life jackets. The pilot programme had consisted only men, but the upcoming phase would also include women volunteers. “We hope to begin the selection and training soon. Aapda Mitra is founded on the fact that members of the public are invariably the first responders in any disaster. But they lack the necessary skills to deal with the situations that arise, which is where we come in,” a senior KSDMA official said. Eligibility Physically fit members of the public between the ages of 18 and 40, with at least Class VII education, would be eligible for selection. Another condition would be that they should be residents of the districts concerned. At the national level, the NDMA had piloted the programme with 6,000 volunteers in 30 flood-prone districts of 25 states/Union Territories. In scaling up the programme, the NDMA was planning to cover 350 districts with one lakh volunteers who would be trained to respond to natural disasters such as floods, landslides, cyclones, and earthquakes, the officials said. In Kerala, the volunteers would be provided training under the aegis of the District Disaster Management Authorities. In the pilot programme in Kottayam, the 200 volunteers had been linked up with eight Fire and Rescue Stations for quick mobilisation during disasters. The number of volunteers in each district would depend on the district-level population, according to the KSDMA. The State government nominated Sekhar L. Kuriakose, member secretary, KSDMA, for coordinating the activities with the NDMA.  The pilot programme had only men, but the upcoming phase will include women volunteers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aapda-mitra-to-be-extended-across-the-state/article36581226.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. schools in city to shift to solar power||All government schools in the city could make considerable savings in their power bills, with the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation’s plan to install solar power plants in all of them. The move is part of the Corporation’s earlier declaration of intent to turn all the government buildings in the city into solar-powered ones. The initial discussions on this with the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and other stakeholders have begun. Mayor Arya Rajendran told The Hindu that the Corporation planned to start off the project with a pilot run in one of the government schools. Pilot project “In this year’s Budget, the Corporation had promised to install solar power plants in all government buildings. This includes all the government schools that come under the Corporation. Since the initial cost is high, we will begin with a pilot project in one of the schools so that we can see the results before it is replicated elsewhere. Since schools are set to reopen by November, we are planning to start the pilot project before that,” said the Mayor. In the discussions with the KSEB officials, they had put forward different models of implementation. The Corporation is likely to go for a model where it gives space for the plant in various schools and the KSEB would do the initial investments, providing 10% of the power production to the Corporation. The civic body has also formed a team to identify spaces in schools for setting up the solar panels and to check the feasibility in each school. The Corporation will also be using its plan funds to provide subsidies to individual consumers wanting to shift to solar power. The installation of solar power plant at the legislative Assembly complex, under the Corporation’s Smart City project, was completed last month. In addition, solar panels were installed at the Government College for Women at Vazhuthacaud, the Public Library and the Kerala University Library at Palayam, and the Government Central High School at Attakulangara. Savings in power bill Officials estimate the annual savings in power bills in the five buildings would come to around Rs. 50 lakh, with a considerable reduction in carbon footprint too. In the next phase, power plants are set to be installed in the MLA hostel and a few other government buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-schools-in-city-to-shift-to-solar-power/article36581370.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Prioritise issues affecting poor: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday encouraged his Ministers to give priority to issues affecting the poor, kicking off a three-day training programme on administrative matters for his Cabinet colleagues at the Institute of Management in Governance (IMG) here. The Ministers were also asked to prepare annual progress reports as was done by the previous Left Democratic Front government. Many of the files brought before a Minister pertain to topics affecting the poor. That the State government gives priority to such files should be viewed as its finest distinguishing factor, the Chief Minister said. Need for impartiality Underlining the need for impartiality, Mr. Vijayan said it is natural for the people to take sides during the elections. But once a government is formed, such divisions cease to exist. A government has only the people before it, he said. For choosing the right course of action, Ministers should have a thorough grasp of the laws and rules. Steps should be taken to replace outdated laws with new ones, he said. The Chief Minister also called for a sensible approach to tackling problems and urged the Ministers to maintain cordial relations with the bureaucracy. Range of topics The three-day training programme covers a wide range of topics providing insights into the different facets of effective governance. Former Cabinet Secretary K.M. Chandrasekhar led a session on the government machinery. Muralee Thummarukudy, Chief, Disaster Risk Reduction, U.N. Environment Programme, speaking online from Geneva, dealt with the challenges in disaster management. Former IIM Professor Mathukutty M. Monippally led a session on leadership. On Tuesday, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant will handle a session on project implementation. Infosys co-founder S.D. Shibulal will lead a session on the efficiency of Ministers, and Geetha Gopal, Consultant, World Bank, on funding agencies and the structure of projects. IMG Director K. Jayakumar will speak on the relations between Ministers and the bureaucracy. e-governance On Wednesday, Saji Gopinath, Vice Chancellor, Digital University Kerala, will speak on e-governance. Anil Swarup, former Secretary to the Union government, Citizen Digital Foundation founders Nidhi Sudhan and Vijesh Ram also will speak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prioritise-issues-affecting-poor-cm/article36581372.ece
21 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF workers lay siege to State and Central offices||Activists of the Congress-led United Democratic Front on Monday laid a token siege to State and Central government offices across the State in protest against “the anti-people policies” of the respective administrations. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheeshan inaugurated the protest in Kochi. He slammed the Central and State government for irrationally hiking the price of fuel and cooking gas. The Left Democratic Front government was pointedly unwilling to forsake the State GST on petrol and diesel despite several appeals from the Opposition. The Centre made matters worse by allowing public sector oil majors to fleece consumers despite the low international price for crude, he added. Divisive agenda Mr. Satheesan said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had played second fiddle to the divisive agenda of the Sangh Parivar by showing a marked unwillingness to call a round table of all stakeholders to ease social tensions that erupted in the wake of the “narcotic jihad” controversy. He said the UDF had stepped in for the government by persuading aggrieved parties to send a message of unity and peace to the public. In Kannur, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran demanded a probe by the CBI into the illegal felling of nearly 100 ancient rosewood trees in South Muttil in Wayanad. Police and forest officials had covered up for the criminals and the trial of the forest crime led straight to the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said the CPI(M) and the BJP had struck a secret compromise. The NDA-led Central government ensured that the UAE gold smuggling case investigation that directly implicated the CMO ended in stasis. In reciprocation, the State government made State BJP president K. Surendran a mere witness in the Kodakara heist case. In Thiruvananthapuram, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said the Centre and the State had steeped the COVID-19-hit citizenry in misery by refusing to scale down fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-workers-lay-siege-to-state-and-central-offices/article36581148.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Denial of dine-in: hoteliers plan stirs||The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) has decided to launch agitations against the government’s refusal to permit dine-in at eateries in the State. In a statement, KHRA president Moidheen Kutty Haji and general secretary G. Jayapal accused the government of adopting a discriminatory attitude towards hotels and restaurants. The association criticised the government’s refusal to permit dine-in even while the State has decided to reopen schools and open up other sectors. The State has ensured the first-dose of COVID-19 vaccines to around 90% of the population, the KHRA said. Signalling the launch of their agitation, the KHRA will organise a dharna in front of the Secretariat on Wednesday. Similar demonstrations will be held in each district centre on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/denial-of-dine-in-hoteliers-plan-stirs/article36581362.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Job fraud: one more in police net||The Karamana police have arrested one more person in connection with defrauding job aspirants of large sums after promising them jobs in two cooperative firms. K.K. Sujikumari, who ran a placement agency in Karakkadamandapam, was arrested by the police on Monday, a week after S. Sajith Kumar, the prime accused in the case, was apprehended. Sajith, who headed the Autorickshaw Workers’ Cooperative Society in Chirayinkeezhu, and the Kerala Traditional Food Processing and Distribution Industrial Cooperative Society in Attingal has been accused of duping several candidates with the assistance of Sujikumari. The Chirayinkeezhu police had also registered a case on the basis of the candidates’ complaints. The duo are suspected to have collected at least Rs. 1 crore through illegal means.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-fraud-one-more-in-police-net/article36581369.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kudumbashree Mission to form auxiliary groups||Auxiliary groups will be formed under the Kudumbashree Mission with the aim of empowering young women aged between 18 and 40 years. The formation of the auxiliary groups will begin on October 2. Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan formally announced the initiative and released the guidelines here on Monday. Every local body ward will have at least one auxiliary group. Membership per group will be limited to 50, according to the Kudumbashree Mission. Just 10% now Although the Kudumbashree has over 45 lakh women as members, young women between the ages of 18 and 40 comprise just 10%. The auxiliary groups are aimed at creating a dynamic group consisting of the youth as the Kudumbashree completes its 23rd year. The auxiliary groups are designed to uplift the young women socially and culturally and also to acquaint them with new employment opportunities. They will also serve as forums for generating healthy debates on socially relevant issues affecting women, Kudumbashree Mission Executive Director P.I. Sreevidya, who attended the function, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-mission-to-form-auxiliary-groups/article36581373.ece
21 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Strict COVID norms for Plus One exams||A meeting convened by General Education Minister V. Sivankutty on Monday to review the arrangements for the Plus One examinations beginning September 24 decided to enforce the COVID-19 protocol strictly. Examination halls, furniture and school premises would be cleaned and sanitised before September 22 with the involvement of the Health Department, PTAs, voluntary organisations, Fire and Rescue Services and local bodies. Students would be admitted to the hall only through one entrance, where they will subjected to thermal scanning and provided with hand sanitiser. All efforts would be made to ensure that students wear masks and maintain physical distancing on the school premises. Non-teaching staff, PTA members, health workers and SSK employees would be roped in for the purpose. Students would not be allowed to share pens and calculators in the hall. Protocols Uniforms would not be mandatory for students taking the exams. The layout of the exam halls would be exhibited at the entrance to make it easy for students to identify their rooms. A notice mentioning the protocols for students inside and outside exam halls would be exhibited. All schools would have to prepare micro-plans to ensure that the protocols are observed. The meeting directed chief superintendents to provide PPE (personal protective equipment) kits for COVID-positive students and invigilators. They would be required to write the exam in separate halls. Students with high body temperature and those in quarantine would also have to write the exam in separate halls. Exams would not be held in air-conditioned classrooms. Only well-ventilated and well-lit rooms would be used. Principal Secretary, General Education, A.P.M. Mohammed Haneesh; Director K. Jeevan Babu; Higher Secondary Joint Director S.S. Vivekanandan; and other officials attended the meeting.  Only well-lit and well-ventilated rooms would be used as examination halls||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-covid-norms-for-plus-one-exams/article36581186.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for 13.99 lakh tap connections||The apex committee of the State Water and Sanitation Mission (SWSM) has approved proposals for providing 13.99 lakh water supply connections costing Rs. 11,551.23 crore in the rural areas under the Centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). In all, 13,99,540 functional household tap connections (FHTC) will be provided in 2021-22, the Water Resources Department said on Monday. The SWSM apex committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary, oversees the implementation of the JJM schemes in the State. 162 schemes The proposal includes 162 schemes in all, including 153 multi village schemes (MVS), seven single village schemes (SVS) and two revised MVS proposals covering, in all, 296 panchayats. Quality monitoring The State government has also accorded sanction for spending Rs. 112 crore on Water Quality Monitoring and Surveillance. The JJM envisages water connections to all rural households in the country by 2024. The schemes will be implemented through grama panchayats, as required by the operational guidelines issued by the Centre.  Approval from State Water and Sanitation Mission expected to cost Rs. 11,551.23 crore in total under the Centrally assisted scheme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-1399-lakh-tap-connections-in-rural-areas/article36581217.ece
21 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mixed reactions to reopening plan||The State government decision to reopen schools has evoked mixed reactions from students, parents, and teachers. While it has been welcomed by many parents who are worried about the physical, social, and emotional repercussions on children of such a long gap away from physical schooling, others are worried about the COVID-19 numbers that seem to have plateaued the past few days. Many parents are concerned that primary students may find it difficult to follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour, especially as vaccinations for children are shrouded in uncertainty. A teacher at Government Vocational and Higher Secondary School for Girls, Manacaud, says it is time students returned to school. “We cannot even begin to understand what the students, especially girls, are going through.” Younger students have been the worst affected, he feels. Many have had no experience of learning in schools, and all-round development has suffered. Teachers too are stressed by the demands placed by online classes, he says, acknowledging that there are a lot of practical difficulties involved in bringing children back to school. Indu S., who teaches at St. Thomas Central School, says her students in the board classes are excited even as they are apprehensive about schools resuming just ahead of their first- term examinations. “They fear exposure, and would rather prefer things continue the way they are till their exams are over.” There are also concerns that students may take the infection home. Teachers are anxious if they will be required to teach in shifts, whether there will be 50% attendance for children on a day, and if they will have to take both online and offline classes. Regulating student presence in common spaces such as playgrounds, buses, and during lunch breaks are other aspects on which clarity will be needed. Financial worries Many parents, already reeling under the impact of COVID-19 on jobs and income, may feel the squeeze much more when schools reopen. The Principal of a government school in the city that mostly has students belonging to financially backward families says once schools start functioning, parents will have to pay the fees. Students who do not get free uniforms will also need to purchase at least two sets. This will impact household budgets further. Government school students will be spared school bus expenses, courtesy student concessions, but private school students will not be so lucky. Other expenses such as school bags and shoes may also prove to be a burden to families, says Ms. Indu.  Interactions important Kushani Devna Ardra, a Plus Two student at Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill, says that although worries about COVID-19 persist, she is glad to be going back to school not only for the sake of studies but also because she can meet her friends and hang out with them. “Online interactions are not just the same,” she avers. Offline classes where she can see her teachers directly will be a great change for her from the monotony of online classes. Her mother Geetha too will be happy to see her daughter back in the school environs for improved physical and mental health. Academically too, the initial momentum of online classes has been difficult to sustain, though the support provided by teachers has been good, she feels. That children are said to be less susceptible to the disease gives her more confidence.  While many parents think it will help children emotionally and socially, worries about infection numbers persist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mixed-reactions-from-parents-teachers-to-reopening-schools/article36581218.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fake messages: KSEB lodges plaint||The Kerala State Electricity Board has lodged a complaint with the Cyber Cell after several electricity consumers received fake messages saying that their electricity connections will be cut. The Cyber Cell has launched an investigation on the basis of the complaint. As part of recovering dues, the KSEB has been issuing alerts to consumers. But these messages include the 13-digit consumer number, the amount that is due, the consumer number and the website link for making the online payment, the KSEB said. Alert board The KSEB does not request personal details, including bank account details or OTP. Customers can alert the KSEB about fake messages on the customer care numbers 1912 or 94960 01912.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fake-messages-kseb-lodges-plaint/article36581359.ece
21 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 15,692 cases||The State reported 15,692 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 89,772 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s active case pool dropped to 1,67,008, with 22,223 patients recovering on the day. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 23,683, with the State adding 92 recent deaths to the official list on Monday. Current ICU occupancy of patients dipped slightly to 2,205. The number of patients requiring ventilator support remains more or less unchanged at 927. The number of patients newly hospitalised with COVID-19 was 1,507. The cumulative case burden of the State is now 45,24,158 cases. Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 2,504, followed by Ernakulam 1,720, Thiruvananthapuram 1,468, Kozhikode 1,428, Kottayam 1,396, Kollam 1,221, Malappuram 1,204, Palakkad 1,156, Alappuzha 1,077, Kannur 700, Pathanamthitta 561, Idukki 525, Wayanad 510 and Kasaragod 222 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-15692-cases/article36581183.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Six-day management training for teachers||Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will inaugurate on Wednesday the third cluster of the six-day training programme on MOODLE-based learning management system for faculty members of various institutions. The ongoing training, conducted by the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) in association with Digital University Kerala, has covered 20 colleges in Malappuram, Kozhikode, Palakkad, Idukki, Pathanamthitta and Kottayam as part of the government’s ‘Let’s Go Digital’ campaign. The workshop planned to be held from September 22 to 27 is meant for major government colleges, including Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, and selected colleges from Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam. 3,000 so far As many as 3,000 teachers have been trained thus far. KSHEC Vice Chairman Rajan Gurukkal and DUK Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath will also attend the inaugural session.  The workshop planned to be held from September 22 to 27 is meant for major government colleges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-day-management-training-for-teachers/article36581322.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vegetable harvest held||Harvest at a vegetable farm set up at the Government LV Lower Primary School in Mulloor as part of the Subhiksha Keralam project was held on Monday. The project in the ward, located in the Kovalam Assembly constituency, was implemented by the Corporation using the labour force from the Ayyankali Employment Guarantee Scheme. The civic body had implemented the project in all five Assembly constituencies in the Corporation area in association with Kudumbashree. The Mulloor ward councillor handed over the harvested vegetables to Mayor Arya Rajendran, in the presence of standing committee chairpersons. The harvesting in the Pallithura ward was held on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vegetable-harvest-held/article36581358.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EMC to train engineers||The Energy Management Centre, Kerala, (EMC) is establishing a cadre of Building Energy Efficiency Experts (BEEE) who will be empanelled by the EMC to help the public in designing buildings that comply with the Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC). The training will be imparted by ECBC companies empanelled by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emc-to-train-engineers/article36581227.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assault: man arrested||The Medical College police arrested a 32-year-old man for masquerading as a transgender and assaulting another person after the latter refused to heed his demand for money. The police have booked the accused, identified as Binoy of Nettayam, on attempt-to-murder charge. Binoy allegedly attacked Saleem, of Alamcode, around 8.30 p.m. on Sunday at Plamoodu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-man-arrested/article36581357.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM to inaugurate meeting||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate a meeting at Ayyankali Hall here on Tuesday at 5 p.m. to observe the centenary of the agitation against the indiscriminate fee hike in schools of erstwhile Travancore that resulted in three students being killed by the cavalry deployed to quell the protests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-inaugurate-meeting/article36581366.ece
21 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,468 cases, 2,271 recoveries in capital||The district’s COVID-19 active caseload fell to 15,582 on Monday when 1,468 fresh cases and 2,271 recoveries were recorded. The test positivity rate, however, remained on the higher side at 16.38%. The district administration has placed 42,462 people in quarantine. As many as 3,793 people have succumbed to the disease in the district so far. New containment zones have been announced in Thekkumbhagam ward of Kadakkavoor grama panchayat; and Anakkudi, Meeroor and Poovathoor wards of Vamanapuram grama panchayat. The existing micro-containment zone at Vadakkekkotta region in Fort ward of Neyyattinkara municipality has been withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1468-cases-2271-recoveries-in-capital/article36581364.ece
21 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Karuvannur scam: missing former CPI(M) activist returns||Former CPI(M) activist Sujesh Kannatt, who has been missing since Saturday, returned home safely on Monday morning. The police said he was on a pilgrimage to Parassinikadavu temple in Kannur. According to a complaint lodged by his brother, Sujesh, who led a lone fight against irregularities in the Karuvannur Service Co-operative Bank, has been missing since Saturday morning. They alleged that Sujesh has been facing a threat to his life. He had complained at party forums and to the Chief Minister about the financial irregularities in the bank. The party expelled him two months ago for “anti-party activities.” No connect Sujesh said there was no connection between his pilgrimage and the bank’s issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karuvannur-scam-missing-former-cpim-activist-returns/article36581318.ece
21 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur UDF convener apologises||K.R. Girijan, Thrissur District Congress Committee convener, has apologised for his statement supporting the Pala bishop’s ‘narcotic jihad’ remarks. Mr. Girijan said here on Monday that it was a mistake from his side to have made the statement supporting the remarks by Pala bishop . ‘Sorry to IUML’ He also apologised for the inconvenience caused to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) due to his statement. ‘‘I will be more careful in future,’’ the district Congress leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-udf-convener-apologises/article36581319.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Walking in the air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walking-in-the-air/article36581403.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Medals for excellence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medals-for-excellence/article36581230.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Running for freedom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/running-for-freedom/article36581324.ece
21 September 2021||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth told to quit drinking ‘bludgeons father to death’||A 24-year-old youth reportedly beat his father to death with an iron rod angered over the latter’s insistence that he quit drinking, at Vanapallipalem village in the Konaseema region of East Godavari district on Sunday night. The accused, identified as Bontu Ravi (24), reportedly had an argument with his father Bontu Jayaraj (58) over his addiction to liquor. Jayaraj had been persuading Ravi to give up drinking and rein in his lavish lifestyle. “On Sunday night, Ravi arrived home in a drunken state and had a heated argument with his father. Later Ravi took an irod rod and went into his father’s room where he was asleep and beat him to death,” Amalapuram Circle Inspector G. Suribabu told The Hindu . The incident had occurred around midnight, and Jayaraj was declared brought dead by doctors at the Area Hospital in Amalapuram. Police registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-told-to-quit-drinking-bludgeons-father-to-death/article36580756.ece
21 September 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bommai govt. tables Bill to protect illegal shrines||Caught between the compulsion to abide by a court order on the one hand and deal with the outrage from a section over the temple demolition in Nanjangud on the other, the BJP government on Monday chose the legislation route to protect religious structures built illegally in public places. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai tabled the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021, in the Legislative Assembly to protect religious structures from the ambit of the court’s directive to demolish structures “constructed on public places without the authority of law”. Cut-off date The Bill marks the day of commencement of the proposed legislation as the cut-off date and makes it clear that only structures built before this date will get protection from the impact of court orders. “It is considered necessary to provide for the protection of religious construction in public places before the date of commencement of this Act in order to protect communal harmony and not hurt the religious sentiments of the public,” the Bill stated. At the same time, it mandates that the authorities should not allow the construction of any religious structure in future in public places. The Bill gives protection from the court order to all religious structures — temples, churches, mosques, gurdwaras, bodh vihars and more.  The decision to draft the Bill, instead of filing a petition before the Karnataka High Court, was taken at a meeting of the State Cabinet presided over by Mr. Bommai on Monday. At the meeting, several Ministers are learnt to have appealed to the Chief Minister to issue “strict directions” to Deputy Commissioners not to demolish unauthorised temples in public places. The High Court had told the State government to ensure the implementation of a past order of the Supreme Court on illegal structures in public places. To pacify the protesting Hindutva outfits, sources said, the government would allow the BJP as a party to rebuild the temple at Nanjangud. A large number of activists of VHP, Hindu Jagarana Vedike, and other organisations had staged protests in Mysuru against the government, opposing the Nanjangud demolition. There are more than a thousand illegal religious structures in public places in the State, and the Supreme Court had issued orders in 2009 to “demolish/relocate/regulate” unauthorised structures in public places. Mayoral polls Meanwhile, the Cabinet also decided to issue a notification on conducting elections to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor in three urban local bodies (Kalaburagi, Belagavi, and Hubballi-Dharwad). The three city corporations went to the polls recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bommai-govt-tables-bill-to-protect-illegal-shrines/article36580663.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man from Rajasthan caught spying for ISI in city||In a joint operation, Southern Command Military Intelligence and Central Crime Branch officials caught a man for allegedly taking photos of vital installations, defence establishments, and sharing them with foreign agencies. A case has been registered under the Official Secrets Act, 1923. Officials said Jitender Singh, from Jolly Mohalla in Cottonpet, is a resident of Barmer, Rajasthan, and was working as a garment seller in Bengaluru. “He was in communication with a Pakistan-based ISI officer over WhatsApp messages, audio and video calls. He had shared photos and details of the Army area, and carried out reconnaissance of Army posts near the international border at the behest of ISI officer. He was also in possession of a Captain’s uniform with which he used to impersonate Army officers to carry out these tasks. He is suspected to have provided photographs of Barmer military station, and reported the movements of all military vehicles from that area to the ISI officer,” officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-from-rajasthan-caught-spying-for-isi-in-city/article36580710.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teen flags bug in IRCTC’s system||A city school student has helped the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) fix a bug on its online ticketing platform that could have exposed private information of millions of passengers. Acting on his alert, the Computer Emergency Response Team, India, conveyed the vulnerability to the IRCTC that fixed the glitch, preventing a possible hacking of the largest online ticketing portal in the country. According to P. Renganathan (17), a Standard 12th student of a private school in Tambaram here, he was booking a train ticket by logging into the IRCTC portal a few days ago when he found certain vulnerabilities that could compromise the security features. The critical Insecure Object Direct References (IDOR) vulnerability on the website enabled him to access the journey details of other passengers such as name, gender, age, PNR number, train details, departure station and date of journey. “Since the back-end code is the same, a hacker would have been able to order food, change the boarding station and even cancel the ticket without the knowledge of the bonafide passenger. Other services like domestic/international tourism, bus tickets and hotel bookings would have been possible in the user profile of other passengers. Most importantly, there was a risk of a huge database of millions of passengers getting leaked,” Renganathan said. Issue resolved On August 30, 2021, he reported the vulnerability to the CERT, India, which raised a ticket within minutes. Five days later, the bug was fixed and acknowledged by the IRCTC, says Renganathan. The teenager says he has got acknowledgements from LinkedIn, United Nations, Nike and Lenovo among others for reporting security vulnerabilities on their web applications. Renganathan wants to pursue a career in Computer Science, while continuing independent research on security of web applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teen-flags-bug-in-irctcs-system/article36580678.ece
21 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||All fees waived for students under 7.5% quota in Tamil Nadu||The Tamil Nadu government will pay the counselling, tuition and hostel fees of government school students admitted to professional courses under the 7.5% reservation, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Monday. He was speaking at a function organised at Anna University to distribute allotment letters to a few candidates who were admitted to various programmes under this quota. He urged the students to make the best use of the opportunity and equip themselves with skills to get well placed after graduation or become entrepreneurs. The government will spend Rs. 250 crore on the scheme, which is expected to benefit 12,000 students admitted to engineering programmes and other professional courses such as agriculture, fishery and law, officials said. Tech education Mr. Stalin said his government should be known as the golden era of technical education, as Kamaraj’s rule was hailed for promoting school education and M. Karunanidhi’s rule was known for promoting and strengthening collegiate education. “It would give me the greatest happiness if, in a few years, a person meets me in some remote village and says, ‘It is because of the government order you issued that I got educated, and am placed in a big company or that I have established a company’.” He distributed allotment orders to a few candidates later. Senior officials of the Department of Higher Education, School Education Minister Anbil Poyyamozhi, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian and MP Thamizhachi Thangapandian were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-fee-for-students-under-75-quota/article36580835.ece
21 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forest watchers rescue man from two sloth bears||Forest watchers on Sunday evening rescued a cowherd when he was being attacked by two bears at a forest-fringe location in Kuppam range. The man, Narayanappa (46), had slight gashes on the neck and skull. He was rushed to the Government Hospital at Kuppam and was declared out of danger. According to information, a team of forest watchers, on a trail of wild elephants, heard agonized shrieks of a man from inside the Koundinya wildlife sanctuary belt abutting Peddaparthikunta village near Kuppam, 150 km from here. When they rushed to spot, they found a man desperately trying to set himself free from the clutches of two sloth bears. The frenzied hoots and focus of torch-lights drove away the bears into the thickets. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said: “Luckily, our watchers were inside the forest to monitor the movement of a herd of wild elephants. Had the team not been there in time, the victim would have been fatally injured.” “The bears are said to have been mating for the last few days and making their frequent forays into the forest-fringe areas,” he said, cautioning cowherds and shepherds not to venture into the sanctuary and reserve forests for rearing sheep and cattle. ‘Bear population growing’ The bear population is said to be growing in the Koundinya sanctuary, bordering Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. In January this year, a sloth bear was killed after it got trapped in a snare in the sanctuary area. Three years ago, a villager was grievously injured and had lost an eye in a bear attack at Urinayanapalle near Kuppam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/forest-watchers-rescue-man-from-two-sloth-bears/article36580743.ece
21 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineers told to expedite works on ‘Crafts Village’||Collector M. Hari Narayanan on Monday sought the engineers to expedite works on the Rs. 9.55 crore-‘Crafts Village’ project near Srikalahasti on a war-footing. The mega tourism venture is scheduled to be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August 2022. The collector along with the regional officials of the Union Ministry of Tourism inspected the project site and held a review meeting with them here. The Collector said that the project, coming up at nine acres, would give a fillip to the tourism boom in Chittoor district, and galvanize the economy of handicrafts and sustain the local artisans. So far, Rs. 4.5 crore had been released for the works, and the interior designing would commence from December. ‘Focus on improving skills of artisans’ “Focus will be on improving the designing skills of the artisans and providing marketing facilities for their produce,” Mr. Hari Narayanan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engineers-told-to-expedite-works-on-crafts-village/article36580741.ece
21 September 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four arrested in ‘honeytrap’ case||Police arrested a four-member gang, including women, who were luring men and relieving them of gold ornaments and cash in a ‘honeytrap’ case. Disclosing this to reporters here on Monday, Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma said the arrested persons were identified G. Sushma, V. Umamaheswara Rao, V. Kumari and Sk. Nagoor, all natives of West Godavari district. One of the accused, Kumari, would lure her victims by speaking to them over phone and invite them to her house, located at Vatluru village. The other accused would then surreptitiously shoot videos of the victims, and later demand money from the victims, Eluru DSP O. Dileep Kiran said. On September 20, the gang trapped a victim and demanded Rs. 25 lakh from him. They also reportedly took away his gold jewellery. Following a complaint, police arrested the gang and recovered six phones, Rs. 1.5 lakh in cash, CCTV cameras and gold jewellery, worth Rs. 2 lakh from the accused, the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-arrested-in-honeytrap-case/article36581424.ece
21 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No one attacked house of Chandrababu Naidu: Guntur DIG||Deputy Inspector General of Police, Guntur Range, Trivikram Varma on Monday refuted allegations by the Opposition and a section of media that there was an attack on the residence of TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on September 18. “It is a fact that there were a few minor skirmishes when an MLA of YSRCP, Jogi Ramesh, went to the residence on karakatta but there is no evidence to show that there was a planned attack on the residence of the former Chief Minister. In fact, the whole incident happened on karakatta which is a public road. The car belonging to the MLA was damaged and we have booked cases against some people,’’ said Mr. Varma. The MLA was stopped at a couple of check points and was allowed with a small group. But when they reached the residence of Mr. Chandrababu Naidu on karakatta, their vehicles were attacked without any provocation, the DIG said. “This is very unfortunate that some people are trying to divert the attention by focussing on the police, who tried their best to defuse the situation and bring it under control,” said the DIG. Mr. Varma said that the opposition party leaders then proceeded to the DGP’s house to give a memorandum and again they violated the rules and tried to barge into a heavy security area. Superintendent of Police, Guntur, K. Arif Hafeez also said that it was a baseless allegation that the house of the former Chief Minister was attacked. Police investigation would unearth who is behind the incident, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-one-attacked-house-of-chandrababu-naidu-guntur-dig/article36581435.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharmila to go on year-long yatra across TS||YSR Telangana Party (YSRTP) president Y.S. Sharmila has announced her intention to launch a marathon padayatra covering the entire length and breadth of the State to connect with maximum number of people possible. The walkathon, Praja Prasthana Yatra, will start from October 20 and would continue for a year, the time by which the State is expected to be in an election mode. The padayatra, according to Ms. Sharmila, is aimed at educating people on the failures of the TRS government in fulfilling the aspirations of all sections of the society. The event will start from Chevella, the place from where her father and former Chief Minister of united AP Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy started his marathon padayatra in 2002 and rode to power with a huge majority in 2004. It would cover 90 of the 119 constituencies, except those falling under the GHMC limits, and end at Chevella again. This is not the first time Ms. Sharmila is embarking upon such a massive walkathon. She embarked upon padayatra in 2012 when her brother and the present AP Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was imprisoned. She walked through 14 districts of the erstwhile united State covering over 3,000 km during the yatra christened “maro praja prasthanam”. Ms. Sharmila alleged that family rule is prevailing in Telangana and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s government took several anti-people measures. The BJP and the Congress too colluded with the TRS government leaving the State without an opposition that firmly opposed the government’s “anti-people” measures. “We will instil confidence among the people that YSR Telangana Party is the only alternative in the State,” she said. She launched a broadside against the ruling TRS and the Chief Minister alleging that in spite of the promise made by the TRS to provide job to each household, suicides by youth continue to be rampant in the State. Over 7,000 farmers too committed suicide in the past seven years as the ruling party did not implement its promise of loan waiver. This could be seen from the fact that surveys conducted by independent agencies revealed that 91% of the farmers were saddled with debt of at least Rs. 1.5 lakh while there is no one listening to the plight of the 16 lakh tenant farmers, she said. The promise of three acre land each to all dalit families too is not being kept while there is significant rise in the atrocities against dalits. Liquor sale had turned rampant as also atrocities against women. “There is a direct correlation between the increased liquor sale and attacks on women,” she averred adding there is no clarity on how the more than Rs. 4 lakh crore loans obtained from different sources were spent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharmila-to-go-on-year-long-yatra-across-telangana/article36580665.ece
21 September 2021||JANGAREDDYGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI, head constable suspended||West Godavari Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma on Monday placed Jangareddygudem Sub-Inspector Satyanarayana and head constable Pushpa Kumar under suspension for illegally detaining a person in a family dispute case. The SI intervened in a dowry harassment case and reportedly detained the husband for three days at the police station. Mr. Satyanarayana and the head constable allegedly demanded money from the accused in order to release him without lodging a case. On a tip-off, police officers raided the station, conducted an inquiry and released the victim. Based on a preliminary inquiry report, the SI and the head constable were suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-head-constable-suspended/article36581423.ece
21 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Plan to lease out inland water sources puts fisherfolk at risk’||Scores of members of Fishermen Cooperative Societies (FCS) led by former Kakinada TDP MLA Vanamadi Kondababu on Monday staged a protest in front of the Collectorate here on Monday, appealing to the State government to withdraw G.O. 217 on the proposal to lease out government inland water sources to private agencies across the State. Addressing a gathering of the inland fisherfolk, Mr. Kondababu said, “The idea of leasing out the inland water sources including tanks will deprive nearly 40 lakh people belonging to 30 sects of the fisherfolk community in Andhra Pradesh of a livelihood. The members associated with the 3,500 registered FCSs will become jobless if their source of livelihood is leased out to private agencies.” “The inland fisherfolk have been allowed to earn their livelihood from the government water sources since the 1960s. In the 1990s, the State government leased out those sources to the FCS with a condition of a 10% increase in the lease every year. If the existing system is disrupted, lakhs of fisherfolk would be pushed into distress,” he said. Speaking to The Hindu on the sidelines of the protest, Mr. Kondababu asserted, “The conservation of the inland water sources, particularly ponds, will be in question if the private agencies are allowed to enjoy the right over them. The TDP has strengthened the FCSs by providing infrastructure facilities and offering handholding support.” Under the banner of the Joint Action Committee comprising inland fisherfolk, the protesters on Monday appealed to the State government to withdraw the idea and GO 217 to ensure the welfare of the fisherfolk as well as protection and conservation of the inland water sources from encroachment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-lease-out-inland-water-sources-puts-fisherfolk-at-risk/article36580745.ece
21 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP wins 76% MPTC seats in East Godavari||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) has registered a sweeping victory with 764 MPTC seats and 58 ZPTC seats in East Godavari district. It has wrested 76% of the total 997 MPTC seats for which the counting process concluded on Monday morning. The results of the two MPTC seats were put on hold. The TDP had to manage with barely 110 seats, while the Jana Sena Party (JSP) won 93 seats, mostly of them in the Konaseema region. At least 19 Independent candidates won MPTC seats. The BJP and the Congress won two seats each. The CPI(M) won seven seats, mostly in the Agency areas, while the BSP won one seat. Of the total 60 ZPTC seats, the YSRCP posted a thumping victory by wresting 58 seats. However, the TDP (V.R.Puram) and the JSP (Kadiyam) won one seat each.  According to an official release issued by East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, the results of two MPTC seats had to be put on hold as termites had eaten away the ballot papers of the Pulimeru MPTC in the Peddapuram division. In the Dorachintalapalem in Maredumilli mandal, the ballot papers were found wet. The results for the Dorachintalapalem ZPTC in Maredumilli mandal were also found wet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-76-mptc-seats-in-east-godavari/article36581339.ece
21 September 2021||Kalpetta,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lone tusker triggers panic in Wayanad||A lone wild elephant entered human habitats at Appad, Society Kavala, Kolery and Choothupara, near Meenangadi, in Wayanad district on Monday morning triggering panic among local residents. The elephant attacked two persons on its way and they were admitted to hospitals with injuries. Forest Department officials identified the injured as A. Karunakaran,75, of Mundiyaniyil at Society Kavala and K.P. Raman, 76, of Palattil at Kealamangalam near Kenichira. The pachyderm was sighted inside a private coffee plantation at Appad around 6 a.m. on Monday. On receiving information, a team of forest officials, including the Rapid Response Team of the department, led by Chethalayath Forest Range Officer K.P. Samad rushed to the spot. After five hours of following the elephant, the team managed to drive it away into Neykuppa reserve forest under the Chethalayath forest range, nearly 14 kilometres away from Appad. As many as 25 frontline forest staff members took part in the operation supervised by South Wayanad forest divisional officer A. Sajna. A ten-member team has been deployed for patrol in the area and they will work in two shifts, Ms. Sajna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lone-tusker-triggers-panic-in-wayanad/article36580673.ece
21 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students made to stand in sun for ‘not buying books’||A group of students from Narayana School, Gayatri Estates branch, were allegedly sent out of the classrooms and made to stand in the sun for reportedly not buying and bringing books to the classroom. A few students who stay close to the school reportedly immediately went home and informed their parents, who accompanied them back to school to question the action of the school management. Meanwhile, 1098 Childline activists too arrived at the school, and they were followed by the Deputy District Education Officer S. Ravi Prakash Reddy. While the parents alleged that they were being forced to buy books and notebooks from the school, the management denied the allegation and said that they had only asked for school fees remittance. “We questioned the school on four issues. We found a blatant violation of the COVID-19 protocols on the school premises and the school fee details were also not displayed on the notice board as per the prescribed norms. The school management has sought time to reply to our questions,” the Deputy DEO said. The 1098 Childline activists too alleged blatant child rights’ violation. They said that no student should be subjected to such a treatment, and if needed, the management should call parents and talk to them. Some parents alleged that even the teachers in the school were being given targets with regard to selling books to students in addition to getting new admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-made-to-stand-in-sun-for-not-buying-books/article36580747.ece
21 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight-year-old from Kurnool climbs Mt. Elbrus||Kurnool resident Gandham Bhuvan Jai, all of eight years old, has conquered the daunting Mount Elbrus — Europe’s highest summit — on September 18 (Saturday). He is possibly the youngest person from Andhra Pradesh to climb the 5,642 metre-tall dormant volcano located in southern Russia, according to sources. The son of IAS officer and former Anantapur Collector Gandham Chandrudu, Bhuvan and other members of the expedition team are on their way back to India. Another youth from Dharmavaram, Mukkera Purushottam, had scaled the summit a month ago on August 15. After climbing to the summit, Bhuvan Jai first hoisted the Indian tricolour and then unfurled a banner containing a portrait of B.R. Ambedkar and the Preamble to the Indian Constitution. Elbrus is the highest peak in Europe, and one of the Seven Summits. Climbing Mt. Elbrus exposes the mountaineers to treacherous weather and extreme physical strain. Shankaraiah, a sports coach of Rural Development Trust (RDT) at Anantapur, had trained Bhuvan, studying in Class III, while he used to stay in Anantapur. A mountaineer himself, Mr. Shankaraiah had scaled Mt. Kilimanjaro, Africa’s highest peak, last year. Later, technical and altitude training were provided at the Adventure Sports Academy in Gandikota of Kadapa district. Elbrus is a fine ascent that requires mountaineering skills, although altitude and unpredictable weather make for a challenging and adventurous trip. Located in the Russian republic of Kabardino-Balkaria, the peak rises 18,510 feet from sea level. Elbrus has two summits, both of which are dormant volcanic domes. The taller, western summit is 5,642 m (18,510 ft); the eastern summit is 5,621 m (18,442 ft) tall. The expedition team comprises Mr. Shankaraiah, Naveen Mallesh from Bengaluru, and Anmish Bhupathi Raju Varma from Visakhapatnam, who had climbed Mt. Everest in May this year, and has won gold medals for the country in several kickboxing international championships. Bhuvan Jai thanked his parents and coaches for the encouragement and said that many more children can achieve such feats if they get the opportunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-year-old-from-kurnool-climbs-mt-elbrus/article36581305.ece
21 September 2021||NeLLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam logs 101 COVID cases, 1 death||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh reported 250 new COVID-19 infections, including 101 in Prakasam, in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Monday. The toll inched to 2,111 in the region as one more person succumbed to the viral disease in Prakasam district. SPSR Nellore district registered zero deaths for the fourth consecutive day. As a result, the toll remained static at 1,028, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Monday night. The cumulative tally climbed to 2.80 lakh-mark and the active caseload went up to 4,921 in the region as only 223 persons recovered in the region, including 117 in SPSR Nellore district, during the period. Recovery rate 97.48% The recovery rate stood at 97.48% in the region as over 2.72 lakh perons have so far recuperated in the region, including over 1.40 lakh in SPSR Nellore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prakasam-logs-101-covid-cases-1-death/article36580748.ece
21 September 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Son of Ratnam pens founder dead||K.V. Ramana Murthy (80), son of Kosuri Venkata Ratnam who founded the famed Ratnam Pen & Sons, passed away here on Monday. Symbol of ‘Swadeshi’ movement Mr. Ramana Murthy ran the firm which was established in 1932 in response to a suggestion by Mahatma Gandhi to make a product with Indian components. The Ratnam pen was regarded as a symbol of ‘Swadeshi’ movement. Mr. Ramana Murthy is survived by wife and three children. His elder son Gopi is the president of the Rajamahendravaram Videographers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/son-of-ratnam-pens-founder-dead/article36580746.ece
21 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP wins one MPTC in Srikakulam||BJP candidate Thompala Sanjeev won the Bantupalli MPTC in Ranasthalam mandal, the lone seat won by the party of the total 667 in Srikakulam district. Speaking to media on Monday, BJP State executive committee member Nadukuditi Eswara Rao described the victory of Mr. Sanjeev as the beginning for the winning streak of the party in Srikakulam district. “Despite threats from the YSRCP, we could win the seat with a majority of 65 votes. It is a moral victory for the BJP,” he said and asked the BJP cadres to strengthen the party at teh grassroots level, keeping the 2024 general elections in view. BJP District president Attada Ravi Babji alleged large-scale malpractice during the counting of votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-wins-one-mptc-in-srikakulam/article36581306.ece
21 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Narcotic jihad’ remark draws fresh fire||The controversy that erupted after Pala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt’s recent caution against ‘narcotic jihad’ during a sermon continued on Monday with more leaders weighing in. Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan blamed a priest for alleging that the Ezhava community plotted to entice Christian girls into the Hindu fold via interfaith marriage. He demanded that the Church defrock the priest, although he had tendered an apology. Mr. Natesan decried “Christian proselytising” and said “narcotic jihad” was a misnomer. General secretary of the All India Sunni Jamiyyathul Ulama Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar insisted that the Pala bishop withdraw his remark. Several Muslim social organisations slammed Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan for making a “placatory” visit to the bishop’s house. No similar move to assuage the Muslim community’s feelings was made, they felt. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan attacked the government for failing to deal with rising religious sectarianism. He demanded an all-party meeting and urged cultural figures to join the Congress’s “peace initiative.” BJP State president K. Surendran, who also sought an all-party meeting, accused the Congress and the CPI(M) of brushing the issue under the carpet to protect ‘minority vote banks’. CPI (M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said the Congress and the BJP were trying to fish in troubled waters. The Congress was trying to regain political relevance as a peacemaker. Meanwhile, back-channel efforts to dial down tensions continued. Major Archbishop - Catholicos of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, Cardinal Baselios Cleemis, chaired a meeting of various religious leaders. The participants included Muslim Youth League State president Panakkad Sayyid Munavvar Ali Shihab Thangal, Kozhikode Palayam Imam Hussain Madavoor, Thiruvananthapuram Palayam Imam V.P. Suhaib Moulavi, Kerala Muslim Jamaath president Karamana Bayar, Thiruvananthapuram Archbishop (Latin rite) M. Soosa Pakiam and Santhigiri Ashram general secretary Swami Gururetnam Jnana Thapaswi. Call for restraint The Catholicos called for restraint, especially from religious and spiritual leaders, to avoid “wounding” other communities. “Narcotics must be viewed as narcotics alone” he said, without elaborating. In Kozhikode, the Thamarassery bishop recalled a handbook for the laity after Muslim leaders said it had observations hurtful to the community. Police booked an online news portal for creating communal discord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/narcotic-jihad-remark-draws-fresh-fire/article36580669.ece
21 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women’s strength is nation’s strength: Minister||Minister for Tourism, Sports and Cultural affairs Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao recalled the lessons taught by the COVID-19 pandemic on the importance of physical fitness as a source of immunity and asked women, in particular, to improve their physical fitness to handle the challenges in their daily life. Speaking after virtually inaugurating India Freedom Run 2.0 and various competitions organised by Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) here on Monday, as part of the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, the Minister said women’s strength is nation’s strength and referred to the steps taken by the State government towards women’s empowerment. The university Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru, who flagged off the run, asked women to focus on keeping themselves physically and mentally fit to handle the multitude of tasks coming their way. She read out the tagline ‘Fitness ki dose, aadha ghanta roz’, stressing the importance of fitness. Competitions held Competitions were conducted in running, cycling and brisk walking for the students, faculty and non-teaching staff. Prof. Jamuna, along with Registrar D.M. Mamatha and Dean (Social sciences) T. Bharathi, gave away the prizes to the winners. Physical Education Director G. Sara Sarojini organised the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/womens-strength-is-nations-strength-minister/article36580754.ece
21 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP members give away eco-friendly cloth bags||Eco-friendly cloth bags were distributed by the cultural wing of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to consumers walking into the fair price shops in Tirupati on Monday. The move was part of the various outreach activities taken up by the party pan India as part of twenty-day-long ‘Seva and Samarpana’ programme to celebrate the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the completion of his twentieth year in power. The bags carried the imprint of Mr. Narendra Modi and were given away directly to the rice card holders. “This way, we intend to tell the public the Central government’s role in reaching benefits to the public,” said cultural wing convener Gundala Gopinath Reddy, while distributing bags at a ration shop in Pedda Kapu Layout along with state executive member B. Chandra Reddy. The party got the bags printed in saffron, pink, green and blue colours. The party’s Dharmic cell convener A. Munikrishna Yadav and minority morcha district President Mastan took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-members-give-away-eco-friendly-cloth-bags/article36580751.ece
21 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation marks RPF raising day||The ‘Raising Day’ of Railway Protection Force (RPF) was observed in the form of blood donation and stress management camp at the Carriage Repair Shop in Renigunta on Monday. Assistant Security Commissioner (RPF) G. Srinivas called upon the officers and staff to provide quality service in terms of safety and security to the travelling public. Inspector (Tirupati) K. Madhusudhan highlighted the contribution of RPF officials and staff in saving the lives of passengers,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-marks-rpf-raising-day/article36580752.ece
21 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||7 suspended in Srikalahasti over burial of corpse||Srikalahastheeswara temple ordered the suspension of seven employees on Monday following an uproar over the clandestine burial of a body near a sub-shrine in the sacred Bharadwaja Theertham area. The burial of the unidentified body triggered a controversy in the town, following which temple Executive Officer D. Peddi Raju filed a complaint with the Srikalahasti police, who questioned the security staff, priests and residents of the area. Though the identity of the deceased is yet to be disclosed, the temple authorities, on their part, conducted an internal probe to establish accountability on grounds of dereliction of duty. As a result, seven persons, including an Assistant Executive Officer, the security in-charge, four security guards and a priest, were placed under suspension with immediate effect. Mr. Peddi Raju announced that CCTVs would be installed to monitor the movement of strangers near the temple and sub-temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7-suspended-in-srikalahasti-over-burial-of-corpse/article36581308.ece
21 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to probe death of computer operator at Kodanad Estate||The Nilgiris district police have begun investigating the alleged death by suicide of a 29-year-old computer operator a few months after the break-in into the bungalow of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa occurred inKodanad in 2017. The deceased B. Dinesh Kumar was a resident of Kengarai in Naduhatty. At the time of his death, police officers claimed that he had become depressed due to his failing eyesight. He had been on leave a few weeks after the break-in occurred, citing health reasons. On Monday, police officers confirmed that since they had renewed further investigations into the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case over the last few weeks, that they would also re-examine Kumar’s death. It has been alleged that Kumar had access to the CCTV footage at the Kodanad estate when a gang broke into the bungalow of the former Chief Minister and stole valuables from the building. They had killed a security guard at the estate during the break-in. Top police officers refused to divulge specific details surrounding the investigation, only choosing to confirm that the death of Kumar was being probed again. Kumar had died on the intervening night between July 6 and July 7, 2017.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-to-probe-death-of-computer-operator-at-kodanad-estate/article36580846.ece
21 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP wants inquiry into AIIB funds||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Monday wrote a letter to the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), urging it to conduct an inquiry into the expenditure incurred with regard to teh funds disbursed till date by it to Andhra Pradesh. TDP spokesperson K. Pattabhi Ram, in the letter, said that the AIIB had approved USD 455 million to improve road connectivity across the State. Another USD 211 million was to be financed by the State,” he said. The project was approved in September 2018 and agreement was signed on February 25, 2019 which will lapse in October 2023. The project had fixed targets with January 1, 2018 as the baseline. “However, a cursory look at the project accomplishments clearly highlights that the project objectives are not met as per the targets. The plight of motorists says it all about the bad condition of the roads in the State,” said Mr. Pattabhi Ram. The AIIB has released USD 71.138 millions for the development of road in the State. “It appears that the government has been diverting the funds , while the contractors that constructed the roads had to move the High Court for payment of bills. The project is failing to meet the targets owing to the delayed payment of bills,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-wants-inquiry-into-aiib-funds/article36581311.ece
21 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP writes to Centre, seeks security cover for TDP chief||TDP Rajya Sabha member K. Ravindra Kumar wrote a letter to Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla on Monday, urging him to conduct an inquiry into the ‘attack’ on TDP cadres near former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu's residence recently. He urged the Union Home Secretary to take steps to enquire into the role of the police and YSRCP leaders in harassing leaders and cadres of Opposition parties. “The law and order situation in Andhra Pradesh has collapsed. The latest in this series of attacks is the violence by a YSRCP MLA Jogi Ramesh and his henchmen on the house of Mr. Naidu. The MLA led the goons to Mr. Naidu’s house in Undavalli on September 17 at around 11.30 a.m,” he said. “Earlier, on September 16, a day prior to the attack, Mr. Ramesh publicly stated that he would attack the house of Mr. Naidu. The statement by the ruling YSRCP MLA went viral on social media platforms and police had enough information in advance about the attack on the following day,” Mr. Ravindra Kumar alleged. “The police, however, failed in preventing the attack and were conspicuous by their absence at the spot. Though Mr. Naidu is protected by the National Security Guard (NSG) and is a protectee under Z+ category security, the police through their silence allowed the attack to take place,” he alleged. The TDP MP further stressed on the need to review the threat perception and tighten security cover for Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-mp-writes-to-centre-over-attack-near-naidus-house/article36581312.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parliamentary Committee supports Disha Bill: DGP||The Parliamentary Committee on Empowerment of Women, which was on a study tour to the State, praised the government and the police for the measures undertaken to ensure safety of women, DGP D. Gautam Sawang has said. Heena Vijay Kumar Gravit, Chairperson of the Committee, who visited the State a few days ago, was apprised of the Disha Bill, and the measures pertaining to women safety. “The Parliamentary Committee was impressed with the Bill and it has assured that the Bill would be approved by the Centre,” Mr. Sawang said. “We explained about the A.P. Disha Bill, Disha Mahila Police Stations, Disha Courts, Disha Integrated Crime Scene Management Vehicles, Cyber Mitra and Mahila Mitra, A.P. Police Seva App, Disha App, Disha Patrolling Vehicles, Spandana, Disha Forensic Science Laboratories, Disha Exclusive Public Prosecutors launched to ensure safety of women to the committee,” the DGP said. Mr. Sawang explained that 60 lakh Disha registrations had been made, 3.78 lakh SoS requests had been received, of which 4,469 calls were actionable and 604 FIRs had been registered. He said 562 ‘Zero FIRs’ were registered during 2020 and 2021, 1,531 cyber bullying sheets were opened, 2,134 sheets were opened against sexual offenders and 2,17,467 sexual offenders were geo-tagged, the DGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parliamentary-committee-supports-disha-bill-dgp/article36581420.ece
21 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Act within framework of law, DISCOMS told||Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission Chairman Justice (retd.) C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy emphasised the need for DISCOMs to act within the framework of the law and scrupulously follow its directions so as to improve their efficiency and serve the interests of the consumers better. In a virtual meeting of the APERC’s State Advisory Committee (SAC) held on Monday, Justice Nagarjuna Reddy apprised the members of the way in which the power sector has transformed since 1991, and insisted that the Standards of Performance (SoPs) be strictly followed, particularly the one meant for automating payment of compensation for failure in delivering certain services. The SAC members presented their views on the reduction of cost of service, streamlining power purchases, improvements in the performance of DISCOMs and effective participation of the public in the regulatory decision-making process. They also took to the Commission’s notice issues like the payment of compensation to farmers for the loss incurred by them due to laying of power lines through their fields, and consumer advocacy. Justice Nagarjuna Reddy welcomed the suggestions made by the members on matters related to quality, continuity and extent of services provided by the licensees, electricity supply and protection of consumer interests as per Section.88 of the Electricity Act, 2003. P. Rajagopal Reddy, Thakur Rama Singh and other members of the APERC also took part in the deliberations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/act-within-framework-of-law-discoms-told/article36581301.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seized heroin intended to reach Delhi, not Vijayawada: CP||City Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, responding to media reports related to the seizure of about 2,998 kg of heroin at Mundra Port in Gujarat a few days ago, said the stock was intended to reach Delhi and not Vijayawada. “It appeared in the press that heroin worth thousands of crores of rupees was seized by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence at Mundra port, Gujarat (in containers) smuggled from Afghanistan. On verification , it is learnt that one Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali, resident of Chennai, has taken GST registration in August 2020 on the address at D.No. 23-14-16, Satyanarayanapuram, Gadiyaramvari Street, Vijayawada,” Mr. Srinivasulu said . He said Ms. Vaishali, wife of Chennai-based Machavaram Sudhakar, had registered the export and import trading company and obtained IEC Code from the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), with the Satyanarayanapuram address in August last year. The couple had been staying in Chennai . So far, no activity except using the Vijayawada house address for obtaining above licences had come to notice. The racket had no link to Andhra Pradesh. However, probe was being conducted, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seized-heroin-intended-to-reach-delhi-not-vijayawada-cp/article36581298.ece
21 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP complains to Governor against TTD ‘jumbo trust board’||A delegation of the BJP led by its State president Somu Veerraju appealed to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to instruct the State government to rescind the appointment of 52 special invitees to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) trust board . In a memorandum submitted to the Governor on Monday, Mr. Veerraju said the Governor must look into the manner in which the TTD was being administered by the government and the constitution of an 81-member ‘jumbo trust board’, which included 52 special invitees and 24 regular and four ex-officio members. “The appointments to TTD trust borad has become an instrument to further the interests of the YSRCP. The TTD is being treated as a political rehabilitation centre,” he said. He alleged that the members consisted of the Chief Minister’s business partners and people with criminal antecedents.BJP leader G. Bhanuprakash Reddy filed a PIL in the High Court challenging the G.O. Nos. 245, 568 and 569 (all dated September 15) through which 24 persons were appointed as the members and special invitees to the TTD trust board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-complains-to-governor-against-ttd-jumbo-trust-board/article36581303.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 8 COVID deaths, 839 infections||Eight more people suffering from COVID-19 in the State succumbed to the virus in the past 24 hours ending Monday morning, taking the cumulative death toll to 14,078. The State also reported 839 positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 20,39,529. The active caseload declined to 14,388  as 1,142 persons recovered in the past 24 hours. The recovery rate and total number of recoveries stand at 98.60% and 20,11,063 respectively. Of the 42,679 tests conducted in the past day, the daily positivity rate stood at 1.97%. The total positivity rate in the State stands at 7.35%, with a total of 2.77 crore tests conducted so far. Krishna and Guntur reported two deaths each in the past 24 hours while Chittoor, East Godavari, Prakasam and West Godavari reported one each. East Godavari reported 231 new cases while Vizianagaram reported no new cases. Anantapur reported only one infection, while Kurnool reported four infections and Srikakulam five. West Godavari reported 13 cases, Krishna 36, Visakhapatnam 47, Guntur 75, and Kadapa 76 cases. Prakasam and Chittoor districts reported 101 infections each and Nellore reported 149 infections. More than 50% of active cases were in three districts— Prakasam (2,578), Nellore (2,343) and East Godavari (2,279).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-8-covid-deaths-839-infections/article36581300.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF personnel mark 37th Raising Day||Officers and staff of Railway Protection Force (RPF) of South Central Railway (SCR) Vijayawada division, celebrated their 37th Raising Day on Monday. RPF Raising Day is celebrated to commemorate the conferment of armed forces status on RPF on par with other paramilitary forces of Government of India. The RPF personnel conducted a plantation drive and Suraksha Sammelan at the barracks in One Town. A passenger awareness campaign was conducted on all platforms of Vijayawada railway station. Officials enlightened passengers on the need to maintain cleanliness on the station premises and safety of railway properties, said RPF Assistant Security Commissioner G. Madhusudhana Rao. At Rajamahendravaram railway station, a blood donation camp was organised at the RPF station where 35 staff donated blood. Cleanliness drives and safety awareness campaigns were conducted at all stations in the division as part of Raising Day, Railway officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rpf-personnel-mark-37th-raising-day/article36581422.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI property show on Oct. 9, 10||The Vijayawada Chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) is going to organise its 7th property show in the city on October 9 and 10. K. Rangarajan, Deputy General Manager of the State Bank of India (SBI) along with CREDAI Vijayawada representatives launched the brochure for the event here on Monday. CREDAI Vijayawada Chapter president K. Rajendra said that it was time for people bought houses as the prices were low. He said there was a consistent increase in the cost of raw material and the same would reflect on the property cost over time. The show would bring together various projects for the prospective buyers to go through and make a decision accordingly. The show would feature about 50 projects by more than 40 renowned builders and developers from across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/credai-property-show-on-oct-9-10/article36581425.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to inaugurate ‘Vanijya Utsavam’ today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the two-day ‘Vanijya Utsavam’, the trade and exports carnival, marking the beginning of the ‘Vanijya Saptah’ in commemoration of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ in the city on Tuesday. Krishna Collector J. Nivas, Commissioner of Police B. Sreenivasulu and others inspected the SS Convention, the venue for the event, on Tuesday evening. The carnival would be attended by more than 1,000 delegates including Ambassadors of various countries. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to unveil the State’s action plan to double the exports from the State by 2030 during the inaugural session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-inaugurate-vanijya-utsavam-today/article36581428.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students explore feasibility of revamping Besant Road||The students of KL School of Architecture took up a survey on the revitalisation of the city’s Besant Road as part of the ‘Urban Revitalising Project’. In a release on Monday, it was stated that 37 students of the Architecture School of the KL deemed-to-be-University launched a technology-enabled survey to explore the feasibility of revamping Besant Road, among the busiest shopping zones in the city. The outcome of the survey and the analysis will be submitted to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) in the second week of December. The urban development project undertaken by the students could help rebuild the Besant Road as per the modern standards, said principal Selvaraj. The survey is supervised by faculty members S. Sravani, B. Kiran Kumar, K. Harshitha and P. Senthil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-explore-feasibility-of-revamping-besant-road/article36581427.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector: funds sought for developing health centres||Krishna District Collector J. Nivas said that a proposal seeking Rs. 41.96 crore from the 15th Finance Commission fund for the development of urban and rural health centres has been sent to the State government. In a review meeting with the officials concerned on Monday, Mr. Nivas said Rs. 9.31 crore has been sought to pay salaries to staff at 278 sub-centres and Rs. 10.52 crore has been sought for the development of urban health centres in 13 mandals. He said funds were also sought for the establishment of testing centres, wellness centres and other facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-funds-sought-for-developing-health-centres/article36581430.ece
21 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to serve privilege notice on police officer||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP), at a strategy meeting presided over by its national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday, decided to serve a privilege notice on senior police officer Ammi Reddy, accusing him of threatening the party MLAs, MLCs and former Ministers. “The TDP will file a private case if no justice is delivered. It is clear that DGP Gautam Sawang colluded with the YSRCP leaders when the local police allowed the goons to attack Mr. Naidu’s house,” they said, adding that the party would petition the Centre , seeking recall of the DGP. The party leaders, who discussed various issues at the meeting, also decided to extend support to the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by the farmers’ organisations on September 27 in protest against the three cotroversial laws. Referring to the TTD issue, the TDP leaders said that the trust board was not a ‘pocket borough’ of the Chief Minister to appoint a jumbo board with 81 members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-to-serve-privilege-notice-on-police-officer/article36581310.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Booster dose not needed till entire population is vaccinated: experts||The proposed third jab or the booster dose is as of now not needed, unless and until the entire population is fully vaccinated, which means each eligible person having taken both the doses. This was the opinion of the experts at the 88th webinar on COVID-19, organised by the Andhra Medical College. Addressing the participants, Paul Kelly, Director of Centre for Travel Medicine from the division of infectious diseases, Bronxcare Hospital, the USA, said that the plan for third dose, if required, could go on air, only if the entire eligible population is fully vaccinated. AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar said, “In a country like India, the need for a third dose can create shortfall for the people who are yet to get the first or the second dose. Moreover, there is a presumption that the virus may get mutated once the third dose is administered. But till date there is no data or evidence to suggest this, but research is on,” he said. Moreover, according to Dr. Kelly, having the Delta virus is a blessing in disguise. From the original D614G, we have seen a number of variants such as Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Epsilon, Iota, Lamda and MU. And finally we have the Delta variant, which is at least 100 times more virulent than the original virus and 55% more virulent than the Alpha variant, he said. “After the Delta we have not seen any significant variant, apart from a couple of sub-groups and this is a good sign, as this indicates that people already infected with the Delta variant have developed antibodies to fight other variants,” said Dr. Kelly. According to Dr. Sudhakar, the good news is that the vaccines, including those in the USA and the two in India – Covishield and Covaxin – have shown their affectivity against the Delta variant. And both in the USA and in India, it was the Delta variant that has been creating the havoc, he said. “Post-vaccination and mass infection, it appears that people have developed antibodies and the rate of hospitalisation is slowly coming down, which is a good indication. But it is still not over and people cannot let their guard down on COVID-19 protocols,” said Dr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/booster-dose-not-needed-till-entire-population-is-vaccinated-experts/article36581315.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre trying to sell PSUs in the name of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’: CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) MP Binoy Viswam has alleged that in the name of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to sell Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs) like the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The Rajya Sabha member from Kerala, arrived in the city along with CPI National Secretary K. Narayana, on Monday to participate in the rally to be organised on Tuesday as part of the agitation against the decision of the Centre on the strategic sale of the VSP. Addressing the media here on Monday, Mr. Viswam said that in the 75th year of Independence, the BJP government was out to destroy the PSUs like the VSP, which were established after a lot of sacrifice by people. He alleged that the BJP by itself was nothing but was led by the RSS, which was the brain and spine of the BJP government. He wondered whether the State government stood with the people of the State or with the BJP government on the VSP. “It (Jagan Mohan Reddy government) is trying to run with the hare and hunt with the hounds. It is opposing the privatisation of the VSP by joining the agitation in Visakhapatnam but is not raising its voice against the BJP in Parliament.” He said that after its failure to weed out black money in the name of demonetisation, the BJP government has now come up with ‘monetisation’ of assets and has put up everything for sale including LIC, GIC, banks, seaports and airports. Stating that free vaccination was the right of people, he ridiculed the announcement of 2.5 crore vaccinations on the Prime Minister’s birthday as a ‘big drama’. He wondered as to how many more birthdays would be required to vaccinate all the people in the country at this rate. Mr. Narayana alleged that heroin worth Rs. 9,000 crore seized came from Afghanistan into India through Mundra seaport, owned by Adani, in Gujarat. The Adani group has plans to acquire rights over the entire coast from Itchapuram to Nellore, and if that happens, smuggling would go unchecked, he alleged. Online cinema ticket sale Mr. Narayana supported the State government’s decision on online sale of cinema tickets by the government saying it would benefit the common man apart from bringing revenue for the government. He, however, said that the sale of mutton through mutton marts by the government needs further discussions as it would affect the livelihood of the poor meat sellers. Party State Assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy spoke. Party leaders M. Pydiraju and Balepalli Venkata Ramana were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-trying-to-sell-psus-in-the-name-of-atmanirbhar-bharat-cpi/article36581444.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VJF-CMR Inter Media Sports Meet gets underway||Minister for Tourism, Youth Affairs and Sports Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao appreciated the services of the Vizag Journalists’ Forum (VJF) in organising various activities for journalists and trying to give them a break from their daily routine. The Minister inaugurated the VJF-CMR Inter Media Sports Meet at the Port Stadium, here, on Monday. Speaking on the occasion, he commended the organisers for hosting the tournament every year without a break. He acknowledged the role played by the media in his success as an educationist and political leader. He also commended the VJF for its various welfare activities for members and their families like holding medical camps, festivals and cultural events. Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari, who participated as a guest, appreciated the role of journalists in the development of the city. VJF president Gantla Srinu Babu and secretary S. Durga Rao said that the tournament would conclude on September 26. Cricket matches would begin on September 22. In the friendly ‘tug of war’, the Minister and the Mayor joined on the opposite side of the rope. The Mayor team won the event. Medicover Hospitals provided free health check-up for the participating sportspersons. The competitions will be held in 13 events. Athletics for men and women were held on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vjf-cmr-inter-media-sports-meet-gets-underway/article36581446.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City to host India-West Indies T20 match on February 18||Cricket buffs in the city and surrounding districts are in for some cricketing treat, in the early part of next year, as Visakhapatnam has identified to host the second of the three T20s against West Indies. According to the BCCI domestic schedule released on Monday, India will play three ODIs and three T20s against the formidable West Indian side from February 6 to 20. The match in Visakhapatnam is scheduled for February 18, 2022, and will be played at the Dr. YS Rajasekhara Reddy ACA-VDCA Stadium. The last T20 was played between India and Australia in the stadium on February 24, 2019. This ground has been the favourite hunting ground for Team India, as it has won both the test matches played against England in 2016 and South Africa in 2019. Of the 10 ODIs played, India has won seven, lost one, one was cancelled and one was a tie. But this also happens to be a good venue for the West Indies team, as out of the five ODIs played, India has won on two occasions, one was won by the WI team, one was cancelled and one was a tied match. How well it will fare in the T20s is to be seen. Historic score of Dhoni made here This is also the ground that brought former Team India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni to limelight, when he scored 148 and India defeated arch rivals Pakistan on April 5, 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-to-host-india-west-indies-t20-match-on-february-18/article36580757.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalits seek arrest of accused in Ambedkar statue desecration case||Dalitha Vimukthi State convener Surla Venkataramana has demanded the arrest of Chandaka Sai Krishna, Adakula Trinadh, Darapu Ramesh and others, who he alleged are responsible for the destruction and disappearance of the statue of B.R. Ambedkar, at Chinamushidiwada, in the city. A rally was taken out, under the aegis of Dalitha Vimukthi, from the Ambedkar statue near the LIC Junction to the Collectorate on Monday and later a memorandum was submitted to the Collector. Mr. Venkataramana said that when residents of nearby Ambedkar Nagar questioned the levelling of the area with an excavator, the accused persons, who were present on the spot, walked away. The Pendurthi police had picked up the driver of the excavator for questioning, on a complaint by the local people. He alleged that the police had booked the accused under petty cases and diverted the issue. The accused were not arrested even after 17 days after the incident had occurred. The damaged statue has also not been found to this day. Dalitha Hakkula Samakhya president Kottapalli Venkataramana said that the colony residents have been paying tributes to the statue on various occasions for the past 15 years. The statue was erected in government land and the GVMC authorities had even provided a borewell. Progressive Organisation of Women (POW) State general secretary M. Lakshmi and Murikivadala Nivasula Sankshema Sangham president K. Ravi and HRF leader V.S. Krishna were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalits-seek-arrest-of-accused-in-ambedkar-statue-desecration-case/article36581448.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muttamsetti: vast scope for development of water sports in State||Minister for Tourism, Youth Affairs and Sports Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Monday said that the State government is according top priority to the promotion of sports. Participating in a virtual conference, organised by the Ministry of Youth Services and Sport, he said the State, with the second longest coastline in the country, has ample opportunities for development of water sports training. The region has produced national and international-level players. He sought allocation of the required budget for provision of infrastructure under ‘Khelo India’ scheme, for promotion of sports in the State. Hockey field project He said that under the scheme for 2019-2020, an astro turf hockey field project at Kakinada was being developed with Rs. 5.50 crore and 95% of the work had been completed. A multi-purpose indoor hall was being constructed in Vizianagaram district at a cost of Rs. 6 crore and 90% of the work was completed. A multi-purpose sports complex was being constructed in Nellore district and 98% of the work was completed. Work on the multi-purpose indoor hall, taken up at a cost of Rs. 4.5 crore, has reached the basement level. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that proposals have been sent to the Centre for construction of synthetic athletic track in Kadapa and Nellore districts, a synthetic turf football ground and an international standard swimming pool at Kommadi. Proposals have been sent by the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP) for establishment of 13 district-level ‘Khelo India’ centres under the new guidelines of the Centre. In the AP Sports Calendar, 38 different tournaments, school games Under 14, U 17, and U 19 have been included as part of the School Games Federation of India 2020-21. Cash incentives Cash incentives were given to national and international players under the YSR Kreeda Protsahakalu scheme, the Minister said. He said that sports activities were restarted in the State from August by following the Standard Operating Procedures in view of the COVID-19. District Sports Officer Surya Rao also participated in the video conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vast-scope-for-development-of-water-sports-in-state-muttamsetti/article36581314.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECoR restores season tickets in select trains||Here’s good news for daily commuters. The East Coast Railway (E Co R) has restored season tickets like Monthly/Quarterly/Yearly tickets in nominated passenger trains with effect from Monday. The trains for which the facility has been restored are: 08522/21 Visakhapatnam-Gunupur-Visakhapatnam special, 08528/27 Visakhapatnam-Raipur- Visakhapatnam special and 07266/65 Visakhapatnam-Kakinada Port-Visakhapatnam special. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi has appealed to passengers to strictly follow all the health protocols before undertaking journey in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. They are also requested to convey their accurate mobile number while purchasing a railway ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecor-restores-season-tickets-in-select-trains/article36581346.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,500 kg dry ganja seized from vehicle||The Visakhapatnam district police seized over 1,500 kg dry ganja from an abandoned vehicle at Munchingput in Vizag Agency area on Monday. The police said that the ganja-laden vehicle was heading from Jolaput to Paderu. The police tried to intercept the vehicle, but the driver of the vehicle tried to ram the police team present at the check-post and escape. The police team evaded the vehicle and gave it a hot chase. After covering a distance, the driver fled from the spot abandoning the vehicle. sOn searching the vehicle, the police team recovered the ganja from it. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1500-kg-dry-ganja-seized-from-vehicle/article36581451.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gurudwara reunites mentally ill man with family||Efforts made by the president of Gurudwara Sadh Sangat Seethamadhara D.S. Anand, reunited a mentally challenged man with his family members, here on Monday. Dr. Anand received a call from one Mr. Iqbal that a mentally challenged Punjabi speaking man was found on the road near the railway station on September 18. Social media He and his team immediately shifted the man who was in bad shape to KGH in an ambulance for treatment with a caretaker and took to the social media to upload his picture for response from persons known to the man. The picture with the available details was noticed by man’s family members in Gwalior who arrived on Monday to take care of him. It is learnt that the man is suffering from memory loss and had been missing since June 16, this year, from Gwalior. The person was handed over to the family members in the presence of police officials and members from the Gurudwara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gurudwara-reunites-mentally-ill-man-with-family/article36581452.ece
21 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 47 new virus cases, 74 recoveries||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 47 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, till Monday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,714. No deaths were recorded and the count stand at 1,083, as on Monday morning. A total of 74 persons recovered from the coronavirus and were discharged on Monday morning, to take the total discharges to 1,54,638. The number of active cases has dropped to 993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-47-new-virus-cases-74-recoveries/article36581442.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIMV inks MoU with IIITK||The Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam, (IIMV) and the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Kurnool, (IIITK), signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Sunday. The MoU will facilitate cooperation between the academic members, students and research groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iimv-inks-mou-with-iiitk/article36581449.ece
21 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assumes charge||K.K. Ghosh, Director (Projects), RINL, has assumed charge as the new Chairman of the Computer Society of India, (CSI) Visakhapatnam chapter. A.K. Saxena, Director (Operations), RINL is the new vice- chairman and chairman-elect of the chapter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assumes-charge/article36581450.ece
21 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP gained strength in Bobbili: MLA||Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appala Naidu on Monday said that the YSRCP improved its vote bank in the constituency compared to the 2014 elections. He told mediapersons at Bobbili in the district that the party could win all the four ZPTC seats and was set to register victory in the Mandal Parishad President elections to be held in a few days. “Our margin of victory in the Assembly elections was around 8,000 but now we could get around 20,000 majority in the rural segment. In the recently held municipal elections, we could get 15,000 combined majority in all wards. This indicated that the YSRCP had strengthened its vote bank. But the TDP is misleading the public by blowing its own trumpet after winning a few MPTC seats at Ramabhadrapuram, Badangi, Bobbili and other places,” said the YSRCP legislator. ‘Blow to TDP’ Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board Chairman and YSRCP senior leader Kayala Venkata Reddy said that the TDP would not be able to recover from its electoral loss and would lose its existence in the State as it happened in Telangana where the party had been decimated. Reacting over the spectacular victory of the YSR Congress Party in the ZPTC and MPTC elections, Mr. Venkata Reddy said that people from all sections of society had reposed faith in Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s administration. Felicitated Andhra Pradesh State Kshatriya Welfare and Development Corporation chairperson Patapati Sarraju attributed the YSRCP’s victory to the implementation of welfare schemes for all sections of society. Kshatriya Parishad felicitated him here on his elevation as the chairperson of the corporation. YSRCP MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu said that all welfare and development schemes were being implemented without any scope for corruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-gained-strength-in-bobbili-mla/article36580750.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Handling with care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/handling-with-care/article36581434.ece
21 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||‘Tribals under pressure to attend meet’||Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt on Monday alleged that the Maoist rebels were indulging in coercive tactics against Adivasis living in border villages along the inter-State border with Chhattisgarh and forcing the latter to attend their meeting in the Puttapadu-Pesallapadu forest area slated for September 21. In a statement, the SP charged the Maoist militia members with exerting pressure on Adivasis inhabiting Chennapuram, Yerrampadu, Battigudem Kurnapalli, Bodanelli and other border villages in Charla mandal to attend their Tuesday’s meeting and bring ration without fail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribals-under-pressure-to-attend-meet/article36581354.ece
21 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Over 500 inoculated against COVID in mega vaccination camp||More than 500 persons were inoculated against COVID-19 at a mega vaccination camp conducted by Yashoda Foundation at Challa Samudram village on Sunday. The COVID-19 free vaccination camp was conducted by a team of doctors and other medical staff from Yashoda Hospitals, Hyderabad at the Gram Panchayat building in Challa Samudram from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sunday. People from various villages including Repallewada, Voddugudem, Daniyalapadu and Lachagudem besides Challa Samudram were vaccinated against COVID-19 at the day-long camp, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-500-inoculated-against-covid-in-mega-vaccination-camp/article36581104.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Desperate rush for food packets outside Niloufer||Watching their child ailing is arguably the most painful experience for any parent, but attendants at Niloufer Hospital here have another battle at hand too — taking care of hunger pangs without running out of whatever little money they have. Every time a food-distribution vehicle pulls up near the biggest State-run paediatric tertiary care centre, they rush towards it, without minding the traffic on the road. Jostling with pavement dwellers and with hands stretched out, they go through this drill almost every afternoon in the hope of grabbing a free food packet. Those who are unable to get their hands on the packet put up with a fiercely growling stomach for a few more hours until another such vehicle or a group of volunteers lands up with food. Niloufer Hospital, which mostly caters to patients from economically-disadvantaged sections, has around 1,400 beds and is nearing full capacity with a large number of children admitted for serious health ailments, respiratory issues, and seasonal diseases. Many of them have come from neighbouring States too. Every penny counts Usually, a child is accompanied by no less than two to four family members, often parents. That puts the number of attendants at 3,000 to 4,000. Since they belong to a poor background, with most of them coming to Hyderabad from far-away places, they think twice before spending money. Buying three meals a day for two to three persons easily works up to around Rs. 300. If their child is admitted for weeks or months, managing money to buy food and other supplies for all the attendants is undoubtedly a mammoth challenge. The hospital provides food only to the patients. So, voluntary organisations or individuals distribute food packets in the mornings and afternoons. GHMC food centres The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) provides Rs. 5-a-meal through Annapurna centres till afternoon, but many attendants who come from far-away districts are unaware of the scheme or the location of centre. In this scenario, they depend on the food-distribution vehicles. Such is the demand that 50-100 packets are grabbed in less than 10 minutes. A. Ramesh, a young farmer from Shadnagar, was among the many attendants who tried to get his hands on the food packets. Carrying his son on his shoulders and holding his daughter’s hand, he paced towards one of the cars that had arrived for the food distribution on Monday afternoon. However, as he got closer, he found out that he had run out of luck and the car out of food packets. The GHMC’s Annapurna centre had closed by around 2 p.m. Mr Ramesh has been camping on the hospital premises along with his wife and two other kids. His eight-year-old daughter is undergoing treatment for dengue for the past three days. “I don’t know where the GHMC food centre is. We wait here for the vehicles to arrive with food packets,” he said, adding that he has no option but to hope for another food-distribution vehicle to show up. This melee has been a common sight outside the hospital since last week. Another attendant, who did not wish to be quoted, said her husband has stopped giving her money and she is at the mercy of the voluntary organisations which distribute food. Her son has been undergoing treatment for nearly a month. A. Ambedkar’s son was admitted at the hospital after he accidentally swallowed pesticide. The farmer from Nagarkurnool has been at the hospital along with two other family members for the past several days. A meal for three costs Rs. 100, which is beyond his means, he added. Attendants’ plea Other attendants said that since people from far-flung villages visit the hospital and are not familiar with the locality, putting up signboards about the Annapurna centres in Telugu, Urdu and English in and around the hospital, the timings, and location would be of great help. They also seek extension of timings. A worker at the GHMC’s Annapurna near Niloufer Hospital said they open the centre at around 10.30 am and keep it open till 2 pm or whenever their truck comes to pick up the vessels from them.  I don’t know where the GHMC food centre is. We wait here for the vehicles to arrive with food packets. A. Ramesh, Father of a dengue patient||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/desperate-rush-for-food-packets-outside-niloufer/article36581082.ece
21 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hussainsagar goes silent after the immersion buzz||The last of the Ganesh idols went down the waters of the Hussainsagar at 5 p.m. on Monday, and the lake which was the centre of immersion activities since the last few days came back to normal. Vehicular traffic was restored on the Tank Bund after being out of bounds for more than 30 hours as Hussainsagar was permitted for one “last time” by the Supreme Court for Ganesh idols immersion. As a ballpark estimate, more than 6,000 idols have been immersed, according to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) P Viswa Prasad. Police relieved He said that more than 27,000 police personnel who were on bandobust duty heaved a sigh of relief as no untoward incident was reported during the immersion and the entire process went on smoothly. The hawk eye surveillance of thousands of cameras helped police to coordinate in real time and address the situation warranting police interference. “By 8.20 a.m. most of the idols were immersed and later traffic was allowed on Tank Band, while NTR marg was partially closed till evening,” Mr. Viswa Prasad said, adding that by 5 p.m. all idols on the holding were sent for immersion. Police remain ever grateful to the community for partnering in the successful immersion of thousands of idols, Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. “The magnitude of bandobust for Ganesh immersion matches the enormity of the lord’s size and his blessings. We felt so blessed to serve the devotees in smooth immersion. It has made the community-police partnership stronger,” he said. Big challenge Meanwhile, Tank Bund, Necklace Road, NTR Mark, PVNR Marg, which witnessed a sea of humanity in the last two days have thrown up a big challenge for the GHMC workers, who have to clear the trash and leftovers. Mounts of flower garlands, Nirmalyam (pooja material), empty water bottles and water packets were found on the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hussainsagar-goes-silent-after-the-buzz/article36581101.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID testing in State continues to remain low||For the fifth consecutive day, testing of COVID-19 samples stayed low in Telangana, leading to the detection of fewer cases. On Monday, 45,274 samples were put to test and 208 people were detected with the novel coronavirus. Usually, around 70,000 samples were being examined on a daily basis this month — until the State Health department launched a special vaccination drive on September 16. The new 208 cases included 49 from Greater Hyderabad region, 20 from Warangal Urban and 15 from Karimnagar. No infection was detected in Vikarabad, Narayanpet, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, and Jayashankar Bhupalapally districts. The State’s infection tally now stands at 6,63,662. Two more COVID patients have died, taking the death toll to 3,906.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-testing-in-state-continues-to-remain-low/article36581088.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||INCOIS digital initiatives for sharing oceanographic data||Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), under the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES), is rapidly becoming more digital in its services for the benefit of various stakeholders. In fact, it has either initiated or played a significant role in the launch of three major steps in this direction — Digital Ocean Platform, MoES-ESSDP or Earth System Science Data Portal, and OMNI-RAMA joint data portals. Digital Ocean platform has a set of applications presenting oceanographic data adopting rapid advancements in geospatial technology. It facilitates interactive web-based environment for data integration, 3D and 4D (3D in space with time animation) data visualisation, data analysis to assess evolution of oceanographic features, data fusion and multi-format download from various sources. It is to serve as a one stop-solution for all the data-related needs of a wide range of users, including research institutions, operational agencies, strategic users, academic community, maritime industry, policy makers and the public. It is also expected to bring a sea change in how the oceanographic data is served for a better understanding of oceans surrounding us, said INCOIS director T. Srinivasa Kumar. ESSDP has been developed with the support from other participating nine institutions under the Ministry — Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, India Meteorological Department, National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting, National Institute of Ocean Technology, National Centre for Polar and Ocean Research, National Centre for Earth Science Studies, National Centre for Seismology, Centre for Marine Living Resources and Ecology and National Centre for Coastal Research. It is an integrated platform for capacity building on earth system data management and to build a centralised MoES data repository since the Ministry is mandated to provide services for weather, climate, ocean and coastal state, hydrology, seismology, and natural hazards along with exploring the poles of Arctic, Antarctic and the Himalayas. “The single source data for several scientific programmes will help foster inter-disciplinary research and utilisation for several applications,” he said. INCOIS is not only designated as National Oceanographic Data Centre under the International Oceanographic Data Exchange programme of Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission since 2004, but is also serving as National Argo Data Centre and Regional Argo Data Centre of International Argo Programme, where autonomous data-floats monitor and transmit near-real time sub-surface ocean data. Third initiative is open data portal OMNI-RAMA — ‘OMNI’ or Ocean Moored Buoy Network in Northern Indian Ocean and RAMA or Research Moored Array for African-Asian-Australian Monsoon Analysis and Prediction — with the latter taken up along with United States-based National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration/Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory. Data from 9 OMNI and 25 RAMA buoys in the Indian Ocean provide marine meteorological and oceanographic parameters every two minutes with help of buoys. “This is a unique collaboration to help us gain new insights of monsoon forecasting and in climate change models,” said group director-Ocean Observations, Modelling and Data Assimilation E. Pattabhi Rama Rao. “Data from these buoys give us vital information from the sea and sub-sea surfaces which can be validated with remote sensing data from satellites and our mathematical models,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/incois-digital-initiatives-for-sharing-oceanographic-data/article36581079.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana School Innovation Challenge from next month||The State government in collaboration with UNICEF, YuWaah and Inqui-lab Foundation on Monday launched Telangana School Innovation Challenge 2021. Initiated last year, towards nurturing design thinking, innovation and entrepreneurial mindsets among young people, the School Innovation Challenge is a one-of-its-kind programmes in the country. It catapulted Telangana as the pioneer in promoting 21st century skills and design thinking for the teachers and students, a release from IT and Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao’s office said. Mr.Rao launched the challenge in the presence of Minister of Education Sabitha Indra Reddy and representatives of the partner-organisations here. Starting October 2021, the programme will include a host of activities from learning modules to activity-based problem solving, conceptualising innovative solutions for the chosen problem statements. The top innovation from each district will be selected. The programme will culminate with a boot camp for the 33 finalists followed by a grand finale. This year, the programme aims to include Social Welfare schools, tribal schools, residential schools and private budget schools in addition to government schools and consequently, impact a larger set of students. All the finalists will receive incubation support and the top three winners win cash prizes. Mr.Rao said the School Innovation Challenge is an initiative to groom government school children in making them self-reliant. In this edition, TSIC along with the Education department, UNICEF and Inqui-Lab aims at creating the access to innovation for 50,000 school children across the State. Ms.Reddy said the first edition of TSIC saw an overwhelming response with 25,000 students participating in it. Adolescent Education and Skills specialist at the UNICEF Regional Office for South Asia John B. Trew said “fostering a culture of innovation and problem-solving from a young age is increasingly imperative in preparing our young people to handle the challenges that await them in the post-pandemic world”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-school-innovation-challenge-from-next-month/article36581091.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 10,000 MT of waste from Ganesh immersion||The GHMC has removed over 10,000 metric tonnes of waste from the city after the Ganesh immersion festivities which extended from Sunday to Monday. The idols were removed simultaneously as new ones were being immersed, in order to prevent pollution. A total of 60,097 idols were immersed in baby ponds while 23,094 were immersed in lakes. Efforts are still on to remove wastage related to all the idols, a statement from GHMC informed. A total of 215 action teams comprising 8,116 sanitation workers were engaged in three shifts to remove waste from the 303 kilometres of procession route. Post-immersion, entomology workers released Gambusia fish into the baby ponds in order to prevent mosquito breeding, besides spraying anti-larval chemicals. A total of 1,600 workers and staff from Entomology wing participated in the clean up, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-10000-mt-of-waste-from-ganesh-immersion/article36581099.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR presents online links as evidence in defamation suit||While accusing TPCC president and Malkajgiri MP of defaming him with baseless allegations, Minister for Information Technology K.T. Rama Rao presented online links of defamatory comments made by the MP against him as evidences in the suit filed in city civil court on Monday. Describing himself as a politician and statesman of substance within and beyond the State, Mr. Rao accused the MP of spreading canards with an intention to malign his goodwill. Mr. Rao said the MP falsely tried to connect his journey to Mumbai with usage of drugs. He did not provide any proof, document or evidence to substantiate such bald claims, the Minister stated. The Minister made it clear that his name did not figure in the ED’s investigation into role of Tollywood personalities in a drug racket even as a witness. He categorically stated that he had no connection with it. Without acquainting with the facts, the MP had been indulging in a tirade of mudslinging, the Minister charged. Indirectly referring to drugs case, the Minister stated that investigating agencies have issued notices as a matter of investigation to various persons, several of whom many not even be accused of any crime. Mr. Rao said the MP had been making allegation since 2017 and stepped up the negative campaign during this August-September by making wild comments. A comment or a popular post posted on YouTube is generally reflected on internet search engines. Baseless charges made by the MP were available on Google,the most popular search engine of internet. This readily available content is being accessed widely by people across the globe. This is resulting in irreparable damage to the reputation, Mr. Rao stated. The right to reputation is fundamental right of an individual and the right of freedom of speech and expression would be subject to right of reputation, he stated in the suit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-presents-online-links-as-evidence-in-defamation-suit/article36581111.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bandi Sanjay accepts ‘white challenge’||Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar waded into the ‘white challenge’ and said he is accepting it after former TRS MP K. Viveshwar Reddy’s tagged him onto drugs testing issue and said he is ready to take any ‘white, black, pink, or orange’ challenge as he has no vices. “I will be completing the first phase of my ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ on Oct. 2 and then I am ready to undergo any test, anywhere and at any place,” he said on Monday during the course of his 24th day of walkathon at Yellareddy. The BJP leader however was of the opinion that such personal challenges are of no use to people, especially the poor. “Mr. Visveshwar Reddy is a good man and came out of the Congress as he was against comprise politics. The drugs issue has been raised by the leader of the party in a dying stage and another leader of the ruling party has been making a drama of it, only to divert the attention of burning topics I am raising through my interactions with people,” he claimed. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said at a time when he is “throwing a challenge at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao daily” on issues concerning people, this drug test challenge is being raised. It is now clear who is colluding with him, he maintained and remarked that only the rich are into consuming drugs. He also dared the Mr. Rao to file a sedition case against him for questioning on people’s problems as every section is “suffering”. “Yesterday, we heard of a person threatening to file sedition charges and put us in jail for two years if we question the Chief Minister. We will keep questioning him for not fulfilling the promises made to youth, farmers, Dalits, etc.,, arrest me if you (Chief Minister) have the guts,” he said. In fact, such serious should be filed against Mr. Rao himself for ditching real agitators for Telangana, he said. “He (Chief Minister) cannot blame the Centre for his convenience. Our party will force the government to procure paddy and maize. We did not flinch when cases were filed against us when we supported the tribals cultivation rights. If Mr. Rao does not solve the problems by Dasara, we will lay siege to Pragati Bhavan and the farm house,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-sanjay-accepts-white-challenge/article36581113.ece
21 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Why is KTR afraid of undergoing a drug test, asks Revanth Reddy||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy charged Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao of running away from the drug analysis test after expressing his desire for the same. Mr. Reddy, who arrived at the Martyr’s memorial after inviting Mr. Rao and former MP Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, said he would come back anytime the Minister wishes for his presence for the White Challenge, an idea he had floated. He also thanked Mr. Konda Vishveshwar Reddy for accepting the challenge. Addressing the Congress workers who turned up at the memorial, he alleged that the report of the Special Investigation Team headed by Akun Sabharwal that probed into the drugs case was suppressed and it was made inaccessible even to the Central agencies. “When these questions are raised, Mr. Rao is trying to dilute the issue raising irrelevant questions,” Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Reddy alleged that drug abuse in Telangana has reached an alarming proportion and the government is non-serious about it as people close to the government are involved in it. To send a positive message in this regard, it would have been good if Mr. Rao responded for the tests, he said. He also asked Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao to go on surprise visits to the pubs so that he can realise the extent of the menace. Mr. Vishweshwar Reddy said Mr. K.T. Rama Rao should have accepted the challenge - instead of making it an ego issue. He extended White Challenge to BJP State president Bandi Sanjay and BSP leader R.S. Praveen Kumar. Addressing separate press conferences late, Congress leaders Addanki Dayakar, Manavata Roy and others said that Mr. Revanth Reddy rose to the position of PCC president from a ZPTC with his hard work, unlike Mr. K.T. Rama Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-is-ktr-afraid-of-undergoing-a-drug-test-asks-revanth-reddy/article36581117.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t cut trees at Kala Bhavan, HC tells GHMC||Telangana High Court on Monday instructed the State government not to cut the trees on the premises of Ravindra Bharathi and Kala Bhavan at Lakidkapul till further orders. A bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar passed this interim direction after hearing a PIL petition which was moved as lunch motion. A social worker W. Shivakumar filed the plea stating that GHMC authorities had planned to cut the trees and sought to declare the action as illegal. The trees were located in an empty space behind Kala Bhavan and would not obstruct traffic flow. They did not pose any threat to property or life either, the petitioner said. The petitioner made a representation to the GHMC not to cut the trees. Already, the GHMC got the branches of the trees chopped off and was proceeding to cut them, the petitioner said. Registration of houses In a separate matter, the bench dismissed an appeal filed by the State government challenging a single judge order in a petition involving registration of houses constructed by Housing Board. The bench upheld the single judge order which instructed the government and the Housing Board to register houses on the names of the purchasers within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-cut-trees-at-kala-bhavan-hc-tells-ghmc/article36581094.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BDL donates oxygen plant to medical college||Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL), as a part of its CSR initiative, handed over a PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) Oxygen Generator System to Employees State Insurance Corporation Medical College here on Monday. Chairman and managing director Commodore Siddharth Mishra handed over the plant in the presence of  director (finance) N. Srinivasulu, college dean Srinivas, faculty and students. The oxygen generator system has a capacity of 960 litres per minute, which is equivalent to 170 to 220 cylinders per day. Another significant feature is that it has in-built manifold for secondary oxygen supply in case of power failure or unit malfunction. This is the second such system contributed by BDL under its CSR initiative to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. A plant was handed over to the Military Hospital, Secunderabad, earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bdl-donates-oxygen-plant-to-medical-college/article36581092.ece
21 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Green channel facilitates lungs transportation||Hyderabad traffic police on Monday facilitated the transportation of lungs by providing non-stop movement to the ambulance from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, to KIMS Hospital, Begumpet. The 36.8-km distance between the airport and the hospital was covered in 26 minutes. The medical team carrying the lungs left at 2.52 p.m. from the airport and reached the hospital at 3.18 p.m. The efforts of Hyderabad and Cyberabad traffic police in transportation of live organs were applauded by the hospital, in-charge Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) D.S. Chauhan said. So far, this year, Hyderabad traffic police has facilitated organ transport 26 times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-channel-facilitates-lung-transportation/article36581093.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New chairman vows to bring back TSRTC’s glory||The newly appointed Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) Chairman B. Goverdhan on Monday said he will make all out efforts to bring back the past glory of the public transport system, making it self-reliant and passenger friendly on Monday. Stating that the TSRTC is a “great” organisation, which has seen many ups and downs, he traced most of the problems to the rise in diesel prices and the COVID-19 pandemic with the revenue loss reaching Rs. 2,500 crore. Talking to the media after taking charge, Mr. Goverdhan said before the pandemic, the organisation used to earn Rs. 13 crore a day and it has come down to Rs. 10 a day but the expenditure is to the tune of Rs. 18 crore, leaving a deficit of Rs. 8 crore. He will soon look into the functioning of the cargo parcel services, fuel filling stations and other ‘non-operational’ areas where revenue can be increased. “We will not sell assets like the Central Government is doing,” he remarked to a question. The Chairman also urged the general public to travel in RTC buses, with more services to the villages being restored, as it is safe when compared to the private vehicles and environment friendly as pollution is reduced. Even accidents can be prevented if more people take to them. RTC employees had put their lives at risk and worked during the pandemic not only in running bus services but took up special operations for transport of medicines, oxygen, etc., he noted. Mr. Sajjanar said everyone from the directors to the drivers and conductors are keen to put in their best. The staff will also be sensitised about passenger concerns like halting at designated stops and so on. The RTC hospital too will be developed as a multi-speciality one, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-bring-back-tsrtcs-past-glory/article36581096.ece
21 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS cadres ‘cleanse’ Martyr’s memorial||Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) cadres “cleaned” the Martyr’s Memorial with milk and water from the Ganga alleging that TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy’s presence has desecrated the place where the sacrifices of Telangana struggle are honoured. The TRS cadres led by former Deputy Mayor Baba Fasiuddin poured milk on the memorial and washed the place alleging that Mr. Revanth Reddy has contaminated such a respected place with false allegations personally targetting Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao. He alleged that Mr. Reddy was against the formation of Telangana and has no moral right to visit the memorial and has hurt the sentiments of people. Further attacking the Congress leader, he said Mr. Revanth Reddy, being in the Telugu Desham Party during the Telangana agitation, toed the anti-Telangana line and he has no moral right to use the platform. In a video message, Achampet MLA Guvvala Balaraju warned that Mr. Reddy cannot escape making baseless allegations. Targeting Mr. Rao is cheap publicity tactic for Mr. Revanth Reddy, and the TRS cadres will expose his misdeeds, he said. He said Mr. Rao need not respond to any challenge by a person who has spent time in Cherlpalli jail for trying to purchase a MLC to destabilise the Telangana government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-cadres-cleanse-martyrs-memorial/article36581121.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rains cause floods in parts of old city||A short spell of intense rain has left quite a few areas in the Old City crippled for the whole of Monday, as roads were flooded, vehicles were washed away and water entered homes and shops. Social media was agog with video clips of rain water running as streams in the streets, with pedestrians struggling to wade through knee-deep water. As per the data recorded on the Automatic Weather Stations installed across the city by 8 p.m., Chandulal Baradari area has received over 9 centimetres of rainfall, followed by Doodhbowli at 8 centimetres. Sardar Mahal, Attapur, Rein Bazar and Kurmaguda received around five centimetres of rain, while Virat Nagar, Ghansi Bazar, Lingojiguda, Asmangadh, Jahanuma, Jiaguda, and Shastripuram, among others, received considerable rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rains-cause-floods-in-parts-of-old-city/article36581097.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rich haul for NMDC at PRCI awards||Public sector mining major NMDC bagged the overall Champion of Champions runners-up position and 13 Corporate Communication Excellence Awards at the 11th All India Corporate Collateral Awards 2021 presented at the Global Communication Conclave of the Public Relations Council of India in Goa recently. Head of Corporate Communication P.Jaya Prakash said “as a mining company, it is our responsibility to create awareness of the mine to metal value chain. We use diverse, interactive and informational content across media to engage with our audience”. He thanked PRCI for encouraging innovation in communication techniques and recognising the creative initiatives of NMDC. The awards were presented by Minister for Art and Culture of Goa Govind Gaude, NMDC said in a release on Monday. CMD Sumit Deb said clear and consistent communication has helped NMDC further its business objectives and create socio-economic value for the country. The awards bagged by the company include Diamond Award for Annual Report, Gold Award for Best Annual Report Cover Page, Silver Awards for Start-up Idea of the Year, Best Social Media Usage, and Human Resources Management during COVID-19, Bronze Awards for Best Use of Social Media, Corporate Brochure, COVID Management in Public Sector, and Unique HR Initiatives, and Consolation Awards for Best in Communication COVID-19, House Journal, Best PSU Implementing CSR and Best Use of Content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rich-haul-for-nmdc-at-prci-awards-ceremony/article36581089.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vi to expand network capacity in Telangana, AP||Telecom operator Vi is planning a network expansion exercise to enhance its GIGAnet 4G capacity in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana Circle. About 2,000 TDD sites are to be added and the capacity of the existing more than 900 TDD sites, across key cities in the two States, is to be increased by December. Deployment of TDD sites in addition to the recent refarming of 3G spectrum to 4G in the Circle and supplementing of existing 4G infrastructure with expansion on 2100 MHz layer will significantly scale up the GIGAnet 4G network strength and capacity. With this, customers across key cities, including Hyderabad, Vijaywada, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Warangal and Guntur, will be able to experience better indoor voice clarity as well as download and upload speeds, the company said in a release on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vi-to-expand-network-capacity-in-telangana-ap/article36581107.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Order needed in distribution of food’||There is no dearth of food and in fact, an order to its distribution is what’s needed, say administrative officials of Niloufer Hospital. They said several individuals and organisations are distributing food for attendants. “Several of them distribute quality food. We recently conducted a meeting with the police and identified a food distribution point. What needs to be done is channelise efforts of all individuals and organisations so that they reach the point one after the other to distribute food,” said an official. Hyderabad Traffic Police have put up a banner near the hospital indicating directions to the food distribution point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/order-needed-in-distribution-of-food-officials/article36581084.ece
21 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cancer facility gets digital radiography machine||A new facility with Digital Radiography Machine FDR SMART F was inaugurated at Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital & Research Institute by its chairman Nandamuri Balakrishna. The new machine is capable of carrying out 200 X-rays within eight hours, allowing the hospital to serve patients in a day. With high-end digital imagery, it also enhances the diagnostic capability of medical experts. “Further, it also releases very low dose of radiation during the imaging process, reducing the radiation exposure to the patient undergoing the test,” a press release from the hospital stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cancer-facility-gets-digital-radiography-machine/article36581085.ece
21 September 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Man booked for torturing his daughter||Medak police have registered a case suo moto against a tractor driver for torturing his three-year-old girl. The police reacted to the incident after a video went viral on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-booked-for-torturing-his-daughter/article36581126.ece
21 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Ganesh immersion passes off peacefully in Medak||With heavy police force mobilised to prevent any untoward incidents and supervision by senior officials, immersion of Ganesh idols was held peacefully in the erstwhile Medak district since Sunday night. At several locations the immersion started late on Sunday night and continued till Monday evening. At Sangareddy district, Superintendent of Police Ramana Kumar closely monitored the procession at several places and examined the arrangements. At Siddipet, as many as 938 idols of Ganesh were immersed with the last idol immersed at 7 a.m.. Commissioner of Police D. Joel Davis supervised the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganesh-immersion-passes-off-peacefully-in-medak/article36581352.ece
21 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Honour for IITH PRO||Mitalee Agrawal, Public Relations Officer of the India Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IITH), was chosen for ‘Chanakya Award as the Social Media Person of the Year’ for her exceptional contribution to the associated organisation via effective utilisation of social media by the Public Relations Council of India (PRCI). The award was presented to her by Chief Minister of Goa Dr. Pramod Sawant on September 17 at a two-day Grand Global Communication Conclave held in Goa. She was also presented ‘Ameya of the Year' Award on International Women's Day for her dedicated service to public relations and society by the governing council of PRCI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/honour-for-iith-pro/article36581125.ece
21 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Heavy inflows into Singur||The Irrigation Department officials have warned that the inflows have increased into Singur reservoir and they have to lift gates if necessary at any time. According to sources, a spillway gate was opened in the evening. “People down stream were warned not to venture out, not to go for fishing, and not to take cattle or sheep/goat for grazing,” said P. Madhusudhan Reddy, Executive Engineer, Singur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-inflows-into-singur/article36581127.ece
21 September 2021||Bhopal,||Primary schools reopen in M.P.||Classroom teaching in the primary section of Madhya Pradesh schools resumed on Monday after remaining closed since March 24 last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said. However, they added that attendance. despite a cap of 50% of class strength, was low. "Schools were shut since March 24, 2020. Students seemed enthusiastic to be back in class after such a long gap. Those who did not have mobile phones to attend online classes seemed to be more excited,” Bhopal District Education Officer Nitin Saxena said. Queried on the attendance, he said no figure of students who were present in school on day one post resumption was available, though he added that it was “sizable”. Online classes will continue as earlier, he added. Viny Raj Modi, vice president of the Association of Unaided Private Schools said most schools were holding the three-monthly examinations through online mode at present. “So, such schools were not open from Monday. However, some schools resumed classes. In private schools, only 25% parents have given consent for the physical presence of their children. They will start coming to schools after completion of the three-monthly examination,” Mr. Modi said. Rekha Negi, the mother of a Class-I student in Jawaharlal Nehru School, said she would not send her child to school as the pandemic continued, and there were chances of the infection spreading due to travel in school buses and vans. School for Classes VI to XII, with 50% attendance cap per day, had started earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/primary-schools-reopen-in-mp/article36581209.ece
21 September 2021||Gurugram,||Human rights panel awards Rs. 5 lakh compensation to families of victims||The Haryana Human Rights Commission has recommended Rs. 5 lakh compensation each to the next of the kin of a woman and a man, who died after falling into an open sewer in Faridabad five years ago. In a 10-page order, Justice S.K. Mittal said that “roads are meant for use by the public and if a user is harmed, the State shall be directly responsible for the consequences of such a mishap.” The order further said that the mishap was evidently on account of the negligent maintenance by the civic authority which was duty-bound to ensure that the manholes in its jurisdiction were not left open. Turning down the corporation’s plea that the deceased herself was negligent as she fell into the sewer busy talking over phone, Mr. Mittal said, “An open manhole is indeed a death trap.” Mahesh, a resident of Chhajjan Nagar Colony, and his wife had gone to buy vegetables from a nearby market, when the man received a call on his mobile phone. He handed over the phone to his wife and got busy with buying the vegetables. The 28-year-old woman fell into a 25 feet deep open sewer while attending to the call. Laxman Prasad (30), a man, went down the sewer holding a rope to pull her out. But the rope snapped, and he too fell into the sewer. The two were later pulled out by fire brigade officials but declared dead on arrival at a hospital. Taking a suo motu cognisance of the incident following a newspaper report, the commission sought a report from the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad. But the matter had to be adjourned several times on the request of the civic body and the commission finally recommended the compensation on September 2 with an observation that “there was an inordinate delay on behalf of the Municipal Commissioner in putting the response before the commission” on the matter. The commission said that the essential facts of the case were not disputed and “the principal of Res Ipsa Loquitur ought to be followed and compensation awarded without waiting for response from the commissioner as the case has been lingering for five years and dates after dates are being sought without any plausible reason”. The commission relied on the post-mortem report of the woman and the admission by the authorities that the deaths were caused due to the two falling into the open sewer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/human-rights-panel-awards-rs-5-lakh-compensation-to-families-of-victims/article36580967.ece
21 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Efforts to create Thar biosphere reserve stepped up||The exercise to create a much-awaited biosphere reserve in western Rajasthan’s Thar desert has been stepped up with the support of UNESCO, which has assured to provide funds and technical help for protecting the rare fauna in the region. The project may be included shortly in UNESCO’s flagship Man and the Biosphere (MAB) Programme. The climate variability in Thar desert is based on the stretches of sand, which are interspersed with hillocks and sandy and gravel plains. Environmentalists believe that this arid region’s vegetation, human culture and animal life are very diverse in comparison with other deserts in the world because of its varied habitat and ecosystem. The biosphere reserve project formulated by the State government’s Forest Department has laid emphasis on the conservation of biodiversity and desert ecology as well as the participation of local communities in the conservation efforts. In addition to the protection of unique natural features, the people'’s livelihood will be strengthened in the reserve. Principal Forest and Environment Secretary Sreya Guha said here that the project, based on the vision for protection of natural resources as well the local communities, would not put any restrictions on the daily lives of people . The exercise has been continuing since 1988, when a task force was appointed for preparing the project document. The latest proposal has been prepared in association with the Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI), Jodhpur, covering the aspects of conservation of flora and fauna and preservation of the desert ecosystem. MAB programme UNESCO country head Eric Falt, who was on a visit to Jaipur recently, indicated that the biosphere project could be included in the U.N. body’s MAB Programme, which seeks to enhance the relationship between people and their environments. The programme strengthens the correlation between natural ecosystem and socio-economic processes in the context of biological and cultural diversity. Rajasthan’s Chief Wildlife Warden Arindam Tomar said the biosphere reserve would require allocation of adequate resources for protection of biodiversity, ecosystem and land features. Efforts were being made to protect the endangered species of great Indian bustards, desert cats, chinkaras, vultures and other birds, he said. Tourism and Wildlife Society of India’s honorary secretary Harsh Vardhan said the biosphere reserve would serve its purpose if the grasslands on vast tracts were developed for grazing of animals, as their neglect and conversion into irrigated and cultivated land would further endanger the rare species. This aspect was neglected even in the Desert National Park established near Jaisalmer and Barmer, he said. Changing ecology Amid the changing ecology, several species of migratory birds have started arriving in western Rajasthan earlier than the winter season this year. The water bodies in the region have witnessed the arrival of birds in small groups from Central Asia, which is an indication of the substantial man-induced alterations in the microclimate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/efforts-to-create-thar-biosphere-reserve-stepped-up/article36581195.ece
21 September 2021||Jatin Anand,||‘We need more buses; reforms in tendering, procurement processes’||Pravesh Biyani, Associate Professor at the Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology-Delhi (IIIT-D), who heads the Centre for Sustainable Mobility to provide solutions related to the Capital’s transportation sector speaks to The Hindu on the present state and fate of public transportation in Delhi. Excerpts: Privately owned cluster buses are about to overtake those owned and operated by the Delhi government through the Delhi Transport Corporation. Isn’t this a matter of concern? For a population of two crore, we need at least 10,000 buses. Therefore, it’s not a concern if the fleet owned by private operators in any city outsizes any government-owned fleet. Currently, in Delhi, less than half of the total fleet (of around 6,700) is owned by private operators. The DTC still has the bigger share of fleet. But importantly, we need more buses — throughout the country. Finally, to be fair to both, the DTC and the Delhi government, the bus procurement system is also not that friendly and is extremely complex. In India, we need reforms in the tendering and procurement processes. In your experience, is the size of the bus fleet the only issue that needs to be rectified for a relatively better, more efficient and reliable experience for commuters in Delhi? Not just in Delhi, for public transit in India, we need more service, we need better frequency, reliable service, routes with wider coverage. That can be done by using private operators as well as government-owned bus fleet. But more importantly, we need a more efficient system. A fleet size of 10,000 running on sub-optimal routes is worse than fleet size of 6,000 running in an efficient manner. The Delhi government has taken the first and the most difficult step towards making the system efficient by digitisation of their depots and opening up the transit data. Currently, Delhi is the only city with such initiatives. What are the issues, both in terms of public perception as well as infrastructure, which you believe the government needs to rectify regarding its own fleet? There are many things that can be improved in Delhi. For examples, bus stops can be de-encroached of parked private cars. Routes and timetable information can be provided in the bus stops. We have been working with the Delhi government to provide real-time passenger information system in the stops, that I think will solve the problem to a certain extent. For example, real-time information of buses is available on Google Maps, our own Chartr app as well as the One Delhi app in future. Further, operating routes in pre-decided frequencies in a timely manner will also help. Making these changes will certainly improve public perception. These processes take time but are certainly doable. Is it safe to allow overage buses to carry lakhs of passengers on a daily basis? Honestly, on the question of safety, I am yet to hear of a casualty because the bus was old. Yes, an older fleet will have more breakdowns and that will lead to many problems, but safety is not one of the bigger concerns. This does not mean that we should continue to run a bus till it completely breaks down. Why could the government not procure vehicles in time to avoid this situation? Can it not buy smaller vehicles or vehicles of any other specification in the meantime till it is able to buy low-floor buses? I cannot comment and judge the timelines of procurement of buses as I am not privy to the internal details. But as mentioned, procurement is in general a very complex problem. Yes, there are other options possible, too, for buses. Just like metro feeder buses, the government can also operate smaller buses and other buses like standard buses (same as orange cluster buses) in their fleet. The DTC’s legacy as the largest CNG-propelled bus service provider in the world seems to be at stake along with its survival. How can the public transportation sector be saved? The public transportation sector in India cannot only be saved but can also be turned around and agencies like the DTC can be the best and the most-used transit agencies in the world. The DTC, for example, has an envious monopoly in the bus-based public transit market in a city with a population of 20 million. It has a great infrastructure support in the form of depots. Unfortunately, many transit agencies in India have historically lacked passenger focus like their corporate counterparts. Public transits should consider their passengers as customers and, like every successful business, design all the features of their product accordingly. How can the transportation sector transform itself in terms of public perception which, as you have outlined, has deteriorated over time as well as in terms of commuter experience? The public perception of bus-based public transit has to be lifted throughout the country. Perceptions like buses are delayed and unreliable can be repaired easily by running buses by timetable and by apps and a passenger information system (PIS). The government should start with outcomes in mind. The government should emphasis on the eco-friendliness of public transit and this will certainly motivate younger passengers to take public transit. Taking a public transit should be made “cool” — just like driving an electric vehicle is. What are the infrastructural improvements that the government can consider to improve the image of the public transportation sector in the eyes of the average commuter? There are many places like airports, railway stations with enormous passenger demand. For instance, most air flyers are not even aware of the reasonable and cheap DTC services from the airport to the city. The buses at Nizamuddin and New Delhi railway stations are operated from a faraway place, thereby, missing lakhs of potential passengers every day. Public transit should be made accessible to commuters in such places. Public transit agencies should also collaborate with last-mile providers like e-rickshaw providers, bike-sharing companies, grameen seva, etc. to provide an end-to-end journey experience for its passengers. All the above can only happen by bringing a conscious passenger focus in the public transit agencies. The government should also improve the most critical infrastructure of footpaths which has a direct bearing on the use of public transit. Do you have any suggestions to transform the sector so that it is able to face both the advantages as well as the challenges that the ever-changing availability of technology presents? The other often missing aspect is the involvement of new-age professionals that specialise in data and IT to compliment the excellent administrative and operations capacity in organisations like the DTC. Note that modern transit companies like Transport for London (TFL), Uber and Ola etc. hire world-class people with expertise in new-age technologies involving optimisation and machine learning etc. The government should engage such people to build their systems to meet the above mentioned outcomes in the public transporter. That being said, however, I must also acknowledge that Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot has prioritised many of the modern initiatives like open transit data, contactless ticketing etc. to make bus-based public transit better for passengers. What are the options that the DTC has to fall back upon to survive given the lack of procurement of buses over more than a decade? The other option for the DTC till they procure low-floor buses is to engage with private operators, especially for air-conditioned routes, airport routes and even electric buses. There are indeed many ways of adding to the fleet of the DTC; some even do not involve painful procurement and tendering processes. The DTC has served the people of Delhi well in the last many decades and there is no reason that it cannot serve more in future. The DTC should be the pride of Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/we-need-more-buses-reforms-in-tendering-procurement-processes/article36580957.ece
21 September 2021||Kendrapara (Odisha),||8-foot-long croc rescued from village pond||An eight-foot-long estuarine crocodile, that had strayed into a community pond, was caught alive by forest personnel in Odisha's Kendrapara district on Monday and later released into the Baunsagadi rivulet, a Forest department official said. The crocodile had sneaked into the pond in search of food when a fisherman sighted it and raised alarm, he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/8-foot-long-croc-rescued-from-village-pond/article36580982.ece
21 September 2021||Kolkata,||Incessant rain, waterlogging affect normal life in Kolkata||Normal life was thrown out of gear in and around Kolkata on Monday when these places woke up to waterlogged roads and non-stop downpour continuing from the small hours of Sunday. Cyclonic circulation The Met department, which attributed the sudden change in weather to a cyclonic circulation over northwest Bay of Bengal, predicted heavy to very heavy rain — seven to 20 cm — in some places over Kolkata, and the districts of North and South 24 Parganas, Hooghly and Nadia. This is the highest rainfall the region is experiencing on a single day since 2007. An orange alert has been issued for these places for Tuesday. The department warned possible rise in water level of rivers and damage to standing vegetable crops. “Yesterday’s cyclonic circulation over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining areas of north Odisha-West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts now lies over Gangetic West Bengal and neighbourhood and now extends up to 5.8 km above mean sea level,” it said in a special bulletin. Kolkata woke up to a waterlogging it is not accustomed to. People in low-lying areas had water entering their homes. It was mainly delivery agents who went about their work as usual. “I had to cancel my morning walk. I couldn’t go to the market, but all this doesn’t matter. My heart literally wept at the thought of the pavement dwellers whom I saw last night when I was coming back from Sealdah station. They had no idea about the impending doom and were listlessly arranging their beddings for what felt like an otherwise ordinary night ahead,” said school teacher Nina Mukherjee, a resident of Howrah. Technocrat-turned-entrepreneur Indranil Aich, a resident of Salt Lake City, said: “It is heart-breaking to see the have-nots out to earn their livelihood in such weather. The sharp increase in impermeable surface in Kolkata, including Salt Lake City, has led to a decrease in rainfall infiltration. Uncontrolled use of plastic and unstructured disposal of non-biodegradable waste is only adding to the injury.” Saibal Mukherjee, who lives in Golf Garden and runs a café called Bike and Blend there, said: “Rain this year has been synonymous with damage, loss and misery. Misery applies most to my pets who have been trained to respond to nature’s call outside the flat in the open. With so much of water around, they are confused. I had to cancel orders on Swiggy and Zomato as my café, including the kitchen, is under knee-deep water.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/incessant-rain-waterlogging-affect-normal-life-in-kolkata/article36581214.ece
21 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Man held with 7,900 bottles of cough syrup||A man was arrested allegedly with 7,900 bottles of cough syrup worth Rs. 23.70 lakh in an operation carried out by the Anti Narcotics Cell (ANC) of Mumbai police, an officer said on Monday. Acting on a tip off, the ANC laid a trap on Ghatkopar-Mankhurd Road and arrested Mukesh Rajaram Chaudhari. “We found 200 cough syrup bottles worth Rs. 60,000 with him. His godown was raided in Virar and another 7,700 bottles worth Rs. 23 lakh were confiscated,” he added.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-with-7900-bottles-of-cough-syrup/article36581199.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||‘Every rupee will be used to reach the needy’||Every rupee in his foundation is “awaiting its turn” to be used to reach the needy and save precious lives, actor Sonu Sood said in a statement on Tuesday, days after the CBDT alleged that he evaded tax worth crores. The actor said he had been busy “attending to a few guests” and that is why he was unable to be at the service of the people for the last four days.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/every-rupee-will-be-used-to-reach-the-needy/article36581202.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Filters installed in smog tower, IIT Bombay team begins study||The Delhi government has finished installation of filters in the smog tower in Connaught Place, which was inaugurated last month. Also, a team from IIT Bombay has started a study on the impact of the tower on the air quality, officials said. “The filters are now in place and IIT Bombay has started the two-year study. But data generation will take a little more time as we are not operating the fans right now since we are waiting for the humidity to come down,” an official told The Hindu . The smog tower is a 24-metre-high structure fitted with fans and air filters and it will draw in polluted air from the top and release purified air near the ground through fans fitted on sides. The tower has 40 big fans and 5,000 filters to clean the air and the fans suck in air, which will be cleaned as it passes through the filters. The tower was inaugurated by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 23. After the inauguration, the tower is yet to be fully functional as authorities were waiting for monsoon to be over to install the filters and run the fans. Officials delayed the installation of filters as there could be fungal growth in the filter due to high moisture during the monsoon. “The fungal growth will be more if we use the fans during monsoons as the moisture is more and it will be caught by the filters,” the official said. In January 2020, the Supreme Court had asked the Delhi government to set up the tower on a pilot basis. “There is about a 90% reduction in the PM particles that enter and leave the tower in test runs. But how much effect it will have at a distance from the tower will be known only after the IIT study,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/filters-installed-in-smog-tower-iit-bombay-team-begins-study/article36580979.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Centre, EC, govt. told to reply to plea seeking AAP derecognition||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre, Delhi government and Election Commission (EC) to respond to a petition seeking derecognition of the Aam Aadmi Party for organising Ganesh Chaturthi using public money. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Amit Bansal posted the petition filed by advocate M.L. Sharma for further hearing on November 18. “Is there any article in the Constitution which prohibits the State...,” the Bench asked Mr. Sharma during the hearing. Mr. Sharma argued that “any funding to any religious purpose and organising any religious function is contra to the Constitution”. He said “any funding to temple, mosque, ‘Maulvi’, ‘Pujari’, religious persons/ trust and religious function by the state is unconstitutional”. He stressed that the Ganesh Puja organised by the Delhi government on September 10 was unconstitutional. Senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, opposed the plea saying it was a totally motivated and mischievous petition, coloured as public interest litigation (PIL). “An attempt is being made through this petition that some kind of communal disharmony should be instigated,” Mr. Mehra said adding that the government facilitating religious celebrations is not new and it is done every time during the Kumbh Mela and Amarnath Yatra, “It is the solemn duty of the State and the Union to ensure that people who have certain faith, their public health is looked into,” Mr. Mehra said adding, “it has nothing to do with exchequer money. No one is being forced to telecast anything. No subsidy given to anyone of any kind”. The senior advocate said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal merely requested the media to cover the celebration for citizens’ participation from their residences. “We may perhaps be the only State in the country which has banned Ganesh Chaturthi at a mass scale so that the third wave does not come. That was why the Ganesh Puja was organised…so that people may celebrate it at their homes,” Mr. Mehra argued. “It’s a laudable objective. We are trying to build a kind of culture in our society where spirituality comes first. Where all religions are kept at par. There is absolutely nothing which is unconstitutional here,” he added. ‘Vested interest’ However, the petition queried whether releasing money from the state treasury for organising religious worship for “vested interest” attract sections 408 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. It said India is a secular country and no government can be seen indulging in religious activities by using public money.  It is the solemn duty of the State and the Union to ensure that people who have certain faith, their public health is looked into...it has nothing to do with exchequer money... Rahul Mehra Senior advocate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centre-ec-govt-told-to-reply-to-plea-seeking-aap-derecognition/article36580959.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Stubble burning: govt. to spray bio-decomposer in paddy fields||The Delhi government will start spraying bio-decomposer for free in 4,000 acres of paddy fields in Delhi from October 5, to tackle stubble burning, Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Monday. Bio-decomposer is a solution, which, if sprayed in fields, decomposes straw and stubble into manure. The government sees it as a solution to stubble burning and has also been urging other States to adopt it. A bio-decomposer capsule, developed by Pusa Institute, is made into a solution through a week-long process and then sprayed on stubble and straw left behind on fields after harvesting. The Delhi government first sprayed it last year and it claimed that the results were positive. Mr. Rai said the government is fully prepared with its mechanism to spray the bio-decomposer, and farmers just need to fill out a form to get the spraying done at their fields. “We presented a holistic report on the performance of the bio-decomposer to the Commission For Air Quality Management. They asked us to get a third-party audit done on it. We got the third-party audit conducted through an agency of the Centre. They, too, heaped praises on the solution. Their report says that not only is the bio-decomposer an effective solution to curb stubble burning pollution, it also enhances the quality of the soil,” Mr. Rai said. Last week, Mr. Rai had said that they had sought time to meet the Union Environment Minister to urge him to use bio-decomposer in neighbouring States to control stubble burning. “The Union Environment Minister has still not given time to me and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. I appeal to him to understand the gravity of the problem and act on it,” the Minister said. About the winter action plan to control air pollution in the city, Mr. Rai said the department will finalise it by September 30. “The plan would then be presented to the Chief Minister. After discussions with the CM, the plan would be brought forth to the people of Delhi,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stubble-burning-govt-to-spray-bio-decomposer-in-paddy-fields/article36580975.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||ED to grill three U.P. leaders in money laundering cases||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) will begin the questioning of Samajwadi Party MP Azam Khan, gangster Mukhtar Ansari and strongman Ateeq Ahmad from Monday in separate money laundering probes being conducted against them and their associates. Official sources said the action is being initiated after obtaining permission from special courts that try cases booked under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. They said the 72-year-old Khan, lodged in Sitapur district jail of Uttar Pradesh, will be questioned and his statement recorded between September 20 and September 24. Similarly, the 58-year-old Ansari, the BSP legislator from Mau seat, will be questioned at the Banda district jail after a court in August allowed the ED to record his statement. An order on the same lines has been issued by the PMLA court authorising the ED to question the 59-year-old Ahmad, who is lodged in the Sabarmati jail of Gujarat in judicial custody, official sources said. They said the agency has filed separate PMLA cases against them and the ED may attach their assets under the criminal provisions of the same law. The ED had initiated probe against Khan in 2019 after taking cognisance of at least 26 FIRs filed by the State police including allegations that a university run by him in Rampur has been raised over a land that was grabbed from an ‘enemy property’. Ansari is under the ED scanner in connection with at least 49 criminal cases including land grabbing, murder and extortion. Ahmad, a former MP, is being investigated on the basis of as many as 196 FIRs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ed-to-grill-three-up-leaders-in-money-laundering-cases/article36580986.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi sees no death for third day||The city reported no new COVID-19 death in 24 hours for the third consecutive day and the total number of fatalities stood at 25,085, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Twenty-eight new cases were reported, taking the total case tally to 14,38,517. A total of 47,845 tests were done in a day while the test positivity rate was 0.04%. Of the total cases, 14,13,053 people have recovered and there are only 379 active cases. Also, the COVID-19 vaccine stock in the city would last for five days, another bulletin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-sees-no-death-for-third-day/article36580973.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Karol Bagh mall sealed again as traders refused to pay BJP: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation had sealed ND Mall in Karol Bagh in 2013 and after taking crores of rupees from shopkeepers, BJP leaders allowed the mall to run for eight years. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed that the mall was again sealed on Monday after traders did not pay money to BJP leaders, and this alleged corruption came to light. ‘Seal broken’ “This building was sealed but has not been demolished. Sealing is a temporary measure for a couple of days or weeks before the building is demolished. Instead, this seal was broken, and bribes were taken for the shops and showrooms to continue functioning,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. The AAP leader said that the authorities knew about this and still took no action. “In 2014, an FIR was registered in this matter and this has reached the Deputy Commissioner of Karol Bagh zone. It is written here that the shops which were sealed have opened again and this was addressed to the SHO of Karol Bagh police station. After that, this matter was suppressed,” he said. ‘BJP got greedy’ Mr. Bharadwaj alleged that the BJP got greedy and asked for money again from the traders and threatened to seal the shops. “To express their dissatisfaction with the intimidating behaviour of the BJP, these shopkeepers held a press conference and revealed everything about this matter. Once that clip started playing on channels and even, I tweeted it, the MCD’s blackmailing and extortion practices got exposed and those shops were again sealed on Monday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/karol-bagh-mall-sealed-again-as-traders-refused-to-pay-bjp-aap/article36580977.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Despite failing in Delhi, CM promising jobs in Uttarakhand, says Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Monday said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was making poll promises in Uttarakhand that he would provide jobs for the unemployed youth but failed to deliver on his promises made to the people of Delhi. Delhi Congress Chief Ch. Anil Kumar said Mr. Kejriwal had promised 8 lakh jobs in five years to the youth of Delhi but after being in power for seven years, just 440 youth got jobs while 84% jobs in the Directorate of Employment are lying vacant. Mr. Kumar said when the pandemic-induced lockdowns robbed lakhs of the youth of their jobs and livelihoods, the Delhi government set up a job portal at the expense of crores of rupees and over 13,27061 lakh job-seekers registered with the portal but only 0.3% got jobs in the private sector. “It is ironic that Mr. Kejriwal has promised to establish an ‘Employment and Migrant Ministry’ in Uttarakhand, though he had done nothing when lakhs of migrant workers walked to their native villages in Bihar, U.P. and Uttarakhand when they lost jobs and livelihoods during the COVID crisis,” Mr. Kumar said.  Mr. Kejriwal had promised 8 lakh jobs in five years to the youth of Delhi but after being in power for seven years, just 440 youth got jobs Anil Kumar Delhi Congress Chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/despite-failing-in-delhi-cm-promising-jobs-in-uttarakhand-says-cong/article36580961.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||280-litre oxygen plant set up by students of SRCC inaugurated||An oxygen plant with a capacity of 280-litre per minute set up by students of Delhi University’s Shri Ram College of Commerce at the Commonwealth Games village was inaugurated on Monday. The students of SRCC said they had raised Rs. 35 lakh within 10 days through an online fundraiser for the plant. Delhi had battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic in April-May during which a number of lives were lost with shortage of beds and oxygen adding to the woes of people. The Commonwealth Games Centre has been converted into a 500-bed COVID-19 care facility by the Delhi government. The event was attended by SRCC alumnus and BJP leader Vijay Goel. He expressed happiness and pride for being an alumnus of an institution like SRCC. He appreciated the efforts of the college teachers, authorities as well as ‘Doctors For You’, which collaborated for the initiative, for playing an instrumental role in pulling off the campaign. College principal professor Simrit Kaur called it a ‘commendable effort’ by the students of the college. The students said the plant can save around 20-30 lives at a time. “The plant will be installed at a permanent government health facility post the pandemic with the help of district authorities who were also present at the event,” Ms. Kaur said. Sunil Kumar, Nodal Officer, CWG Covid Centre, district administration, explained the journey of converting the Commonwealth Games Centre into a COVID-19 care facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/280-litre-oxygen-plant-set-up-by-students-of-srcc-inaugurated/article36580968.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-D sets up lab to measure electrical performance of devices and circuits||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi on Monday said it had set up a laboratory that will enable the measurement of electrical performance of devices and circuits that are used in equipment like mobile phones, space satellites, and quantum computers. The lab it said will help researchers of IIT Delhi as well as researchers from other institutions who are conducting research in the area of integrated electronic circuits and devices. The Advanced Electrical Characterization Laboratory was set up with an investment cost of Rs. 17 crore. IIT Delhi Director V. Ramgopal Rao said the institution has significantly enhanced its research infrastructure in the last few years in the areas of Nanofabrication, materials characterisation, testing and prototype manufacturing. He added that this electrical characterisation facility is a welcome addition to the existing facilities. The laboratory in-charge, Abhisek Dixit, from the Electrical Engineering Department, IIT Delhi said the institute is now equipped to perform various types of electrical measurements on a wide variety of packaged and on-wafer devices in a broad range of temperatures from 4.2K to +300 deg. C with the highest levels of precision possible anywhere in the world.  Institution has significantly enhanced its research infrastructure in the last few years in the areas of Nano fabrication, materials characterisation, testing and prototype manufacturing V. Ramgopal Rao IIT Delhi Director||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iit-d-sets-up-lab-to-measure-electrical-performance-of-devices-and-circuits/article36580964.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two Tihar jail inmates hurt after fight inside cell||Two Tihar jail inmates were injured after they attacked each other with sharp edge objects inside the cell, said officials on Monday. They said the incident took place on Saturday evening inside jail number 3 of Tihar prison. After the attack, one inmate was sent to a nearby hospital where he is undergoing treatment. He is said to be stable, a jail official said. This is the fourth such incident reported in Tihar jail this month.  On September 11, two inmates of Tihar jail number 3 were injured after a clash broke out between them. The inmates returned to the jail after treatment. The police had registered an attempt to murder case. On September 12 and 13, two undertrial prisoners sustained injuries when they were attacked with sharp objects by fellow inmates in separate incidents. On September 12, inmate Vikas Dhull was attacked by Vikas Chopra using a surgical blade. A day later, undertrial prisoner, Vijay was attacked by fellow inmate Dinesh with a handmade sharp metal piece. He suffered injuries in the back and was shifted to DDU hospital. An inmate identified as Ankit Gujjar was murdered inside the prison in August after which jail superintendent was booked along with other jail staff.  Incident took place on Saturday evening inside jail number 3 of Tihar prison Jail official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-tihar-jail-inmates-hurt-after-fight-inside-cell/article36580966.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kuki National Front chief held in Delhi||Commander-in-chief of Manipur’s insurgent group —Kuki National Front — has been arrested, the police said on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said the accused has been identified as Mangkholam Kipgen alias David Kipgen (24) who was arrested from Dwarka Sector 7. On Sunday, information was received about the movement of a wanted insurgent of Manipur in Dwarka after which the police laid a trap and apprehended Kipgen. “He has studied up to Class VII and in 2018, he came in contact with KNF cadres of his village and got engaged with them in extortion, robbery, dacoity among other crimes. Soon, he became infamous for snatching weapons of forces, kidnapping for ransom, extortion and other heinous activities,” Mr. Kushwah said adding that in 2020, he declared himself as self-styled commander-in-chief. Criminal cases In December 2020, he along with other accomplices, holding sophisticated weapons attacked, overpowered and kidnapped two sentries of Kangvai Police outpost, district Churachandpur, Manipur and later took away one service rifle INSAS. In February 2021, he along with his accomplices abducted one Nepali national from Kalapahar, Churachandpur, Manipur for ransom. Recently, he was planning to kidnap the employees of a construction company, involved in major projects and other establishments in Manipur for extortion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kuki-national-front-chief-held-in-delhi/article36580965.ece
21 September 2021||Noida,||Two builders’ offices, societies’ clubs sealed||The Noida Authority has sealed the offices and clubs of two realtors in their two under-construction housing societies in Gautam Budh Nagar for flouting the National Green Tribunal rules, an official said on Monday. The Authority said it had started an inquiry to find out if all housing societies in the city, adjoining Delhi, had their sewage treatment plants (STPs) functional or not. “During the inquiry, it transpired that some societies either did not have STPs or they were not functional, which is a violation of the NGT orders,” the authority said. “Noida Authority CEO Ritu Maheshwari had instructed that the builders’ offices and the clubs of all such societies should be sealed,” the authority said. The offices and clubs of the Eco City being developed by Futura Shelters in Sector 75 and RG Residency being developed by RG Buildtech in Sector 120 were sealed on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-builders-offices-societies-clubs-sealed/article36580969.ece
21 September 2021||Noida,||Previous govts. used bullets to acquire land, BJP regime did it without ruckus: MLA||Previous governments had used force to acquire land while the current Yogi Adityanath-led regime in Uttar Pradesh got it done without any ruckus, BJP leader and Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh said on Monday. Mr. Singh was referring to the recent acquisition of land from villagers in his constituency for the proposed greenfield Noida International Airport and the Bhatta-Parsaul episode a decade ago when the region witnessed violence over land acquisition. Presenting the ‘report card’ of the BJP government’s four-and-a-half-year tenure, the MLA said Jewar, predominantly a rural area, had transformed during this period with more industrial investment coming to the region and improvement in law and order situation. “In the previous government’s regime, bullets were fired to acquire land, while today, such a huge land acquisition (for the airport) took place, but there was no ruckus,” Mr. Singh told reporters at a conference held at the Yamuna Expressway Authority’s office. He said a Metro line will soon connect Greater Noida and Jewar. “Big firms have established their companies in Jewar due to which the means of employment are going to open soon and women will also get employment in the Apparel Park while the clothes made there will help Jewar make a mark in the world,” he added. “The land for setting up a Skill Development University has also been received and soon the youth of the area will start getting training here,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/previous-govts-used-bullets-to-acquire-land-bjp-regime-did-it-without-ruckus-mla/article36580971.ece
21 September 2021||Noida,||Man involved in snatchings in NCR held after gunfight in Noida||A man suspected behind several cases of phone and jewellery snatchings in the National Capital Region was arrested in Noida on Monday after a gunfight with the police in which he suffered injuries, officials said. The accused, who hails from Khoda colony in adjoining Ghaziabad, and his aide were intercepted by a team of Sector 24 police station around 8 a.m., following a tip-off, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said. “The Noida police had been working on cases of snatchings and street crimes in which criminals based out of bordering cities of Ghaziabad and Delhi were often involved. Accused Subhash Negi, who has over a dozen cases against him, was also wanted by the police,” Mr. Singh said. “This morning, the local police got a tip-off about his movement in Noida, following which he was intercepted, and while he was on the bridge of a nullah near RTO office in Sector 33A. Seeing himself surrounded by the police, he opened fire in a bid to escape but got hit in retaliatory firing and was held,” the officer said. Mr. Negi was immediately sent to a hospital, Mr. Singh said, adding that his aide, however, managed to escape but a combing operation was under way to track him. An illegal country-made pistol and three stolen mobile phones have been seized from his possession, while the scooter he was using has been impounded, the officer said. An FIR was being lodged in the case and further legal proceedings were under way, Mr. Singh said, adding that the police are also trying to track the network of suppliers and buyers of the stolen phones in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-involved-in-snatchings-in-ncr-held-after-gunfight-in-noida/article36580970.ece
21 September 2021||Patna,||Jharkhand, Bihar are brothers: Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said both Jharkhand and Bihar belong to the same family. Mr. Kumar was reacting to his Jharkhand counterpart, Hemant Soren, who recently courted controversy by stating that the two regional languages spoken largely in Bihar — Bhojpuri and Magahi — “are borrowed languages and speakers of these languages are dominating persons”. ‘Highly objectionable’ The BJP, Mr. Kumar’s alliance partner, though, had called Mr. Soren’s comments “highly objectionable and aimed at dividing society”. “These things should never be thought of. Bihar and Jharkhand are brothers, they belong to the same family. I don’t know why people say something like this. People of both States need not make comments about each other, Mr. Kumar said. “Though Jharkhand was separated from us, we only have love for them,” he told presspersons after his weekly Janata ke durbar mein mukhyamantri (Chief Minister in the people’s court) programme got over. Last week, Mr. Soren also told a private news channel that the “tribal society had fought for a separate State of Jharkhand because of its regional and tribal languages and not because of Bhojpuri or Magahi”. Later, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) leader and party spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharya said his party “stands by what the Chief Minister has said”. Prayer room controversy Earlier, this month Mr Soren’s government had also hit headlines after allotting a separate room for offering namaz (prayer) for Muslim legislators in Jharkhand Assembly. The BJP legislators too, later, demanded space for a Hanuman temple and prayer room for other religions as well in the Assembly premises. Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in November 2000 and Mr. Soren’s JMM had played a key role in the movement for a separate State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jharkhand-bihar-are-brothers-nitish/article36581198.ece
21 September 2021||Pune,||BJP dares Hasan Mushrif to face ED||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Maharashtra unit president Chandrakant Patil on Monday contended that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar would not support any wrongdoing by any of his party members. He hit out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif for ‘trying to stifle’ BJP leader Kirit Somaiya’s attempts to expose alleged corruption by Mr. Mushrif and his family. Mr. Patil dared Mr. Mushrif to face the Enforcement Directorate (ED) rather than resorting to strong-arm tactics to prevent Mr. Somaiya from reaching Kolhapur. “I would urge Mr. Mushrif to not fight battles using the Kolhapuri chappal method. It is easy to resort to such strong-arm methods. But it is much harder to face the ED. Mr. Mushrif should account for how money from Kolkata-based shell companies made their way to the sugar factories owned by him,” Mr. Patil, who is the MLA from Kothrud, said. Asked whether Mr. Pawar might have had a hand in the affair, Mr. Patil, who has been vocal about the NCP chief in the past, said he did not think Mr. Pawar would ever support such dubious activity of any party member. “As far as I know him, Mr. Pawar, who has been a tall leader in Maharashtra’s politics, has never involved himself in such shadowy dealings… I suspect Mr. Mushrif’s discomfiture rose from the fact that Mr. Pawar washed his hands off in this case when the Minister met his party chief. Hence, he is now panicking,” he claimed. He denied that the Central government was targeting senior NCP and Sena leaders to hijack their influence in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-dares-hasan-mushrif-to-face-ed/article36581207.ece
21 September 2021||Pune,||COVID-19 cases declining in Maharashtra||Maharashtra continued to see a steady drop in cases, with the State reporting 3,836 recoveries against 2,583 new COVID-19 cases as the active case tally dipped further to 41,672. Twenty-eight deaths took the cumulative fatalities to 1,38,546. The case fatality rate remains constant at 2.12%. The total cases now stand at 65,24,498 while the State’s cumulative recoveries have risen to 63,40,723 with the recovery rate at 97.18%. “Of a total 5,71,64,401 lab samples tested thus far, 65,24,498 have returned positive with over 1.36 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 500 new cases taking its total cases to 11,32,125 while five deaths pushed the total deaths to 18,854. As per district authorities, the active case tally stands around 7,000. Mumbai reported 417 new cases to take its tally to 7,38,518 while the active count declined to 5,109. Five deaths took the city’s death count to 16,058. Ahmednagar reported the highest cases in the State, with 527 new ones and 12 deaths, taking its total cases to 3,24,542 of whom 5,551 are active. The district’s cumulative death toll rose to 6,742. Satara reported 161 new cases and three deaths, taking the total cases to 2,45,827 of whom 3,002 are active, while the death toll rose to 6,215. Neighbouring Sangli reported 108 new cases and zero deaths. The total case tally stands at 2,06,306 with the active cases falling to 1,732 while its death toll is 5,558. Kolhapur reported just 37 new cases and no deaths, taking its total case tally to 2,05,918. The active cases dropped to 855. The cumulative death toll stands at 5,833.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-cases-dropping-in-maharashtra/article36580985.ece
21 September 2021||Pune,||CM has nothing to do with action against Somaiya: Raut||After the BJP hit out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for detaining BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, Sena MP and its chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) had nothing to do with the action taken against Mr. Somaiya. Refuting speculation that there were divisions within the MVA on this, Mr. Raut said the Home Department, which was in the Nationalist Congress Party’s kitty, might have taken the step only after it thought that a possible law and problem could arise due to Mr. Somaiya’s visit to Kolhapur. “I have discussed the issue with the Chief Minister [Uddhav Thackeray]... he said his office had nothing to do with it. At the same time, if Mr. Somaiya indeed has evidence against Hasan Mushrif as he claims, then there are agencies within the State that are capable of tackling his complaints. But if you [Mr. Somaiya] are making allegations against MVA Ministers on the orders of the [BJP-ruled] Central government, and if, as a result of that, there is a question of law and order in the State, then our Home Ministry has full authority to take action to prevent such a situation,” Mr. Raut said. Mr. Thackeray did not concern himself with “trivial matters” and there was no need to blame him, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-has-nothing-to-do-with-action-against-somaiya-raut/article36581204.ece
21 September 2021||Shimla,||H.P. schools to remain closed till Sept. 25||Schools in Himachal Pradesh will remain closed till September 25 due to the COVID-19 situation in the State, an official spokesperson said on Monday. The State government had earlier ordered closure of schools till September 21. In a fresh order issued on Monday, Chief Secretary Ram Subhag Singh said: “All schools shall continue to remain closed, except residential schools, further up to 25.09.2021.” Teaching and non-teaching staff shall continue to attend schools, he added.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hp-schools-to-remain-closed-till-sept-25/article36581200.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Precious drops||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/precious-drops/article36580981.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||School journey||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/school-journey/article36581211.ece
21 September 2021||Moscow,||Oppn. alleges fraud after Putin party win||Russia’s Opposition accused the authorities of mass voter fraud after election results on Monday showed the ruling United Russia party winning a sweeping majority in Parliament. The three-day vote that ended on Sunday followed an unprecedented crackdown on the critics of President Vladimir Putin and came with pre-election polls showing United Russia’s popularity at a historic low. But the party still claimed a two-thirds majority in the State Duma, the Lower House of Parliament, with United Russia’s Andrei Turchak saying it was a “convincing and clean victory”. He told reporters that United Russia had taken enough seats from both the party and single-mandate lists to have more than 300 of the Duma’s 450 seats. With nearly all votes counted by Monday afternoon, United Russia was ahead with 49.8% of the vote followed by the Communist Party with 18.9%. Election chief Ella Pamfilova said the final turnout was 51%, telling Mr. Putin in a televised meeting that this was higher than in previous elections and that there had been fewer complaints of vote violations than ever before. “I would like to address special words of gratitude to the citizens of Russia (and) thank you for your trust, dear friends,” Mr. Putin said during the meeting.  ‘Openness and honesty’ Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov hailed the “competitiveness, openness and honesty” of the elections, saying it was clear that “United Russia is the main preference of the voters”. But allies of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, Russia’s leading Opposition figure, called the results outlandish. “This is truly unbelievable. I remember the feeling in 2011, when they stole the election. The same is happening right now,” said Mr. Navalny’s spokeswoman Kira Yarmysh. Claims of widespread fraud in 2011 sparked huge protests led by Mr. Navalny, who was arrested in January and jailed on old fraud charges following a poisoning he blamed on the Kremlin. His allies said the vote was being falsified on a massive scale, pointing especially to delays in releasing a breakdown of the results of electronic voting in the Opposition-friendly Moscow. The EU said the elections had suffered from intimidation and limited “credible” monitoring, while Germany called for fraud claims to be “clarified”. Mr. Navalny’s organisations were banned as “extremist” ahead of the election, his top allies were arrested or fled, and anyone associated with his groups was kept from running. Mr. Navalny’s team had called for Opposition supporters to back other candidates who could potentially defeat United Russia, most of them from the Communist Party, and results indicated that the “Smart Voting” campaign may have had some impact. United Russia’s share of the vote was down from 54.2% in the last parliamentary election in 2016, while the Communists saw their support grow from 13.3%. Three other parties appeared to meet the 5% threshold needed to enter Parliament — the nationalist LDPR, the recently formed ‘New People’ party, and ‘A Just Russia’, all with less than 10%. Mr. Navalny’s top aide Leonid Volkov said it was clear that mass falsifications had taken place and called for results to be overturned and recounted in Russia’s two biggest cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/oppn-claims-fraud-after-putin-party-win/article36580458.ece
21 September 2021||Washington,||U.S. to end travel ban for vaccinated passengers||President Joe Biden will ease foreign travel restrictions to the U.S. beginning in November, allowing foreigners into the country if they have proof of vaccination and a negative COVID-19 test, the White House said on Monday. The new rules will replace a hodgepodge of restrictions that had barred non-citizens who had been in Europe, much of Asia and certain other countries in the prior 14 days from entering the U.S. The changes will allow families and others who have been separated by the travel restrictions for 18 months to plan for long-awaited reunifications. White House COVID-19 coordinator Jeff Zients announced the new policies, which still will require all foreign travellers flying to the U.S. to demonstrate proof of vaccination before boarding, as well as proof of a negative COVID-19 test taken within three days of flight. Mr. Biden will also tighten testing rules for unvaccinated American citizens, who will need to be tested within a day before returning to the U.S., as well as after they arrive home. Fully vaccinated passengers will not be required to quarantine, Mr. Zients said. The new policy will replace the patchwork of travel bans first instituted by President Donald Trump last year and tightened by Mr. Biden that restrict travel by non-citizens who have in the prior 14 days been in the U.K., the EU, China, India, Iran, Republic of Ireland, Brazil and South Africa. Those travel bans had become the source of growing geopolitical frustration, particularly among allies in the U.K. and EU where virus cases are far lower than the U.S. The easing comes ahead of Biden meeting with some European leaders on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly this week. “This is based on individuals rather than a country-based approach, so it’s a stronger system," Mr. Zients said. The EU and the U.K. had previously moved to allow vaccinated U.S. travelers into their territories without quarantines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-end-travel-ban-for-vaccinated-passengers/article36580464.ece
21 September 2021||Ottawa,||Trudeau future on the line as Canada votes in pandemic poll||Voting kicked off on Monday in the Canadian elections that are headed for a photo finish, with liberal Prime Minister Justin Trudeau seeking a third term but threatened by a strong challenge from rookie conservative leader Erin O’Toole. Mr. Trudeau, 49, called the snap election hoping to parlay a smooth COVID-19 vaccine roll-out — among the best in the world — into a new mandate to steer the nation’s pandemic exit, without having to rely on Opposition party support to pass his agenda. But the contest, after a bumpy five weeks of campaigning and COVID-19 cases again resurging in the country due to the Delta variant, appears set for a repeat of the close 2019 general election that resulted in Mr. Trudeau clinging to power, yet losing his majority in Parliament.   After six years in power, Mr. Trudeau’s administration is showing signs of fatigue, and it’s been an uphill battle for him to convince Canadians to stick with his Liberals after falling short of high expectations set in his 2015 landslide win. “The main ballot box question at the start of this campaign was whether the Liberals deserved to have a majority government,” said Daniel Beland, a politics professor at McGill University. “But now the question is whether they deserve to stay in power.”  An estimated 27 million Canadians are eligible to cast a ballot to select 338 Members of Parliament. To keep his job, Mr. Trudeau’s Liberals must win a plurality of seats and take at least 170 for a majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trudeau-future-on-the-line-as-canada-votes-in-pandemic-poll/article36580460.ece
21 September 2021||Paris,||Biden seeks early dialogue with Macron to ease tensions||The United States and Britain sought on Sunday to smooth tensions with Paris over a new security pact with Australia, with U.S. President Joe Biden requesting early talks with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron. The announcement of the defence alliance, and Australia’s related decision to tear up a deal to buy French submarines in favour of American nuclear-powered vessels, sparked outrage in Paris, with Mr. Macron recalling France’s Ambassadors to Canberra and Washington. But on Sunday British Prime Minister Boris Johnson tried to downplay France’s concerns about the deal, saying the pact was “not meant to be exclusionary... it’s not something that anybody needs to worry about and particularly not our French friends”. Mr. Biden has requested a phone call with Mr. Macron, French government spokesman Gabriel Attal said, which would happen “in the coming days”. “We want explanations,” Mr. Attal said, adding that the U.S. had to answer for “what looks a lot like a major breach of trust”.  En route to New York on Sunday, Mr. Johnson told reporters that Britain and France have a “very friendly relationship”, which he described as being of “huge importance”. “Our love of France is ineradicable.” But although France has not recalled its Ambassador to Britain, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian’s explanation for why was stinging. “There is no need. We know their constant opportunism. So there is no need to bring our Ambassador back to explain,” he said in an interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-seeks-early-dialogue-with-macron-to-ease-tensions/article36580461.ece
21 September 2021||Moscow,||6 killed, 28 injured as student opens fire in Russian varsity||A student opened fire Monday at a university in Russia, leaving six people dead and 28 hurt, before being shot by the police and detained, officials said. Beyond saying that he was a student, authorities offered no further information on his identity or possible motive. During the attack, students and staff at Perm State University locked themselves in rooms, and video posted on Russian news sites showed some students jumping out of second-story windows. In some footage, a black-clad, helmeted figure could be seen striding on a campus sidewalk cradling a long-barreled weapon. Russia’s Investigative Committee, the country’s top body for criminal probes, said the gunman fired a smoothbore hunting weapon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/6-killed-28-injured-as-student-opens-fire-in-russian-varsity/article36580466.ece
21 September 2021||Kabul,||Afghan women outraged by Taliban restrictions on work||Fears were mounting in Afghanistan on Monday as the Taliban tightened their grip on women’s rights, slashing access to work and denying girls the right to secondary school education. After pledging a softer version of their brutal and repressive regime of the 1990s, the Islamic fundamentalists have been stripping away at freedoms one month after seizing power. “I may as well be dead,” said one woman, who was sacked from her senior role at the Foreign Ministry. “I was in charge of a whole department and there were many women working with me... now we have all lost our jobs,” she said. The acting Mayor of the capital Kabul has said any municipal jobs currently held by women would be filled by men. Many women fear they will never find meaningful employment. Although still marginalised, Afghan women have fought for and gained basic rights in the past 20 years, becoming lawmakers, judges, pilots and police officers, though mostly limited to large cities. Hundreds of thousands have entered the workforce — a necessity in some cases as many women were widowed or now support invalid husbands as a result of two decades of conflict. But since returning to power on August 15, the Taliban have shown no inclination to honour those rights. When pressed, Taliban officials say women have been told to stay at home for their own security but will be allowed to work once proper segregation can be implemented. “When will that be?” a woman teacher said. “This happened last time. They kept saying they would allow us to return to work, but it never happened.” “The Taliban told us not to come to work and to wait for their second announcement. But it seems like they don’t want women to work again,” said a lawyer in the capital’s High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-women-outraged-by-taliban-restrictions-on-work/article36580467.ece
21 September 2021||Frankfurt,||Pfizer says COVID-19 jab safe for children aged 5-11||Pfizer and BioNTech on Monday said trial results showed their coronavirus vaccine is safe and produces a robust immune response in children aged five to 11, adding that they would seek regulatory approval shortly. The vaccine would be administered at a lower dosage than for people over 12, they said. “In participants five to 11 years of age, the vaccine was safe, well tolerated and showed robust neutralising antibody responses,” U.S. giant Pfizer and its German partner said in a joint statement. They plan to submit their data to regulatory bodies in the European Union, the United States and around the world “as soon as possible”. The trial results are the first of their kind for children under 12, with a Moderna trial for 6-11 year olds still ongoing. Both the Pfizer and Moderna jabs are already being administered to adolescents over 12 in several countries, as well as to adults around the globe. Children in the 5-11 age group received a two-dose regimen of 10 mg in the trial, compared with 30 mg for older age groups, the companies said. The shots were given 21 days apart. The side effects were “generally comparable to those observed in participants 16 to 25 years of age”, it added. Among the most commonly reported side effects in the past have been pain and swelling at the injection site as well as headache, chills and fever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pfizer-says-covid-19-jab-safe-for-children-aged-5-11/article36580456.ece
21 September 2021||Yangon,||Suu Kyi has ‘no comment’ on call for war against junta||Toppled Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi has “no comment” on a declaration of war against the junta by a shadow government dominated by lawmakers from her party, her lawyer said on Monday. Myanmar has been in turmoil since the military ousted Ms. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy government in a February coup, sparking huge democracy protests which have triggered a bloody crackdown from the junta. NLD lawmakers make up the majority of a “National Unity Government” which is working to overturn the military regime and declared a “people’s defensive war” earlier this month urging citizens to attack junta assets. Following the declaration, clashes between local “people’s defence forces” and the military have increased. Ms. Suu Kyi had “no comment” when asked by her lawyers about the NUG’s declaration of war, her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said, and would comment only after discussions with others in the NLD leadership. “She said she never turns against the wishes of the people,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suu-kyi-has-no-comment-on-call-for-war-against-junta/article36580455.ece
21 September 2021||UNITED NATIONS,||UN chief warns China, U.S. to avoid Cold War||Warning of a potential new Cold War, the head of the United Nations implored China and the United States to repair their “completely dysfunctional” relationship before problems between the two large and deeply influential countries spill over even further into the rest of the planet. Speaking to the The Associated Press this weekend, UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said the world’s two major economic powers should be cooperating on climate and negotiating more robustly on trade and technology even given persisting political fissures about human rights, economics, online security and sovereignty in the South China Sea. “Unfortunately, today we only have confrontation,” Mr. Guterres said on Saturday. “We need to re-establish a functional relationship between the two powers,” he said, calling that it was “essential to address the problems of vaccination, the problems of climate change and many other global challenges that cannot be solved without constructive relations within the international community and mainly among the superpowers”. He added that two rival geopolitical and military strategies would pose “dangers” and divide the world. Thus, he said, the foundering relationship must be repaired — and soon. “We need to avoid at all cost a Cold War that would be different from the past one, and probably more dangerous and more difficult to manage,” Mr. Guterres said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-chief-warns-china-us-to-avoid-cold-war/article36580462.ece
21 September 2021||Kigali,||‘Hotel Rwanda’ hero convicted on terror charges||Paul Rusesabagina, the “Hotel Rwanda” hero who became a government critic, was sentenced on Monday to 25 years in prison on terror charges after what his supporters labelled a politically motivated show trial. He was convicted by a court in Kigali of forming a rebel group blamed for deadly gun, grenade and arson attacks in Rwanda in 2018 and 2019. “He founded a terrorist organisation that attacked Rwanda, he finan- cially contributed to terrorist activities,” the court said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hotel-rwanda-hero-convicted-on-terror-charges/article36580454.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||A simmering mistrust that should not boil over||In the 1990s and early 2000s, it was a common sight to see churches being dismantled to be replaced with brand new structures in Kerala. Most of these churches belonged to the Catholic Church, specifically the Syro-Malabar rite, forming a sizeable chunk of the Christian population in the State. The ostensible reason for these large-scale demolitions was the space constraints in the age-old structures, but a more immediate reason was the kind of money coming in as donations and charity from the laity, growing prosperous on the back of a spike in prices of rubber among other cash crops. Towns with sizeable Catholic population in Kottayam district such as Pala and Kanjirappally would see a huge offtake of the newly-launched cars back then. The era of prosperity, however, was short-lived as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)-India free trade agreement and other factors caused the prices of rubber and other cash crops to nosedive. A turning point With the community’s collective bargaining power on the wane, its focus gradually shifted to the Muslim community’s newfound affluence on the back of West Asian remittances. The seeds of mistrust threatening to rip apart the social fabric of Kerala today were sown about a decade ago. There were allusions to ‘Love-Jihad’ from the clergy even then, but it remained confined to catechism classes or drawing room conversations. The assault, in 2010, on Professor T.J. Joseph, whose palms were chopped off by Popular Front of India (PFI) extremists proved to be a seminal event, despite the Church going on the defensive and even victimising the professor in its aftermath. The fallout of this incident was contained by the swift intervention of civil society; yet, in hindsight, this was probably the point when Islamophobia began to take root among Christians in Central Travancore. The Assembly election in 2011 saw the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) coming back to power but it also saw the eclipsing of the Church-backed Kerala Congress by the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in the power structure — contributing to the churning. Political change, world events When the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in New Delhi in 2014, the Sangh Parivar saw an opportunity in closing ranks with the Christian community to reverse its electoral fortunes in Kerala. By 2016, as the Islamic State (IS) gained prominence, 21 Keralites — some Christian and Hindu converts among them — who had gone missing were traced to the terrorist outfit, sparking further anxiety within the Church. A spate of anti-Muslim propaganda began to circulate within Christian family networks and social media groups around that period. A stray remark of State police chief T.P. Senkumar, who would later join the BJP, of Muslim ‘live births’ overtaking Hindus in the State, laced with communal overtones, and the connection of the Popular Front of India (PFI)-backed ‘Sathya Sarani’ to the case of Akhila alias Hadiya, a young Hindu woman who converted to Islam and married a Muslim youth, further queered the pitch. This phase saw a gradual increase in engagement between Christian bishops and BJP leaders in the Centre, facilitated by Minister of State K.J. Alphons. Those days it was assumed that the Church was cosying up to the BJP only to protect its interests in the wake of the central government’s crackdown on non-governmental organisations (NGOs) over the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA). Gradual mainstreaming The growing Islamophobia among the Catholics which was limited to the realms of social media got mainstreamed around the 2019 Easter bombings in Sri Lanka, sparking off a hate-campaign against Muslims. People who were otherwise reticent to speak in sectarian lines were emboldened by the clergy who were beginning to speak like community leaders rather than spiritual figures. There were growing concerns over the Muslim community in Kerala being collectively classified as Other Backward Classes (OBC) and coming under specific minority scholarship schemes. The onset of COVID-19 led to people participating in Holy Mass online which essentially meant that what was limited to a church gathering was now open to everyone’s scrutiny. The Syro-Malabar Church-backed Shekinah TV became the go-to platform for the laity but regular content on such channels was often rabble-rousing. The Old Testament was being quoted more regularly in churches and given more emphasis than the gospel, a reflection of conservatism. Communal polemic An article on the reopening of the historic Hagia Sophia in Turkey as a mosque by the Congress-ally IUML’s Syed Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal in the party mouthpiece, Chandrika , on the eve of the Kerala local body elections as well as the IUML’s decision to have an electoral understanding with the Jamaat-e-Islami caused a furore and saw a major Christian vote shift away from the UDF to the Left Front. In fact, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) very effectively utilised the situation to its advantage by feeding off the insecurities of the Church in central Travancore while playing up the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in Malabar to secure Muslim votes. The Assembly election that followed saw the communal polemic in full swing, but it was the Left Front rather than the BJP which benefitted once again from the Christian-Muslim divide. Of late, the Church and a section of the laity have been quick to latch on to any development abroad, including the march of the Taliban in Afghanistan, but they inexplicably kept mum on the institutional murder of Stan Swamy. The Church’s steady engagement with the Sangh Parivar was driven home by a meeting of Ram Madhav with Bishop Emeritus Mathew Arackal recently. A couple of months ago, the Pala diocese headed by Joseph Kallarangatt issued a circular announcing financial support and other benefits for Christian couples with five or more children in a bid to encourage larger families. The move was reflective of the Church’s concerns over the dwindling numbers of the community as a proportion of the total population of the State as well as in absolute numbers. An unwieldy controversy over the naming of a film — Eesho (Jesus) — helmed by a Muslim as late as last month indicated the level of mistrust prevalent between both communities. Not much traction The sweeping ‘narcotic-jihad’ remark of Bishop Kallarangatt during his service at a church in Kuravilangad in Kottayam district on September 9 proved to be the last straw. That a theologian of Bishop Kallarangatt’s standing would resort to such language was difficult to comprehend but it is instructive of the kind of radical turn the Syro-Malabar Church has taken lately. Nonetheless it is significant that Bishop Kallarangatt did not get the backing of the Malankara and Latin Catholic rites. It is also telling that the fellow Saint Thomas Churches — Mar Thoma, Jacobite and Orthodox factions — and the protestant Church of South India Church have come out openly against the remark. While the Congress and the CPI(M) disapproved of the remark, a State BJP office-bearer wrote to Home Minister Amit Shah seeking ‘protection’ for the Pala bishop, seeking to make the most of it. There have been demands that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan intervene to diffuse the situation rather than play safe but it is unclear how the simmering discontent within the Christian community could be addressed in the long term. The suspicion and distrust prevailing between the Syro-Malabar Church and Muslims would take more than a patch-up to heal and would probably require a Pope Francis-like figure to initiate reconciliation. Anand Kochukudy is a Kerala-based journalist and former editor of The Kochi Post||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-simmering-mistrust-that-should-not-boil-over/article36580442.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The end of the doing business rankings||On September 16, the World Bank Group scrapped its flagship publication, the ‘Doing Business’ report. This report publishes the influential annual ranking of countries on the Ease of Doing Business (EDB) index. The Group acted on its commissioned study to examine the ethical issues flagged in preparing the 2018 and 2020 editions of the EDB index. The allegation surrounding Kristalina Georgieva, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund, is the proximate reason for scrapping the publication. As Chief Executive Officer of the World Bank in 2018, Ms. Georgieva is accused of having exerted pressure on the internal team working on the Doing Business report to falsely boost China’s rank by doctoring the underlying data. Similarly, tensions were also reportedly brought to bear in the case of Saudi Arabia’s rank, among others. How the index works The World Bank’s decision has wide ramifications, as the index serves varied purposes. Many countries showcase improved ranking to signal market-friendly policies to attract foreign investments. National leaders often set EDB rank targets. This helps them measure domestic policies against global “best practices” and browbeat domestic critics. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for instance, wanted his administration to ensure that India breaks into the top 50 ranks of the EDB index. Some countries seem to use their political heft to improve their rank, polish their international image and sway public opinion (as appears to be China’s case). The EDB index ranks countries by the simplicity of rules framed for setting up and conducting businesses. Peruvian economist Hernando De Soto’s theory underpins the index. The theory claims that secure property rights with minimal state interventions are a precondition for a free market to flourish. Management consultants and corporate lawyers collect the information for the index on time required for regulatory compliance — as per the statute (de jure) and not as practised (de facto) — from select cities and larger firms. Advanced countries usually hold the index’s top ranks. India ranked low, around 130-140, till 2014. However, it zoomed to the 63rd position in 2019-20 (see table). Showcasing the accomplishment, India has claimed success of the ‘Make in India’ campaign. The flagship initiative, launched in 2014, sought to raise the manufacturing sector’s share in GDP to 25% (from 16-17%) and create 100 million additional jobs by 2022 (later revised to 2025). The success is absent on the ground, however (see table). The annual growth rate in GDP manufacturing (at constant prices) fell from 13.1% in 2015-16 to (-) 2.4% in 2019-20. Net FDI inflow to GDP ratio has fluctuated around 1.5%. The fixed investment to GDP ratio (at current prices) fell from 30.1% in 2014-15 to 26.9% in 2019-20. Why is there such a disconnect between the stellar rise in EDB index rank and economic outcomes? The theory underlying the EDB index could be suspect, the measurement and data could be faulty, or both. For example, China’s phenomenal economic success, especially its agricultural performance (after the reforms in 1978), is perhaps the most unmistakable evidence demonstrating that lack of clarity of property rights may not be the binding constraint in a market economy. What matters is economic incentives. Measuring regulatory functions underlying the index could be tricky and subjective and possibly politically motivated as well, as the controversies surrounding the index seem to suggest. Instances of data manipulation brought to light by the independent investigating agency seems to vindicate such a view. The EDB index also seems vulnerable to a tweaking of the underlying method. For instance, India’s improved ranking was reportedly an outcome of such an effort. When the index was re-estimated with unchanging procedures, the needle hardly moved. Similarly, Chile’s rank on the EDB index sharply rose when the conservative government was in power and went down when the socialists were ruling despite no changes in policies and procedures. This was reportedly the result of the fine-tuning of the methodology and had profound political implications. Former World Bank Chief Economist, and later Nobel Laureate, Paul Romer, publicly apologised to Chile’s socialist President for World Bank’s less-than-professional conduct in preparing the index. Weakening labour regulations Closer home, India has weaponised the mandate to improve the rank in the EDB index to whittle down labour laws and their enforcement and bring them close to the free-market ideal of ‘hire and fire’. Most States have emulated Maharashtra’s lead of administrative fiat, which renders labour laws toothless by dismantling official labour inspection systems and allowing employers to file self-regulation reports. The government has farmed out critical safety regulations such as annual inspection and certification of industrial boilers to ‘third party’ private agencies (compliance reportedly honoured more in the breach than in observance). The Labour Department’s inspection is now not mandated; it is optional only by prior intimation to employers. Such abdication of the government’s responsibility towards workers has reportedly affected industrial relations. The workers’ strike at Wistron’s iPhone assembly factory in Karnataka last year is an example. Further, severe industrial accidents are rising, damaging life and productive industrial assets. Though comprehensive data are lacking, available evidence indicates a sharp upturn in such accidents in recent years, which may be associated with the lack of independent inspections and employers’ self-reporting of labour law compliance. The World Bank’s decision to scrap its annual publication Doing Business report is welcome. Investigations into “data irregularities” in preparing the EDB index, as brought out by the independent agency, seems to confirm many shortcomings repeatedly brought to light for years now. The index appears motivated to support the free-market ideal. It is dressed up under scientific garb and is underpinned by seemingly objective methods and data collection. Strong leaders (and motivated officials) seem to have used their position to manipulate the index to suit their political and ideological ends. India claimed the success of its Make in India initiative by relying on its ranking on the EDB index without tangible evidence. It weaponised the index to weaken labour regulations. Handing over law enforcement to employers by self-reporting compliance seems to have increased industrial unrest and accidents. It perhaps calls for honest soul-searching as to what havoc a questionable benchmark can wreak. R. Nagaraj is with the Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvnanthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-end-of-the-doing-business-rankings/article36580452.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Fund and faculty’ count in higher education rankings||The sixth edition of the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for higher education was released by the Union Minister of Education on September 9 2021 (https://bit.ly/2XyL4k0). Jubilant are those that have made it to the top 100 or have improved their rankings or scores by a few notches. Downcast are those that have slid in rank or score but are still upbeat as they are in the coveted list. Disheartened, they must already be busy finding out their faults. Those with no rank may be ready with their excuses and commitment to do better next year. Since the NIRF ranks only the top 100, an estimated 935 universities, in any case, are bound to remain shut out. Each higher educational institution in the country undergoes the trauma of hope and despair a few times a year when the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), Times Higher Education (THE) and Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) rankings are published. Ranking may offer many advantages. Its signalling effect may help students, faculty, and prospective employer, respectively, to help them choose institutions for admission, to enhance chances for securing research funding, and target campuses for hirings. It may promote competition among institutions, which in turn leads to an overall improvement in their quality. As in present policy, ranking leads to privileges such as getting autonomy, power to offer open and distance mode programmes, and permission to enter into collaboration with foreign universities. The most useful purpose that the ranking can serve — but ignored so far — is to identify areas of improvement and then proactively to work to overcome those deficiencies and thus ensure quality and promote excellence. This would mitigate the huge difference that presently exists between the best and the rest of the Higher Education Institutions. After all, no nation can afford a few ‘islands of excellence surrounded by the sea of mediocrity’, condemning them to eternal inferiority. Basis of metrics Universities ought to offer quality dissemination of knowledge, skill and application orientation, but to attain excellence, they must make a seminal contribution in research, publications, patents and innovations. Since performance of universities cannot be measured by a single indicator, they are assessed, and ranked on a metric of measures. Most give considerable weightage to research output, quality and impact thereof. The ARWU ranks universities solely on the basis of their research performance whereas THE and QS, respectively, accord 60% and 20% weightage to research. Following the trend, NIRF accords 30% weightage to Research Performance and Professional Practices (RPP). This, in turn, is measured through the combined metric of publications (PU, 35%), combined metric of quality of publications (QP, 35%), IPR and patent (IPR, 15%) and Footprint of Projects and Professional Practice (FPPP, 15%). Analysed in this context, even the top 100 universities in NIRF, present a very disquieting trend which warrants urgent attention. The NIRF 2020 ranking (https://bit.ly/3zpkC9F) reveals that the best university in the country scored 92.16% on research performance. The score drastically declined to 60.52% for the 10th best university. Going further down, the 20th and the 50th best universities, respectively, scored 50.32% and 28.69%. In the case of the 100th best university, the RPP declined to as low as 4.35%. It is not difficult to guess the state of affairs of the remaining 935 universities in the country. On salaries and research NIRF does not disclose data on the total number of teachers but amongst a few statistics that it reports includes the total expenditure on salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff bunched together and the total number of PhD students enrolled in each of the ranked universities. Using the above two as proxy for the size of a university in terms of the faculty members and research staff, they were transposed against the Research and Professional Practice (RPP) ranks grouped in 10 categories. The data disclose in no uncertain terms that on an average, the higher the expenditure on salaries of the staff, the higher is the ranking of the university. For example, the average annual expenditure on salaries for the top 10 universities works out to be Rs. 391.72 crore. As against this, the universities ranked between 41-50 were found to be spending only Rs. 119.64 crore on salaries. Expectedly, those ranked at the bottom between 91-100, spent only Rs. 79.26 crore. So is the case with regard to the research scholars. Data discerns that the top 10 universities in NIRF had an average of 2,627 research scholars, whereas those ranked between 41-50 had only 1,036 PhD students on the rolls. Reinforcing the trend, the universities ranked in the bottom 10 had no more than 165 research scholars. The larger the number of research scholars, the higher the ranks of the universities in terms of RPP. What was already known intuitively is now proven by the data. To conclude, the fund and the faculty, the two most neglected areas, are critical not only for research performance but also for the overall ranking, as the two bear a high degree of positive correlation. Furqan Qamar, a Professor in finance at Jamia Millia Islamia, is a former Secretary General of the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) and also a former Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh and the University of Rajasthan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fund-and-faculty-count-in-higher-education-rankings/article36580444.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling hate speech||A speech by a Bishop belonging to the Syro-Malabar Church in Kerala has caught attention for the wrong reasons. Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, the Bishop of Pala, a small city in Kerala, coined the term ‘narcotic jihad’. He accused a few Muslim groups of giving Catholic girls narcotics or wooing them with the aim of religious conversion or of taking them to terrorist camps abroad. The speech aimed at a particular religion has a divisive tone. Understanding hate speech This controversy has occasioned intriguing questions about hate speech regulation. It is important to consider — philosophically and morally — what justifies prohibiting hate speech. In Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire (1942), the U.S. Supreme Court held that their Constitution does not protect “insulting or ‘fighting’ words — those which, by their very utterance, inflict injury or tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace.” This is the core principle behind hate speech prohibition. It is important to think why liberal democracies prohibit some types of speech on grounds that they are ‘injurious’. An important answer is based on the dignity and equality of individuals. Every person is entitled to basic human dignity and decent treatment. Lord Bhikhu Parekh, a British academic, said: “(Hate speech) views members of the target group as an enemy within, refuses to accept them as legitimate and equal members of society, lowers their social standing, and... subverts the very basis of a shared life. It creates barriers of mistrust and hostility between individuals and groups, plants fears, obstructs normal relations..., and... exercises a corrosive influence on the conduct of collective life.” In Pravasi Bhalai Sangathan v. Union of India (2014), the Supreme Court of India quoted from the Canadian Supreme Court’s decision in Saskatchewan v. Whatcott (2013). It said that hate speech “impacts a protected group’s ability to respond to the substantive ideas under debate, thereby placing a serious barrier to their full participation in our democracy.” This idea resonates well in India’s political context. Being a minority in an aggressively Hindu majoritarian political climate, Muslims are left defenceless against a rhetoric of hatred against them. This rhetoric has not only led to a climate of fear for Muslims, but to cases of violence carried out solely on the basis of their identity. Relentless accusations have successfully sidelined the real concerns of the community, including social and educational backwardness. The Indian legal position Values of social tranquility and substantive equality justify laws such as Section 153-A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which prohibits “promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony”. The very genesis of the provision indicates that emphasis was given to societal integrity which the law thrives to preserve. The provision in its erstwhile form was incorporated by way of the Penal Code Amendment Act of 1898. The Select Committee rejected the proposal to add this provision along with Section 124-A of the IPC (sedition) saying that the former is more concerned with “public tranquility” than the security of the state. It said: “The offence only affects the Government or the State indirectly and the essence of the offence is that it predisposes classes of people to action, which may disturb the public tranquility.” It is this communitarian element that makes the law still relevant, while the sedition law has become dangerous and obsolete. The law, in contemporary politics, suffers from disuse and misuse. This is an issue at the operational level, i.e., how the law is implemented and enforced. On the one hand, remarks with tendencies towards hatred and violence, especially against Muslims, are ignored. On the other, vague references against the majoritarian agenda are often charged under this provision. The Kerala incident, unfortunately, is not an isolated one. In a national scenario where hate has become an ideology and its impact on society is fatal, we need to think about countering it with political and jurisprudential means. In India, hate speech is not defined under the Constitution or in the penal statutes. There is no specific legislation on it. It is not easy to design an accurate anti-hate speech law, due to its inherent potential for misuse. This is why we need a political and pedagogical solution to the menace. The Constitution’s ideas of equality, liberty and fraternity must be made topics of continuing public education. Whenever hate speech thrives, the state should invoke the existing law judiciously in appropriate cases. It must also take a secular stand based on the rule of law and educate the masses. Kaleeswaram Raj and Thulasi K. Raj are lawyers at the Supreme Court of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tackling-hate-speech/article36580448.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Time to criminalise marital rape||The recent judgments of two High Courts on marital rape made headlines. Though neither of the Courts delved into the constitutionality of marital rape, their reference to it once again raked up debate on whether Exception 2 to Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code is constitutional or not. According to Exception 2, sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife (provided she is over the age of 18) does not amount to the offence of rape. The approach of the courts The Kerala High Court held that acts of sexual perversions of a husband against his wife amounted to (mental) cruelty and was therefore a good ground to claim divorce (since marital rape is not a punishable offence). The Court said that in modern social jurisprudence, spouses are treated as equal partners and a husband cannot claim any superior right over his wife either with respect to her body or with reference to her individual status. The Chhattisgarh High Court, while discharging the accused husband, held that the charge of rape framed under Section 376 of the IPC was erroneous and illegal as it was covered under Exception 2 to Section 375 and the wife was not under 18 years of age. As the law on marital rape stands today, both the High Courts were right in their approach but the Kerala High Court was appreciated more for being progressive in its outlook. The Justice Verma Committee report of 2013 stated that the notion that a wife is no more than a subservient chattel of her husband has since been given up in the U.K. The European Commission of Human Rights has held that “a rapist remains a rapist regardless of his relationship with the victim”. Marital rape is a criminal offence in South Africa, Australia, and Canada, among other countries. After due deliberations, the Committee recommended that the exception for marital rape be removed, but this suggestion was not accepted by the government. Earlier, in 1983, the Andhra Pradesh High Court, in T. Sareetha v. T. Venkata Subbaiah, held restitution of conjugal rights under the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955 to be unconstitutional as its decree could be misused by a husband for enforcing sexual intercourse with his wife. However, the Supreme Court overruled it by declaring that the institution of marriage stood for much more than mere sexual congress. A partnership of equals A section of society feels that once marital rape is criminalised, it may lead to filing of false charges against husbands. It also thinks that it will be very difficult for the police to prove such cases beyond reasonable doubt. The first apprehension is unfounded in the absence of any empirical data. Further, there are legal provisions to deal with false cases. If found ineffective, legal remedies may be revised suitably. Similarly, the difficulty of proof cannot be a criterion for not notifying deviant behaviour as an offence. Like most other sexual offences, the prosecution may establish the case with relevant facts and circumstances. Moreover, doing away with Exception 2 would show complete non-tolerance by the state with respect to rape. While decriminalising adultery, the Supreme Court in Joseph Shine vs. Union of India (2018) said that a legislation that perpetuates stereotypes in relationship and institutionalises discrimination is a clear violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. It is undisputed that marriage in modern times is regarded as a partnership of equals. It is an association of two individuals, each of whom has separate integrity and dignity. The violation of bodily integrity of a woman is a clear violation of her autonomy. Any provision of law that is not reasonable, just and fair, and is against the spirit of Article 21 of the Constitution, is discriminatory and arbitrary and therefore must be declared unconstitutional. It is now only a question of time that exemption of liability from marital rape shall be declared unconstitutional and individual’s dignity recognised in full. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh. Views are his own||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-to-criminalise-marital-rape/article36580449.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||The endgame||The Government has offered a sovereign guarantee to help the new ‘bad bank’, proposed in this year’s Budget, extract better value from non-performing loans worth Rs. 2-lakh crore in the banking system. To begin with, the National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL) will pitch to take over toxic assets worth Rs. 90,000 crore that banks have already fully provided for. It will offer a certain value to the lead bank for troubled loans of over Rs. 500 crore, and pay 15% upfront in cash, and issue the balance as tradable security receipts. The bad bank will then rope in a separate asset manager being incorporated — the India Debt Resolution Company Ltd. (IDRCL) — to add value to the ailing asset, and resolve it as a ‘going concern’ or liquidate it. The guarantee, worth Rs. 30,600 crore over five years, can only be invoked once an asset is resolved and will cover any shortfall between the face value of the security receipts issued by the NARCL and the actual amount realised from a bad loan. The guarantee fee will be increased each year as a nudge for NARCL and the IDRCL to speed up resolution. After losing precious time dithering over its pros and cons, the Government now believes this approach will be more expeditious to fix the substantial NPAs that persist despite the existing debt recovery mechanisms including the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Terming banks’ high provisioning for legacy loans a ‘unique opportunity’, the Centre thinks NARCL will also help free up bank personnel to focus on faltering credit growth and spur the economy. To the extent that the NARCL and IDRCL managements will streamline decisions once a loan is taken over, instead of seeking consensus among multiple lenders as the IBC entails, the idea holds some weight. But banks have already provided for these loans, so this is perhaps a tardy gambit and may not work in jump-starting credit flows unless accompanied by their recapitalisation. On the likelihood of the guarantee being invoked, the Finance Ministry has said once the assets are pooled together, ‘it is reasonable to expect’ that many of them will realise more value than NARCL’s acquisition cost. This may be a tad optimistic. As the Finance Minister herself said, 28 existing private ARCs are hesitant about taking a jab at extracting value from these bad loans, perhaps owing to their size. That begs the question about the calibre of professionals NARCL and the IDRCL would need to outdo private players. The new entities’ ability to get a few good men to deliver more bang for sunk capital would be critical, as would structures to pre-empt a moral hazard that the guarantee poses (of not bothering too much about final realisation value). This self-proclaimed endgame of India’s bad loans crisis needs sustained attention for a satisfactory culmination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-endgame/article36580436.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Done and dusted||While there may have been lulls aplenty, the next twist or turn in the long-running saga of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) update for Assam is never far. The latest seeks to imbue a sense of finality to the exercise, though it has come from what is only a quasi-judicial body. A Foreigners’ Tribunal (FT) in Karimganj district of southern Assam, while removing the ambiguity around a man’s citizenship, has pronounced that there is no doubt that the NRC published on August 31, 2019, is the final one. The exercise left out over 1.9 million from a list of around 33 million applicants, whose citizenship would be determined at the FTs. The entire updating process was monitored by the Supreme Court and executed by the State’s administrative machinery. Unsurprisingly, its publication annoyed political parties across the ideological divide, with some alleging it victimised document-less Bengali Hindus and indigenous Assamese people and others that it targeted the State’s Bengali-origin Muslims. In the run-up to the publication of the final document, Assam and the Centre had petitioned the Supreme Court for re-verification of a sample of names included in the draft NRC — 20% in the border districts and 10% elsewhere — but this was dismissed after Prateek Hajela, the State NRC Coordinator, said re-verification of 27% names had been already done. In May this year, the State NRC authority, now led by Hitesh Dev Sarma, filed a petition in Supreme Court seeking re-verification of the August 31, 2019 list, citing inclusion of ineligible names and exclusion of eligible ones, and other errors. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is already on record as having said the State government wants 20% re-verification in the districts bordering Bangladesh and 10% in others. The crux of the matter is that post-publication progress on the NRC has been excruciatingly slow, and not just due to the pandemic. The new NRC Coordinator’s petition is still pending, as is another by the Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind. More crucially, on the execution side, the issuance of rejection slips to those left out of the NRC has not begun, a necessary step to file appeals in the FTs. Another iteration of the NRC, whether led by the judiciary or the executive, would rely on the same administrative set-up. The system has demonstrated dynamism: the list of excluded in the NRC draft released in July 2018 was nearly 4 million, an additional list in June 2019 left out 1,00,000 more, but the final draft absorbed 2.2 million of those. While a Registrar General of India notification has not conferred the stamp of legality on the NRC yet, that, along with kick-starting the appeals process, is perhaps the most prudent path ahead. Mounting another gargantuan exercise at a colossal cost may only yield a new set of discontents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/done-and-dusted/article36580438.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Severe test for Indian diplomacy||New Delhi, September 20: The External Affairs Minister, Mr. Swaran Singh, is leaving for New York to-morrow to lead the Indian delegation to the U.N. General Assembly session during which a number of important issues of special interest to India will come up for discussion. Apart from the question of China’s admission the Bangla Desh problem is bound to feature during this session putting Indian diplomacy to a severe test. While the United States is taking the initiative to clear the way for China’s admission, India will have to mobilise the necessary support in bringing in the Bangla Desh problem in some form or the other in the General Assembly and the relevant committees. The Indian delegation will not raise the Bangla Desh issue as such, but will keep on referring to the political, economic and human aspects of this stupendous tragedy during this session to keep up the worldwide concern about it. The Secretary-General’s reference to the Bangla Desh issue in his annual report on the work of the United Nations opens the way for the expression of concern by various delegations in the General Assembly and the committees over the plight of the East Bengal refugees and the demand for an early political settlement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/severe-test-for-indian-diplomacy/article36580445.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Recovery signals are mixed since August’||Signalling a softening in momentum of the economic recovery, eight of 15 high-frequency indicators weakened in August, with diesel consumption, domestic passenger traffic and vehicle registrations sliding below pre-COVID levels, ICRA said on Monday. While the August numbers indicated that the recovery after the second COVID-19 wave had been patchy, the early data for September also remained mixed, the ratings agency said in a note on the state of the economy. It appeared the temporary fillip to economic activity, following the easing of State-wise curbs to cope with the second wave, had petered out, said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar, emphasising that high-frequency indicators in August were ‘decidedly uneven’, especially when compared with pre-COVID levels. The performance of 13 non-financial indicators in August was mixed compared with July, as well as with pre-COVID levels. “Particularly, after a sharp recovery since June, the daily average generation of GST e-way bills rose only mildly to 2.13 million in August from 2.07 million in July,” ICRA said, attributing this to a stabilisation in dispatches rather than a signal that the industrial growth momentum was plateauing. The daily average generation of GST e-way bills so far in September had been similar to August levels, but ICRA expected it to pick up in October as pre-festive season stocking comes into play. Ms. Nayar said she was ‘cautiously optimistic that rising confidence would amplify festive demand’ even though early trends for September were ‘unconvincing’. On the positive side, non-oil goods exports, Coal India’s output, rail freight, electricity demand and petrol demand recorded encouraging expansions in August, relative to August 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/recovery-signals-are-mixed-since-august/article36580428.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Differential GST for coconut oil is a replay of the 2009 excise move’||The GST Council may have put off a proposal to tax coconut oil sold in pack sizes below one litre at 18% instead of 5% levied on edible oils, but analysts are puzzled by the idea since similar moves in the pre-GST tax regime had been challenged successfully in court. The Council’s Fitment Committee had recommended that coconut oil, packed and sold in containers of less than one litre should be classified as hair oil, and taxed at the 18% rate levied on personal care items, while the 5% GST could continue for the same oil when sold in containers of one litre or more. In 2009, the erstwhile Central Board of Excise and Customs had issued a circular that proposed to classify small coconut oil packs of up to 200 ml as hair oil, subject to excise duty of 8%, while bigger packs had attracted no duty. In a research note, JM Financial said the move had reopened the issue. Marico had legally challenged the proposal and won a verdict in its favour. “We are not sure what would prompt the Council to reconsider this issue all over again, especially since the matter seemed well settled in the court,” the financial services firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/differential-gst-for-coconut-oil-is-a-replay-of-the-2009-excise-move/article36580429.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Job postings in August grew 14% y-o-y: Monster||Overall job postings in August grew by 14% year-on-year, while industries such as garments, textiles, leather, gems and jewellery grew 24% between July and August this year with the festive season pushing up demand for seasonal hiring, according to the Monster Employment Index released on Monday. Metro cities Most of these hiring activities were reported from Bengaluru (59%), Hyderabad (34%), Pune (40%), Chennai (37%), Delhi-NCR (14%), and Mumbai (16%) and were largely driven by technology, software and hardware sectors. An August 2020 to August 2021 comparison indicated strong growth in e-recruitment activities in varied industries including IT hardware, software (39%), shipping/marine (37%), and telecom/ISP (36%). “With India recovering from the second wave of the pandemic, there has been positive stable growth in job postings in the month of August 2021,” said Sekhar Garisa, CEO, Monster.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/job-postings-in-august-grew-14-y-o-y-monster/article36580421.ece
21 September 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Climate change is a key driver of financial risk’||Climate change and its impact is increasingly being acknowledged as a key risk driver for the financial system by governments, regulators and financial firms, said M. Rajeshwar Rao, Deputy Governor, Reserve Bank of India (RBI). “Climate risks can impact the financial sector through two broad channels; first - physical risks which mean economic costs and financial losses resulting from the increasing severity and frequency of extreme weather events and long-term climate change, and second - transition risks which arise as we try to adjust towards a low-carbon economy,” Mr. Rao said in a speech at the CAFRAL Virtual Conference on Green and Sustainable Finance on September 16, a copy of which was posted by the RBI on Monday. “It is, therefore, important to understand these risk drivers which are likely to affect the financial firms,” he added. Mr. Rao said physical risk drivers are directly observable and often refer to frequent extreme weather events which inflict direct economic costs and financial losses on financial firms as well as cause a longer-term but gradual shift in climate. Such acute physical risks arise from extreme climate events such as heatwaves, landslides, floods, wildfires and storms. On the other hand, chronic physical risks are longer-term events as they arise from gradual shifts of weather patterns, he said.  Compliance cost He said transition risks essentially reflect as compliance cost when one embarks upon adjustment to a low-carbon economy. “This would include changes in government policies, market and customer sentiments and necessity for technological upgradation. Mandated climate-related mitigation plans could cause decrease in financial valuation or downgrade of credit ratings for businesses which are violating climate norms,” he said. “Such plans can also cause a shift in market power,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/climate-change-is-a-key-driver-of-financial-risk/article36580424.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Spectre of food inflation will stare at us in 2022’||Nestle India CMD Suresh Narayanan said 2022 would be a difficult year as commodity inflation pressures were anticipated to worsen. “Going forward, 2022 clearly looks to be a difficult year,” he told the media. “There is an uptick as far as milk prices are concerned. The disruption of the pandemic and the non-replacement of the milch herd across the country has really led to a depleted supply base,” he said. “There is going to be an escalation as far as milk prices are concerned.” He added that globally coffee prices were also rising quite significantly with Vietnam, the largest grower of the commodity, reeling under adverse effects of the pandemic. “So, there is going to be the spectre of food inflation that will be staring at us,” Mr. Narayanan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spectre-of-food-inflation-will-stare-at-us-in-2022/article36580430.ece
21 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Quess hires over 50,000 in last 12 months||Quess Corp.’s general staffing division hired more than 50,000 people in the last 12 months and 2.5 lakh associates in the past 5 years, the company said. Ajit Isaac, Founder & Chairman, Quess, said this was a milestone growth that propelled the company to emerge as the world’s fifth-largest staffing company by headcount and the first Indian staffing company to achieve this. In the last 12 months, hiring in sectors including BFSI, telecom, manufacturing, agriculture, and IT/ ITeS increased by 25%. The FMCG/FMCD sectors have seen a modest growth of 10% to 24%, while retail declined due to the impact of COVID, Quess said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/quess-hires-over-50000-in-last-12-months/article36580422.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||Software exports rose 2.1% to $148 bn||Exports of software services, including services delivered by foreign affiliates of Indian firms, recorded 2.1% growth during FY21 and stood at $148.3 billion, as per a Reserve Bank survey released on Monday. The RBI released data related to the 2020-21 round of its annual survey on exports of computer software and information technology enabled services. “Exports of software services (excluding exports through commercial presence) are estimated at $133.7 billion... registering 4% growth,” the RBI said. “The U.S. was the major destination for software exports accounting for 54.8%; Europe had 30.1% share” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/software-exports-rose-21-to-148-bn/article36580419.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||JNPT flags off train service for dwarf containers||Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) has introduced a train service from its dwarf container depot at the port to the inland container depot at Kanpur. Dwarf containers are containers whose height is lower by 660 cm than the normal containers, giving them a logistical edge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jnpt-flags-off-train-service-for-dwarf-containers/article36580426.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Bharti to halve greenhouse emissions by FY31||Bharti Airtel committed to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 50% across its operations by FY31 to contribute to global efforts to mitigate the impact of climate change. “Airtel has adopted targets to significantly reduce its carbon footprint from network operations,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bharti-to-halve-greenhouse-emissions-by-fy31/article36580431.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Cars24 raises $450 mn, valuation doubles to $1.84 billion||Cars24, an e-commerce platform for pre-owned vehicles, said it had raised $450 million, doubling its valuation to $1.84 billion. The funding includes $340 million Series F equity round along with $110 million debt from diversified financial institutions, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cars24-raises-450-mn-valuation-doubles-to-184-billion/article36580432.ece
21 September 2021||Mumbai,||RBI to conduct purchase, sale of G-secs on Thursday||The Reserve Bank said it will conduct an open market purchase of government securities aggregating to Rs. 15,000 crore under the G-sec Acquisition Programme on September 23. It will also conduct a simultaneous sale of government securities under open market operations for Rs. 15,000 crore on the same day.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-to-conduct-purchase-sale-of-g-secs-on-thursday/article36580433.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYNAGAR,||Lakshya upsets Sumit, in title clash||Twenty-year-old Lakshya shocked Olympian Sumit Sangwan in an 86kg semifinal match of the National boxing championships at the Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS) here on Monday. Taller than the lanky Sumit, Lakshya recorded a 4-1 win to be among the 11 Services men who reached the finals. Using jabs to good effect Even as Sumit relied on his powerful combinations, Jaipur boy Lakshay — a two-time Khelo India champion and a Youth National champion who joined the Army in February 2020 — used his left jabs effectively from a long range. His counter punches, including a beautiful right hook, and defence fetched him a memorable victory. Akash, another young Services boxer, rode on his power and accuracy to upset the nimble-footed former World youth champion Sachin Siwach of Railways 4-1 in a 54kg semifinal bout. In 57kg, World youth champion Sachin of Haryana fought valiantly before going down to the experienced Services man Mohammad Hussamuddin 1-4.  Other results (semifinals): 48kg: Kuldeep Kumar (Chd) bt Ravi (Kumar (UP) 5-0, Govind Sahani (RSPB) bt Barun Singh (SSCB) 5-0; 51kg: Deepak Kumar (SSCB) bt Ajay Pendor (Mah) 5-0, Ankit (Har) bt Ruchir Srivas (MP) 5-0.   54kg: Rajpinder Singh (Pun) bt Sanjay Kumar (Utk) 5-0; 57kg: Rohit Mor (Del) bt Ashish Kumar (HP) 5-0; 60kg: Varinder Singh (RSPB) bt Harivansh Tawari (Mah) 3-0, EtashKhan Muhammed (SSCB) bt Vijay Kumar (Pun) 5-0.   63.5kg: Dalveer Singh Tomar (SSCB) bt Abinash Jamwal (HP) 4-1, Shiva Thapa (Asm) bt Abhishek Yadav (UP) 5-0; 67kg: Akash (SSCB) bt Dinesh (RSPB) 5-0, Aditya Pratap Yadav (UP) bt Amit Sheoran (Raj) 4-1.   71kg: Nishant Dev (Kar) bt Yashpal (Har) 5-0, Amit Kumar (DDNH) bt Hemant Yadav (Del) 5-0; 75kg: Sumit (SSCB) bt Nikhil Dubey (Mah) 5-0, Rohit Tokas (RSPB) bt Buntee Singh (Del) 5-0.   80kg: Vinit (Har) bt Rahul Rathi (Del) 5-0, Sachin Kumar (SSCB) bt Harpreet (Chd) 5-0; 86kg: Prayag Chauhan (RSPB) bt Gowtham Palani (TN) 5-0; 92kg: Naveen Kumar (Har) bt Raghav Chaudhary (Pun) 5-0, Sanjeet (SSCB) bt Harsh Kaushik (Del) 5-0.   92+kg: Sagar (Chd) bt Reynold Joseph (Mah) RSC-R1, Narender (SSCB) bt Sagar Chhikara (RSPB) 5-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-upsets-sumit-in-title-clash/article36580759.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Varun and Russell leave Royal Challengers shellshocked||Kolkata Knight Riders whipped Royal Challengers Bangalore in their opening match of the second leg of the IPL, recording a nine-wicket victory at Abu Dhabi on Monday. On a pitch which held no demons, RCB fumbled inexplicably and folded for 92. KKR made short work of the chase, reaching the target in just 10 overs. KKR opener Venkatesh Iyer (41 n.o., 27b, 7x4, 1x6), making his IPL debut, impressed with a couple of glorious drives off Mohammed Siraj in the opening over. Later in his knock, Venkatesh walked down the track to Kyle Jamieson and slammed the pacer for a stunning six. Venkatesh’s opening partner Shubman Gill helped himself to a classy 34-ball 48. RCB skipper Virat Kohli, playing his 200th IPL match, failed with the bat, falling leg-before to pacer Prasidh Krishna for five. Devdutt Padikkal (22, 20b, 3x4) could not get going. The southpaw tried to glide a quick ball from Lockie Ferguson to third man, but ended up feathering it to ‘keeper Dinesh Karthik. In a surprise move, RCB promoted wicketkeeper-batsman K.S. Bharat ahead of Glenn Maxwell and AB de Villiers. The gamble failed, as Bharat struggled to raise the tempo. Padikkal and Bharat could not make use of the early fielding restrictions, scoring only 41 runs in the first six overs. A frustrated Bharat (16, 19b, 1x4) skied a short ball from Andre Russell to square-leg. De Villiers was sent back for a golden duck, courtesy a fiery yorker from Russell which thudded into the stumps. Maxwell was uncharacteristically out of sorts. Finger spinner Sunil Narine had Maxwell in a bind, even as the Australian made futile switch hit attempts to break free. Maxwell was cleaned up for a 17-ball 10, swinging wildly across the line to a length ball from spinner Varun Chakravarthy. The slow bowler struck off his very next delivery, trapping Sri Lankan Wanindu Hasaranga on the pads. Varun nearly recorded a hat-trick, but his fierce leg-before appeal against Jamieson was turned down. Varun and Russell stood out with three wickets each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varun-and-russell-leave-royal-challengers-shellshocked/article36580692.ece
21 September 2021||BENGALURU,||RCB may look at the auction for Kohli’s successor||Who will take over captaincy duties at Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) after Virat Kohli steps down at the end of IPL 2021? With no obvious successors in the squad, RCB might view the 2022 IPL mega auction as a chance to revamp — leadership et al. — and march in a new direction. Kohli himself hinted at the likely change in landscape, stating that RCB is set to go through a transitional phase after the auction next year.  The player list for the auction is not known yet, but RCB could set its sights on signing a new captain. If available, proven skippers like Kane Williamson, Steve Smith and Eoin Morgan, and a budding leader like K.L. Rahul will interest the RCB management. That RCB has not groomed a strong deputy for Kohli has contributed to this uncertain situation. A.B. de Villiers, at 37 and retired from international cricket, is not an ideal long-term option. Australian Glenn Maxwell, who was signed by RCB at the start of this season, is only now finding his feet. Among the Indians, Devdutt Padikkal and Washington Sundar are calm and mature, but they do not possess enough experience to command authority. RCB is also hindered by the fact that it does not have a strong core group of Indian players — so crucial in giving franchises a settled feel. Mumbai Indians has the Pandya brothers, Jasprit Bumrah, Suryakumar Yadav and Ishan Kishan to support Rohit Sharma. When Delhi Capitals’ regular skipper Shreyas Iyer was out with an injury, Rishabh Pant was happy to pick up the pieces. Despite recent reversals, Chennai Super Kings has trusted M.S. Dhoni, Suresh Raina, Ruturaj Gaikwad, Ravindra Jadeja, Ambati Rayudu, Shardul Thakur and others to do the job. RCB, on the other hand, has just one regular India international — Mohammed Siraj — in the squad, apart from Kohli. For too long, RCB has invested tremendous energy on superstar Kohli. Now with Kohli set to slip into the background, the franchise should look past outstanding individual talent and focus on building a well-rounded team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-could-look-at-the-auction-for-kohlis-successor/article36580683.ece
21 September 2021||Chennai,||Rahil returns to First Class cricket||Rahil Shah has decided to return to First Class cricket. The 35-year-old left-arm spinner from Tamil Nadu will turn up for Tripura in the upcoming season. Rahil, who has 112 wickets in 33 First Class matches, last played for Uttarakhand in 2020 after which he announced his retirement from the longer format. However, he continued playing in the TNCA first division league for Vijay CC and took part in the TNPL, captaining Ruby Trichy Warriors. Talking to The Hindu , Rahil said, “The offer came from Tripura to play all formats as a senior professional and I decided to accept it. Family tragedy “ When I announced my retirement my father had just passed away and I had to reorganise my life and responsibilities.” Rahil, known for his control with the ball, added, “I am in a better mental space now. I am ready for First Class cricket again.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahil-returns-to-first-class-cricket/article36580832.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Winning the bronze best moment of my life: Varun||Disappointed to lose out on a place in the initial 16-member squad for the Tokyo Olympics, Indian men’s hockey team defender Varun Kumar considers himself lucky to make a bronze medal-winning debut after he was called up as an alternate player owing to the pandemic. Drag-flicker Varun and midfielder Simranjeet Singh made their Olympic debut after they were added to India’s squad following the IOC’s decision to allow “alternate athletes” in team events. “My name was not there in the 16-member squad and I was disappointed,” recalled Varun. “But after a few days when the IOC allowed hockey teams to expand to 18 players, Simranjeet and I were called up as alternate athletes. It came as a huge relief but somewhere at the back of my mind I was still upset about not making it to the final 16. I really wanted to prove myself.” Varun added that skipper Manpreet Singh’s one-on-one chat with him before the team left for Tokyo helped a lot. “It really helped that captain Manpreet had a long chat with me. Manpreet has been a big influence in my career from a very young age as we played in the same academy. I started focusing on how I could make the opportunity count and deliver when the team needed me to. “It was a fantastic experience in Tokyo. Winning the bronze and standing on the podium along with my teammates is perhaps the best moment of my life.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/winning-the-bronze-best-moment-of-my-life-varun/article36581128.ece
21 September 2021||WARANGAL,||Sahil ready to follow in Neeraj’s footsteps||He is lean and tall and has a sort of lost look about him. But Sahil Silwal could be the future of Indian javelin throw, the best of the rest behind Olympic champion Neeraj Chopra. The 20-year-old from Haryana was fourth in the 2018 under-20 Worlds in Finland with 72.83m but now has made better progress than all the medallists there. Sahil’s personal best 80.65m, in Patiala in March, makes him India’s third best thrower this year, behind Neeraj and Shivpal Singh.  “Neeraj has motivated us with his gold. I train with him and when somebody like him wins medals, it lifts us all,” said Sahil in a chat with The Hindu during the National Open where he won with 77.79m. With the national camp having taken a break, he was not at his best. “The sidewinds and headwinds at Warangal affected the throwers,” said Kashinath Naik, a former assistant national javelin coach who had worked with Neeraj, Shivpal and Annu Rani earlier. “Youngsters like Sahil, D.P. Manu and Rohit Yadav are the best three after Neeraj and they are all in the 20-21 age group. Kunwer Ajai Raj is also good. Grooming “Sahil has the height too, he may come good in the next Asian Games and he can be groomed for the 2024 Paris Olympics.” But it will be unfair to compare the youngsters with Neeraj. “Neeraj is an extraordinary talent. He is very aggressive and does not fear anything,” said Kashinath.  “Some of these young boys have a bit of fear but once they get more international exposure, they will be strong and consistent.” The people who have shaped Neeraj are working with Sahil too. He trains under Jaiveer Chaudhary, the Olympic champion’s early coach. And biomechanics expert Klaus Bartonietz charts out Sahil’s training plan with Jaiveer. “I’ve been with Jaiveer for a year, am comfortable with his technique and plan,” said Sahil who went to Finland and South Africa with Neeraj earlier. “I want to do big throws at the Asian Games, I want to win medals for the country. But right now, because I’m very tall (6’3), I need to put on some more weight to get stronger.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sahil-ready-to-follow-in-neerajs-footsteps/article36580879.ece
21 September 2021||VIJAYNAGAR,||Sachin Siwach’s singular problem||For an 18-year-old, it is a unique problem. But Sachin Siwach, the reigning World Youth champion in 56kg, accepts the reality with a smile. In an amazing coincidence, Sachin has an identical name, including the surname, as that of a Railways boxer. Both come from Mitathal village, near Bhiwani, of Haryana and both have won World Youth titles! The basic difference is the senior Sachin, who won his World youth title in 2016 and is a 21-year-old now, competes in 54kg, while the junior Sachin takes part in 57kg in the ongoing National championships here. Incidentally, both have managed to land bronze medals! Not a bad result The bronze medal on debut is not a bad result for the junior Sachin, who upset Worlds bronze medallist Gaurav Bidhuri before losing to Commonwealth Games bronze medallist Mohammed Hussamuddin in a close semifinal bout. “I have learnt a lot. I need to work on my strength and defence,” Sachin told The Hindu on Monday. “The World Youth title has instilled a lot of confidence and I am fighting with less fear now,” he said. Sachin is lucky to have the constant guidance of his uncle Pawan Siwach, who put him into boxing, and his first coach at village Anil Tekram. “Within a few months of starting boxing in 2015, Sachin got a silver in (under-14) National school championships. Next year he got a silver in the National junior and kept on improving,” said Pawan. Now, Sachin wants to make the most of his time at the National camp and emerge as a better boxer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sachin-siwachs-singular-problem/article36580881.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Santosh Trophy final round in Kerala||Kerala will host the final round of this season’s Santosh Trophy in Manjeri. This was announced by Kerala Sports Minister V.Abdurahiman here on Monday after signing a MOU with All-India Football Federation (AIFF). The MOU was signed by State Government and AIFF to promote and develop the game in the State. The minister said that the State was in process of opening up different sectors and by hosting Santosh Trophy it will provide opportunity to revive the interest in sports especially football. The Sports Minister said that the mushrooming football turfs and private academies in the State were clear indications that the game was in a healthy state in Kerala. The minister said that the priority of the State government was to tap the talent by organising tournaments and leagues with the help of the AIFF. The minister said the State Government with AIFF’s help will promote women’s and beach football in the State. The State will also play host to national camps of various Indian teams and will also be venue of future international football tournaments. The minister said as a beginning the year long national camp for Indian under-17 teams will be held in Kerala. The State Government along with AIFF will develop grass root football in the State. The AIFF will conduct AFC license courses apart from refresher courses which will be beneficial to coaches from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santosh-trophy-final-round-in-kerala/article36580761.ece
21 September 2021||Sao Miguel (Portugal),||MRF Tyres team takes second place||Dani Sordo and Candido Carrera of Team MRF Tyres took the second place in the Azores Rallye, the fifth round of the FIA European Rally Championship, after a great battle for top positions. “The second-place finish is a great result. We did very well to lead the rally, and take three stage wins throughout the weekend. We beat our expectations and I am happy with this second place,” said Sordo. “Azores is an amazing rally with amazing stages. To win a legendary stage like Sete Cidades was great for me and MRF Tyres,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mrf-tyres-team-takes-second-place/article36580769.ece
21 September 2021||TUNIS,||Preyesh and Vishruth triumph||Preyesh Suresh Raj and Vishruth Ramakrishnan won the boys under-15 and 11 titles respectively in the World Table Tennis Youth Contender here on Sunday.  The results (finals): U-15: Preyesh Suresh Raj (Ind) bt Ankur Bhattacharjee (Ind) 11-8, 15-13, 11-13, 11-9.   U-11: Vishruth Ramakrishnan (Ind) bt Amir Essid (Tun) 11-4, 11-3, 11-7 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/preyesh-and-vishruth-triumph/article36580775.ece
21 September 2021||Madrid,||Real Madrid pulls off incredible comeback||Real Madrid moved to the top of LaLiga on Sunday after scoring twice in two minutes to pull off an incredible late comeback against Valencia. Valencia looked set for victory at Mestalla when Hugo Duro scored against his former club in the second half but the in-form Vinicius Junior equalised in the 86th minute before Karim Benzema headed home in the 88th for a 2-1 away win. Real Madrid remains unbeaten this term, having now won five and drawn one of its first six matches in all competitions under returning coach Carlo Ancelotti. Valencia, which stays third, has also enjoyed a strong start under new coach Jose Bordalas but leaves hugely disappointed not to have taken three points from this game, let alone one. Madrid sits two ahead of Atletico Madrid. Juventus was left struggling in the unlikely surroundings of Serie A’s bottom three on Sunday after a 1-1 draw with AC Milan kept it still searching for a first league win this season. Alvaro Morata’s fourth-minute goal gave Juve the lead but Ante Rebic headed in a 76th-minute equaliser as Milan ended the weekend in second place on goal difference behind city rival Inter. Juventus is 18th with just two points from four games with only Cagliari and Salernitana propping it up. Meanwhile, in the Premier League Chelsea came out on the top in the London derby when it overran Tottenham 3-0 in Sunday’s late match.  The results: LaLiga: Real Sociedad 0 drew with Sevilla 0; Real Betis 2 (Willian Jose 41, Fekir 45+4) drew with Espanyol 2 (Aleix 16, Cabrera 90+7); Valencia 1 (Duro Perales 66) lost to Real Madrid 2 (Vinicius Junior 86, Benzema 88).   Serie A: Juventus 1 (Morata 4) drew with AC Milan 1 (Rebic 76).   Bundesliga: VfL Wolfsburg 1 (Weghorst 70) drew with Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Lammers 38) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-madrid-pulls-off-incredible-comeback/article36580777.ece
21 September 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI hikes match fees for domestic cricketers||While raising match-fees across the board in domestic cricket, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has introduced graded match-fees payment structure for senior men’s domestic cricketers. The decision was made by the BCCI apex council during its meeting on Monday. The council also approved 50% compensation for the cricketers who featured in 2019-20 Ranji Trophy season for the cancelled 2020-21 edition due to COVID-19. Talking point The biggest talking point remained the supposed steep hike in match-fees. The revised match-fees structure — Rs. 40,000 per match-day (1 to 20 matches), Rs. 50,000 per match-day (21 to 40 matches) and Rs. 60,000 per match-day (40+ matches) — incentivises the First Class regulars in domestic cricket. Besides, the apex council felt that it will also push rookies who earn Indian Premier League contracts to also strive harder in domestic cricket to earn better livelihood. However, at least in the short-term, more than half of the domestic cricketers will end up making lesser than they did in the last Ranji Trophy season. When the match-fees was Rs. 35,000 per match-day in 2019-20, each team was assured of at least eight league-stage games. From this season onwards, the assured group games have been reduced to five, thus leading to lesser pay for a majority of cricketers. Meanwhile, the apex council also ratified India’s crammed home international season, including 14 T20Is, four Tests and three ODIs against four different oppositions. The apex council during its virtual meeting also ratified the BCCI’s new initiative of introducing the Prevention of Sexual Harassment policy. While the apex council finally brought good news for domestic cricketers — men and women, juniors and seniors alike — the match officials were left waiting for their compensation package. More than 500 officials — match referees, umpires, scorers and video analysts — have been been waiting for more than a year for the COVID-19 compensation package. It is understood that the matter will be placed in the AGM later this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-hikes-match-fees-for-domestic-cricketers/article36580680.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Playing best team is ideal preparation for WC: Mithali||Australia’s women cricketers are on an unprecedented winning streak. They have won 24 ODIs in a row, beating the game’s international record set in 2003 by the Australian men’s team (21 wins). Mithali Raj on Monday, the eve of the first ODI at Mackay, said that the Indian team would rather not reflect on Australia’s streak. At an online media conference, the Indian captain said playing against the best side before the World Cup was the best preparation. “We are looking forward to playing our best cricket because we understand we are playing undoubtedly one of the best sides in the world on their home turf and it’s going to be a challenging series,” she said. Not going to be easy “Every player understands that we’re in Australia, playing an Australian team. It's not going to be an easy series. In every game we have to bring our top game against them.” India has suffered a setback even before a ball was bowled in the series. “Harmanpreet Kaur is injured and will not play in Tuesday’s match, according to coach Ramesh Powar. Hit on the thumb “Unfortunately, some days back she got hit on the thumb and she is not available for the first ODI,” he said. “(For the) next ODI, we will take a call according to her pain management and fitness.” About Shafali Verma, the teenage batting sensation, Powar said she deserved to get some breathing space. “Mithali, (batting coach) S.S. Das, and I had conversations with her,” he said. Knows her role “She has played the Hundred, so she has got some confidence from there. She knows her role and what is expected of her. “We don't (want to) push a 17-year-old who is very expressive in her batting. “We don't want to curtail her game. Das is working on her game and mental aspects,” Powar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/playing-best-team-is-ideal-preparation-for-wc-mithali/article36580685.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Royals clash with Kings||Fortune hasn’t been kind to Rajasthan Royals this season. It has to play the remaining matches of the tournament without its superstar trio from England — Ben Stokes, Jos Buttler and Jofra Archer. So how will the Royals cope up with their absence? We will find out on Tuesday, when they take on Punjab Kings at Dubai. The Royals are placed fifth in the table and Punjab Kings, sixth. Both teams are on six points, but the men from Jaipur have played a game less. Given the fire-power and class in the batting line-ups on either side, it could well be an entertaining and engrossing contest. Just look at the two captains. Few sights in world cricket are more pleasing than K.L. Rahul or Sanju Samson in full flow. While the Punjab captain has had a good tour of England, his counterpart is smarting from the T20 World Cup snub. Samson would indeed be keen to come up with some big knocks to get the attention of the national selectors once again. The Royals, too, will need him to fire as they try to move up the table. Lusty hitting is also expected from Liam Livingstone and Evin Lewis. Chris Morris has to spearhead the attack, which contains the likes of Chetan Sakariya and Mustafizur Rahman. They may not find it easy to contain the Punjab batting that features men like Chris Gayle and Nicholas Pooran besides Rahul. Among the bowlers, the new Australian signing Nathan Ellis could be in focus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royals-kings-could-light-up-dubai/article36580686.ece
21 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Team Urbane wins||Team Urbane, represented by Abhishek Sarkar, Akash Saha, Soham Charaborty and Sanjay Chakravarty beat Crackerjax in the Team of Four Bronze final by 12.67 IMPs in the HCL International Bridge Championship. The two teams, competing virtually on the Real Bridge platform, played three sessions of eight boards each, after topping the league featuring nine teams. Urbane Gaming won the HCL Rising Stars Trophy and a cash prize of Rs. 15,000. The runner-up got Rs. 10,000. Dhanu and Vagabonds finished third and fourth respectively. In the Team of four Gold contest, the team of Arun Jain topped the league with 136.55 VPs, from 54 teams. Russia (131.80 VPs), Texan (128.11), Podram (125.92), Formidables (122.58), Leslie (121.20), Shree Cement (120.65) and Aristos (118.78) were placed second to eighth. The advantage for the top-seven teams in the pre-quarterfinals, played over four sessions of 10 boards each, was that they could choose their opponents from the teams placed ninth to 16. The team of Arun Jain opted for Maximus while Russia chose Hope N Prey as their opponents for the pre-quarterfinals. In the team of four Silver event, Prayas topped the table in the league from among 67 teams with a score of 135.87 VPs. It was followed by Dr. SSMC (134.60), Talluri (132.27) and Prabhav (130.29).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-urbane-wins/article36581290.ece
21 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||Incredulous takes honours in feature||Trainer D. Netto’s Incredulous (N.B. Kuldeep up) claimed the S. Rangarajan Memorial Cup, the feature event of Monday’s (Sept. 20) races here. The winner is owned by Mr. C. Nanda Kumar, Mr. Polkumpally Saikumar & Mr. Donald Anthony Netto.  1. MOUNT PLEASANT PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): BURANO (Ashad Asbar) 1, Thanks (Trevor) 2, N R I Sport (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Able Love (B. Nikhil) 4. 2, 1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 12.91s. Rs. 25 (w), 15, 23 and 16 (p). SHP: 71, THP: 73, FP: 222, Q: 191, Tanala: 1,664. Favourite: Burano. Owner: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  2. POP MARCOOLYN PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): FOREVER BOND (P. Trevor) 1, Bedazzled (Kuldeep Singh) 2, N R I Gift (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Sun Dancer (C. Umesh) 4. 1-1/2, Sh and 1-1/4. 1m, 26.98s. Rs. 20 (w), 14, 75 and 26 (p). SHP: 317, THP: 75, FP: 685, Q: 485, Tanala: 5,004. Favourite: Forever Bond. Owners: Mr. Champaklal Zaveri rep. Zaveri Stud Farm Private Limited, Mrs. Bindu C. Zaveri, Miss. Niti N. Desai & Miss. Harsha N. Desai. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  3. MOUNT PLEASANT PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): BOLD BIDDING (Akshay Kumar) 1, Bandit King (B.R. Kumar) 2, Inside Story (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Joy O Joy (P. Trevor) 4. Not run: Isra and Precious Gift. 1, Hd and 2. 1m, 15.46s. Rs. 35 (w), 14, 15 and 26 (p). SHP: 37, THP: 80, FP: 110, Q: 59, Tanala: 1,191. Favourite: Bandit King. Owners: Mr. Rama Seshu Eyyuni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  4. KUNIGAL PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GREEN TURF (Gaurav Singh) 1, Rapid Fire (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Red Snaper (C. Umesh) 3 and Explosive (R. Ajinkya) 4. 4-3/4, 1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 14.13s. Rs. 27 (w), 12, 15 and 22 (p). SHP: 65, THP: 60, FP: 149, Q: 78, Tanala: 653. Favourite: Green Turf. Owner: Mr. Maddali Sai Kumar. Trainer: G. Shashikant.  5. MAKE WAY PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MAXIMUM GLAMOUR (Akshay Kumar) 1, Star Dancer (Kiran Naidu) 2, River Song (P. Trevor) 3 and Thunder Road (Kuldeep Singh) 4. Not run: Healthandhappiness. 6-1/2, 2 and 1. 1m, 27.14s. Rs. 16 (w), 11, 17 and 10 (p). SHP: 49, THP: 67, FP: 106, Q: 74, Tanala: 236. Favourite: Maximum Glamour. Owners: Mr. Donald Anthony Netto, Mr. Veeramachaneni Bharat & Mr. Srikanth Badruka. Trainer: D. Netto.  6. KUNIGAL PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SUBLIME (Ajit Singh) 1, Angel Tesoro (B.R. Kumar) 2, Sacred Lamp (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Four One Four (Deepak Singh) 4. 1-1/2, Nose and Nk. 1m, 16.22s. Rs. 100 (w), 23, 23 and 37 (p). SHP: 93, THP: 127, FP: 1,064, Q: 550, Tanala: (c/o). Favourite: Linewiler. Owners: Mr. Sudarshan Singh Rathore Kanwar & Mr. Rishiraj Singh Rathore.  7. S. RANGARAJAN MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): INCREDULOUS (N.B. Kuldeep) 1, Maxwell (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Her Legacy (Kiran Naidu) 3 and Xfinity (Afroz Khan) 4. Hd, 1-1/4 and Sh. 1m, 14.69s. Rs. 94 (w), 23, 19 and 37 (p). SHP: 53, THP: 106, FP: 875, Q: 395, Tanala: 6,208. Favourite: Days Of Reckoning. Owners: Mr. C. Nanda Kumar, Mr. Polkumpally Saikumar& Mr. Donald Anthony Netto. Trainer: D. Netto.  8. POP MARCOOLYN PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), 4-y-o & upward, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): SHELDON (G. Naresh) & ICE BERRY (C.P. Bopanna) 1, That’s My Speed (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Lorena (Deepak Singh) 4. Not run: Air Salute. Dead Heat, 5 and Hd. 1m, 29.46s. 15 and 81 (w), 18, 28 and 16 (p). THP: 52, FP: 361 and 576, Q: 403, Tanala: 2,569 and 7,194. Favourite: Stark. Owners: Sheldon: Mr. Mukund Kakani & Mr. Mohit Jaju; Ice Berry: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar Of Chettinad Chartiable Trust. Trainers: Sheldon: K.S.V. Prasad Raju; Ice Berry: K. Satheesh. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 59,557 (4 tkts.) & 2,38,231 (1 tkt) and 30%: 13,613 (15 tkts.). Treble: (i) 234 (205 tkts.), (ii) 381 (107 tkts.), (iii) 18,512 (3 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: (i) 507 (80 tkts.), (ii) 8,559 (5 tkts.), 42,795 (1 tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/incredulous-takes-honours-in-feature/article36580771.ece
21 September 2021||JALANDHAR,||Dinesh Laungani in last eight||Dinesh Laungani beat fifth seed Ashish Pant 6-3, 4-6, 7-5 in the pre-quarterfinals of the over-45 event in the ITF Seniors tennis tournament at the Singha Sports Academy on Monday.  Other results: Over-35 (first round): Harvinder Singh bt Sumeet Gupta 6-4, 6-4; Rewant Datta bt Puneet Kathpalia 6-0, 6-0; Harinder Sharma bt Jagmeet Singh 6-2, 6-4; Pankaj Ahlawat bt Dinesh Singh Negi 7-5, 7-5; Swarnesh Chaturvedi bt Paramjeet Sihag 6-0, 6-0.   Over-45 (pre-quarterfinals): Monty Roy bt Ulhas Mohile 6-0, 6-0; Sunil Lulla bt Shahnawaz Zafar 6-2, 6-0; Dinesh Laungani bt Ashish Pant 6-3, 4-6, 7-5; Himanshu Bhatia bt A Kumar Purohit 6-0, 6-1; Sheetal Sharma bt Pavan Gaikwad 6-0, 6-0; Avnish Chandra Rastogi bt Akhil Mathur 6-1, 6-2.   Over-55 (first round): Nishit Pandey bt U Lingam 6-4, 6-1; Bharat Phukan bt Diganta Bordoloi 6-3, 6-3; L Lakpa Sherpa bt D Chudhary 6-3, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dinesh-laungani-in-last-eight/article36581291.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Praggs loses to Yoo||R. Praggnanandhaa’s awe-inspiring nine-game winning streak ended after he ran into USA’s Christopher Yoo in the 10th round of the Hou Yifan Challenge online rapid chess tournament on Monday. First loss In an irrepressible form, Praggnanandhaa (9 points) won all four rounds on Sunday. He beat rising American star Awonder Liang, Russia’s Volodar Murzin, Poland’s Oliwia Kiolbasa and Azerbaijan’s Gunay Mammadzada. He stays in the lead despite the first loss. Aditya Mittal, in the joint fourth spot, reached six points after beating USA’s Abhimanyu Mishra, the world’s youngest GM. Leon Mendonca, who had a bye in the 10th round, stayed on five points while R. Vaishali moved to four points after drawing with Murzin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yoo-snaps-praggs-streak/article36580760.ece
21 September 2021||Paris,||Online summit to discuss biennial WC||FIFA has invited football’s domestic governing bodies to an online summit on September 30 to discuss its controversial proposal to hold the World Cup every two years instead of four. Reform The topic is set to be discussed with FIFA’s member associations as part of plans to reform the international calendar. “Following invitations to stakeholders, including all confederations, at the beginning of September, discussions are being organised in the coming weeks,” FIFA said in a statement on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-summit-to-discuss-biennial-wc/article36580882.ece
21 September 2021||New Delhi,||Sharad Kumar admitted to AIIMS||Paralympics bronze-medallist high jumper Sharad Kumar has been admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after experiencing chest congestion but he is “feeling better” now. Kumar, who won a bronze in the T-42 high jump event in the Tokyo Paralympics on August 31, is awaiting his test reports after he was admitted to the prestigious medical facility four days back. “I have been here for four days after feeling chest congestion. I am feeling better now,” Kumar said . “Everyday, there is a test and the doctors are going to tell (what is future course of action) in a day or two,” he added.  Kumar is a double Asian Para Games (2014 and 2018) high jump champion and world silver medallist (2019).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharad-kumar-admitted-to-aiims/article36580770.ece
21 September 2021||PARIS,||Osaka drops to eighth||Naomi Osaka slipped out of the top-five in the WTA rankings released on Monday while Simona Halep, another former World No. 1, continued her slide by also dropping three places. Four-time Grand Slam champion Osaka fell from fifth to eighth as Halep tumbled down to 14th. Ashleigh Barty remains on top while French Open winner Barbora Krejcikova climbed to a career high fifth. Danish teenager Clara Tauson rose 18 places to 52nd after capturing her second title of the year in Luxembourg. Italy’s Jasmine Paolini jumped from 87th to 64th following her first WTA title at Portoroz, Slovenia.  The top-10: 1. Ashleigh Barty (Aus); 2. Aryna Sabalenka (Blr); 3. Karolina Pliskova (Cze); 4. Elina Svitolina (Ukr); 5. Barbora Krejcikova (Cze).   6. Iga Swiatek (Pol); 7. Sofia Kenin (USA); 8. Naomi Osaka (Jpn); 9. Garbine Muguruza (Esp); 10. Petra Kvitova (Cze).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osaka-drops-to-eighth/article36580885.ece
21 September 2021||Mackay,||India’s middle-order needs to fire||The under-fire middle-order will be expected to deliver when India takes on mighty Australia in the first ODI here on Tuesday.  The teams (from): India: Mithali Raj (capt.), Harmanpreet Kaur, Smriti Mandhana, Shafali Verma, Punam Raut, Jemimah Rodrigues, Deepti Sharma, Sneh Rana, Yastika Bhatia, Taniya Bhatia, Shikha Pandey, Jhulan Goswami, Meghna Singh, Pooja Vastrakar, Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Poonam Yadav, Richa Ghosh and Ekta Bisht.   Australia: Meg Lanning (capt.), Rachael Haynes, Darcie Brown, Maitlan Brown, Stella Campbell, Nicola Carey, Hannah Darlington, Ashleigh Gardner, Alyssa Healy, Tahlia McGrath, Sophie Molineux, Beth Mooney, Ellyse Perry, Georgia Redmayne, Molly Strano, Annabel Sutherland, Tayla Vlaeminck, Georgia Wareham.   Match starts at 5.35 a.m. (IST) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-middle-order-needs-to-fire/article36580681.ece
21 September 2021||LONDON,||England pulls out of Pakistan tour||England cricket chiefs on Monday cancelled the upcoming men’s and women’s tours of Pakistan days after New Zealand abandoned their series over security concerns. The men were due to play two T20 Internationals on October 13 and 14, with the women playing three ODIs after that. All the matches were set to take place in Rawalpindi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-pulls-out-of-pakistan-tour/article36580714.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 07:51 IST,||Sudoku — September 21, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-21-2021/article36581510.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Raise a negroni||In 2014, about a year before the negroni was to become such a cult in the US bar circuit, I found myself alone in Florence, a city I had never visited till then. It was an impulsive trip, as I caught a train from Turin to this miniature Tuscan gem. A friend of a Florentine friend, an Italian policeman, took it upon himself to show me around. And the best way to see Florence, indeed the only way, is to just wander. So it was that we crossed the Arno, to the less touristy, less expensive quarters, into the neighbourhood of the Basilica di Santo Spirito, an ancient church associated with humanism. The enclave around it was once populated by prominent Florentine families such as Frescobaldi, but also poor artisans and tradesmen. Centuries later, Santo Spirito still retains its arty character. In the square, stands a bar whose name I have never noted in all the time that I have visited Santo Spirito since (annually and sometimes twice a year from 2014 to 2019) to repeat a ritual picked up on that first visit: buy a negroni, sit on the church steps, listen to live music some amateur musician inevitably plays in the evenings. And watch the world go by. The negroni, a Florentine creation supposedly, has always been a symbol of la dolce vita , the sweet Italian life, that is also bitter-sweet and certainly lived intensely.  Skip the riffs   Bitter,sweet and strong mark the three characteristics of the classic drink, equal parts Campari, sweet vermouth and gin. It is the more sophisticated sibling of the spritz, the other Italian apéritif with a similar bitter-sweet profile but not as strong (soda water, prosecco, and aperol or Campari classically). But in the US, the negroni is a shape shifter. Countless marketing events since 2015 — when the world beyond the close-knit bartending community seemed to wake up to the negroni — have put out so many iterations of the cocktail that it is now not a cocktail, but a veritable category. Some of these global versions that are currently flooding Indian bars in Delhi and Mumbai are pretty good, but truth be told, many are terrible too. They destroy the essence of the bitter-sweet-strong classic, at once simple yet sophisticated. In 2019, the drink turned 100, prompting even more frenetic marketing events, including an entire week devoted to it in the US (September 13 to 19), which seems to have now rolled into India too. The original negroni came about when gin substituted or supplemented soda water in another Italian cocktail fashionable with Americans in Europe called the Americano (Campari, wine, soda water). Gin remains the most tampered with element in the cocktail even today: while old iterations such as the Boulevardier (Campari, vermouth, rye whisky), born in Paris in the 1930s, replace gin with whisky, in these hey days of craftiness in gin, infusions are fashionable. One of the worst negronis I had the misfortune of encountering was last week at a popular Delhi bar, where the ‘truffle negroni’ is supposedly made with gin infused with, well, truffle oil. Truffle negroni per se seems to have gained some international currency post an Australian promotional event for truffles, where they used black truffle salt on the rim and black truffle-infused gin in the drink. The drink I found myself clutching in Delhi was a riff on even this dodgy riff — with bits of black olive dust, all briny and blah, sticking to the single square ice cube in the glass. However, this masquerade for legit black truffles was enough to make fad-seeking Delhi society and social media ‘influencers’ go gaga over the version, never mind how it destroyed the sweet-bitter-strong essence of a negroni. In fact, even if the bar was to use a single slice of black truffle as a garnish, as a recipe by Gordon Ramsay restaurants does (blending truffle oil with bourbon, Campari and martini rosso), the umami of fresh truffle does nothing to the Campari and is a waste of a pricey ingredient.  Mezcal gets a yes   Somenegroni experiments, however, work quite well. The same week as I had the above disaster, I also tried the new international darling, a mezcal negroni. Mezcal, of course, is a spirit on the rise. But it is tough to find a good bottle in India and it is much dearer than your average gin. My drink was courtesy a dinner hosted by entrepreneur Vir Kotak. The mezcal worked well substituting the gin, being a strong spirit itself, adding its quintessential smokiness to the negroni. But I would definitely frown at the negroni getting fruitier, as some bar experimentations are leading it to in India (as also in the US), where typically palates prefer sweet and not bitter. Campari with its complex herbaceous notes is at the heart of the negroni. A fruitier negroni tampers with this heart. At the boutique hotel Narendra Bhawan in Bikaner, the bartender turned out a rather perfect negroni, only to spray our hands with orange perfume from a bottle before allowing us to pick up the drink. To my mind it did nothing to the drink, or experience. A single twist of orange is the classic garnish; some bartenders make a show of burning the peel to give you more of a whiff — but purists are not always more welcoming of any extra citrusy notes. Finally, ageing. The barrel fad hasn’t caught on in India, though barrel-aged negronis do make sporadic appearances in aspirational hotel bars. Because of the vermouth, the negroni is suitable to age; if done well, it makes it mellower and smoother. But without its intensity, is it really la dolce vita , the Italian classic we want?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/raise-a-negroni/article36581272.ece
21 September 2021||September 21 2021 00:00 IST,||Playing with decay and diamonds||In late August, a start-up Indian jewellery label dazzled in Las Vegas. Studio Renn, a three-year-old Mumbai-based jewellery firm, debuted internationally to win the Innovation award at Couture, a major annual event in the fine jewellery and luxury watches industry. The award winning piece, the Strangler ring, is an acid-treated concrete construct reinforced with blackened 18K grey gold and brilliant-cut round diamonds. Because of the US travel ban, the co-founders, spouses Rahul and Roshni Jhaveri, watched the ceremony virtually. “It was a surreal feeling,” says Rahul, 36, while Roshni, 37, explains that innovation is a significant part of their design practice. “It’s not just innovation using an unexpected material, but also through finishes and discovery.”  Beauty from destruction   Since inception, the duo’s creations have elevated jewel design into sculptural art forms. The Strangler is a by-product of their ongoing study of atrophy, or the impermanence of things. “It took multiple tries to get the edges absolutely perfect, and by acid treating it, the idea was to let go of the false sense of control we always have,” Rahul, Renn’s creative director, says. “It is this destructive act that softens the edges, partially exposes the inner form — to create the final ring. We are creating the work by seemingly destroying it, but also allowing the work to create itself serendipitously.” Respected art collector Czaee Shah came across Studio Renn during their first exhibit in Mumbai in 2019. “I had not encountered, and still have not encountered, another jewellery design practice like theirs in India — no one whose work straddles the worlds of art and adornment so uniquely,” she says. “The Studio stands apart by not referencing Indian antique jewellery, as everyone else does, but opts for avant-garde designs and innovative techniques.” Like the Boletus Sp Rotting rings, another discourse on atrophy. The trio of 18K white and rose gold rings have reverse-set Burmese rubies and diamonds, and when seen together, each depicts the progression of ‘rot’.  A material world   These highly-specialised pieces are a deliberate approach by Studio Renn to put design at the forefront of their jewellery. To do this, Rahul and Roshni interact with a host of creative individuals. “Architects, interior designers, visual artists, choreographers, performers, it’s from this tribe of creative people that we draw a lot of our inspiration,” Rahul says. The Strangler, for instance, is a collaboration with Mumbai-based architectural firm Material Immaterial Studio. One of the brand’s collaborations, titled (An) otherness, comprises 65 pieces that were the product of discussions between the studio and contemporary artist Prashant Salvi. It grew from a series of sketches to become an exploration of texture, materiality, shapes, and techniques. The results include pieces like the Orange Peel Ruby Reflections bracelet, in 18k white and high-gloss rose gold, set with Burmese rubies and diamonds. The rubies are hidden from sight but visible through reflections, a marvel of light and shadow. “We are constantly experimenting with and exploring materials to enhance the design experience,” Roshni says. Prior to the pandemic, Studio Renn debuted their collections in immersive installations in Mumbai, Kolkata and Ahmedabad (a Delhi exhibit is now on the cards). Working with leading design curator Divya Thakur on their first Mumbai show, Seeing the Unseen, in February 2019, or with American music composer Randall Taylor and Mumbai sculptor Nilesh Kinkale on The Fringe: Infinite Possibilities, in January 2020, resulted in exhibits that were more sensorial artistic expressions than typical commercial ones.  Putting design first   Prior to founding their fledgling label, Rahul and Roshni, who met as students at Carnegie Mellon University in Pennsylvania, had no experience in jewellery sales or retail. Roshni’s previous career was as a strategy consultant — she now oversees sales and marketing at Renn — while Rahul is from a third-generation diamond family that sources, cuts and polishes rough diamonds. At Studio Renn (Latin for ‘rebirth’), their five-person design team have a background in art studies or architectural degrees. The studio’s location in the northern Mumbai suburb of Borivali and the Jhaveris’ long daily commute from their home in Malabar Hill to work allows the founders to absorb the city’s transforming views. “The cities we live in are in a constant state of flux, so that’s where the fascination with atrophy began,” Rahul says. “We are influenced by the city but also the lack of it,” alluding perhaps to the forested Sanjay Gandhi National Park, a bio-diversity gem in the eastern end of Borivali. Working with both precious gemstones and gold, but also materials that would not otherwise be considered valuable — such as concrete or coins — expands on their idea of the impermanence of things. “Every single thing we do is a creative pursuit. Jewellery is just one important part,” Rahul concludes.  Studio Renn’s pieces start at price points of Rs. 2.5 lakh; commissioned works start at Rs. 3 lakh. Details: studiorenn.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/playing-with-decay-and-diamonds/article36581273.ece
