22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India considers ‘reciprocal’ steps to U.K.’s quarantine rules||India could impose “reciprocal measures” on the United Kingdom if London maintained the current quarantine policy that subjected Indian travellers “irrespective of vaccination status” to a quarantine period lasting 10 days, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said here on Tuesday. There was an option of mutual recognition of vaccination certificates, he noted at a press briefing. The comments came hours after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his British counterpart Liz Truss in New York on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly. Mutual recognition “The External Affairs Minister has raised this issue strongly with his counterpart, the new U.K. Foreign Secretary, and I am told that certain assurances have been given that this issue would be resolved. And as you saw, the Minister has said this issue should be resolved at the earliest possible to mutual satisfaction. We have also offered some of our partner countries the option of mutual recognition of vaccination certificates or vaccine certification. But these are reciprocal measures. I think if obviously, as we go along, we will have to see how it goes. If we don’t get satisfaction, we would be well within our rights to impose reciprocal measures,” Mr. Shringla observed. He indicated that the U.K.’s policy to impose 10 days quarantine on people vaccinated with Covishield revealed a gap in that country’s policy regarding vaccines made in India. “The basic issue is that here is a vaccine, Covishield, which is a licensed product of a U.K. company, manufactured in India,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-considers-reciprocal-steps-to-uks-quarantine-rules/article36601581.ece
22 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Temple entry issue ends amicably in Miyapur||A Dalit family of Miyapur village in Koppal district, which was recently fined Rs. 25,000 after its two-year-old child entered a temple in the village, appears to be reluctant to take the issue forward. As per the Koppal Police, the family refused to lodge a complaint against villagers who held a meeting on September 11 and imposed the fine on it for allowing the child to enter the temple. Family reluctant “The family is not cooperating with the police and the administration. Just as we came to know about the incident, we rushed to the village and gathered complete information. Despite our persuasion, the family was not ready to file a complaint. Then, we had to have a meeting in the village on Saturday and asked people from all communities to enter the temple to offer puja,” Koppal Superintendent of Police T. Sridhar said. Birthday As per information shared by the police and the villagers, the two-year-old child from Chennadasa community, a Scheduled Castes community, entered the village temple on September 4 when it was taken there by its father to offer puja from outside on the occasion of the child’s birthday. Meeting The temple priest and two more people from the Ganiga community, a sub-caste of Lingayat, took objection to the child’s act as the entry of Dalits to the temple is prohibited. Later, they gathered some more people on their side and held a meeting on September 11 and imposed the fine on the child’s family. These people also said that the fine amount will be utilised for the purification of the temple which was polluted with the entry of the Dalit child. Unable to pay The Dalit family which was unable to pay the fine amount approached community leaders who rushed to the village and also informed the police. Since the family was reluctant in lodging a complaint, the police did not register any First Information Report. However, they held a meeting of representatives of all the communities on the temple premises in the village and warned the villagers of stringent legal action upon repetition of such practices. Closed chapter “It is a big village dominated by Ganiga Lingayat. There are only three Chennadasa families in the village. There are around 30 other Scheduled Castes families in the village. If we were to go ahead in pursuing the matter legally against upper caste people, it may have had an adverse impact on the Dalit families residing in the village. Moreover, imposing the fine on the Dalit family was not a collective decision of all Lingayat in the village. Only a couple of them took the decision which was later opposed by other Lingayat leaders themselves. Since the Lingayat leaders themselves accepted their offence and promised not to repeat it in future, we [Chennadasa community] decided to close the chapter there itself,” Ramalingappa Das, district president of Chennadasa Community organisation, told The Hindu .  Police organise a meeting in the village and ask people from all communities to enter the temple to offer puja Dalit organisation says that it decided to close the chapter there itself, as they themselves accepted their offence and promised not to repeat it in future On September 11, the temple priest and two others gathered some people and held a meeting where they imposed the fine on the child’s family||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temple-entry-issue-ends-amicably-in-miyapur/article36601857.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Two arrested for abusing woman, assaulting man||The Dakshina Kannada Police have arrested two men on the charge of abusing a woman and assaulting a man who was with her in a restaurant in Puttur on Monday evening. The two men have said that they are Hindu Jagarana Vedike activists The police gave the names of the arrested men as Geetesh (29) of Balamogaru village of Puttur taluk and Ashok (34) of Kendambady village of Puttur taluk. The two arrested and three others, all of whom are said to be activists of the vedike, entered the restaurant where Rajeshwari (36), a resident of Anekal, and her friends, Shiva from Kottigere in Bengaluru and U.K. Mohammed Arafat, a resident of Ullal, were having dinner. They abused Rajeshwari for sitting with two men and took their photographs. One among the activists reportedly assaulted Shiva. Five more activists were standing outside the restaurant. The police rushed to the spot and took away Ms. Rajeshwari and her two colleagues. Based on a complaint by Rajeshwari, the police arrested Geetesh and Ashok for offences punishable under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting) , 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with an intent to provoke breach of peace) and 509 (act intended to insult modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. Efforts are on to trace the other accused involved in the incident. The police said that Ms. Rajeshwari and her two colleagues had come in a car from Bengaluru to Puttur on September 18 to get their car released from a local court. The car had been seized by Puttur Town Police two months ago in connection with a criminal case. To complete the legal formalities, Ms. Rajeshwari and her colleagues had stayed in a lodge near the restaurant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-arrested-for-abusing-woman-assaulting-man/article36602166.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Mother, daughter killed as fire engulfs Bengaluru apartment||A fire broke out at a flat in an apartment complex at Devarachikkanahalli near Bannerghatta Road on Tuesday evening, leaving an aged mother and her daughter dead. The deceased have been identified as Bhagyarekha, 59, and her mother Lakshmidevi, 82. Ms. Bhagyarekha’s husband Bhimsen Rao, 62, sustained minor injuries while trying to rescue them, and is being treated at a private hospital. Visuals of a woman who was ablaze, said to be Ms. Bhagyarekha, screaming for help from the balcony that was barricaded, sent shockwaves through the city. “We came running out after we heard an explosion-like sound to find fire and smoke billowing out of a second floor flat. A woman, who was on fire, was screaming for help from the balcony. The balcony was grilled and hence nobody could intervene and save her,” Naveen Reddy, an eye-witness and a resident of a neighbouring apartment, said. “We heard an explosion around 4.15 p.m., when I was in an online meeting. We immediately rushed out, and saw the flat on fire. We got everyone evacuated from the apartment,” one of the residents of the apartment complex told mediapersons. At the time of going to print, the cause of the fire was not ascertained. Just back from U.S. Ms. Bhagyarekha lived with her husband and mother in flat 210, next door to her daughter, who lived in flat 211. Ms. Bhagyarekha and Mr. Rao had been to the United States of America visiting their other daughter six months ago, and returned home only on Monday night. Through the six months, flat 210 was locked, while Ms. Lakshmidevi lived with her granddaughter next door, said MLA for Bommanahalli Satish Reddy who visited the spot and spoke to the family members. The couple slept at their daughter’s house on Monday night, and rested most of Tuesday, recovering from jetlag. On Tuesday afternoon, Bhagyarekha and her mother Lakshmidevi went to their flat to clean and reoccupy it, while Mr. Rao was sleeping in his daughter’s house when the incident happened. “Bhagyarekha called her daughter saying there was a fire. As she and Mr. Rao rushed to save them next door with a fire extinguisher, fire had engulfed the flat and they couldn’t go in,” Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Rao suffered minor burns on his forehead, and his hair got burnt a bit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mother-daughter-killed-as-fire-engulfs-apartment/article36601614.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||RTC fares, power tariff likely to be hiked soon||People in the State are likely to see hike in transport fares as well as power tariff in the coming days. The State Cabinet will soon take a call on the representations made by the managements of the TSRTC and power utilities in this direction. The financially strapped TSRTC which has been permitted to raise loans by the State government reported to the government about the burden imposed on the corporation by the steep rise in petroleum prices. The corporation was incurring an additional Rs. 550 crore on account of rise in price of diesel by more than Rs. 20 a litre. Coupled with this was the steep rise in the prices of spares like tyres and tubes which have taken the burden on the corporation past Rs. 600 crore. Incidentally, the government had in principle announced its decision to raise the RTC fares in the Assembly, but deferred the decision due to COVID-19 pandemic. The losses suffered by the corporation were estimated to be in excess of Rs. 3,000 crore since the onset of the pandemic. The issues figured during a high level meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao late on Tuesday evening. The TSRTC management represented to the Chief Minister about the difficulties faced by the corporation especially after the onset of the COVID pandemic. They acknowledged the manner in which the State government had come to the rescue of the corporation since the formation of separate State, but it was high time that the corporation stopped depending on the government. They told the Chief Minister that unless the corporation was permitted to hike the charges, it would not be possible to ensure its financial health that suffered due to the pandemic and steep hike in diesel prices. CM’s assurance The Chief Minister assured the TSRTC management that the government was prepared to extend its helping hand to the corporation to the extent possible and the proposals made by the TSRTC would be discussed in the next Cabinet meeting. The Energy department officials too made a fervent appeal to the Chief Minister in the meeting claiming that the power utilities suffered severe losses in the aftermath of the pandemic. Power sector hit Energy Minister G. Jagdishwar Reddy, accompanied by Transco and Genco Chairman and Managing Director D. Prabhakar Rao, represented to the Chief Minister that power sector suffered immensely due to the pandemic. Coupled with this was the government’s decision not to hike the tariff since the past six years to avoid burden on the people which resulted in financial difficulties to the utilities. The Chief Minister assured that the representations made by the officials concerned would be discussed in the next meeting of the State Council of Ministers and suitable steps would be taken to ensure that the corporation as well as the power utilities recovered from their losses. The State is already under severe strain on account of finances following the impact of COVID. And it is faced with another commitment in the form of Dalit Bandhu which could prevent the government from announcing some or other concessions to the two fund starved public utilities. As a result, hike in charges is likely to be the best option before the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rtc-fares-power-tariff-likely-to-be-hiked-soon/article36602106.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Special Weekly Vaccine Mela in twin districts today||The Dakshina Kannada district administration has planned to administer 75,000 COVID-19 vaccine doses, while the Udupi district administration has planned to administer 50,000 doses during the Special Weekly Vaccine Mela to be held across government health care facilities in the two districts on Wednesday. As many as 3,300 doses of vaccine will be available at the Alvas Vidyalaya in Paladka near Moodbidri. Among other places in Mangaluru taluk where vaccine will be available are the Urban Community Health Centre in Ullal and Ganjimatha Primary Health Centre (500 doses each), Punaruru Temple near Attur Kemral and Kenchanakere School, Kilpady, (400 doses each), Kallamundkuru PHC and Billava Sangha, Haleyangady, (300 doses each). A total of 11,860 Covishield and Covaxin doses have been allocated to government health centres in Mangaluru taluk. Among the vaccination centres in Udupi district, 1,771 doses will be available at Bhandarkar College in Kundapur, 1,500 doses each at the Madava Krupa School in Manipal and Bahubali Sabha Bhavan in Karkala, 1,250 doses at the primary health centre in Kundapur and 1,115 doses at Kolluru Primary Health Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-weekly-vaccine-mela-in-twin-districts-today/article36602169.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Process to induct women into NDA by May 2022: govt.||The government has informed the Supreme Court that it proposes to have the ‘mechanism’ to induct women cadets into the National Defence Academy (NDA) for entry into the armed forces to be ready in May 2022. The Ministry of Defence told the court in an affidavit that the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) would include women in its NDA exam notification expected to be published in May 2022. “The government, in line with its commitment, hereby places on record the clear and categorical stand that the women candidates shall be considered for entry in the three defence services, in the existing streams, through the National Defence Academy... Entrance examinations for entry into NDA are held twice a year. The government proposes to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 2022, i.e., the time by which UPSC is required to publish the first notification of 2022 for entrance exam for entry to NDA,” a short affidavit by the Ministry said. With this, the path is clear for women to train along with men at the NDA, considered a male bastion. After the Supreme Court judgment last year which led to permanent commission for women officers, this is the second time that the court has nudged the armed forces towards gender equality. On September 8, the government assured the court that the induction of women into the NDA was already under consideration by the armed forces. A Bench, led by Justice S.K. Kaul, had urged the armed forces and the government to “take a proactive approach in gender equality issues rather than leave it unattended and calling for the court to interfere”. The Ministry said arrangements had to be made regarding infrastructure and curriculum-wise for physical training, etc, before the induction of women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/process-to-induct-women-into-nda-by-may-2022-govt/article36601572.ece
22 September 2021||new delhi,||HC allows Delhi govt. to set up panel on oxygen-scarcity deaths||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday allowed the city government to constitute a high-power committee to probe the deaths allegedly caused by medical oxygen shortage during the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh noted the Delhi government’s submission that the panel will not attribute any fault to any hospital and any compensation will be paid by the government alone. “In light of the aforesaid, we see no difficulty in the panel discharging its assigned role,” the court said, adding that it was unnecessary to await an order of the Supreme Court on grant of ex gratia according to National Disaster Management Authority guidelines, as the SC-appointed panel was seized of the issue at the “macro level” while the Delhi government panel would look at “micro situations”. The court also noted that the Delhi government, after keeping its decision to set up a panel in abeyance, has “expressed its intention to reinstate it”, however, “due to difference in opinion (with regards to the scope of the panel’s mandate) between the Council of Ministers and the Lieutenant-Governor, the stalemate is continuing”. The High Court permitted the setting up of a panel only after senior counsel Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, clarified that it was a “fact-finding committee” which would not attribute any fault or negligence to a hospital. Relief of up to Rs. 5 lakh The court was informed that compensation of up to Rs. 5 lakh would be decided by the panel on the basis of an objective criteria. Mr. Mehra said the relief awarded by the panel will be separate from the ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 already being paid by the Delhi government. Following the order, the Delhi government released a statement saying it was grateful to the court. “The Delhi government has been serious about the deaths in the national capital due to lack of oxygen... the L-G rejected our files on the matter twice... but today the High Court has upheld our stance,” it said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-allows-delhi-govt-to-set-up-panel-on-oxygen-scarcity-deaths/article36601745.ece
22 September 2021||Guwahati,||Assam CM likely to play key role in Naga talks||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma is expected to play a major role in the Naga peace process that ran into trouble after former Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi allegedly circulated a ‘modified’ version of the Framework Agreement in August 2020. The agreement was signed between the Central government and the Isak-Muivah faction of the extremist National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M), in August 2015. The group had accused Mr. Ravi of doctoring the ‘confidential’ document to make it seem that the Nagas had given up certain demands for a lasting solution to the vexed issue. Officials in Nagaland said Mr. Sarma and his Nagaland counterpart, Neiphiu Rio, would meet senior NSCN (I-M) leaders, including its general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah in Dimapur, the State’s commercial hub, on September 21. Former Special Director of the Intelligence Bureau A.K. Mishra is also expected to be present. Separate constitution Mr. Mishra had a two-hour meeting on September 20 with the NSCN (I-M) leadership, signalling the resumption of talks after almost two years. The NSCN (I-M) stressed on the need to follow the Framework Agreement in letter and in spirit, which meant recognising a separate Naga flag and constitution. The assignment given to the former Intelligence Bureau officer indicated that Mr. Ravi, now the Governor of Tamil Nadu, could be relieved of his role as the Centre’s interlocutor for the Naga peace process. Ahead of his visit, the Assam Chief Minister said his effort would be on giving direction to the peace process. “A lasting solution is important for the overall growth of the Northeast. I am not going there as the CM but as the convener of the North East Democratic Alliance,” he said. The alliance is a BJP-headed forum of regional parties with the common goal of wiping the Congress out of the Northeast. This is not the first time that the Centre has relied on Mr. Sarma for troubleshooting or taking the peace process forward. In August 2020, Home Minister Amit Shah deputed him to meet Mr. Rio and Mr. Muivah in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-cm-likely-to-play-key-role-in-naga-talks/article36601919.ece
22 September 2021||Guwahati,||Assam, Nagaland CMs hold talks with NSCN(IM)||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, assigned by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, met senior Naga extremist leader Thuingaleng Muivah in Dimapur in Nagaland on Tuesday. Mr. Muivah is the general secretary of the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN(IM). Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio was with Dr. Sarma during the closed-door meeting that lasted an hour. The issues discussed were not made public. Less than 24 hours after meeting Mr. Shah in New Delhi, the Assam Chief Minister drove to the private residence of Mr. Rio after landing at Dimapur around 12.30 p.m. The two went to the meeting venue at a Nagaland police facility together. After the meeting, Dr. Sarma went to a resort nearby and held separate discussions with former Intelligence Bureau special director A.K. Mishra and State BJP leaders, including Deputy Chief Minister Y. Patton, party chief Temjen Imna Along Longkumer and some Ministers. Mr. Mishra had met Mr. Muivah on Monday. After the meeting, NSCN(IM) leader R. Raising told journalists it would be meaningless to sign any agreement that denied the Nagas their flag and constitution. Prior to leaving for Dimapur, Dr. Sarma told journalists in Guwahati that it was a “routine” visit for a “political reason”. He also disclosed that he had met the NSCN(IM) leadership informally three-four times in Delhi. Reacting to Dr. Sarma’s “involvement” in the Naga issue, the Assam Congress apprehended the possibility of the State’s territorial integrity being compromised in view of the NSCN(IM)’s demand for the creation of ‘Greater Nagalim’ by bringing all Naga-inhabited areas of the northeastern region under one administrative umbrella.  Congress raises doubts Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah sought to know in what capacity Dr. Sarma held the talks with Mr. Muivah and if the Chief Minister could do this without taking the State Assembly and the Cabinet into confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-nagaland-cms-hold-talks-with-nscnim/article36601747.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State’s exports grew despite global economic downturn: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that despite a global economic downturn and the COVID-19 pandemic, exports from Andhra Pradesh have grown by 19.4% (value) in the past couple of years, leading to an improvement in the contribution to national exports. The State jumped to the fourth position in the country in 2020-21 with a 5.8% contribution to the national exports from the ninth position in 2018-19, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while addressing the inaugural of the two-day ‘Vanijya Utsavam’ (Andhra Pradesh Trade and Exports Carnival) here on Tuesday. The event is being organised jointly by the State and Central governments on the occasion of ‘Vanijya Saptah’ in commemoration of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, along with Chief Secretary Adityanath Das, Minister for Industries and Commerce M. Goutham Reddy, CYIENT founder and chairman B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, inaugurated the carnival and also unveiled the Andhra Pradesh State Export Action Plan-2021. The Chief Minister said, for the first time in two decades, the country had seen a contraction of 3.38% in gross tax revenue collections, which declined from Rs. 20.80 lakh crore in 2018-19 to Rs. 20.10 lakh crore in 2019-20. “The country’s GDP growth in constant terms was 6.3% during 2018-19 and dropped to 4% in 2019-20 and to -7.3% in 2020-21. The country’s exports also shrunk by 11.6% from USD 330 billion to USD 292 billion over the last two financial years. This was the plight of the country during these two years. Yet, Andhra Pradesh’s exports have grown by 19.4% from USD 14.1 billion to USD 16.8 billion,” Mr. Reddy said. “Our GSDP contraction was only 2.58% in the COVID year 2020-21, while country’s GDP was 7.3%. This performance of the State stands testimony to our belief that right infrastructure and enabling policies are very important for industrial development in growth and augmentation of exports,” he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said 16,311 MSMEs were established with an investment of Rs. 5,204 crore and 1.13 lakh jobs were provided. “During the last two years, 68 large and mega industries have been facilitated to commence with an investment of Rs. 30,175 crore and 46,119 job opportunities. Also, 62 large and mega projects are under active implementation with a total investment of Rs. 36,384 crore and 76,960 jobs. In the last one year alone we have approved 10 mega projects with an investment intent of Rs. 26,391 crore and an employment potential for 55,024 people,” he said. Kopparthi hub “The State is developing a mega industrial hub at Kopparthi in Kadapa district in an extent of 3,155 acres. It will act as a multi-product industrial park with best-in-class infrastructure. It brings in an investment of Rs. 25,000 crore and provide about one lakh jobs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-exports-grew-despite-global-economic-downturn-says-jagan/article36601549.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amid AUKUS row, Modi speaks with Macron||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a telephonic call with French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday, in a show of solidarity with France that has protested against the U.S.-U.K.-Australia tripartite security alliance (AUKUS), that effectively killed Paris-Canberra cooperation on submarines. “Mr. Modi and Mr. Macron reviewed the increasing bilateral collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region, and the important role that the India-France partnership plays in promoting stability and security in the region,” an MEA statement said. “Spoke with my friend President @EmmanuelMacron on the situation in Afghanistan. We also discussed closer collaboration in the Indo-Pacific,” the PM tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-calls-macron-amid-aukus-row/article36601583.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||India’s religious mix stable since Partition: Pew study||The religious composition of India’s population since Partition has remained largely stable, with both Hindus and Muslims, the two largest religious groups, showing not only a marked decline but also a convergence in fertility rates, according to a new study published by the Pew Research Center, a non-profit based in Washington DC. The study, based on data sourced from India’s decennial census and the National Family Health Survey (NHFS), looked at the three main factors that are known to cause changes in religious composition of populations — fertility rate, migration, and conversions. With regard to fertility rates, the study found that Muslims, who had the highest rate, also had the sharpest decline in rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-religious-mix-stable-since-1951-pew-study/article36601579.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,||MUDA land acquisition issue stalls Council||The issue of non-payment of any compensation for land not acquired through due process for formation of layouts in Mysuru stalled the proceedings in the Legislative Council on Tuesday. Raising the issue, Janata Dal (Secular) member Marithibbe Gowda accused Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) of utilising small pieces of land from farmers during formation of layouts and without paying any compensation. “Despite repeated attempts by farmers, MUDA has neither given compensation in terms of money or land nor has it given endorsement stating that compensation cannot be provided. If endorsement is given, farmers can approach the court,” he said. The MUDA Commissioner was also not informing the rules in this respect. In reply, Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj said farmers could get compensation as per the provisions and they would take steps to ensure that. He was non-committal about the time frame, but agreed to attend the next MUDA meeting. However, Mr. Gowda pointed out that the land had been taken away by MUDA without any acquisition process and sought to know how it could be rectified. When the Minister insisted that the due process had to be followed, an agitated Mr. Gowda and other JD(S) members trooped into the well demanding a way out for the problem. The intervention by Housing Minister N. Nagaraju also did not help. While the House was adjourned for consultations, the dharna in the well continued when the session resumed, forcing Chairman Basavaraj Horatti to adjourn the House to Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muda-land-acquisition-issue-stalls-council/article36601963.ece
22 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||24 head of cattle suffer burns||As many as 24 head of cattle suffered burns after a fire broke out in a cattle shed in Konchavaram village of Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district late on Monday night. According to the police, the fire broke out in the cow shed belonging to Amrutappa Bichappa at Konchavaram village. The shed caught fire rapidly and was reduced to ashes within no time. However, Amrutappa saved all the 24 head of cattle with the help of his neighbours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24-head-of-cattle-suffer-burns/article36601856.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Law likely for expansion of nalas, lakes||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao indicated that the government is likely to come up with a law for development & expansion of Nalas and lakes in the city. During a review meeting on the topic here on Tuesday, Mr. Rama Rao reviewed the comprehensive programme for nala development prepared by GHMC officials as per his directions. There is a need to strengthen age old nalas and sewer system keeping in mind the rapid urbanisation, Mr. Rao said, explaining the aim of the nala development programme. Heavy to very heavy rains in recent times have necessitated nala expansion to prevent flood like situation in city. Government will take care of the poor who might get affected by the works, and is mulling over allocation of double bedroom housing. The zonal commissioners of GHMC submitted a detailed report to the minister on the works taken up which include clearance of obstacles in nalas, expansion of nalas, and construction of retaining walls. Minister directed the officials to take up all these works along with the Strategic Nala Development Programme. He asked the officials to identify bottlenecks and clear them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/law-likely-for-expansion-of-nalas-lakes/article36602064.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Do not equate social evils with a section of society: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the growing trend of equating social evils with some sections of society needs to be “nipped in the bud” as doing so will only exacerbate the communal differences in society. Cautioning citizens against using religion and caste for divisive purposes, he said glorifying terror organisations or equating them with symbols of freedom struggles would “weaken the communal harmony in society and endanger our freedom.” Mr. Vijayan’s comment was perceived as a veiled criticism of Pala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt’s controversial sermon on “narcotic jihad” and an oblique censure of the spat between Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan and a priest after the latter alluded to an Ezhava plot to convert Christian girls to Hinduism via inter-faith marriage. He was speaking at an event organised to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Amritham Student Struggle. He offered Sree Narayana Guru’s humanist views as an antidote to religious sectarianism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/do-not-equate-social-evils-with-a-section-of-society-cm/article36601890.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Record paddy yield, dip in oilseeds likely this kharif||The summer kharif season is likely to produce a record paddy harvest this year, pushing the country’s foodgrain production for the season to an all-time high of 15 crore tonnes, according to first advance estimates from the Agriculture Ministry. However, oilseed production may be marginally lower than last year’s, particularly groundnut and soyabean harvests, which could be bad news for soaring edible oil prices. On the other hand, the increase in pulses production, especially the toor dal crop, could come as a relief. ‘Result of hard work’ Releasing the estimates, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar attributed the record foodgrain production to the “hard work of farmers, proficiency of scientists and farmer friendly policies of the government”. Going into the winter rabi season, the Centre has taken steps to incentivise the production of both oilseeds and pulses, according to a virtual presentation by Agriculture Commissioner S.K. Malhotra. Apart from a focus on seed production and distribution, the government is also targeting areas in eastern India which are planted with rice in the kharif season but remain fallow in the rabi season, with plans to sow 6.25 lakh hectares of pulses and 2.32 lakh hectares of oilseeds on such land. The minimum support prices for oilseeds and pulses are also higher than for wheat, the main cereal grown in the winter. With regard to kharif crops, rice production is estimated to be 10.7 crore tonnes this year, slightly higher than the 10.4 crore tonnes produced last year. The acreage sown with paddy increased by almost 1 lakh hectares. Both major oilseed crops in the kharif season saw slight dips in production. Groundnut acreage dropped almost 4%, resulting in an estimated production of 82.5 lakh tonnes. Soyabean production is likely to amount to 1.27 crore tonnes, slightly lower than last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-paddy-yield-likely-this-kharif-season/article36601582.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,||HC upholds ban on use of crash guards, bull bars||The Madras High Court on Tuesday upheld a notification issued by the Central government in December 2017, asking all State governments and Union Territories to prohibit the use of crash guards and bull bars in motor vehicles. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said they could take judicial notice of drivers of vehicles fitted with crash guards and bull bars behaving like ‘bullies’ on the roads, especially on the State and national highways. After recording the submission of the Tamil Nadu government that it had accepted the Central government’s instructions and begun cracking down on vehicles fitted with crash guards and bull bars, the judges ordered that the implementation should be universal, without any exemption for vehicles of “so-called important persons”. The judges said the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways appeared to have issued the notification in public interest and, therefore, the courts would normally not interfere in such notifications unless they were absurd or objectionable. The court passed the orders while disposing of two public interest litigation petitions which insisted on effective implementation of the 2017 notification. Ajay Francis Inigo Loyola, counsel for one of the petitioners, contended that fitment of crash guards changed the basic specifications of a vehicle and increased its length. He contended that scientific studies had been conducted to prove that the after-market fitments were not safe for motorists. However, senior counsel AR.L. Sundaresan, representing the manufacturers of crash guards and bull bars, claimed they only provided additional safety, and sought liberty to convince the Centre. The Bench also said the notification pointed out that fitment of crash guards or bull bars was in violation of Section 52 of the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988, which prohibits alterations at variance with specifications mentioned in the registration certificate of the vehicle concerned. The court passed the orders while disposing of two public interest litigation petitions which insisted on effective implementation of the 2017 notification. Ajay Francis Inigo Loyola, counsel for one of the petitioners, contended that fitment of crash guards changed the basic specifications of a vehicle and increased its length. He contended that scientific studies had been conducted to prove that the after-market fitments were not safe for motorists. However, senior counsel AR.L. Sundaresan, representing the manufacturers of crash guards and bull bars, claimed they only provided additional safety, and sought liberty to convince the Centre. Accepting his plea, the judges made it clear that the orders passed by them would not prevent the manufacturers from making an appropriate representation to the Centre, and the latter from considering it in the proper perspective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-upholds-ban-on-use-of-crash-guards-bull-bars/article36601645.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||India’s religious mix stable since Partition: Pew study||The religious composition of India’s population since Partition has remained largely stable, with both Hindus and Muslims, the two largest religious groups, showing not only a marked decline but also a convergence in fertility rates, according to a new study by the Pew Research Center, a non-profit based in Washington DC. The study, based on data sourced from India’s decennial census and the National Family Health Survey (NHFS), looked at the three main factors that are known to cause changes in religious composition of populations — fertility rate, migration, and conversions. With regard to fertility rates, the study found that Muslims, who had the highest rate, also had the sharpest decline in rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-religious-mix-stable-since-partition-pew-study/article36601743.ece
22 September 2021||new Delhi,||India’s religious mix stable since 1951: Pew study||The religious composition of India’s population since Partition has remained largely stable, with both Hindus and Muslims, the two largest religious groups, showing not only a marked decline but also a convergence in fertility rates, according to a new study published by the Pew Research Center. The study, based on data sourced from India’s decennial census and the National Family Health Survey, looked at the three main factors that are known to cause changes in religious composition of populations — fertility rate, migration, and conversions. With regard to fertility rates, the study found that Muslims, who had the highest rate, also had the sharpest decline in rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indias-religious-mix-stable-since-1951-pew-study/article36601918.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||NIA court rejects medical bail plea of 4 senior citizens||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Tuesday rejected the medical bail pleas filed by senior citizens Shoma Sen, Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha and Vernon Gonsalves. They are all accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case and are suffering from several co-morbidities. Special Judge DE Kothalikar rejected the pleas by relying on the recommendations of the high-power panel set up to decongest prisons owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the same court extended the interim bail granted to Rona Wilson, also an accused in the case. He was directed to be released from September 13 to September 27 to go to his home in Kerala and attend a mass for his Late father. Mr. Wilson will return to Taloja Central Jail on September 30. Prof. Teltumbde, 70, suffers from chronic bronchitis asthma, chronic c suffers from chronic bronchitis asthma, chronic cervical spondylitis, supraspinatus tendinopathy and prostatomegaly. Mr. Gonsalves, 69, suffers from hypertension and piles. Mr. Navlakha, 67, is a patient of colonic polyposis, chronic gastritis, and hypertension. Prof. Sen, 63, suffers from osteoarthritis, glaucoma and high blood pressure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nia-court-rejects-medical-bail-plea-of-4-senior-citizens/article36602189.ece
22 September 2021||KADAPA,||Land dispute: Akbar Basha’s family attempts suicide again||Following the reported land dispute with a politically influential person, a family of four allegedly attempted suicide for the second time by consuming pesticide, this time at Chagalamarri in Kurnool district on Monday night. M. Akbar Basha, who has a running tiff with a ruling party leader I. Tirupal Reddy over the alleged encroachment of his 1.5 acre land in Duvvur mandal, made the first attempt after shooting a video on social media a couple of weeks back, which was thwarted by the Police Department. As the video went viral, government authorities tried placate the family with assurances to redress its grievance immediately. The family was forced to allegedly consume pesticide as the issue remained unresolved. As their health condition deteriorated, Akbar Basha, his wife and two daughters were rushed to a local hospital at Chagalamarri. Meanwhile, SP K.K.N. Anburajan said the Mydukur court, which heard the case in 2018, had issued a ruling in favour of Akbar Basha’s aunt Khasimbee. The same was corroborated in the probe conducted by Additional SP M. Devaprasad. Mr. Anburajan appealed to the victim Akbar Basha to approach the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/land-dispute-akbar-bashas-family-attempts-suicide-again/article36601576.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Doctors see new cases of diabetes post COVID-19||While it is known that senior citizens and people with co-morbidities are at a high risk of contracting COVID-19, doctors in the city are seeing many new cases of diabetes post the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-see-new-cases-of-diabetes-post-covid-19/article36601618.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kyrgyzstan woman, son found murdered in flat||A 28-year-old pregnant woman, hailing from Kyrgyzstan, and her one-year-old son were found murdered at a house in south-east Delhi’s Kalkaji on Tuesday, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said the victim has been identified as Myskal Zhumabaeva and son Manas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kyrgyzstan-woman-son-found-murdered-in-flat/article36601748.ece
22 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM heads to Delhi to discuss new Cabinet||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday headed to Delhi to discuss the Cabinet formation with the Congress’s central leadership. Mr. Channi, along with State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, took a chartered flight to the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-heads-to-delhi-to-discuss-new-cabinet/article36601749.ece
22 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Seer death: Yogi vows action against guilty||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said those found guilty in the death by alleged suicide of prominent Hindu seer Swami Narendra Giri would be punished after an independent investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seer-death-yogi-vows-action-against-guilty/article36601920.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||Women’s safety: Uddhav, Koshiyari in letter war||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday wrote to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, advising him to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to call for a special session of Parliament on women’s safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/womens-safety-uddhav-koshiyari-in-letter-war/article36601921.ece
22 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM heads to Delhi to discuss new Cabinet||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday headed to Delhi to discuss the Cabinet formation with the Congress’s central leadership. Mr. Channi, along with State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and others took a chartered flight to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-heads-to-delhi-to-discuss-new-cabinet/article36601922.ece
22 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Operation to catch leopard intensified||With reports of a few more sightings of a leopard in the residential localities around Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi, the Forest Department has pressed a few more teams into service, apart from setting up traps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/operation-to-catch-leopard-intensified/article36601859.ece
22 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Seer death: U.P. CM vows action against guilty||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said those found guilty in the death by alleged suicide of prominent Hindu seer Swami Narendra Giri would be punished after an independent investigation. Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav demanded that a probe be conducted by a sitting judge of the Allahabad High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seer-death-up-cm-vows-action-against-guilty/article36601981.ece
22 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM heads to Delhi to discuss new Cabinet||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday headed to Delhi to discuss the Cabinet formation with the Congress’s central leadership. Mr. Channi, along with State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, took a chartered flight to the national capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-heads-to-delhi-to-discuss-new-cabinet/article36601982.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Doctors see new cases of diabetes post COVID-19||While it is known that senior citizens and people with co-morbidities are at a high risk of contracting COVID-19, doctors are seeing many new cases of diabetes post the infection. Doctors said diabetes increases the risk of complications and death if COVID-19 is contracted||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doctors-see-new-cases-of-diabetes-post-covid-19/article36601964.ece
22 September 2021||MYSURU,||Railways test efficacy of disaster management plan||The ‘derailment’ of an express train with 15 passengers ‘trapped’ in two ‘capsized’ bogies at Ashokapuram railway station in Mysuru was part of a safety drill carried out by the Mysuru division of South Western Railway along with National Disaster Response Force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railways-test-efficacy-of-disaster-management-plan/article36601965.ece
22 September 2021||MYSURU,||Yet another theatre to shut down in Mysuru||Another single-screen theatre in Mysuru is slipping into oblivion. Saraswathi, in Saraswathipuram locality, is permanently stopping screening, disappointing movie goers, as it was one of the popular cinemas here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yet-another-theatre-to-shut-down-in-mysuru/article36601967.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||Women’s safety: Uddhav, Koshyari in letter war||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday wrote to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, advising him to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to call for a special session of Parliament on women’s safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/womens-safety-uddhav-koshyari-in-letter-war/article36602190.ece
22 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Seer death: Yogi vows action against guilty||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said those found guilty in the death by alleged suicide of prominent Hindu seer Swami Narendra Giri would be punished after an independent investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seer-death-yogi-vows-action-against-guilty/article36602191.ece
22 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM heads to Delhi to discuss new Cabinet||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday headed to Delhi to discuss the Cabinet formation with the Congress’s central leadership. Mr. Channi, along with State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and others took a chartered flight to Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-cm-heads-to-delhi-to-discuss-new-cabinet/article36602192.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,||New jumbo nut hybrid cashew launched||The Directorate of Cashew Research, under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Puttur in Dakshina Kannada, has released a new jumbo nut hybrid cashew — Nethra Jumbo-1. According to Principal Scientist of the directorate J. Dinakara Adiga, about 90 cashew nuts of this variety made a kg. In other varieties, about 160 nuts are required to make a kg. This brings down the amount of labour required for harvesting the crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-jumbo-nut-hybrid-cashew-launched/article36602165.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Ceasefire along LoC expected to hold||Guns remain silent along the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir with the ceasefire between India and Pakistan holding. Officials estimate that the peace will prevail till winter sets in. However, local recruitment of militants remains a cause for concern as shown by data and acknowledged by officials. “There has been no increase in ceasefire violations (CFVs). This year, there has been none. At least in the Kashmir Valley, there have been no incidents of CFV,” Lt. Gen. D.P. Pandey, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the Srinagar-based 15 Corps, said on Monday. There were only two infiltration attempts and these were not supported by Pakistan by providing firing cover. “One was neutralised in Bandipora recently. Another operation is on in Baramulla’s Uri for the past 24 hours after we felt an infiltration attempt was made,” Lt. Gen. Pandey said. “Frankly speaking, there has been no instigation from across the border…,” he said. Data from the Army show there were 4,645 CFVs in 2020, 3,168 in 2019 and 1,629 in 2018. In contrast, there are 592 this year till the ceasefire came into effect on February 25. With winter about to set in in couple of months when the high-altitude passes would be blocked by snow, the ground assessment is that the situation would remain silent barring a few infiltration attempts. If so, it would mean one of the quietest years along the LoC in many years. The situation is also influenced by regional and global developments; the sudden U.S. pull-out from Afghanistan and the Taliban takeover as also Pakistan’s listing in the Financial Action Task Force. These will continue to keep Pakistan occupied as they need their full attention, one officer on the ground said. In a conversation between the Directors-General of Military Operations over the established hotline on February 22, both sides agreed on “strict observance of all agreements, understandings and ceasefire along the LoC and all other sectors” with effect from the midnight of February 24-25, a joint statement said. However, local recruitment and violence continues in the Kashmir Valley with data showing only partial reduction. As per data, the local recruitment in 2019 was 119 and in 2020, 186. This year, till June-end, the number stood at 79. As for the number of terrorists neutralised, as of end August, 110 terrorists were killed in Kashmir this year with the lowest at three in January and the highest in July at 33. In all, 221 terrorists were neutralised in 2020, 153 in 2019 and 215 in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ceasefire-along-loc-expected-to-hold/article36601504.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||No link between AUKUS and Quad: govt.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet U.S. President Joe Biden and attend the Quadrilateral (Quad) summit along with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga on Friday, but there is “no link” between his meetings and the newly announced Australia-U.K.-U.S. (AUKUS) alliance, the government said on Tuesday. In the first such comments indicating that New Delhi is distancing itself from the new partnership, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said the Quad meeting would deal with issues such as the pandemic, new and emerging technologies, climate change, infrastructure, maritime security, education, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, while AUKUS was a “security alliance”. “We are not party to this alliance. From our perspective, this is neither relevant to the Quad, nor will it have any impact on its functioning,” Mr. Shringla told presspersons at a briefing on the Prime Minister’s visit. Afghan situation Mr. Modi is expected to begin his visit to the U.S. on September 24, and will hold talks with Kamala Harris, the first U.S. Vice-President of Indian origin, in their first face-to-face meeting. He will also meet a group of American business leaders and CEOs as well as hold bilateral meetings with the Australian and Japanese heads of state. On September 25, Mr. Modi will meet Mr. Biden and both leaders will attend the Quad summit subsequently. Mr. Modi is expected to fly to New York later that evening and address the United Nations General Assembly the next morning. “The bilateral meeting will also feature the current regional security situation following recent developments in Afghanistan, and our stakes as a neighbour, and a long-standing and preferred development partner of the people of Afghanistan. In this context, we would undoubtedly discuss the need to see an end to radicalism, extremism, cross border terrorism and the dismantling of global terrorist networks. They will also discuss the reform of the multilateral system, including the UN Security Council,” Mr. Shringla said. Apart from reviewing the India-U.S. comprehensive strategic global partnership, Mr. Modi and Mr. Biden would discuss trade and investment ties, defence and security collaborations, and the “green” strategic clean energy partnership during their bilateral meeting. Mr. Shringla said the focus, in particular, would be on how to operationalise the four foundational defence agreements that India and the U.S. have now signed. When asked if Mr. Modi’s meetings and the Quad summit would be impacted or overshadowed by the big U.S.-Australian defence partnership, Mr. Shringla said the two events were not linked and denied the new partnership would mean that the Quad would only deal with “softer issues”. ‘Different visions’ “There is no link between AUKUS and Quad. AUKUS is a security alliance, Quad is a different group of countries working on a different vision… of the Indo Pacific as a free, open, transparent, inclusive region. And in the same sentiment, the Malabar exercises [maritime exercises involving Australia, India, Japan and the U.S.] are those that are done between different nations and has nothing to do with Quad,” Mr. Shringla said. He also said India had noted Australia’s clarification that the AUKUS partnership only dealt with nuclear power technology, and hence, was not a case of “nuclear proliferation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-link-between-aukus-and-quad-govt/article36601513.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||India’s R value below one in mid-September||The R value, which reflects how rapidly the COVID-19 pandemic is spreading, dropped to 0.92 by mid-September after going over one in August-end, according to experts. However, the R values in a few major cities — Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru — still remain over one. The R value in Delhi and Pune is below one. The reproduction number, or R, refers to how many persons an infected person infects on an average. In other words, it shows how ‘efficiently’ a virus is spreading. The R values in Maharashtra and Kerala are below one, giving much-needed relief to these States with the highest number of active cases. The overall R value was 1.17 at the end of August. It declined to 1.11 between September 4 and 7. Since then, it has remained under one. “The good news is that India’s R has continued to be less than one, as is that of Kerala and Maharashtra, the two States having the highest number of active cases,” said Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. Mr. Sinha leads a team of researchers who calculate the R value. According to the data, the R value of Mumbai stands at 1.09, Chennai 1.11, Kolkata 1.04, and Bengaluru 1.06. According to the Health Ministry, the recovery rate currently stood at 97.75%. The weekly positivity rate (2.08%) had been less than 3% for 88 days, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-r-value-below-one-in-mid-september/article36601523.ece
22 September 2021||Jammu,||Pilot, co-pilot killed in Army helicopter crash||A pilot and a co-pilot were killed on Tuesday morning when an Army helicopter crash-landed in a forest area in Udhampur. The deceased were identified as Major Rohit Kumar and Major Anuj Rajput. “During a training sortie in Patnitop area, an Army Cheetah helicopter crash-landed in Shiv Garh Dhar area in Udhampur district. The pilots were critically injured and evacuated to the nearest medical facility, but they died of their injuries” an Army spokesman said in a statement. There was inclement weather in the area when the accident occurred, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pilot-co-pilot-killed-in-army-helicopter-crash/article36601500.ece
22 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM heads to Delhi to discuss new Cabinet||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday headed to Delhi to discuss the Cabinet formation with the Congress’s central leadership. Mr. Channi, along with State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, took a chartered flight to Delhi, where they met All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat and general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal to discuss the names of those to be included in the new Cabinet, party sources said. Before heading to Delhi, Mr. Sidhu tweeted: “In line of duty!!”, along with a photograph of him with Mr. Channi and Mr. Randhawa, posing near the chartered plane. The picture invited a lot of criticism from political parties. As talks of the new Cabinet gained momentum, speculation is rife that the names of a few loyalists of former Chief Minister Captain (Retd.) Amarinder Singh, who was “cornered” by the party high command into resigning from his post, may be axed by Mr. Channi, a close aide of Mr. Sidhu’s. In the new Cabinet, the names of Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Madan Lal Jalalpu and Sangat Singh Gilzian were at the forefront.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-heads-to-delhi-to-discuss-new-cabinet/article36601516.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||ECI to send voter guides in Braille||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday unveiled a letter and voter’s guide in Braille to be sent to newly enrolled visually challenged voters, about a month after announcing that all those newly registered would get a personalised letter from the ECI. The Braille language version of the letter to new voters and the guide were released by the ECI on Tuesday during a virtual national conference on accessible elections. In August, the ECI had said it would be sending a welcome kit of sorts to newly registered electors, including a personalised letter, a pledge for ethical voting and a guide along with their voter’s ID card. During the conference, Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra said on Tuesday that there was a need for a “pleasant and dignified polling experience” for persons with disabilities and that their suggestions would be taken into account while framing rules for accessible elections. About 77.4 lakh persons with disabilities were registered to vote currently, the ECI statement said. Suggestions taken “Based on suggestions received from different stakeholders, a resolution was adopted to pave the way forward to further streamline the policy framework on ‘Accessible Elections’, for future elections,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eci-to-send-voter-guides-in-braille/article36601530.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Railways falling foul of CVC norms’||In what could be a major setback to the Vigilance Directorate of the Railways, Principal Economic Adviser, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, Sanjeev Sanyal has said the organisation is functioning in violation of the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) guidelines. Railway sources said the Principal Economic Adviser’s note raises questions on the legality of the decisions made in the past and pending cases of the Vigilance Directorate relating to allegations of corruption and other irregularities involving thousands of employees, including senior officers, in the past. In his report on the ‘Rationalisation of Government Bodies and Proposal for the Ministry of Railways’, Mr. Sanyal said the Railways had the largest Vigilance Directorate in the Central government with over 1,170 personnel, including 192 officers. But the administrative structure is not compliant with the CVC guidelines. While the CVC had mandated in its circular issued in 2001 that the Chief Vigilance Officer of an organisation should be external, the post is being appointed with internal officers in the Railways. “In fact, all posts in the Vigilance Directorate of the Railways, except Director Vigilance which is filled from the Indian Police Service, are internal. Further, in many cases, these Vigilance Officers have tenures longer that what is permitted by the CVC. This is in violation of the CVC guidelines…,” he noted. In its recommendations, the expert panel headed by Mr. Sanyal said the Railways should ensure that the Vigilance Directorate adhered to the CVC guidelines. In case certain roles required technical skills that necessitated internal appointments, such posts should be identified and clearly notified. The Railways is one of the largest employers with over 12 lakh staff and officers. Though the CVC guidelines prescribe that the CVO should be appointed from other Ministries for a certain tenure, the post in the rank of a Senior Deputy General Manager is filled internally. The organisation deals with allegations of corruption, misappropriation of funds, abuse of official power and other irregularities and recommends punishments ranging between stoppage of increments and dismissal. Merger of Directorates The report also said the number of Directorates in the Railway Board be reduced from 52 by merging Directorates that had similar functions. It was recommended that the Traffic Transportation Directorate be merged with the Traffic Commercial Directorate, Economics with Statistics & Economics, Tourism & Catering with Heritage, Infrastructure with Land & Amenities and Accounts, Accounting Reforms, Finance, Finance (Budget), Finance (Expenditure) be merged into one as Finance & Accounts Directorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-falling-foul-of-cvc-norms/article36601536.ece
22 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Seer death: Adityanath promises action against guilty||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said those found guilty in the death by alleged suicide of prominent Hindu seer Swami Narendra Giri would be punished after an independent investigation. Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, who along with Mr. Adityanath visited Prayagraj to offer final respects, demanded that a probe be conducted by a sitting judge of the Allahabad High Court. Giri was known to have had friendly ties with both the BJP and the SP. The police have booked Anand Giri, who had been a close disciple of Narendra Giri till they had a public fallout earlier this year, for abetment of suicide. He has been brought to Prayagraj for questioning after being detained in Haridwar with the assistance of the Uttarakhand police. Anand Giri, a self-styled yoga guru who was arrested in 2019 in Australia for allegedly molesting two women but later acquitted, was named in a note recovered from the room in the Baghambari Mutt where Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging from a fan, said the police. In Prayagraj, Mr. Adityanath said Narendra Giri’s death was an “irreparable loss for the religious and spiritual world”. Evidence related to the death had been collected and a team of senior officers was probing the matter. “Each and every aspect will be revealed and the guilty will certainly be punished,” he asserted. Court probe sought Mr. Akhilesh Yadav said only an investigation by a sitting High Court judge would “bring out the truth”. He demanded to know what kind of “mental pressure” Giri was under at the time of the incident and the “circumstances” leading up to his death. “We also heard that a bulldozer was going to be run over his land,” he stated in a veiled allegation that the BJP government was planning to demolish his properties. ‘Falsely implicated’ Before being detained by police, Anand Giri said he was being falsely implicated in the case and claimed that his guru had been “murdered as part of a conspiracy” by those who siphoned off money from the Baghambari Mutt and the Bade Hanuman temple. “I have full faith that he did not commit suicide,” he told a news channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seer-death-adityanath-promises-action-against-guilty/article36601534.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Kasturirangan to lead syllabus panel||The Centre has started the process to revise school textbooks by appointing former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K. Kasturirangan as the head of a 12-member steering committee responsible for developing a new National Curriculum Framework (NCF). Dr. Kasturirangan also chaired the drafting committee for the National Education Policy, 2020 which recommended the development of a new NCF. The steering committee has been given a tenure of three years to complete its task, said an Education Ministry statement on Tuesday. The last such framework was developed in 2005. It is meant to be a guiding document for the development of textbooks, syllabi and teaching practices in schools across the country. The subsequent revision of textbooks by the National Council of Educational Research and Training will draw from the new NCF. In fact, the steering committee will develop four such frameworks, one each to guide the curriculum of school education, teacher education, early childhood education and adult education. Apart from Dr. Kasturirangan, others on the panel who had also helped draft the NEP include former Karnataka Knowledge Commission Member Secretary M.K. Sridhar and the Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh Vice-Chancellor T.V. Kattimani. Other academics on the steering committee include Jamia Millia Islamia Vice-Chancellor Najma Akhtar, Central University of Punjab Chancellor Jagbir Singh, and Manjul Bhargava, an American mathematician of Indian origin. Padma Shri awardee Michel Danino, an Indian of French origin who authored a book identifying the legendary Saraswati river with a current water body, is also on the steering committee along with National Book Trust Chairman Govind Prasad Sharma and National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration Chancellor Mahesh Chandra Pant. Indian Institute of Management-Jammu Chairman Milind Kamble and Dhir Jhingran and Shankar Maruwada from the non-profit sector are also part of the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kasturirangan-to-lead-syllabus-panel/article36601498.ece
22 September 2021||new Delhi,||Fertility rates of Hindus and Muslims converging: study||A new study on the religious composition of India’s population since Partition said due to the “declining and converging fertility patterns” of Hindus and Muslims, there have been only marginal changes in the overall religious composition of the population since 1951, the year India conducted its first Census as an independent nation. From 1992 to 2015, the total fertility rates of Muslims declined from 4.4 to 2.6, while that of Hindus declined from 3.3 to 2.1, indicating that “the gaps in childbearing between India’s religious groups are much smaller than they used to be,” said the study published by the Pew Research Center, a non-profit based in Washington D.C. The average fertility rate in India today was 2.2, which was higher than the rates in economically advanced countries such as the U.S. (1.6), but much lower than what it was in 1992 (3.4) or 1951 (5.9). Marked slowdown Although growth rates had declined for all of India’s major religious groups, the slowdown had been more pronounced among religious minorities, who outpaced Hindus in the earlier decades. Between 1951 and 1961, the Muslim population expanded by 32.7%, 11 percentage points more than India’s overall rate of 21.6%. But this gap had narrowed. From 2001 to 2011, the difference in growth between Muslims (24.7%) and Indians overall (17.7%) was 7 percentage points. India’s Christian population grew at the slowest pace of the three largest groups in the most recent Census decade — gaining 15.7% between 2001 and 2011, a far lower growth rate than the one recorded in the decade following Partition (29.0%). In terms of absolute numbers, every major religion in India saw its numbers rise. In percentage terms, between 1951 and 2011, Muslims grew by 4.4 percentage points to 14.2% of the population, while Hindus declined by 4.3 points to 79.8%. But all the six major religious groups — Hindus, Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Jains — have grown in absolute numbers. The sole exception to this trend are Parsis, whose number halved between 1951 and 2011, from 110,000 to 60,000. Interestingly, out of India’s total population of 1,200 million, about 8 million did not belong to any of the six major religious groups. Within this category, mostly comprising adivasi people, the largest grouping was of the Sarnas (nearly 5 million adherents), followed by the Gond (1 million) and the Sari Dharma (5,10,000). Observing that a preference for sons over daughters could play a role in overall fertility, the study noted that sex-selective abortions had caused an estimated deficit of 20 million girls compared with what would naturally be expected between 1970 and 2017, and that “this practice is more common among Indian Hindus than among Muslims and Christians.” Cautioning that religion was by no means the only or even the primary factor affecting fertility rates, the study noted that women in central India tended to have more children, with Bihar and Uttar Pradesh showing a total fertility rate (TFR) of 3.4 and 2.7 respectively, in contrast to a TFR of 1.7 and 1.6 in Tamil Nadu and Kerala respectively. With regard to migration as a driver of change in the religious makeup, the study said since the 1950s, migration has had only a modest impact on India’s religious composition. More than 99% of people who live in India were also born in India, and migrants leaving India outnumber immigrants three-to-one, with “Muslims more likely than Hindus to leave India”, while “immigrants into India from Muslim-majority countries are disproportionately Hindu.” The study also cast doubt over the speculated numbers of undocumented immigrants in India, noting, “If tens of millions of Muslims from nearby countries had indeed migrated to India, demographers would expect to see evidence of such mass migration in data from their countries of origin, and this magnitude of outmigration is not apparent.” Religious conversion has also had a negligible impact on India’s overall composition, with 98% of Indian adults still identifying with the religion in which they were raised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fertility-rates-of-hindus-and-muslims-converging-study/article36601508.ece
22 September 2021||Chennai,||‘Computing is applied to all professions’||Students should be exposed to multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary higher education programmes in computing and data science to explore possibilities and get insights, say experts. At a webinar on careers in computing and data sciences, hosted by The Hindu with Sai University on Monday, panelllists said it is imperative to have mix-and-match learning models for students as in Harvard University and MIT. The university’s founder and Chancellor K.V. Ramani said: “The aim is to bring in global best practices to India. We have established a university with top-notch names around the world. 55% of our faculty will be international professors and the other half will be Indian professors with international accreditation.” Jamshed Bharucha, Founding Vice-Chancellor of Sai University, said, “The university is the first Indian higher education institution that embeds computing science and data science within a liberal undergraduate ecosystem. In this time and age, computing is applied to all professions and all aspects of life and data are everywhere.” He added that students get to study ‘computing bilinguals’ with which one will learn the language of computing and data science and study another subject like music, public health and environmental issues concurrently to have in-depth knowledge, find correlations and patterns. Students can combine these things to get new data sets, understand and analyse them to get new insights. “With computing bilinguals, students can come up with ways to understand the world better using digital technology,” Prof. Bharucha added. Growing sector The data science market is rapidly growing at 30% annually. Within the digital sector, the growth is even faster. This means, more data is created and more analysts are needed — it is a virtual cycle. Ashank Desai, Founder, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of Mastek, pointed out that there were around one lakh vacancies for data science professionals in India. S. Sadagopan, International Advisory Board at Sai University, said, “Every flower in the university can grow the way it wants to grow and won’t be straight-jacketed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/computing-is-applied-to-all-professions/article36601491.ece
22 September 2021||Srinagar,||NIA conducts raids in eight places in J&K||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday raided and searched eight locations in Jammu and Kashmir in a case related to the recovery of an improvised explosive device in the Bathindi area of Jammu earlier. Agency teams, with the assistance of the police and the CRPF, conducted searches in Anantnag, Baramulla, Kulgam, Srinagar, Doda and Kishtwar, an NIA spokesman said. “During the searches, many digital devices and other incriminating materials have been recovered from the premises of the suspects.” On June 27 last, a 5-kg IED (improvised explosive device) was recovered from a Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist in Bathindi. “The conspiracy by the LeT was aimed at causing an explosion in Jammu using the IED. Investigation revealed that Pakistan-based handlers and their associates based in J&K are planning terrorist activities using the pseudo-acronym TRF [The Residtance Front] so as to maintain plausible deniability,” the spokesman said, adding that further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-conducts-raids-in-eight-places-in-jk/article36601502.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. and the dilemma over its religious identity||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s sharp attack on the BJP’s “Hindu” credentials last week has put the spotlight back on his own and his party’s dilemma in articulating the question of religious identity. It could be a matter of debate whether or not the Congress’s attempt to recast its image will work, but it is clear that Mr. Gandhi is keen on taking the fight to the BJP’s own turf of Hindutva politics, seeking to distinguish it from the larger Hindu identity. “ Ye kis prakar ke Hindu hain. Ye jhoote Hindu hain. Ye Hindu dharm ka prayog karte hain, ye dharm ki dalali karte hain, magar ye Hindu nahin hain [What kind of Hindus are they? They are fake Hindus. They use the Hindu religion, they broker the religion, but they are not Hindus],” he declared at a convention of the All India Mahila Congress on September 15. On September 10, a day after visiting the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, Mr. Gandhi invoked his lineage of being a Kashmiri Pandit while addressing a rally of Congress workers in Jammu. But it is always a tightrope walk for Mr. Gandhi to express his faith publicly and yet project himself as an “inclusive” leader. During the 2017 Gujarat Assembly election, when Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala referred to Mr. Gandhi as a “ janeu dhaari Brahmin [sacred thread-wearing Brahmin]”, Mr. Gandhi is reported to have expressed his disapproval. Yet, in Jammu, he referred to himself as a “Kashmiri Pandit who would help his fellow Pandit brothers”. At the Mahila Congress convention, while expounding on the meaning of Goddesses Lakshmi and Durga, he attacked the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and V.D. Savarkar for propagating a “militant” ideology. “In the last 100-200 years, if anyone has understood the Hindu religion in the best way and made it his practice, it is Mahatma Gandhi. We believe in this and so do the BJP-RSS people. So, if Mahatma Gandhi understood the Hindu religion and spent his whole life understanding it, then why did the RSS ideology pump three bullets in his chest?” asked the Congress leader. While his attack on the ideology of Savarkar and the RSS has often riled the party’s ally in Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena, the BJP has often accused Mr. Gandhi of being a “ chunaavi Hindu”, someone who remembers his Hindu credentials only at the time of elections. With Assembly election in the Hindi heartland of Uttar Pradesh scheduled early next year and Gujarat later in the year, one could explain that Mr. Gandhi’s Hindu assertion is, perhaps, political. But those close to the Congress leader claim that it is more about “wresting back” the political narrative from the BJP and arguing that Hinduism, in contrast to the political ideology of Hindutva, has space for everyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-and-the-dilemma-over-its-religious-identity/article36601511.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Process to induct women into NDA by May 2022’||On September 8, the government assured the court that the induction of women into the NDA was already under consideration by the armed forces. A Bench, led by Justice S.K. Kaul, had urged the armed forces and the government to “take a proactive approach in gender equality issues rather than leave it unattended and calling for the court to interfere”. The Ministry said arrangements had to be made regarding infrastructure and curriculum-wise for physical training, etc, before the induction of women. “While the education curriculum is well-set, all the rest of the aspects of training are required to be formulated separately for women candidates,” the affidavit said. Other issues regarding the capability of the NDA to absorb the intake, the desired cadre structure, downstream effect, envisaged requirement and employment by the respective defence services have to be considered. The affidavit underscored the importance of physical training. “Any dilution of physical training and service subjects like parameters of firing, endurance training, field craft and living off the land for women cadets would invariably impact the battle worthiness of the Armed Forces,” it said. On August 18, the court issued an interim order allowing women candidates to take the NDA exam, which was then scheduled on September 5. The court had also questioned why “co-education is a problem” in the armed forces. The court had orally observed that it was ‘absurd’ that women were not allowed to appear for the NDA exam even after the Supreme Court, in a judgment, had directed permanent commission in the Army. On February 17 last year, the Supreme Court had upheld permanent commission for women officers. Gender stereotype The court had dismissed the government’s submissions that women are physiologically weaker than men as a “sex stereotype” and declared that Short Service Commission (SSC) women officers were eligible for permanent commission and command posts in the Army irrespective of their years of service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/process-to-induct-women-into-nda-by-may-2022/article36601490.ece
22 September 2021||Guwahati,||Assam, Nagaland CMs hold talks with NSCN(IM)||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, assigned by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, met senior Naga extremist leader Thuingaleng Muivah in Dimapur in Nagaland on Tuesday. Mr. Muivah is the general secretary of the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (IM). Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio was with Dr. Sarma during the closed-door meeting that lasted an hour. The issues discussed were not made public. Less than 24 hours after meeting Mr. Shah in New Delhi, the Assam Chief Minister drove to the private residence of Mr. Rio after landing at Dimapur around 12.30 p.m. The two went to the meeting venue at a Nagaland police facility together. After the meeting, Dr. Sarma went a resort nearby and held separate discussions with former Intelligence Bureau special director A.K. Mishra and State BJP leaders, including Deputy Chief Minister Y. Patton, party chief Temjen Imna Along Longkumer and some Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-nagaland-cms-hold-talks-with-nscnim/article36601566.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two more Afghans held in heroin seizure case||Two more Afghan nationals have been held in the ongoing pan-India operation being carried out by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in connection with the seizure of about 3,000 kg heroin at the Mundra port in Gujarat. While the DRI searches are under way, the Enforcement Directorate is likely to take up a money-laundering probe against the accused persons as the offences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act come under its purview. The international value of the seized contraband is being determined with the help of experts. “The value is estimated on the basis of the purity percentage of the heroin,” said an official. According to the Afghanistan Drug Price Monitoring (monthly report) in April 2021, one kg heroin is worth a little over $2,000 in Afghanistan. In 2019, an official said, the per kg price in India ranged from $7,106 to $21,317 as per one estimate. The DRI had earlier arrested five persons, including two Afghan nationals, and conducted searches at a warehouse in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-afghans-held-in-heroin-seizure-case/article36601492.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||V.R. Chaudhari appointed next Chief of the Air Staff||The Union government on Tuesday appointed Vice Chief of the Air Staff Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari the next Chief of the Air Staff (CAS). The current chief, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, is retiring on September 30. “Government has decided to appoint Air Marshal V.R. Chaudhari, presently Vice Chief of the Air Staff, as the next Chief of the Air Staff,” a Defence Ministry statement said. Air Marshal Chaudhari was commissioned in the fighter stream of the Air Force on December 29, 1982. He has flying experience of more than 3,800 hours on a wide variety of fighter and trainer aircraft. As an Air Vice Marshal, he has been Deputy Commandant, Air Force Academy; and Assistant Chief of Air Staff Operations (Air Defence).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vr-chaudhari-appointed-next-chief-of-the-air-staff/article36601494.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||India mulls ‘reciprocal’ steps to U.K. rules||He indicated that the U.K.’s policy to impose 10 days quarantine on people vaccinated with Covishield revealed a gap in that country’s policy regarding vaccines made in India. “The basic issue is that here is a vaccine, Covishield, which is a licensed product of a U.K. company, manufactured in India,” he said. “Of this [Covishield] we have supplied five million doses to the U.K., at the request of the U.K. We understand this has been used in their National Health System and therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy,” he stated. The U.K., on August 8, moved India to the ‘Amber list’, taking it away from the ‘Red list’. This opened the British “Visit visas” to Indian travellers “irrespective of vaccination status”. It also changed the earlier requirement of 10 days of quarantine in hotel and permitted the same duration to be spent at home. However, travellers were allowed to test for COVID-19 after five days and end the quarantine if the test turned negative. The change has seen a surge in Indian demand for U.K. tourist visa.  The Hindu has learnt that the British High Commission here has issued at least 20,000 visas for Indian travellers in the last four weeks. However, India has kept tourist visas suspended. It was also learnt that the recognition of Covishield of the SII is not an issue for the U.K. and the real problem is the vaccine certificate, which is stuck on procedural and technical matters related to the healthcare database of the U.K. Earlier, a British High Commission spokesperson said, “We are engaging with the Government of India to explore how we could expand U.K. recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-mulls-reciprocal-steps-to-uk-rules/article36601496.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Record paddy yield likely this kharif season||The summer kharif season is likely to produce a record paddy harvest this year, pushing the country’s foodgrain production for the season to an all-time high of 15 crore tonnes, according to first advance estimates from the Agriculture Ministry. However, oilseed production may be marginally lower than last year’s, particularly groundnut and soyabean harvests, which could be bad news for soaring edible oil prices. On the other hand, the increase in pulses production, especially the toor dal crop, could come as a relief. ‘Result of hard work’ Releasing the estimates, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar attributed the record foodgrain production to the “hard work of farmers, proficiency of scientists and farmer friendly policies of the government”. Going into the winter rabi season, the Centre has taken steps to incentivise the production of both oilseeds and pulses, according to a virtual presentation by Agriculture Commissioner S.K. Malhotra. Apart from a focus on seed production and distribution, the government is also targeting areas in eastern India which are planted with rice in the kharif season but remain fallow in the rabi season, with plans to sow 6.25 lakh hectares of pulses and 2.32 lakh hectares of oilseeds on such land. The minimum support prices for oilseeds and pulses are also higher than for wheat, the main cereal grown in the winter. With regard to kharif crops, rice production is estimated to be 10.7 crore tonnes this year, slightly higher than the 10.4 crore tonnes produced last year. The acreage sown with paddy also increased by almost 1 lakh hectares. Both major oilseed crops in the kharif season saw slight dips in production. Groundnut acreage dropped almost 4%, resulting in an estimated production of 82.5 lakh tonnes. Soyabean production, which was affected by patchy rainfall in parts of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, is likely to amount to 1.27 crore tonnes, slightly lower than last year, and well short of the 1.47 crore tonnes targeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/record-paddy-yield-likely-this-kharif-season/article36601506.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. and the dilemma over its religious identity||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s sharp attack on the BJP’s “Hindu” credentials last week has put the spotlight back on his own and his party’s dilemma in articulating the question of religious identity. It could be a matter of debate whether or not the Congress’s attempt to recast its image will work, but it is clear that Mr. Gandhi is keen on taking the fight to the BJP’s own turf of Hindutva politics, seeking to distinguish it from the larger Hindu identity. “ Ye kis prakar ke Hindu hain. Ye jhoote Hindu hain. Ye Hindu dharm ka prayog karte hain, ye dharm ki dalali karte hain, magar ye Hindu nahin hain [What kind of Hindus are they? They are fake Hindus. They use the Hindu religion, they broker the religion, but they are not Hindus],” he declared at a convention of the All India Mahila Congress on September 15. On September 10, a day after visiting the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine, Mr. Gandhi invoked his lineage of being a Kashmiri Pandit while addressing a rally of Congress workers in Jammu. But it is always a tightrope walk for Mr. Gandhi to express his faith publicly and yet project himself as an “inclusive” leader. During the 2017 Gujarat Assembly election, when Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala referred to Mr. Gandhi as a “ janeu dhaari Brahmin [sacred thread-wearing Brahmin]”, Mr. Gandhi is reported to have expressed his disapproval. Yet, in Jammu, he referred to himself as a “Kashmiri Pandit who would help his fellow Pandit brothers”. At the Mahila Congress convention, while expounding on the meaning of Goddesses Lakshmi and Durga, he attacked the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and V.D. Savarkar for propagating a “militant” ideology. “In the last 100-200 years, if anyone has understood the Hindu religion in the best way and made it his practice, it is Mahatma Gandhi. We believe in this and so do the BJP-RSS people. So, if Mahatma Gandhi understood the Hindu religion and spent his whole life understanding it, then why did the RSS ideology pump three bullets in his chest?” asked the Congress leader. While his attack on the ideology of Savarkar and the RSS has often riled the party’s ally in Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena, the BJP has often accused Mr. Gandhi of being a “ chunaavi Hindu”, someone who remembers his Hindu credentials only at the time of elections. With the Assembly election in the Hindi heartland of Uttar Pradesh scheduled early next year and Gujarat later in the year, one could explain that Mr. Gandhi’s Hindu assertion is, perhaps, political. But those close to the Congress leader claim that it is more about “wresting back” the political narrative from the BJP and arguing that Hinduism, in contrast to the political ideology of Hindutva, has space for everyone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-and-the-dilemma-over-its-religious-identity/article36601567.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: 600 more workers to be deployed||Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday said 600 more workers would join the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project, which was expected to be completed before the Republic Day Parade in 2022. Mr. Puri, who visited the site on Tuesday to review the work, said he was confident that the project would be ready in time for the R-Day parade next year. “3,400 workers working day & night on site to compensate for the time lost due to rains. 600 more workers will be added to the workforce in a week. (sic),” Mr. Puri said in a tweet. As part of the Central Vista revamp project, the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment was started earlier this year. It includes new public amenities for visitors, new landscaping of the India Gate lawns and development of infrastructure for the annual parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-vista-600-more-workers-to-be-deployed/article36601518.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Ramayana’s superiority||To understand the Vedas, we need the help of the Itihasas and Puranas. There are eighteen Puranas, and these are classified as satvika, rajasa and tamasa Puranas, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. When satvik qualities were foremost in Brahma, he gave the sattvika Puranas. The sattvika Puranas are the ones which have been treated as important by Vaishnava Acharyas. And among these, the Vishnu Purana is considered the most important. It is called Purana Ratna. However, sometimes, Vaishnava Acharyas have also used statements in the rajasa and tamasa Puranas as references. Here they followed a rule. Wherever something that was said in a rajasic or tamasic Purana did not contradict what was said in the satvika Puranas, then they were acceptable. When they contradicted statements made in the satvika Puranas, they were rejected. Vishnu Purana has a special quality. In other Puranas, a question is asked to Brahma about a specific devata. For instance, when a question is asked about Agni, Brahma extols Agni and the result is the Agni Purana. But in the case of the Vishnu Purana, the question asked by Sage Maitreya to Sage Parasara is not about any devata. It is a general question about the Supreme One, and Parasara replies that Lord Narayana is the Paramatma. The Itihasas were written at the time the events described took place. The authors also are characters in the stories. Of the two Itihasas, Ramayana is superior. It may be argued that Mahabaharata is superior as it contains Bhagavad Gita and Vishnu Sahasranama. But the Gita and Vishnu Sahasranama together add up to a few hundred verses, and the total length of the Mahabharata is more than a lakh. In the Ramayana, however, Valmiki talks throughout about Rama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ramayanas-superiority/article36601519.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Cong. wants NEET to go||The Congress in Maharashtra demanded on Tuesday that the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government should cancel the National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test (NEET), taking a cue from Tamil Nadu, and marks obtained in Class 12 should be considered for medical college admission. “NEET is directly impacting students from middle-class and poor sections. Students from CBSE and other Central Board find it easier to pass the test than State Board students. The rise in fees of coaching classes is making it extremely difficult for students from economically lower class to pass the test,” said Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole. He said there had also been a rising number of irregularities in the conduct of NEET, even on the scale of Vyapam scam. “There have been instances of paper leak, dummy students etc. The experiment of NEET is promoting inequality and demolishing the dreams of financially weaker students to become a doctor,” he said. “I have written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Our demand is to cancel NEET and conduct admission on the basis of marks obtained in standard 12,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cong-wants-neet-to-go/article36601527.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Truck drivers must have fixed hours’||Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday pitched for fixed duty hours for truck drivers, on the lines of airline pilots, to reduce road accidents due to fatigue. The Minister discussed the matter at a meeting with new members nominated to the National Road Safety Council. The council was also directed to hold a meeting every two months. In a tweet, Mr. Gadkari proposed “a policy to include On-Board Sleep Detection Sensors in Commercial Vehicles”, on a par with European standards. The Minister said he would write to Chief Ministers and Collectors to ensure that District Road Committee meetings were regularly held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/truck-drivers-must-have-fixed-hours/article36601495.ece
22 September 2021||Srinagar,||Combing operation on in Uri: officials||The combing operation by security forces near the Line of Control (LoC) at Uri in Baramulla district of north Kashmir continued for the third day on Tuesday, as the Army said it foiled “a major infiltration”. An official said searches were on in the area. The Army on Monday said an infiltration bid was made on the intervening night of September 18 and 19 after the troops manning the LoC spotted “suspicious movement”. It was one of the two major infiltration bids this year. Mobile and Internet services were snapped in Uri on Monday “due to security reasons”. Earlier this year, a group of infiltrators was killed in a forest range of Bandipora after it sneaked in from the Gurez Sector in north Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/combing-operation-on-in-uri-officials/article36601501.ece
22 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Row over changes to marriage Act||A Bill to amend the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, 2009, passed in the State Assembly, has generated a controversy, with the BJP charging that it will validate child marriages. The Congress government said the amended provisions will only streamline the registration process, without changing the status of nuptial ties of minors. The amendment allows women above 18 to provide information of their marriage on their own. The State government said the Amendment Bill had been brought to protect legal rights of children, stop multiple marriages and take care of maintenance and inheritance related matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-changes-to-marriage-act/article36601509.ece
22 September 2021||Pune,||Pawar won’t be accepted as leader: Geete||Striking yet another discordant note within the tripartite Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, senior Shiv Sena leader Anant Geete on Tuesday said the unnatural coalition was just a political compromise and that the Sena could never toe the ideological line of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) or the Congress. “Sharad Pawar formed the NCP by stabbing the Congress in the back… Why should Shiv Sainiks accept Pawar as their leader? Their leader can and only be [late Sena founder] Bal Thackeray,” said Mr. Geete, who was also former Union Minister, speaking in Raigad district during a political gathering that saw a few local NCP leaders enter the Sena fold. Meanwhile, MVA leaders scrambled into damage-control mode, with Sena spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut distancing the party from Mr. Geete’s remarks. “Both Mr. Thackeray and Mr. Pawar are tall leaders of the State. The MVA leadership has nothing to do with Mr. Geete’s remarks. The government will complete its term without any hitch.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-wont-be-accepted-as-leader-geete/article36601514.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SAARC Ministers’ meet unlikely||A meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the member countries of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), scheduled to be held on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in New York, is unlikely to take place, the government of Nepal, the current chair of SAARC, has confirmed. It is understood that disagreement over the representation of Afghanistan has led to the cancellation of the meeting. The meeting of SAARC Foreign Ministers at the UNGA had become contentious over the recent years because of differences between India and Pakistan regarding cross-border terrorism, among other issues. Bone of contention  The Hindu has learnt that the initial understanding among the members was that during the meeting, the chair for Afghan Foreign Minister would remain empty. However, former Pakistan High Commissioner to India Abdul Basit has stated in a social media post that the issue of representation of Afghanistan “in the meeting became the bone of contention”. The Taliban captured power in Kabul on August 15 but the political set-up has not yet gained international legitimacy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/saarc-ministers-meet-unlikely/article36601568.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||Raj Kundra walks out of Mumbai jail after bail in pornographic films case||Businessman Raj Kundra on Tuesday walked out of a Mumbai jail, a day after a magistrate’s court here granted bail to the key accused in a pornographic films case, in which he was arrested two months ago. Mr. Kundra was released from the Arthur Road jail shortly after 11.30 a.m., a jail official said. Chief metropolitan magistrate S.B. Bhajipale on Monday allowed Mr. Kundra’s bail application on furnishing a bond of Rs. 50,000.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raj-kundra-walks-out-of-mumbai-jail-after-bail-in-pornographic-films-case/article36601521.ece
22 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||In Odisha, over 3 tonnes of ganja seized in a day||The Odisha police on September 20 seized more than three tonnes of ganja during vehicle checks across the State. The Malkangiri district police intercepted a truck transporting 2.25 tonnes of ganja worth about Rs. 2 crore. This seizure has shown that Odisha remains a major supplier of marijuana across the country. Similarly, the police seized 1,250 kg of marijuana from a banana- laden truck on National Highway 16. The value of the seized ganja is above Rs. 1 crore. Seven persons have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-odisha-over-3-tonnes-of-ganja-seized-in-a-day/article36601528.ece
22 September 2021||Guwahati,||453 land brokers arrested in Assam||More than 40 days after Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma asked the Revenue and Disaster Management department officials to eliminate middlemen from land-related work, police have arrested 453 land brokers. They were picked up from various parts of the State on September 20 night for indulging in unlawful activities involving land sale, purchase and holding, the police said. Special Director General of Police G.P. Singh said, “We strive to identify the black sheep amongst government personnel involved along with ascertaining unlawful backward and forward linkages of those arrested.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/453-land-brokers-arrested-in-assam/article36601531.ece
22 September 2021||Guwahati,||Sonowal files nomination for RS seat||Minister for Shipping, Ports, Waterways and Ayush Sarbananda Sonowal on Tuesday filed his nomination papers for a Rajya Sabha seat, at the Assam Assembly Secretariat. The seat is one of the seven across the country that will go to the polls on October 4. Mr. Sonowal currently represents the Majuli seat in the 126-member Assembly. His nomination to the Upper House became necessary after he was made a Union Minister. The Rajya Sabha seat was vacated by Biswajit Daimary, who contested the Panery Assembly seat as a BJP candidate and was chosen as House Speaker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonowal-files-nomination-for-rs-seat/article36601532.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 1,647 fresh COVID-19 cases, 19 deaths||As many as 1,647 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. While Chennai’s daily count dropped just below 200, Coimbatore continued to report over 200 infections. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 26,48,688. There were 218 cases in Coimbatore and 198 in Chennai. Erode and Chengalpattu recorded 112 and 109 cases respectively. Cases dropped marginally in both Tiruppur and Thanjavur, when compared with the previous day — while the former saw 85 cases, the latter logged 79. Salem recorded 77 infections. Five districts saw under 10 cases each, with Ramanathapuram recording the least number of cases at three. State’s toll Another 19 people — three in private hospitals and 16 in government facilities — succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35,379. There were no deaths due to COVID-19 in 26 districts. While Tiruppur recorded three deaths, there were two in Chennai. Among the deceased was a 25-year-old man from Tiruvarur with Down’s syndrome and diabetes. He was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on September 16 and died on September 20 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 38-year-old woman from Salem who had diabetes and hypothyroidism died at the Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital on September 20 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 1,619 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,96,316. At present, 16,993 people are under treatment for COVID-19 in the State. They include 2,167 people in Coimbatore and 2,055 in Chennai. In the last 24 hours, 1,50,159 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,56,04,563. Another 44,559 people, including 28,435 in the 18-44 age group and 11,843 aged 45 to 59, were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the total coverage in government vaccination centres to 4,13,67,561.  There were no deaths due to COVID-19 in 26 districts. While Tiruppur recorded three deaths, there were two in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-1647-fresh-covid-19-cases-19-deaths/article36601674.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain likely over northern Tamil Nadu||A few northern parts of the State may experience heavy rain this week, while moderate rain is likely to continue over coastal districts and a few interior places. A cyclonic circulation over south Tamil Nadu and neighbouring areas, extending up to 0.9 km above mean sea level, would influence the scattered rainfall over the State. The Meteorological Department predicts fairly widespread rainfall that is expected to cover 51% to 75% of the weather stations in Tamil Nadu from September 24. Officials of the Department said muggy weather during the day may be offset by thundershowers during the evening or night in places like Chennai. Besides the prevailing weather system, convective activity would trigger thunderstorms. On Wednesday, heavy rain with thunderstorms may lash isolated places in districts including Vellore, Tiruvallur, Dharmapuri, Salem, Tiruvannamalai and Kallakurichi. Some coastal and interior districts may get light to moderate rain. The delta districts may receive heavy rain in one or two places from Thursday. There would be an increase in rainfall from Friday, with light to moderate rain covering many places of the State and Puducherry. Ten districts, including Cuddalore, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur, may receive isolated heavy rain. During the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Manampoondi in Villupuram district and Kalasapakkam in Tiruvannamalai district recorded heavy rainfall of 16 cm. Respite from humidity Chennai residents had a respite from a humid day, as sudden showers lashed some parts of the city on Tuesday afternoon. Rain gauges at MRC Nagar, Taramani, Villivakkam and Meenambakkam recorded light rain of less than 1 cm till 5.30 p.m. The same weather trend may continue till the weekend as rain may favour Chennai and neighbouring areas. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said the trough line would help the rain-bearing clouds move into interior districts and impact fairly widespread rain. The State has recorded an overall rainfall of 36 cm, which is 20% in excess of its seasonal share, since June 1. “However, Kanniyakumari district has a 29% deficit in seasonal rainfall. The weak performance of the southwest monsoon in Kerala also affected rain over Kanniyakumari. However, the shortfall may be bridged as the monsoon is active,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-likely-over-northern-tn/article36602045.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT suspends clearance for Ennore power plant extension||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has put in abeyance the Environment Clearance (EC) granted to the 660 MW Ennore Thermal Power Station expansion project for a period of six months, and has directed the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF) to conduct a public hearing for the project. The bench, however, said there was no necessity to set aside the EC as void abinitio on the grounds that the public hearing had not been conducted, while also allowing the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) to proceed with the construction activity. The bench said the Tangedco should not commence operations without completion of the process of incorporating additional conditions, if any, made by the MoEF. The NGT directed the Ministry to conduct the public hearing within a period of two months, and after getting the public opinion on the project, direct the Tandegco to conduct further studies, if required. Following this, an additional Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report needs to be submitted to the Expert Appraisal Committee of the MoEF. After getting its views and recommendations, the Ministry has been directed to pass appropriate orders required on ‘Precautionary Principle’, the bench said. While the applicant sought cancellation of the EC, the bench held that though the appraisal of the project without a public hearing was vitiated, it did not warrant the entire process to be declared illegal and that it was “only a curable irregularity and not an incurable illegality making the entire process vitiated.” The bench noted that the validity of the EC for the project had expired in 2019 and Tangedco had sought an extension for a further period of four years, which was rejected as per the amended EIA notification, and the project proponent was asked to apply for an EC de novo for the project, which was done by Tangedco. The appraisal committee also made it clear that the project cannot proceed without a public hearing and a Cumulative Impact Assessment needed to be carried out. The bench, noting the submission of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board that no objection was received from the public, said the statement filed by the Tangedco showed that they had uploaded the EIA report on their website, but it was not uploaded on the website of the TNPCB. “So, there is no possibility for the public to know about the contents of the EIA report to raise their objection before the authorities, and there was no possibility for the appraisal committee to get the views of the public on this aspect,” the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-suspends-clearance-for-ennore-power-plant-extension/article36601687.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dementia inpatient care centre inaugurated at Selaiyur||Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, World Health Organisation, stressed on the need for more care centres and related facilities for people affected by dementia, owing to the increasing burden of the illness in low and middle income countries (LMICs). Inaugurating, virtually, the Sri T.S. Santhanam Centre for Elderly Care and Sundram Fasteners Centre for Dementia Research at Selaiyur, near Tambaram, commemorating World Alzheimer’s Day on Tuesday, she said that this new centre started by the Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF) was an important initiative as it filled the gap in dementia care. Highlighting that care needed for people with dementia included primary health care, specialist care, community-based services, rehabilitation, long-term care and palliative care, she said that availability of such facilities were, however, poor in LMICs. She said that research on cost effective models of prevention and care that involved patients with dementia and their families was the need of the hour. The 20-bed centre will offer short-term stays for people with dementia, during which they will be stabilised, observed and provided with therapies to reduce their distress and enable them to better cope with the illness. R. Thara, vice-chairman, SCARF, said with dementia, the struggle was not only for those affected but also for caregivers. As it was the elderly who mostly suffered from dementia, their caregivers, who are mostly their spouses, are also old and often faced their own health issues. She said the centre would train caregivers so they could handle the situation better. Sridhar Vaitheswaran, head, Dementia Services, SCARF, said the centre was also planning to collaborate with the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences to train certified caregivers. He said the idea of the centre was not to provide long-term stay and care for people with dementia, but instead help them during a short stay, train the family and caregivers so that the care can be continued further at their homes. A section of beds will be reserved for those from poor economic backgrounds to offer services free of cost, he said. Dr. Vaitheswaran said a lot of thought had gone into making the place friendly to people with dementia as things like uncluttered free spaces and easily recognisable amenities were important. R. Seshasayee, chairman, SCARF, said the centre was a dream project, made possible by the support of many organisations. Ram Santhanam of the TVS Group, T.T. Srinivasaraghavan, former managing director, Sundaram Finance, and S. Meenakshisundaram, chief financial officer, Sundram Fasteners Private Limited, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dementia-inpatient-care-centre-inaugurated-at-selaiyur/article36601694.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL petition challenges amendment made to Tamil Nadu Forests Act||The Madras High Court on Tuesday sought the response of the State government to a public interest litigation petition which sought to declare the Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests (Amendment) Act of 2011 as wholly arbitrary and capricious because it permits those who had purchased private forests without prior sale approval from an environmental committee to obtain post facto sanction from it. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu ordered notice to the State government on the PIL petition filed by T. Murugavel of Environment Monitoring and Action Initiating, a trust, which he said was founded in 2005 for restoring, maintaining and improving the environment. The litigant said the Madras Preservation of Private Forests Act of 1949 was enacted to prevent indiscriminate destruction of private forests. The Act applies to all forests situated in estates as defined in the Madras Estates Land Act of 1908 and also to private forests having a contiguous area exceeding two hectares which had been notified as a forest, under the Act, by the Collector concerned. Section 2A of the Act also provides for constitution of a committee, under the chairmanship of the Collector, to grant permission for alienation of private forest land. Further, Section 3(1)(a) prevents owners of private forests from selling, mortgaging, leasing out or alienating otherwise either the whole or any portion of the forest without the previous sanction of the committee. More importantly, Section 3(1)(b) declares, in no uncertain terms, that any alienation of forest, made without obtaining prior sanction of the committee, would be declared null and void, the petitioner said. He pointed out that Sections 3 and 6 of the Act were challenged by rubber plantation owners from Kanniyakumari district but the High Court had upheld their validity after observing that Tamil Nadu had a forest cover of only 26% though the tree cover should be at least 33% to maintain ecological balance. Then, the court had also observed that the Act was necessary to prevent forests from destruction. However, in 2011, the law was amended by inserting Section 4A through which people who had purchased private forest lands, without the prior sanction of the committee, were allowed to retain it by obtaining post facto approval from the committee. Such purchasers were also permitted to prefer an appeal to the State government if the committee happened to reject their application seeking approval. Assailing the amendment, the petitioner said: “Section 4A is completely flawed and illogical. The provision enables a person who has committed an illegality by purchasing forest land in contravention of Section 3(1)(a) to apply to the committee… The effect of Section 4A is to permit the violator to retain the fruits of his illegality without spelling out the legal basis for such retention… The effect of Section 4A is to ratify an illegality.”   Assailing the amendment made in 2011, the petitioner said Section 4A is completely flawed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-challenges-amendment-made-to-tn-forests-act/article36601853.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Make miners pay for ecological harm: High Court||It will not do for the State to merely report that illegal mining activities undertaken by certain persons have been stopped. For it to be a deterrent to future intruders, the State has to realise due compensation from perpetrators of illegal mining not only for the financial loss caused to the public exchequer but also for desecration of ecology and biodegradation, the Madras High Court has said. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu made the observations while passing interim orders on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate C. Prabhu complaining about illegal stone quarrying activities taking place in Kallakuruchi district. He complained that several miners in the district were operating beyond the licensed areas to indiscriminately carry away precious minerals. However, the government reported to the court that criminal cases had been booked under Section 376 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code and also under the mines and minerals laws against the illegal miners. Not satisfied with such action, the first Division Bench insisted that the perpetrators must be made to pay for the crime committed by them and that they must also compensate for harm caused to ecology. “It calls for some serious action from the State and not merely a knee-jerk reaction to suddenly wake up and stop the illegal mining activities at the prodding of the court. It is only fair that a person who has indulged in illegal mining for a considerable period before being caught, should be made to pay, including for the harm done to the environment and ecology as a consequence of the illegal activities,” the Bench wrote. The judges kept the PIL petition pending for four more weeks to assess whether serious and punitive measures would be taken by the State against the illegal miners and ordered that a plan of action against the relevant entities must be placed before the court by then.  It is only fair that a person who has indulged in illegal mining for a considerable period before being caught, be made to pay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-miners-pay-for-ecological-harm-hc-tells-state-govt/article36601714.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, rooms to stay at Chennai airport for transit passengers||As the number of people travelling is nearing the pre-COVID-19 levels, Chennai airport has been handling more number of transit passengers having long hours of stay in the terminal either to catch a domestic or an international flight. To provide relief to them, the authorities have created a facility. Passengers now have an option to rent a transit room for a few hours or book a room for a day just outside the terminal on the airport premises. Officials of Airports Authority of India said rooms for passengers had been created on the ground floor of Chennai Airport Metro Rail station which is located close to the domestic and international terminals. The facility has 20 rooms. For an hour, the rent is Rs. 350 and for four hours and beyond, it is Rs. 1,200. For those whose transit is more than 12 hours, they can opt for single or double occupancy, whose charges are Rs. 2,300 and Rs. 2,800 plus additional taxes. “Before the phase II modernisation project work began, there were rooms inside the terminal. After the demolition of terminals in the airport began, rooms could not be provided but we had accommodation facilities in a nearby marriage hall. But these rooms are what we planned to have at the earliest. So far, quite a lot of transit passengers have been using it,” an official said. But not many passengers are aware of this facility yet, sources said. There should be signage, announcements and information about this facility, they added.  After the demolition of terminals in the airport began, rooms could not be provided but we had accommodation facilities in a nearby marriage hall. But these rooms are what we planned to have at the earliest AAI official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-rooms-to-stay-at-chennai-airport-for-transit-passengers/article36601692.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Include senior IPS officer’s name in FIR in land grab case’||Arappor Iyakkam has urged authorities, including the Home Secretary and the Director General of Police, to add a senior police officer’s name in a first information report (FIR) registered by the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID) against police officials for kidnapping and torturing a businessman to appropriate his properties. The CB-CID registered the FIR on 10 persons, including six police officials and an Assistant Commissioner in June. Demanding a fair investigation, Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor, Arappor Iyakkam, said the organisation accessed a copy of the complaint dated July 12 lodged by the victim, Rajesh, “A simple reading of the letter sends shockwaves of how certain police officials, responsible for upholding law and order, have prima facie acted as henchmen of land grabbers by involving themselves in extreme acts of rowdyism. The complaint is about how Mr. Rajesh and his family were kidnapped, tortured and threatened several times by the police, and how his lands were grabbed and registered in the name of a few individuals in the year 2019,” he said. The representation of Arappor Iyakkam said apart from those against whom the complaint had been lodged, it was extremely important to note that a senior IPS officer, R. Dhinakaran, was named in the complaint for his active role in the offence. “It is shocking that the CB-CID, which registered the FIR and is investigating, has not included Mr. Dhinakaran’s name in the FIR or the additional FIR in spite of his name featuring in the complaint,” it read. The Arappor Iyakkam said, “It is therefore important to immediately add the official’s name in the additional FIR, suspend the officer until the investigation concludes.” Pointing out that the police personnel involved were not arrested for more than a year after the victim complained to the Police Commissioner’s Office in February 2020, Mr. Jayaram said the then Commissioner should have immediately initiated a FIR and arrested those involved. “Apart from criminal action, it is also important for the Home Department to take departmental action against these police officials. Departmental action should not only cover officials responsible for the commission, but also include those responsible for acts of omission,” he said in the representation.  Apart from criminal action, it is also important for the Home Department to take departmental action against these police officials Jayaram Venkatesan Convenor, Arappor Iyakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/include-senior-ips-officers-name-in-fir-in-land-grab-case/article36601852.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Export vaccines after inoculating all’||The Union Health Ministry should consider exporting COVID-19 vaccines only after fully inoculating all eligible individuals in the country, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. A day after the Union Health Minister announced that the export of vaccines manufactured in the country would resume in October, Mr. Subramanian said of India’s total population of nearly 139 crore, 70% were aged over 18, meaning about 97.3 crore were eligible to get the jabs. Considering that two doses need to be administered, 194.6 crore doses are required to fully vaccinate the country’s eligible population, he said. “As per data from the Union government, 80 crore people have received the vaccines so far. Of them, 61 crore have got the first dose... So only a third of the doses have been administered. The country requires nearly 115 crore more doses,” he said. A number of countries were taking steps to vaccinate those aged 12 to 18, he said, adding: “India is yet to plan the vaccination of people aged 12 to 18. At the national level, 115 crore doses are required, and we need to expand inoculation for those in the 12-18 age group. In such a situation, how will it be appropriate to export vaccines?” the Minister said. “The State has the infrastructure to immunise seven to eight lakh people every day,” he said. The Minister recalled that the two mega vaccination camps held on September 12 and 19 had exceeded their respective targets and 28.91 lakh doses and 16.43 lakh doses were administered to people respectively. “The State requires 12.12 crore doses to vaccinate its eligible population of 6.06 crore. So far, we have administered 4.37 crore doses, and require 7.5 crore more,” he told reporters, shortly after inaugurating a simulation centre at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals on Tuesday. On behalf of Tamil Nadu and its people, he requested the Prime Minister and the Union Health Minister to postpone their aim of exporting vaccines. “When vaccines are the only solution, the country has managed to administer around a third of the doses compared to what is required,” he said. Simulation centre Sudha Seshayyan, vice-chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University said simulation centres were a boon for those concerned with the healing sciences. In a video, Prathap C. Reddy, chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group, said simulation would help carry out procedures with precision and accuracy. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals Group, said India had the potential to provide the largest number of skilled workforce to the rest of the developed nations. K. Ganapathi, MLA; M. Muralidharan, Director of Medical Education, Apollo Hospitals, Southern region, and Thilaka Muthiah, clinical lead, Apollo Simulation Centre, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/export-vaccines-after-inoculating-all/article36601672.ece
22 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Call to end ‘auctioning’ of local body posts||With 9 districts slated to witness elections to rural local bodies, the ‘auctioning’ of the posts of village panchayat presidents and panchayat union ward councillors has once again been reported — this time in a couple of northern districts. The ‘auctioning’ was said to have taken place recently for the posts of presidents of Ulagalapadi village panchayat in Sankarapuram panchayat union of Kallakurichi district and Ponnankuppam village panchayat in Gingee panchayat union of Villupuram district, in addition to the posts of councillors of two panchayat union wards of Melamalaiyanur in Villupuram district. The State Election Commission (SEC) had also instructed the Collectors of other districts to find out whether the practice had been resorted to. Any instance of the ‘auctioning’ of posts would be viewed ‘seriously’ and followed up to the logical end. Political parties across the spectrum have condemned the practice and called upon the respective district administrations and the SEC to deal with any such instance sternly. V.P. Duraisamy, vice-president of the State unit of the BJP, feels that one of the reasons that have contributed to the practice is the cheque-signing authority assigned to the village panchayat presidents. “However, this does not mean that I am demanding the withdrawal of the power. There has to be more room for monitoring the function than there is under the present arrangement,” he clarifies. He suggests that those who have indulged in the practice be debarred from contesting in local bodies elections. Echoing more or less his position, S. Semmalai, AIADMK leader from Salem, wants the officials to instil a sense of fear among wrongdoers by taking stringent measures against them. The authorities should not allow anyone to get elected unopposed. “As panchayat raj is the bedrock of our democracy, it should not be allowed to get disturbed in any way, and the contest should take place,” he says. Pointing out that the practice of ‘auctioning’ is the outcome of a combination of the factors of caste, money power and authority, Vanni Arasu, VCK spokesperson, feels that in districts where the practice is reported, the police and other officials should be held responsible. G. Palanithurai, an academician, says that for anyone to get elected through consensus, the criteria should be fixed in an objective manner. He says the SEC should postpone the elections in village panchayats or other rural local bodies that are witnessing the practice of the ‘auctioning’ of posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-end-auctioning-of-local-body-posts/article36601676.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Task force to provide land to the landless||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a task force to provide land to landless beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana (Gramin) PMAY-G, in line with the directions of the Union government. Secretary of the Revenue and Disaster Management will be the chairperson of the four-member task force. Secretary of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (vice-chairperson); Commissioner of Land Administration (member) and Director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (member/convenor) are also part of the panel. The Union government had said that one of the reasons for the slow progress of the PMAY-G scheme was the delay in the provision of land to the landless. Though the scheme accords the highest priority to landless beneficiaries, a lot of them are yet to be given land, it had said. It had requested the State to constitute a task force, comprising the Secretary (Revenue) and the Secretary dealing with PMAY-G, to provide land to landless beneficiaries under the scheme, in two months. The Director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj said PMAY-G was a flagship programme of the Union government, with “housing for all by 2022” as its goal. “It is a time-bound programme. As per the provisions of the scheme, it is the responsibility of the States to provide land to landless beneficiaries under PMAY-G,” he said. CM distributes welfare Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday launched several welfare measures, to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 1,597.59 crore, at the Secretariat in Chennai. They are expected to benefit over 26,531 people. The measures include housing facilities under PMAY-G and related schemes, MGNREGA and construction of roads and bridges in rural areas, among others. Mr. Stalin also distributed welfare assistance to benefit over 6 lakh people through the Tamil Nadu Corporation For Development of Women, being implemented at a cost of Rs. 699.26 crore. Besides support being extended to self-help groups, over 18,000 youth will be provided skill training in trades in rural areas, an official release said. Youth from 1,000 village panchayats will be trained to become welders, electricians, plumbers, potters, tailors and mechanics, among others. They will be drawn from 23 districts. Training will be offered to people in the agriculture and animal husbandry sectors as well, it said. They will be trained in testing water, using bio fertilizers, and usage of pesticides, among others. Minister for Rural Development K.R. Periakaruppan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Secretary of Rural Development Department K. Gopal and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/task-force-to-provide-land-to-the-landless/article36601678.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister confident of Presidential assent for Bill against NEET||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday expressed confidence that the President would give assent to the Bill passed in the Tamil Nadu Assembly to dispense with NEET and admit students to undergraduate medical courses on the basis of their Class 12 scores. “We are hoping that the President will give assent to the Bill... Once he takes a look at the recommendations of the Justice A.K. Rajan committee and aspects outlined in the Bill, and understands the impact of NEET on Tamil Nadu, we believe he will definitely give the nod,” he told reporters on Tuesday. He pointed out that the first step was to send the Bill passed in the Assembly to the President through the Governor, and felt there would be no issues in this. About 85,000 persons have registered their views with the Justice A.K. Rajan Committee, and the panel report has clearly outlined NEET’s impact on students of government schools and rural areas, Mr. Subramanian added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-confident-of-presidential-assent-for-bill-against-neet/article36601702.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tackle sea erosion in Nagapattinam, says Palaniswami||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday called for measures to be taken on a war footing to tackle the problem of sea erosion in several places in the State. In a statement, he referred to the issue in Nambiar Nagaram, Nagapattinam district, where the sea was said to have been rough for 45 days. As a result, the sea had eroded some 500 m of land, with the seawater entering up to 100 m of land. Approximately 10 houses and electric poles had been affected, the former Chief Minister said. A similar problem Mr. Palaniswami recalled that when former Handlooms Minister and the present Vedaranyam legislator, O.S. Manian, was a Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha) in the 1990s, he had brought a similar problem in the fishing village of Kilvelur taluk of Nagapattinam district to the notice of then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, who then ordered the planting of palmyra saplings. Consequently, the problem was sorted out, Mr. Palaniswami said. OPS plea on pavements In a separate statement, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam referred to a report on the replacement of pavements in Chennai. Mr. Panneerselvam said people were of the view that even well-laid pavements were dug up and replaced, resulting in the taxpayers’ money being wasted. He asked Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to see to it that the interests of pedestrians were safeguarded, while ensuring that public money was not wasted.  Approximately 10 houses and electric poles have been affected in Nambiar Nagaram in Nagapattinam district Edappadi K. Palaniswami AIADMK co-coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tackle-sea-erosion-in-nagapattinam-says-palaniswami/article36601675.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As restrictions ease, passenger flow picks up from Chennai airport||With gradual relaxations in COVID-19 curbs in the State, air travel has started picking up pace and Chennai airport is beginning to witness a positive trajectory in passenger traffic. From recording 4.46 lakh domestic travellers in July, there was a 37% increase in the number of travellers in August, with the airport handling 6.15 lakh passengers. From Chennai, which are the cities within the country that people mostly travel to and why? Apart from those heading out of the city for medical reasons and for making family visits, leisure and business travel has now improved marginally, according to travel experts. In the tier I category, as always, it is the metro cities that top the charts, with the maximum number of flyers going from Chennai to Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad. S. Sakthivadivel, chairperson of the Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) said one of the main reasons for this was the limited number of international flights from Chennai. Because of this many had to necessarily travel to Delhi or Mumbai. “For instance, quite a lot of them going to the U.S. or the U.K. have to take a connecting flight from Mumbai or Delhi. Then there are some companies which expect people to turn up for a conference in person for which also they travel to these cities,” he said. Bengaluru didn’t figure in the top three because many people preferred to drive down instead of taking a flight, he said. Tier II and tier III cities are beginning to get some traffic from Chennai because of tourists. From Chennai, many go to Coimbatore and Madurai to travel to Ooty or Kodaikanal for a holiday now or to work from these places for a few weeks. S. Jeyasekaran of TAAI, Chennai chapter, said while more people had shed their fears and were willing to go for a holiday, air travel hadn’t grown to phenomenal extent to reach the pre COVID-19 levels. “Yet, there is a positive trajectory and a marginal improvement in those opting to travel for leisure. Many take a flight from Chennai to Guwahati to travel to Meghalaya and then other north-eastern places,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-restrictions-ease-passenger-flow-picks-up-from-airport/article36601698.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Courses on electronics, home appliances for needy||Marina – CAS Skill Development and Vocational Training Centre in R. A. Puram run by Rotary Club of Madras Marina with Chennapuri Annadana Samajam Trust have started new courses on electronics and home appliances from September 17 for free for the needy. These courses are for a period of three to six months, especially for girl students, and designed to suit industry requirements, according to a press release. The electronic courses are in partnership with Salcomp Manufacturing India Private Limited and Syrma Technology Private Limited and the home appliances course is in partnership with Venus Home Appliances Private Limited and Sowbaghya Enterprises Private Limited, the press release said. Accommodation A limited number of students alone are given accommodation. R Maheswaran, project director, Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation, spoke about the need for skill training and how the State government is willing to hold hands with all such centres and support them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/courses-on-electronics-home-appliances-for-needy/article36601703.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK releases 3rd list of candidates||The AIADMK on Tuesday released the third and final list of candidates for rural local bodies’ elections. A release, issued by party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami, stated that with regard to district panchayat (DP) wards, the party would contest 18 wards in Kallakurichi; 12 wards in Tirupathur; 11 more in Vellore and four more in Villupuram. As regards panchayat union (PU) wards, the party named 110 more candidates for Vellore; 36 more in Ranipet and 115 in Tirupathur. The release was silent whether the wards, where the AIADMK did not announce its nominees, had been assigned to the BJP or any other party. The release also mentioned candidates for three by-elections to panchayat union wards in Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai and Tiruppur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-releases-3rd-list-of-candidates/article36601704.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI arrests two foreign nationals in CPT fixed deposit scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested two foreign nationals in connection with the fixed deposit scam involving funds of the Chennai Port Trust. The case relates to fraudulent premature closure of fixed deposits, causing a loss to the tune of Rs. 45.40 crore to the Indian Bank. The agency had earlier arrested nine suspects in connection with the scam after registering a case in July 2020 on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Indian Bank against its Koyambedu branch (in Chennai) manager, a private individual and “unknown others” accusing them of committing fraud, forgery, and impersonation with the intention of cheating the bank to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. Further investigation revealed that the bank suffered a loss of Rs. 45.4 crore by way of premature closure of the fixed deposits by the suspects, who produced original receipts while issuing duplicate ones to the Chennai Port Trust authorities. The money was transferred to 28 different accounts and later withdrawn by the respective account holders and handed over to the suspects. Acting on further leads, investigators conducted searches at Ramapuram and arrested two foreign nationals Boussiomo Steve Bertrand Yannick and Masada Ilunga Lucien alias Bo Bo allegedly residents of Cameroon and Congo respectively. It was alleged that the two had come to India on student visas and were overstaying with no valid passport in their possession. Forged documents seized Electronic gadgets such as laptops, mobile phones, cameras and certain documents relating to Kamarajar Port Trust, Chennai Port Trust, bank fixed deposits, logos of different government organizations of India were also found. The duo was produced in a special court for CBI cases in the city. Though the total funds invested as fixed deposits were over Rs. 100 crore, Chennai Port Trust and bank authorities took steps to freeze the account to save Rs. 55.19 crore after detecting the fraud. In the second week of August this year, CBI officers conducted searches at 22 locations, including Chennai, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Nagercoil, and arrested nine accused, who are now in judicial custody. According to the CBI, the suspects, as part of the criminal conspiracy, canvassed Chennai Port Trust for opening of term deposits in the Indian Bank’s Koyambedu branch. Between March and May 2020, 45 term deposits were opened and one of the accused persons posed as a Deputy Director (Finance) of the Chennai Port Trust and opened a fake current account in the name of the organisation in the bank. Instead of delivering the original fixed deposit receipt to the Chennai Port Trust, he submitted forged bonds. As the original receipts were in his possession, he presented the same before bank authorities and requested premature closure of the deposits within a few days of investment.  The agency had earlier arrested nine suspects in connection with the scam after registering a case in July 2020 on the basis of a complaint lodged by the Indian Bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-arrests-two-foreign-nationals-in-chennai-port-trust-fixed-deposit-scam/article36601695.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VHNs seek 8-hour duty, submit demands||Village Health Nurses (VHN) made a mass representation to the Health Department on Tuesday seeking eight-hour duty per day and planning COVID-19 vaccination in a way that it does not affect their routine maternal and child healthcare services. Submitting a 42-point charter of demands, members of the Tamil Nadu Government Village Health Nurses’ Association said there were more than 10,000 VHNs, 1,400 sector health nurses and 384 community health nurses working in primary health centres functioning under the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine in the State. The VHNs were involved in maternal and child healthcare, immunisation, maternity assistance scheme and family welfare services. Along with their regular work, they had to maintain registers and online registration on Pregnancy and Infant Cohort Monitoring and Evaluation (PICME), according to a press release. Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly after introduction of vaccination, they were working on Sundays and government holidays. They were unable to take up the essential work of maternal and child healthcare services, and monitoring of high risk mothers as well as PICME registration. Mass representation Making a mass representation, P. Nirmala, president of the association, in a press release, said COVID-19 vaccination works should be planned in a way that it does not affect the routine works of immunisation, antenatal care, monitoring of mothers and children, maternity assistance scheme and follow-up of high risk women. All nurses had to work for 10 to 12 hours now, with PICME registration work extending up to 12 midnight. For this, the association demanded eight hours of work every day, ending by 5 p.m. They should be allowed to take leave on government holidays, festivals and weekly off, the association demanded. They requested that staff of other government departments including teachers could be roped in to upload vaccination details online and appointment of one VHN and one health inspector for every 5,000 population. The association said that they would decide on the next phase of protest if their demands were not addressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-health-nurses-seek-8-hour-duty-submit-demands/article36601712.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 boys fall ill after drinking expired soft drinks||Two boys on Monday fell ill after consuming expired soft drinks in New Washermenpet. The police and personnel from the Food Safety Department conducted an inquiry into the incident after collecting the samples from the shop that sold the products. The police identified the victims as Lakshmana Sai, 6, from New Washermenpet, and his cousin Omeshwar, 8, both of whom had soft drinks for Rs. 10 at a nearby shop. Immediately after drinking, the boys vomited blood and felt dizzy. Family members took them to the Government Stanley Hospital, and they were admitted in an intensive care unit. The police closed the shop and registered a case against the owner. The officials of the Department of Food Safety collected samples of the drinks. Expired drinks, curd and snacks were seized from the shop. P. Sathishkumar, designated officer, Food Safety Department, Chennai, said, “We have collected samples and have sent them to a lab in Guindy for analysis. A wholesaler in the city distributed the drinks manufactured in Krishnagiri. We have asked the manufacturer to recall the batch of bottles immediately.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-boys-fall-ill-after-drinking-expired-soft-drinks-in-new-washermenpet/article36601690.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1 cr. donated to Cancer Institute||The Cancer Institute recently received a donation of Rs. 1 crore from an individual. Rajee Rajagopalan, the philanthropist who offered the donation, has spent a large part of her life in the United Kingdom where her husband worked as an engineer. Ms. Rajee worked in the Institute of Education, University of London, for over 40 years. The donation was handed over by her brother-in-law Raghavan and a family friend Harinarayanan to Sugalchand Jain, chairman, and V. Susheela, member secretary, Finance, at Cancer Institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-1-cr-donated-to-cancer-institute/article36601699.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Preacher held for defamatory video||Puzhal police on Tuesday arrested Sivakumar, 52, a preacher from Puthagaram, for releasing a video on YouTube video with derogatory remarks against Islam. Basha, a functionary of Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, lodged the complaint. Last January, he had released a video insulting Hindu gods and was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preacher-held-for-defamatory-video-on-islam/article36601688.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mass drain cleaning drive gains momentum||Coimbatore Corporation had in the last two days of the mass drain cleaning exercise cleaned drains for 36.12 km, Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran said here on Tuesday. Since the start of the mass drain cleaning exercise on Monday, the civic body had cleaned 36.12 km drains in all the five zones. The exercise was a part of the State-wide programme the Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department had launched to keep the drains cleaned before the arrival of North East Monsoon. The exercise was in progress in all the urban local bodies in the State. In Coimbatore, he visited K.K. Pudur in Ward 11 to inspect the work to clean a drain measuring 600m. The objective of the exercise, Mr. Ramachandran said, was to prevent inundation of low-lying areas, stagnation of rainwater, mix of sewage with rainwater and thereby control the spread of dengue or other vector-borne fever. Sources in the Corporation said the officials in Ward 11 in West Zone had deployed two machines and around 30 workers to clean the drain that conveyed sewage from Ammasi Konar Street to the drain along Mettupalayam Road. Former Councillor of the area R. Ravindraraj said the free flow of sewage in the drain was blocked because of growth of bushes. The Corporation workers were cleaning the drain by removing the bushes and silt. This would prevent inundation on the street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mass-drain-cleaning-drive-gains-momentum/article36601720.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Poompuhar sets sales target of Rs. 50 lakh||As many as 15 artisans from in and around Coimbatore and a couple of them from other States have exhibited a range of kolu dolls at Poompuhar that was inaugurated by District Collector G.S. Sameeran here on Tuesday. Dolls made of clay, paper mache, wood, marble, fabric, and brass adorn the racks of Poompuhar. Toda hand made products, Ganesha wall hanging made of camel grass ( vettiver ), and kitchen play sets made of clay are some of the new products on display. The traditional marapaachi dolls made of wood come with decorations and this year, the artisans have displayed dasavatharam made of teak wood. Deepa, who usually displays temple models made of cardboard, has 48 models this year, including jallikattu, uzhavar sandhai, Perur Patteeswarar temple, and Thiruvarur temple car. “I am part of a self help group and I took loan to make the models this year,” she said. Subramaniam from Perur, who makes dolls out of wood, started working six months ago for the kolu sales, hoping it will be better this year. Surya, a young artist from Madampatty, is from a family of artisans and has displayed a range of paper mache dolls. “I spoke to 40 artisans and only 15 have made it to the expo. Many of them have left the trade because of the economic impact of the pandemic,” says Ronald Selvestin, manager of the outlet. Poompuhar is looking at Rs. 50 lakhs sale this year from the expo. The exhibition will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. till October 20. The shop will remain closed on Sundays this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poompuhar-sets-sales-target-of-rs-50-lakh/article36601725.ece
22 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||State will release export policy today: Thennarasu||The State government will release an export policy on Wednesday, Minister for Industries and Tamil Official Language, Tamil Culture and Archaeology Thangam Thennarasu said in Coimbatore on Tuesday. The Minister was speaking at the ‘Industrial growth conclave- western region’, organised by the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC) and the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). According to the Minister, even during the second wave of COVID-19, the State government had ensured that its export units were not affected. The revival of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) was one of the main focus areas of the government, he said. “We need to focus on MSMEs for economic growth,” he said, adding that TIIC would extend stimulus for the growth of such units. The government will work on strengthening traditional industries for their growth and supporting emerging sectors. “We want to make a happy blend of both,” he said. In Coimbatore, the government is looking to establish a defence park at Sulur and an industrial park at Annur, and has taken up a study for a Metro rail project. Hans Raj Verma, chairman and MD of TIIC, said ‘industry 4.0’, new-age finance and technology were the pillars of growth for MSMEs and start ups. Sanjay Tyagi, director of STPI, said the India BPO scheme had been successful in Tamil Nadu. Efforts are on to make Tamil Nadu a fintech destination, he said. Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran said, “We should invest in the emerging sectors. Start ups are looking for access to credit and want the government and credit agencies to understand the sector.” R. Nandini, former chairperson of the Confederation of Indian Industries, Tamil Nadu, said CII would work with the government on its ‘India@75’ initiative for Coimbatore. Ravi Sam, MD of the Adwaith Lakshmi Industries, said the government and industries should work on skill development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-will-release-export-policy-today-thennarasu/article36601680.ece
22 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi case accused get supplementary charge sheet copies||The nine accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case were on Tuesday given copies of the supplementary charge sheet filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) before the Mahila Court. All the nine accused in the case — N. Rishwanth, 26, alias Sabarirajan; K. Thirunavukkarasu, 28; N. Sathish, 30; T. Vasanthakumar, 25; R. Manivannan ,31, alias Mani; K. Arulanantham, 34; P. Babu alias ‘Bike’ Babu, 27; Haronimus Paul, 29, and M. Arunkumar, 29, were produced before the court where copies of the charge sheet were served on them. Sources said the supplementary charge sheet ran into nearly 1,000 pages. It has listed eight victims, 64 witnesses and 71 documents. This is the first time that all the nine accused have been produced before the trial court. It has posted the next hearing to September 29. The case relates to the alleged sexual assault of several women by a group of men from Pollachi. The accused allegedly photographed the crime and blackmailed the women for sexual gratification and money. Student’s complaint The local police registered a case based on a complaint lodged by a 19-year-old college student from Pollachi in February 2019, which was later handed over to the CB-CID. The CBI took over the investigation in April 2019, and filed the first charge sheet against Rishwanth, Thirunavukkarasu, Sathish, Vasanthakumar and Manivannan after a month. The Madras High Court had on August 11th directed the Mahila Court, Coimbatore, to begin the trial in September and conduct it on a day-to-day basis to complete it in six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollachi-case-accused-get-supplementary-charge-sheet-copies/article36601681.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||K.K. Pudur residents want encroachments removed from land earmarked for burial ground||For K.K. Pudur residents, the wait to have a decent burial ground and an electric crematorium seems to have no end. On the northern side of the Coimbatore Corporation’s dump yard in Kavundampalayam is the land earmarked for burial ground. The land measuring 2.50 acre is under encroachment. More than 50 families had encroached upon the land by building tile-roofed houses, said K.K.M. Selvaraju, a resident. They had encroached upon the land for several years. Neither the Coimbatore district administration nor the civic body had taken steps to relocate the families from the land earmarked Hindu burial ground, he added. The district administration and Corporation had allotted the land to the Hindus sometime in 2000 after a long-pending dispute among Hindus, Muslims and the administration. While assigning the 2.50 acre to the Hindus, the district administration and Corporation (then Coimbatore Municipality) had allotted two acres for Muslims on the western side of the Kavundampalayam dump yard and 1.75 acre on Mettupalayam Road, south of the bus stand. The 2.50 acre burial ground for Hindus and two acre burial ground for Muslims were the alternative sites agreed upon for giving up claims over the land where the bus stand stood, said V. Dhamodaran, another resident. But the allotment did not solve the K.K. Pudur residents’ demand for a burial ground. Even as they were asking for removing the encroachments, the then Corporation dispensation had attempted to build a crematorium on the southern side of the dump yard, abutting Jeeva Nagar. The residents had moved the Madras High Court against the site chosen for the crematorium saying it was in the midst of houses and very close to the 2.50 acre identified Hindu burial ground and therefore the Corporation would do well to build the crematorium there. To this date, the residents demand was not met, Mr. Dhamodaran said and wanted the Corporation to work with the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board to resettle the families that had encroached upon the land. This was important because there was no crematorium in the area, he added. The Corporation sources said they would look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kk-pudur-residents-want-encroachments-removed-from-land-earmarked-for-burial-ground/article36601734.ece
22 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Avinashilingam Institute to offer skill development courses||The Skill Training Centre in Avinashilingam Institute will be conducting two skill development courses. A release from the Institute said it would conduct ‘graphic designer’ and ‘field technician -computing and peripherals ELE’ courses, sponsored by the National Skill Development Corporation, for those with Class X, ITI, diploma or degree qualification. Stiphend provided The classes would be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. during weekdays for those aged between 15 and 45 and a stipend of Rs. 100 a day would be provided. For the courses that would start in the last week of September, the venue would be the School of Engineering, Avinashilingam Institute in Varapalayam. Application forms Application forms for the courses are available online athttps://forms.gle/ FHeqPRWm37CtktyM8. For details, dial 99407-33309 or 94436-52220.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avinashilingam-institute-to-offer-skill-development-courses/article36601735.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Free water bodies of encroachments: consumer body||Coimbatore Consumer Cause has urged the District Collector to immediately remove encroachments in water bodies in the River Noyyal system, including the structures constructed in Valankulam and Muthannankulam under the Smart Cities Mission. In a letter to Collector G.S. Sameeran, the organisation’s secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said it was on a case filed by the Coimbatore Consumer Cause that the Madras High Court had ordered removal of encroachments, granted permanent stay on construction in water bodies even if there were approvals and gave a year’s time for removing encroachments. While granting the stay, the Court said it would monitor the progress made in removing encroachments, directed the Collector to periodically submit compliance report with map and photographs on the progress made in removing the encroachments and also share a copy of such report to the organisation. Though the case was pending in the Court, the organisation refrained from filing a contempt petition because the civic body had undertaken work under the Smart Cities Mission to remove encroachments. But now the organisation found that under the very Mission the Corporation itself had encroached upon the water spread area in Valankulam, Muthannankulam to extent of around 150m. Beautification work The encroachment was a part of the beautification work, which should be removed. The Smart Cities Mission work should be carried only on bunds and not within the water spread area. In this context, the organisation pointed out that while encroachment removal work had taken place in the nine tanks that the Corporation was working, there was no such progress in the 15 tanks in River Noyyal system. The 15 tanks maintained by the Water Resource Organisation (WRO) of the Public Works Department were part of the 24-tank River Noyyal System. It was unfortunate that the WRO officials were unaware of the extent of encroachments as revealed in their replies to queries filed under the Right to Information Act, the consumer organisation said. It was attaching details of the 24 tanks for the administration to remove encroachments and restore water bodies to the original extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-water-bodies-of-encroachments-consumer-body/article36601721.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||17,000 persons identified for treatment under healthcare scheme||Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran on Tuesday reviewed the progress of Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam (MTM) scheme. The Corporation sources said health workers from urban primary health centres would visit every household to identify persons with diabetes, blood pressure, other non communicable diseases or those suffering from stroke to deliver medicines at their door step. Based on a State-wide study that had revealed that 18% population suffered from one or more of the diseases, the assessment was that there should be at least three lakh people in the city. The civic body had initiated a survey to identify those people and thus far it had identified 17,000 persons and of those started delivering medicines to 8,000, the sources said. The sources also said that to each of the identified persons the Corporation would give a unique health identification number like Aadhaar using which they could avail of various services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/17000-persons-identified-for-treatment-under-healthcare-scheme/article36601722.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NCSK chairman arriving today||National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) Chairman M. Venkatesan will visit Coimbatore on Wednesday. According to a release from the district administration, Mr. Venkatesan would visit the housing quarters of conservancy workers around 9 a.m. and thereafter hold a review meeting at the District Collectorate around 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncsk-chairman-arriving-today/article36601723.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tiger found dead||A tiger was found dead in a reserve forest area near Coimbatore on Monday. Officials attached to the Coimbatore Forest Division said frontline staff of the Forest Department spotted the carcass of an adult tiger at Pethikuttai section of Sirumugai forest range during a patrol. The carcass was in a decomposing state. Following protocols of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, an autopsy was done on Tuesday by a team of veterinary surgeons led by A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, said T.K. Ashok Kumar, District Forest Officer. The teeth and claws of the big cat were intact and the carcass was a few days old.“No external injury was noticed during the autopsy. No body part was missing. Veterinarians have collected samples for forensic and DNA analysis,” he said. As per the national tiger estimation report released in July 2020, camera traps recorded 11 tigers in Sirumugai and Mettupalayam forest ranges which are connected to the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve and the eastern slope of the Nilgiris which is linked to the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-found-dead/article36601826.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man gets 10 years RI in investment fraud||The Special court for the trial of cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act sentenced the proprietor of an investment firm to undergo 10 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) for duping customers of Rs. 4.96 crore here on Tuesday. A.S. Ravi, Special Judge, Special Court for TNPID Act cases, awarded the punishment to Raja of Dindigul district. According to the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), Raja and his brother Pugazhendhi of Hosur in Krishnagiri district ran a firm named Maze Group of Technology at Thirupathi Nagar in Hosur. Suresh Babu, Venkattamma, Hemalatha, Parveen Raj from Hosur and Sugadevan from Namakkal worked in the firm. EOW officials said the accused allegedly assured investors to provide double returns for their investment in 10 days. A total of 86 persons invested Rs. 4.96 crore in the company and it failed to give the returns to them. One of the investors lodged a complaint with the police in Krishnagiri and a case was registered against Raja, Pugazhendhi, the firm and its five employees in 2010. The case was transferred to the EOW, Salem. The court sentenced Raja to undergo 10 years RI. It also imposed a fine of Rs. 2.76 crore on him. The court had awarded 10 years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 2.76 crore on Pugazhendhi on August 31. It acquitted the five employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-10-years-ri-in-investment-fraud/article36601851.ece
22 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tax officer held for graft||The Directorate Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), Coimbatore detachment, on Tuesday arrested a commercial tax officer for allegedly demanding and accepting bribe from the owner of a private company. A release issued by the DVAC said G. Vivekanandan, commercial tax officer for Avarampalayam circle, was arrested in a trap laid by the department. According to the Vigilance, the auditor of a private company committed an error in the annual report submitted during the year 2014-15. The owner of the firm, a woman, complained to the Vigilance that the commercial tax officer demanded Rs. 1 lakh as advance amount from her for not issuing an order to pay a penalty of Rs. 15,73,192. A case was registered based on the woman’s complaint and the Vigilance laid a trap on Tuesday. According to the Vigilance, Vivekanandan received Rs. 1 lakh from the complainant and the DVAC sleuths caught him red handed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tax-officer-held-for-graft/article36601850.ece
22 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Insurance firm ordered to pay Rs. 10.29 lakh to wife of deceased borrower||The Permanent Lok Adalat in Coimbatore on Monday ordered an insurance firm to pay Rs. 10.29 lakh to a woman so that she could close the loan availed by her deceased husband in 2018. N. Umarani, chairman of the Permanent Lok Adalath, Coimbatore, also ordered the insurance firm to pay Rs. 50,000 as compensation to the woman. Sources said Santhoshkumar from Ottarpalayam, who worked with the Indian Oil Corporation, had availed himself of a loan of Rs. 10 lakh from a private bank in January 2018. The loan had an insurance coverage which was offered by the insurance wing of the same bank. The monthly repayment against the loan was stalled after Santhoshkumar died in November 2019. His wife Suganya approached the Permanent Lok Adalat after the bank allegedly demanded she close the loan by making complete payment and the insurance firm did not process the insurance coverage. The Permanent Lok Adalat heard the woman’s petition and its chairman Ms. Umarani ordered the insurance firm to pay Rs. 10.29 lakh to Suganya within 15 days, so that she could close the loan availed by her husband. If the insurance firm failed to pay the sum, 6 % of interest will apply to the amount which will be calculated from the date of Santhoshkumar’s death, the chairman ordered. In addition, Suganya should be paid a compensation of Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-firm-ordered-to-pay-rs-1029-lakh-to-wife-of-deceased-borrower/article36601855.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 218 new cases||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 218 cases of COVID-19, registering a slight increase from Monday’s 211 cases. The district had 2,167 active cases of the disease and 242 persons recovered on Tuesday. The death toll of the district increased to 2,319 after a 59-year-old man died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Sunday. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 2.0 % on Monday when 10,813 swab samples were collected and 211 persons tested positive for COVID-19. Tiruppur district reported 85 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 92,208. The overall death toll went up to 950 as three new deaths were reported by the Health Department. The district had 909 active cases and 79 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Tuesday. The positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Monday’s data was 2%. In the Nilgiris district, 34 people tested positive on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,425. The number of deaths in the district stood at 196 in the Nilgiris on Tuesday, while 355 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-218-new-cases/article36601730.ece
22 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Child workers rescued||Officials from the Revenue, Labour, Industrial Safety, Police, National Child Labour Project (NCLP), and 1098 Childline recently rescued four children and six adolescents from a textile mill at Annur, petrol bunk at Arasur, and some workshops. The children were produced before the Child Welfare Committee. Five of them who did not have the right documents for their age were sent to CMCH. Action has been initiated against the employers, according to a press release from the NCLP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-workers-rescued/article36601731.ece
22 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cashew unit worker found dead; family alleges foul play||A worker was found dead under suspicious circumstances in a cashew processing unit belonging to Cuddalore Member of Parliament T.R.V.S. Ramesh at Panikankuppam near Panruti in the early hours of Monday. The Kadampuliyur police have registered a case under Section 174 of Criminal Procedure Code (Cr.PC) that deals with unnatural or suspicious death after the victim’s family alleged foul play in his death. According to police sources, the victim identified as K. Govindarasu, 60, of Melmampattu, was working as a labourer in the cashew processing unit for the last seven years. On Sunday evening, Govindarasu was returning home after work when an employee frisked him and accused him of stealing 7kg of cashew nuts. Govindarasu was allegedly assaulted on the premises and taken to the Kadampuliyur police station for lodging a complaint. The Station House Officer noticed bleeding injuries on Govindarasu’s face and asked the complainants Kandavelu and Shanmugam to take him to the hospital for treatment. However, the duo reportedly took the victim again to the cashew processing unit. Govindarasu was found dead under suspicious circumstances in the unit a few hours later. The body has been sent to the Government Villupuram Medical College and Hospital (GVMCH) at Mundiyambakkam for post-mortem. Meanwhile, the family of Govindarasu have alleged foul play in his death. In a complaint to the police, the victim’s son G. Senthilvel said that his father was assaulted by the employees of the cashew processing unit resulting in his death and they were trying to cover it up as a suicide. When contacted, a police officer said that a case of suspicious death was registered. The victim had contusion on his head and face. The reason behind the death will be known only after the post-mortem report, he said.  Police register a case of suspicious death. The victim had contusion on his head and face. The reason behind the death will be known only after the post-mortem report Official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cashew-unit-worker-found-dead-family-alleges-foul-play/article36602055.ece
22 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Cuddalore district logs 29 new cases||Cuddalore district on Tuesday witnessed 29 persons testing positive for COVID-19, taking the overall tally to 63,069. The district saw 61,901 recoveries and 266 were active cases. In Villupuram district, 20 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 45,272. Kallakurichi district reported 26 cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 30,754.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuddalore-district-logs-29-new-cases/article36602056.ece
22 September 2021||Devakottai,TAMIL NADU||BJP man hacked to death||Kathiravan, 40, of Devakottai, Devakottai union general secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party, was hacked to death by two persons at Kavanavayal junction on Tuesday night. Sivaganga Superintendent of Police T. Senthil Kumar said the murder was an outcome of personal enmity of the deceased with the accused, identified as Periyasamy. “Both of them were relatives and had worked in Malaysia where they had developed enmity. When they accidentally met at a fast food shop, they had a wordy quarrel following which Periyasamy assaulted him with a machete,” the SP said. Kathiravan, who is involved in real-estate business, went to a restaurant on Tiruchi-Rameswaram by-pass road where Periyasamy and his associate, Veerapandi, had come. After the assault, Kathiravan was rushed to the Government hospital here where he succumbed to injuries. The police are on the lookout for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-functionary-hacked-to-death/article36601822.ece
22 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Decomposed body found||The decomposed body of Prabhakaran, 43, was found in his house at RM Colony on Tuesday. Preliminary inquiries revealed that he might died at least 24 hours ago. He as married and had two children. However, he was living alone in this house for the last three months as his wife had left for her mother’ house elsewhere in the city with their children. Prabhakar was last spotted on Sunday. The police arrived at the spot after a few neighbours alerted the control room. The door remained open. It was not yet clear whether it was a case of suicide or murder. An officer said the victim was a financier and his father was a former councillor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decomposed-body-found/article36602088.ece
22 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Banana leaves cheaper now||With a drastic fall in demand for plantain leaves due to lack of domestic functions like marriages, its price has come down sharply. The price that was hovering around Rs. 7 a leaf few days back has gone down to Rs. 2 a leaf. The Tamil month of ‘Aavani,’ which has many ‘muhurtham days,’ saw people conducting several functions like marriage and house-warming ceremony. Functions attracted huge crowd after relaxation of lockdown norms as COVID infection rate has come down in the last few months. It led to huge demand for plantain leaves in the last month bringing cheers to farmers and traders. But as no marriage is usually conducted during the Purattasi month, the demand for leaves has gone down phenomenally. Several villages around Dindigul like Thadikombu, Agaram, Kottur, Avampatti, Anaipatti and Authoor cultivate banana in large areas and around 800 bundles of plantain leaves from these villages come to the city. Though the supply has been steady, the fall in demand has led to drop of price much to the disappointment of the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banana-leaves-cheaper-now/article36601821.ece
22 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Street plays to create awareness on adult literacy programme across Erode||To create awareness on Karpoum Ezhuthuvoum, an adult literacy programme of the Department of School Education, Collector H. Krishnanunni flagged off a vehicle in which eight trained volunteers would tour the district and stage street plays. The literacy programme was launched by the Ministry of Education, Government of India, and is implemented in the State. The programme intends to impart functional literacy and numeracy to non-literate and non-numerate adults in rural and urban areas in the age group of 15 and above. At present 16,364 persons were attending the classes conducted by 678 volunteers. The volunteers were trained for three days to disseminate the importance of adult education across the district. They They would perform street plays and stress the importance of education so that school dropouts were identified and enrolled in the nearest schools. They would also would encourage persons above 15 years of age to attend classes and write examination. Since child marriage was prevalent in the district, children in distress and others were asked to contact the Childline number 1098 for immediate assistance. The team would visit villages in Modakkurichi and Kodumudi panchayat unions on September 22, Bhavani and Gobichettipalayam union’s on September 24, Nambiyur on September 25, Sathyamangalam and T.N. Palayam unions on September 26, Talavadi union on September 27, Sathyamangalam on September 28 and Anthiyur panchayat union on September 29. Chief Educational Officer N. Ramakrishnan, Assistant Project Officer M. Sekar, District Educational Officer C. Madesan and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/street-plays-to-create-awareness-on-adult-literacy-programme-across-erode/article36601841.ece
22 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Traders at Gani Market pin hopes on Deepavali sales||With sales at the weekly retail shops in E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market yet to pick up, traders have pinned their hopes on Deepavali sales. A total of 730 weekly and 370 daily shops function on the market premises at Panneerselvam Park. Shops at the weekly market function from Monday evening to Tuesday night and brisk business is usually witnessed before festival season. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, weekly shops were not allowed to function during night hours till last week. On Tuesday, weekly shops also functioned. But the sales volume was less. Members of the Gani Market Weekly Textile Traders’ Association said that the retail sales was around 40% and wholesale sales less than 20%. “Deepavali falls on November 4 and we expect the sales to improve in the coming weeks,” they said. Members said that they expect brisk sales for the festival season in October as manufacturing of garments and other textile products were in full swing. Many traders said that sale of textile products to North Indian states were picking up. The Tamil month of Purattasi has just started and people will start regular purchases after two weeks, they said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-at-gani-market-pin-hopes-on-deepavali-sales/article36601839.ece
22 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power loom federation thanks CM||Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Looms Associations has thanked the State government for allowing the 202 Power Loom Weavers Cooperative Societies purchase yarn from the open market and commence the production of free dhotis and saris for Pongal. The federation, in a recent letter to the Chief Minister, had requested the State government to allow the societies purchase yarn from the open market to commence manufacturing. Following the request, the State government passed a government order dated September 20, 2021, allowing societies to purchase yarn for 15 days of production activities under the Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tenders Act, 1998. P. Kandavel, coordinator of the federation, said the order would help the societies purchase yarn and supply to its members. He also wanted the government to expedite the process of purchasing yarn so that production activities were carried out continuously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-loom-federation-thanks-cm/article36601842.ece
22 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievance redress meeting on September 24||The monthly farmers’ grievance meeting will be held through videoconferencing at 10.30 a.m. on September 24. A press release from Collector H. Krishnanunni said that farmers and representatives of farmers associations can participate in the meeting by visiting the Office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture at each taluks and also from the Office of the Joint Director of Agriculture at Erode. Farmers can also submit their grievances as petitions to the Assistant Directors at each taluks. Petitions received would be forwarded to the officials concerned for necessary action, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-grievance-redress-meeting-on-september-24/article36601836.ece
22 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||September 23 (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)   Kavindapadi sub-station : Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.  Kasipalayam sub-station: Surampatti Valasu, K.K. Nagar, Chennimalai Road, Industrial Estate, Kasipalayam, Shastri Nagar, Kumaran Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Moolapalayam, Nadarmedu, Kollampalayam, Pachapali, Senthil Nagar, Gandhiji Road, E.V.N. Road, Muthampalayam Housing Unit Phase – 1,2 and 3, Ambigai Nagar, Annai Nagar, Nalliyampalayam and Old Railway Station areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36601843.ece
22 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Jal Shakti Kendra set up at Krishnagiri Collectorate||Jal Shakti Kendra, a knowledge centre to augment groundwater, was pressed into service for Hosur and its surrounding panchayats here under the aegis of the district administration. District Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy, earlier, presided over a meeting with the various departments including the Hosur Corporation, town panchayats and panchayats to expedite augmenting of ground water levels through rainwater harvesting. A mission plan with the catchy phrase “Catch the Rain where it falls and when it falls” was also launched as part of the plan. Collector Reddy said the phrase was launched by the Union government to respond to monsoonal changes due to climatic change. The goal is to create rainwater harvesting structures (RWHS) that would suit the local topography. In pursuance of this, Jal Shakti Kendra has been launched. The centre will function in coordination with other departments and out of room number 95 at the Collectorate. Public are encouraged to seek out assistance of the knowledge centre for setting up of rainwater harvesting structures in their homes and commercial properties. Information on RWHS may be ascertained over 04343-233009. Jal Shakti Kendra will encourage setting up of rainwater harvesting pits, roofs to harvest rain water, removal of encroachments in small checkdams, ponds, lakes, planting of saplings, repair and restoration of defunct bore wells.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jal-shakti-kendra-set-up-at-krishnagiri-collectorate/article36601834.ece
22 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of storm water drains begins in Hosur||Desilting of storm water drains began in Hosur here on Monday, as part of the district’s northeast monsoon preparedness. In compliance with the State government’s directive to clean storm water drains, the administration began desilting and dredging of storm water drains in Hosur Corporation jurisdiction. As part of the works, about 335 km of storm water channels in 45 Corporation wards would be desilted. Earlier, launching the works, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy said the works were undertaken with the help of 210 sanitation workers and eight earth movers. The desilting works that commenced on September 20 would be completed on September 25 and would have covered 335 km of channels, the administration said. Hosur Sub-Collector Nishanth Krishna, Corporation Commissioner M.Senthil Murugan were present at the start of the works in the presence of Hosur MLA Y. Prakash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-of-storm-water-drains-begins-in-hosur/article36601832.ece
22 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two of a family drown in Vemahalli Dam||Two persons of a family drowned in Vemahalli Dam in Shoolagiri here on Tuesday. Ismail (22), his wife Muskan (18) and mother-in-law Bajloon (35) went on a trip from their home at K.T.Nagar in Shoolagiri to Vemahalli Dam. Shoolagiri police said that Ismail stepped into the water and drowned. Bajloon, who attempted to save her son-in-law, also drowned. Ismail and Muskan were married three months ago. The bodies were retrieved and sent for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-of-a-family-drown-in-vemahalli-dam/article36601835.ece
22 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases in city rising slowly||With three students and two faculty members of Madurai Medical College (MMC) testing positive for COVID-19 and a few sporadic cases reported from some schools over the week, doctors have urged people not to take the coronavirus lightly. It is still lurking and people should not be caught unawares, they say. Even though two UG students, a PG student and the two faculty members had received both the doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, they reported with sub-clinical infection in the last three days. “The injection does not give 100% immunity, but precautions can keep you safe,” says a doctor with Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). After a UG student reported symptomatic of COVID-19 three days ago, the swab test was done for her roommate, who also tested positive. More than 150 students were tested on Tuesday and so far there have been no other cases of fever reported from the UG or PG hostels in MMC. “The symptoms are like seasonal flu with fever lasting two to three days, mild nasal rhinitis and body pain; but the infection will not progress due to vaccination. The chances of getting severely sick are minimal. They have been admitted for isolation,” said M. Natarajan, Head, Internal Medicine, GRH. 25 in 30-bed ward The numbers may not be alarming but many private hospitals have been receiving corona cases in the last one week. A random check showed that in the 30-bed COVID ward at Apollo Hospital, 25 patients have been admitted, including two new cases on Tuesday. “We have to be alert and cautious. Double masking and vaccination, along with social distancing and hand wash are the only safety nets,” said Narendranath Jena, Head, Emergency Medicine, Meenakshi Mission Hospital where three to five cases are admitted daily in the last seven days. “People have started normal lives but there is no escape from following the guidelines and the protocol strictly till this year-end,” he reiterated. Vadamalayan Hospital has been receiving one or two cases every day since September 13. Devadoss MultiSpeciality Hospital averaged six to eight cases daily during the previous week. People should not throw caution to the wind; the cases may not be increasing threateningly but are slowly rising, says Sathish Devadoss, Managing Director of the hospital.  What doctors say Due to vaccination, chance of severe sickness is minimal COVID-19 guidelines should be followed strictly till year-end||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-go-up-slowly-in-madurai/article36602090.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Legal Services Authority members visit central jail||Pursuant to the direction of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, Member-Secretary of Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority K. Rajasekar visited Madurai Central Prison on Tuesday to collect details of convicts who had not filed an appeal against their conviction. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and J. Nisha Banu had directed the TNSLA to instruct all the District Legal Services Authorities to visit central prisons, open-air prisons and special prisons for women to collect the details of such convicts in order to provide them legal aid. The direction was passed after the court came across the case of a Tirunelveli man who was languishing in prison for more than 25 years as no assistance was extended to him to file an appeal against his conviction by a trial court. Only in 2018 did an appeal was filed through legal aid. TNSLA Member Secretary Rajasekar along with Chairperson, Permanent Lok Adalat, Madurai A. K. K. Rajini and secretary of District Legal Aid Services Authority, Madurai V. Deepa visited the Madurai Central Prison to get the details of such convicts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-services-authority-members-visit-central-jail/article36602087.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Major channel cleaning exercise gets under way||As part of preparations ahead of north-east monsoon, Madurai Corporation has planned to remove encroachments and garbage from all major water channels in the city by focusing on one channel at a time by deploying a large number of workers and equipment at one place. The campaign, which started by taking up cleaning of the Chintamani channel off Mela Ponnagaram Main Road, would go on till September 25, Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan said. Low-lying areas have been identified and it will be ensured that rainwater stagnation is prevented in these areas by way of constructing storm water drain outlets. “Channels in the city have been encroached and people are using them as garbage dump, Many channels are clogged by plastic bottles and medical waste,” an official overseeing the operation said. Officials from the Health Department of the Corporation said that once the channels were cleaned, oil balls would be dropped into them to prevent mosquito breeding. Cleaning the canals will also prevent outbreak of dengue and malaria. City Engineer S. Arasu said that they have roped in 150 workers from different zones to work on Chintamani channel with the help of 16 earthmovers and 32 tractors to lift the muck. By deployment of workers en masse at a particular place, the canal could be cleaned swiftly, he said. Once a canal is cleaned, another canal would be targeted. The cleaning work at Chintamani channel will take about five days, he said. Finance Minister P. T. R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and Collector Aneesh Shekhar inspected the cleaning operation and appealed to the residents to use dumper bins to dispose of the waste. The Commissioner appealed to the public to protect the waterbodies and ensure that they were free of encroachments and litter.  By deploying workers en masse at one place, a canal could be cleaned swiftly S. Arasu City Engineer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/major-channel-cleaning-exercise-gets-under-way/article36602163.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Remove encroachments from Periyakulam tank’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State to file a counter in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to protect the Periyakulam tank in Thenkarai village, Theni district, and to remove encroachments from thewaterbody. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response in the petition filed by Thenkarai Vivasayigal Sangam represented by its secretary P. Rajasekaran, who said that . some people were involved in illegal fish farming. A representation was made to the authorities in this regard and they had promised action against the people and the removal of encroachments. But no action was taken. The authorities have not taken steps to protect the tank. Therefore, they must be directed to remove encroachments and prevent illegal fish farming in the tank, the petitioner said.  Illegal fish farming in the tank must be prevented and the waterbody protected from encroachements Thenkarai Vivasayigal Sangam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-protect-tank/article36601811.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to display details of road projects for public scrutiny||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought response from the Madurai Corporation in a public interest litigation petition that complained about poor quality of roads in the city. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar directed the Corporation to file a counter affidavit on a petition filed by advocate S. Suresh Kumar Isaac Paul of K. K. Nagar in Madurai. The petitioner said that whether the authorities followed the required standard to lay roads in the city was questionable. A checklist on certain parameters must be displayed in the public to maintain accountability regarding quality of roads laid. Particulars on when a road was last relaid, why it was relaid and the tests conducted on the road should be displayed, he said. The petitioner said that during monsoon, the roads were completely damaged. Due to the poor implementation of the projects, rainwater would not get drained into the drainage system, thereby damaging the roads. Soil and other waste would get collected on the roads and when the water dried up, the soil was left behind causing dust pollution. New roads were being laid without following any procedure. They were laid on existing roads. The old roads were not scrapped. This resulted in increasing the height of the roads and building levels near these roads going down as a result. In order to maintain transparency, details of road projects must be displayed. The details must include the project estimate, materials used and expected life span of the road. Contact numbers must be displayed to redress grievances of the public, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-display-details-of-road-projects-for-public-scrutiny/article36602159.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘CM must intervene for timely completion of railway projects’||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has sought Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s intervention to ensure uninterrupted supply of soil (earth) for the timely completion of various railway projects “as they are held up owing to a delay in granting permission for soil quarrying. In a memorandum, Mr. Venkatesan said that the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has issued direction to the Collectors to ascertain the composition of minerals in the soil by sending it to a lab determined by the respective department. Though the order was issued in February 2021, the Collectors claimed that the State government has to issue necessary direction on the issue. As a result, the doubling projects like Madurai-Thoothukudi; Vanchi Maniyachi-Nagercoil and Virudhunagar-Vanchi Maniyachi junction were getting delayed. Besides, the Peralam-Karaikal new rail project, and gauge conversion of Thiruthuraipundi-Agasthiyampalli and Madurai-Bodinaickanur and the Pattukottai goods platform work were also held up due to lack of soil. The Collectors of Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Theni, Thanjavur, Nagapatinam and Tiruvarur were waiting for the State government’s direction on determining a lab for soil testing to permit quarrying. Therefore, he urged the Chief Minister to issue necessary directors to the Collectors on deciding on a lab where the soil could be tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cms-intervention-sought-for-timely-completion-of-railway-projects/article36602098.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ex-District Judge moves HC against dismissal||Former Principal District Judge T. Ponprakash has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court against his dismissal from service. A Government Order issued in 2020 imposed the punishment of dismissal from service on charges of corruption and misuse of power. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought a response from the State. The petitioner said that the complaint against him was premeditated and motivated. He said the dismissal order was arbitrary, unjust and liable to be set aside. Ponprakash of Palayamkottai joined the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service in 1991 as Civil Judge. In 2003, he was promoted as Sub-Judge at Periyakulam. He was then promoted as the Additional District Judge, Tirunelveli. Subsequently, in 2014, he was promoted as Principal District Judge, Ramanathapuram. And in 2015, he was transferred to the Family Court in Dindigul. In 2016, he was suspended from service on the allegations of serious misconduct. A charge memo was issued. He was not permitted to retire on attaining the age of superannuation in 2017 as disciplinary proceedings were pending against him. The Administrative Committee of Madras High Court concluded that he was guilty of the charges and recommended dismissal from service. The same was followed by the Full Court. The recommendation of the punishment was then forwarded to the Chief Secretary. A government order was issued imposing the punishment of dismissal from service. The petitioner said that he had made a detailed explanation against the charges. But it was not considered by the inquiry officer and the presenting officer. He said that the government order was issued without considering his unblemished record for more than 24 years. He sought to quash the government order issued in 2020 imposing punishment of dismissal from service. He also sought direction to the State to grant all other consequential benefits. Out of the 12 charges framed against him, part of two charges and one another charge was held to be proved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-district-judge-moves-hc-against-dismissal-from-service/article36601810.ece
22 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks counter from State in temple priest murder case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday sought a counter affidavit from the State in the case of alleged murder of a Scheduled Caste temple priest in Pudukkottai district by a group of caste Hindus. Justice G. Ilangovan directed the State to file a counter in the petition, filed by K. Villayi, wife of temple priest Karuppaiah, seeking a re-postmortem of the body and a CB-CID probe into the incident. The court was informed that pursuant to its earlier order, a re-postmortem was conducted by a team of experts comprising doctors and forensic experts from Government Pudukkottai Medical College Hospital. The last rites of the deceased were performed, the court was told. The petitioner said her husband, the priest of a Kali temple in Theeyathur, was attacked by a group of caste Hindus after he offered them ‘vibhuti’ in hand on June 16. The group had questioned Karuppaiah over offering ‘vibhuti’ in hand instead of placing it on the archanai plate. She said the caste Hindus attacked him as he had touched them. It was said that both the groups lodged police complaints against each other. A peace committee meeting was held, but it ended inconclusively. Under these circumstances, the petitioner said, her husband went missing from their home on August 14, and the next day, he was found hanging from a tree. The petitioner said Karuppaiah’s body bore injury marks and it was not a case of suicide. She alleged that her husband was murdered due to caste animosity. The court adjourned the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-counter-from-state-in-temple-priest-murder-case/article36601793.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||2,500 kg of ration rice seized||Civil Supplies–Criminal Investigation Department sleuths seized 2,500 kg of ration rice here on Tuesday. Police are also on the lookout for the salesman of a ration shop, R. Krishnan, of Kondayampatti in Vadipatti taluk. P. Mariyappan, 35, owner of vehicle, and driver N. Balamurugan, 33, both from of Kamaraj Salai were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2500-kg-of-ration-rice-seized/article36602099.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be a power shutdown in the following areas of the city on September 22 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. to undertake maintenance work: New DRO Colony, Sivasakthi Nagar, Fatima Nagar, Pudur Vandipathai, Customs Colony, New Natham Road, Reserve line, Vandiyur, Vandiyur Main Road, Yagappa Nagar, Sadasivam Nagar and PKM Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36602160.ece
22 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 129.75 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 690 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 55.77 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 948 cusecs and a discharge of 1,669 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 6,303 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36601813.ece
22 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Expedite clearances and permissions: CM||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Tuesday called upon departments dealing with industry, trade and commerce to expedite clearances and permissions to create a business-friendly environment for industries in the Union Territory. Addressing the “Vanijya Saptah”, a conclave of industrialists and exporters, Mr. Rangasamy said delay in clearance was one of the many factors causing a migration of industries out of the Union Territory to other States. “I don’t want to sound over critical, but there is no denying the fact that there has been a decline in the number of industrial enterprises in the estates. It is also an undeniable reality that industries face delay in getting approvals and prospective entrepreneurs have to wait for clearances and this is not only hampering the development of Puducherry, but also causing a migration of units to other business-friendly States,” Mr. Rangasamy said. The event was supported by the Department of Industries and Commerce, the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) and the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, south zone. The Chief Minister pointed out that in the past the industrial estates in Sedarapet and also in Mettupalayam near Puducherry saw thriving industrial activity, but the situation has changed now and many industries have moved out of Puducherry. He also remarked that the single window system should live up to its purpose of granting expeditious approvals. The experience, though, was to the contrary, he said. To drive home his point, Mr. Rangasamy cited an instance of a hotelier having to run from pillar to post for approval to build an additional floor, the government itself facing obstacles at the Centre in developing a 750-acre site it acquired a decade ago into a Special Economic Zone and the 30-acre site in Mettupalayam acquired for an Information Technology park turning an idle asset. Pointing out that often, entrepreneurs also encountered delays in getting a power connection, Mr. Rangasamy wondered how the vision to become an attractive destination for industries would be realised if such a situation was allowed to persist. He appealed to the officials to get their act together and ensure a coordinated approach in creating a business-friendly climate in the Union Territory. The Chief Minister also launched a special swift window of the Bank of Baroda for MSME exporters to access credit. Inaugurating the conclave, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, concurred with the sentiments of the Chief Minister and called for course correction to drive the post-Covid-19 revival of the economy. She recalled that the Prime Minister and the Home Minister had responded positively to the vision document for rapid industrialisation of the Union Territory that she had submitted a couple of months ago. Stressing the importance of air connectivity for boosting trade and tourism, Ms. Soundararajan said discussions were under way with the Tamil Nadu government on acquiring necessary land for the runway expansion at the Puducherry airport. The Puducherry government will soon come out with an export policy to “deepen and diversify” the portfolio of products currently shipped out overseas, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar said. The government has approved the draft policy and would soon announce its export policy, he said. Among those who participated were PML Kalyanasundaram, MLA, Sanjay Chadha, Additional Secretary, Department of Commerce, Government of India, M.K. Shanmuga Sundaram, ADGFT, Chennai, E. Vallavan, Industries Secretary, Yasam Lakshmi Narayana Reddy, Director of Industries and Commerce, Israr Ahmed, Regional Chairman, FIEO Southern Region and Rishita Gupta, District Collector-in-charge. A B2C exhibition was also held in this connection featuring 30 pavilions that showcased export-oriented products and services of banks, manufacturers, MSMEs and SHGs.  It is an undeniable reality that industries face delay in getting approvals and entrepreneurs have to wait for clearances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-clearances-and-permissions-cm/article36602051.ece
22 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Former legislator Selvaganabathy is NDA candidate for RS polls||Ending days of speculation, former nominated legislator representing the Bharatiya Janata Party S. Selvaganabathy has been named as the NDA candidate for the lone Rajya Sabha seat from the Union Territory. A press release issued by Arun Singh, BJP national general secretary and headquarter in-charge, on Tuesday night said “the BJP central election committee has decided S. Selvaganabathy as the candidate for the biennial election to the Council of States from Puducherry.” The decision was taken after back-to-back talks between the BJP Central leadership, Home Minister A Namassivayam and Chief Minister N. Rangasamy for the last two days. Mr. Selvaganabathy was nominated to the Assembly by the Centre in 2018 and his term ended in the 14th Assembly. He runs educational institutions and is an RSS sympathiser. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy called on Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. This was the second meeting between the Lieutenant Governor and the Chief Minister on successive days. After he called on the Lt. Governor on Monday morning, the Chief Minister had convened a meeting of the party legislators on Monday night at a private hotel. The meeting, which went late into night, had a detailed discussion on the claim made by the Bharatiya Janata Party for the lone Rajya Sabha seat. On Tuesday morning, two BJP legislators A. John Kumar, P.M.L Kalyanasundaram and Independent G. Nehru alias Kuppusamy also met the Lt. Governor at the Raj Nivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-mla-selvaganabathy-is-nda-candidate-for-rs-polls/article36602047.ece
22 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions seek support for bandh||Representatives of various trade unions on Tuesday appealed to the people of the Union Territory to support the bandh called by farmers protesting against three farm legislations on September 27. Addressing a press conference in Puducherry, general secretary of All India Trade Union Congress K. Sethu Selvam said trade unions in the country have decided to extend support to the bandh call given by farmers agitating in New Delhi against the farm laws for the last several months. Seeking support of traders, bus/auto drivers unions, fishermen, educational institutions and public for the bandh, Mr. Selvam said cadres of trade unions including AITUC, CITU and Indian National Trade Union Congress would stage a protest in around 12 places in the Union Territory against the farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-seek-support-for-bandh/article36602048.ece
22 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 101 new cases||No COVID-19 deaths were reported in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours as 101 new cases were added to the tally. Puducherry accounted for 58 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,461 tests, followed by Karaikal (34), Yanam (1) and Mahe (8). The cumulative toll in the Union Territory remained at 1,832 — Puducherry (1,440), Karaikal (243), Yanam (106) and Mahe (43). The test positivity rate was 1.85%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.81%. With 46 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 922. Of this, 142 patients were in hospitals and 780 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,25,618 cases against 1,22,864 recovered patients. Of an estimated 17.46 lakh tests, over 14.80 lakh samples returned negative. Meanwhile, the Union Territory administered 11,432 doses of COVID-19 vaccines in the last 24 hours. The total vaccines administered to date aggregated to 9,23,763, including about 2.58 lakh second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-101-new-cases/article36601799.ece
22 September 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Four attempt to end life||A family of four - A. Kumar, 36, his wife Devi, 33, and two children Gurudarshini, 9, and Devadarshini, 1, - attempted to end their lives in their house at Melur Duraisamypuram near Seithur. Neighbours shifted them to Rajapalayam Government Hospital from where they were referred to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The police said Kumar who was involved in garment business in Kerala had taken a house on lease for Rs. 10 lakh. When he wound up the business, the landlord returned Rs. 4 lakh but did not give him the remaining amount. The couple were dejected over the issue and took the extreme step. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-attempt-to-end-life/article36601808.ece
22 September 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||31 nominations received||Collector-cum-District Election Officer J. U. Chandrakala has said that the nomination process for the rural local body polls would come to a close on September 22. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the counting centres at Paramakudi and Bogalur panchayat unions here on Tuesday, she said that the polling process commenced since September 15 with filing of nominations. The district would be conducting polls for the post of one district panchayat ward, 6 village panchayat presidents and 33 village panchayat ward members. So far, 31 nominations were received for 40 posts. She inspected the counting centres at the Paramakudi Government Girls Higher Secondary School and at the Anna University Engineering College campus. Superintendent of Police E Karthik, Additional Collector K J Praveen Kumar and other officials accompanied him Strong room checked The officials checked the status of the strong room where the ballot boxes were to be stored after the polling process was completed. The SP checked installation of CCTV cameras and identification procedure for the counting agents inside the centre. Security arrangements in and outside counting centres were discussed during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-nominations-received/article36601817.ece
22 September 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Old man gets 7 years in jail for sexual assault||K. Muthumari, 69, of a village near Rameswaram has been sentenced to undergo imprisonment for seven years for the rape of an octogenarian in October, 2018. Fast Track Mahila Court Judge A. Subathra found him guilty of the rape charge and imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 on Tuesday. According to prosecution, the man overpowered the victim, who was alone and sexually assaulted her. The victim, who suffered due to paralytic attack, lodged a complaint with Rameswaram Jetty police, who arrested the accused. The Judge ordered that the guilty should undergo two more years of jail if he failed to pay the fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-man-gets-7-years-in-jail-for-sexual-assault/article36602092.ece
22 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Urban forests to come up at 71 places in Salem city||The Salem Corporation will establish urban forests at 71 places in the city, as part of its efforts to create more lung spaces. The civic body has identified vacant lands, open spaces, and parks where it would plant about 1,00,683 saplings. Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj said that over 8 lakh sq.ft. land would be utilised for the project. “The urban forests will be set up based on Miyawaki technique and only native tree varieties will be planted. This is just the first phase of the scheme and there are plans to expand the project,” he said. According to the officials, assistant executive engineer and sanitary officers of respective areas have been appointed as coordinators and the City Health Officer would be the nodal officer for the project. Various service and voluntary organisations would be involved in the planting and maintenance of the sites. He said the project has been planned in a manner in which there would be less financial commitment on the Corporation and the Departments of Forest and Horticulture. Mr.Christuraj said that they were planning to complete the sapling planting works by Saturday and each site would have 35 native varieties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/urban-forests-to-come-up-at-71-places-in-salem-city/article36601847.ece
22 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Grama Bank employees stage protest||Members of the Tamil Nadu Grama Bank Officers’ Association and workers union staged a protest in front of the bank near Hasthampatti highlighting various demands. The protesters charged that the bank management was hesitant about improving information technology facilities in banking services. Majority of loans were being provided through non-Government organisations, they said. The protesters alleged that transfers were conducted on the basis of recommendations and to places far away from the employees’ hometown. They aslo alleged that the bank was not ready to pay family pension and the temporary staff were not provided any government benefits. They sought immediate measures to address their grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grama-bank-employees-stage-protest/article36601848.ece
22 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||One death, 77 new COVID-19 cases in Salem||Salem district on Tuesday recorded 77 new COVID-19 cases and one death. According to the Health Department, all cases were indigenous and 15 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 49 cases, all indigenous. Erode district reported 112 new cases, which took the overall tally to 1,00,920. While 119 persons were discharged, 1,395 persons were under treatment on the day. Krishnagiri recorded 25 new cases,which took the overall tally to 42,559. While 37 persons were discharged, the district has 263 active cases as on Tuesday. Dharmapuri recorded 28 fresh cases and one death on Tuesday. The district’s overall tally stood at 27,340 cases. While 14 persons were discharged, the district has 250 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-77-new-covid-19-cases-in-salem/article36601844.ece
22 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers undergo training||The Agricultural Technology Management Agency organised a training programme on ‘Sericulture Waste Management’ for farmers here recently. The session was handled by N.Dhahira Beevi, Senior Scientist, Regional Sericulture Research Station. The farmers were trained on eco-friendly techniques to compost waste, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-undergo-training/article36601845.ece
22 September 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||12-foot-long king cobra rescued, released into tiger reserve||Forest personnel rescued a 12-foot-long king cobra from a private farm and released it in a place under Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve area on Tuesday. Following information about the 12-foot-long male king cobra slithering through the bushes of a private farm in Govindaperi under Kadayam Forest Range, a team of forest personnel from Kadayam Range rushed to the spot. The team, comprising forester Murugasamy, guard Veeranan, anti-poaching watchers Petchimuthu, Velraj, Velsamy, Manoj Kumar and Balakrishnan rescued the highly venomous snake after a prolonged struggle. The snake was released into the forest in Kallar area of Sivasailam beat. Public who happened to see wild animals stranded in farms or residential areas could alert the forest personnel by calling 04634 283165, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-foot-long-king-cobra-rescued-released-into-tiger-reserve/article36601805.ece
22 September 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Held on graft charge||Arunkumar, 38, assistant in the District Education Office, Uthamapalayam, was arrested on the charge of demanding and accepting Rs. 5,000 from a teacher Sishor, 38, on Monday. Sishor, a Physical Education Teacher in Cumbum Municipal Middle School, submitted a petition at the DEO in Uthamapalayam seeking selection grade promotion as he had completed 10 years of service. Though he had applied in January, the petition was not processed. The assistant had allegedly demanded Rs. 5,000 as bribe for the same. Sishor lodged a complaint with the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption sleuths in Theni. A team, led by its Deputy Superintendent of Police, P. Karuppiah, and Inspector of Police, Jayapriya, laid a trap for Arunkumar and caught him red-handed while accepting the money. He was arrested and produced before the jurisdictional magistrate who remanded him in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistant-held-on-graft-charge/article36601807.ece
22 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Crackers stored in car explode injuring man||A car was destroyed when fire crackers stored in the vehicle went off accidentally in a village near Sattankulam in the early hours of Tuesday. Though the explosion damaged the glass windows of 30 houses in the vicinity, only one person sustained minor injuries. The police said D. Balakrishnan, 44, of Kumaranvilai near Idaichchivilai near Sattankulam, who runs a crackers-manufacturing unit at Anaikkarai near Thisaiyanvilai, used to supply crackers and aerial fireworks for temple and church festival celebrations and other auspicious occasions. Good demand He also has a cracker storage point at Anaikkarai as demand for these crackers is reasonably good in rural areas. When Mr. Balakrishnan returned home in his car around 2 a.m. on Tuesday, he had brought firecrackers with him. When he reportedly locked the car with the remote, it triggered an explosion. Vehicles damaged A few vehicles parked in the vicinity were damaged, and he sustained minor injuries. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Thisaiyanvilai extinguished the flames. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sattankulam, Kannan, and other policemen visited the spot and arrested Mr. Balakrishnan, for having carelessly stored the firecrackers and caused the explosion. Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruchendur, M. Kokila and Tahsildar, Sattankulam, Vimala also visited the spot. The Thattarmadam police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crackers-kept-in-car-explode-man-injured/article36601819.ece
22 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Loan scam unearthed in PACB||A comprehensive probe under way on loan scam in Kurumbur Primary Agriculture Cooperative Bank (KPACB) detected that Rs. 2.03 crore had been given without pledging any gold ornaments. Subsequently, the chairman of the KPACB has been removed from the post, pending an inquiry. The Kurumbur Primary Agriculture Cooperative Bank, having 3,800 members, had given agriculture and personal loans to over 500 members. When the officials from the Central Cooperative Bank checked the records of the KPACB and the jewels mortgaged against the loans given in the wake of the State Government’s announcement about waiver of loans given up to 5 sovereigns of mortgaged ornaments, the discrepancies were found. After their inquiry with the Sub-Registrar of Cooperative Societies confirmed a large-scale scam in giving agriculture and personal loans by KPACB against pledging of gold ornaments, they found that 261 of the 548 bags containing mortgaged gold ornaments were missing. In other words, Rs. 2.03 crore had been given as loan without gold ornaments being mortgaged in the KPACB, the inquiry revealed. Subsequently, chairman of KPACB Murugesa Pandian was removed from the post while secretary Devaraj placed under suspension. The depositors and those who had mortgaged their gold ornaments in the KPACB are giving complaints in writing to the officials probing the scam as they are fearing for the safety of their deposits and the mortgaged valuables.  “A formal complaint with the police will be given after the completion of the ongoing probe,” the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-203-crore-loan-scam-unearthed/article36601818.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUCHENDUR,TAMIL NADU||Dasara celebration: BJP cadres arrested for bid to observe fast||Police arrested BJP’s Nagercoil MLA M.R. Gandhi and 97 others when they attempted to observe a fast demanding permission for full-fledged Dasara celebration at Sri Mutharamman Temple in Kulasekarapattinam near here, which attracts a large number of devotees every year. Owing to COVID-19 last year, Thoothukudi district administration banned full-fledged Dasara celebrations at the Temple while allowing the devotees in small groups to enter the shrine to offer prayers. However, the devotees were not allowed to participate in the flag-hoisting ceremony and also in the ‘Soorasamhaaram’, the culmination of the 10-day celebrations. Though the number of fresh COVID-19 cases has come down drastically while comparing with last year’s numbers, the district administration has planned to impose similar restrictions this year also as the new cases are gradually going up after showing downward trend over the past two months. Rejecting it, the BJP and Dasara celebration groups had announced that they would organise the fast at Kulasekarapattinam on September 21 as the flag-hoisting will be held on October 6. When the BJP cadre, led by Mr. Gandhi, started gathering at the protest venue on Tuesday, Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar and Tiruchendur ASP Harsh Singh held talks with them and appealed to them to give up the agitation in the best interest of the public. However, the BJP cadre started the fast but were arrested. They were taken to a private marriage hall and released later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-mla-held/article36601806.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mixed response to Tiruchi expansion plan||Acceptance from certain quarters, stiff opposition, dissenting notes and demonstrations marked the public hearing held here on Tuesday on the government’s proposal to merge the village panchayats in the peripheries of the city with Tiruchi Corporation. Collector S. Sivarasu, who had earlier held separate meetings with panchayat presidents of the 25 villages proposed to be merged with Tiruchi Corporation and the presidents of the villages that were to be merged with Lalgudi and Musiri a few days ago, presided over the public hearing. A large number of residents and elected representatives of the villages took part in the public hearing. In his introductory remarks, Mr. Sivarasu said the State government proposed to expand the limit of Tiruchi Corporation by merging about 25 villages, which had been marked by rapid urbanisation. The last delimitation exercise was taken up in 2011. It was inevitable to merge the eligible villages with the Corporation to create better basic amenities. The residents of the villages could get better roads and could be served better in terms of protected water supply and solid waste management. The benefits of the underground drainage facility could also be passed on to the proposed areas to be merged with the Corporation. While a section of the participants came out in support of the expansion proposals, there were voices of stiff opposition too. The residents of Navalpattu village and Puthu Theru, who had staged a number of protests against the expansion plan, pointed out their reservation in the public hearing. They said that the villages were totally backward and they were dependent on agriculture and the 100-day Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Merger would deprive them of the livelihood from the 100-day guaranteed job. M. Chandru of Kilakuruchi near Thiruverumbur, a ward member, said that none of the residents wanted the merger. The officials had failed to listen to their grievances. In spite of the oppositon, steps were being taken to merge the village with the Corporation, he complained. Sundaram of Kallakudi said his village had no sign of urbanisation. It had several lakes and ponds. The present status of village panchayat should not be altered. Shortly after the public hearing, a large number of residents of Kilakurichi and Nathamadipatti staged a demonstration on the premises of Kalaiarangam, protesting against the merger plan. Some complained that the public hearing was an eyewash. It was over within 45 minutes, they complained, saying they should have been given sufficient time to express their views. When the public hearing was on, the residents of Madakudi near Samayapuram staged a demonstration in the village against the plan of merger. Responding to opposition and demonstrations against the merger plan, Mr. Sivarasu said that the guidelines issued by the State government would be followed in the delimitation process. No villags, which had a population of less than 386 per sq. km would be merged with the Corporation or municipality. It was necessary that 75% of the population should be involved in non-agricultural activities for a village to be merged with the Corporation. Representations had been received from Navalpattu, Punganur and Madhavaperumal Koil against the merger. The residents could also express their views in the coming grama sabha meeting on October 2. The genuine demands would be considered before finalising the proposal, the Collector said. P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, senior officials and elected representatives participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-response-to-tiruchi-expansion-plan/article36601795.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region reports 294 new cases||Central districts reported 294 fresh cases of COVID-19 and seven deaths on Tuesday. According to a medical bulletin issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department, Thanjavur district registered 79 fresh cases followed by Tiruchi with 66 cases. Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai recorded 37 and 24 cases respectively. The day's count was 25 in Pudukottai, 33 in Nagapattinam and 14 in Karur. While Ariyalur district recorded nine new positive cases, it was seven in Perambalur. Seven persons, who had tested positive for the virus, succumbed to COVID-19 virus, in central districts. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur accounted for two victims each, Mayiladuthurai, Pudukottai and Thanjavur recorded one death each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-reports-294-new-cases/article36601790.ece
22 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Replace biometric system in PDS shops’||The Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, has urged the Commissioner of Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection to introduce alternative means of verifying a person’s identity in ration shops as the biometric system of taking fingerprints was posing hardship to senior citizens. In a resolution adopted at its annual general body meeting, the council said senior citizens faced difficulties as their fingerprints had faded and could not be read by devices. The council suggested iris scan as an alternative for identity verification. Through another resolution, the council expressed shock over the death of a woman doctor who drowned in stagnant rainwater in an underpass in Pudukottai district recently. Underpasses getting flooded had become routine and there seemed to be no system to pump out rainwater. If they were unable to pump out water, the authorities should have at least erected barricades on either side to block the traffic, it was pointed out. The General Manager, Southern Railways, and the Minister should immediately look into this and do what is needed to prevent such accidents in future. The council also appealed to Minister for School Education to provide multiple copies of mark sheets for SSLC and Plus Two students and certificates to avoid their original marksheets being held back when a student left one institute for another. Some institutions demanded money to return them. The following were unanimously elected office-bearers of the council for 2021-2023: president - C. T. Selvakumar; vice-president - S. Sridar; Secretary – S. Pushpavanam; Treasurer - Mohamed Isaque; and Executive Committee members - K. Sekar, P. Gunaseelan, Su. Srinivasan, G. Ravindran, K. Chandrasekaran, V. Kumar Raja, Hussainy Lakshmi Iyer, P. Muthuselvi and Sethumadhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/replace-biometric-system-in-pds-shops/article36601791.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruverambur police station bags honour||Tiruverambur police station has been adjudged the best station in Tiruchi district for 2019. An announcement was made in this regard by the Chief Minister. A press release said police personnel who served at Tiruverambur station arrested the accused persons in 34 out of the 35 crime cases during that year besides recovering stolen property. Eight criminals involved in offences committed in the police station limits were detained under the Goondas Act on the recommendation of the Superintendent of Police. In addition to this, the police personnel of the station executed 40 warrants and arrested the accused against whom they were issued. Tiruchi Superintendent of Police Pa. Moorthy on Monday invited the Inspector, two Sub-Inspectors and seven Constables who had served then in Tiruverambur station and appreciated them for bringing laurels to Tiruchi Rural Police. The SP handed over the ‘Best Police Station’ shield to the police personnel on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruverambur-police-station-bags-honour/article36601796.ece
22 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Commuters complain of damaged seats and leaky roofs in govt. buses||With the monsoon round the corner, travellers who depend upon the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) and State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) buses complain that some of the buses are unfit to ply with damaged seats and leaky roofs. The quality of the TNSTC and SETC buses plying from the district has fallen drastically, with both the public and the drivers struggling to reach the destination, they alleged. At the Tiruchi Central Bus Stand, every other bus had some sort of plastering, or patchwork done on the roof to avoid seepage. “ “Even the slightest amount of rain causes rainwater to drip through the roof and onto our seats and clothes,” a frequent traveller said. The issue was highlighted by a Twitter user who said that the bus he took from Tiruchi to Chennai saw seepage. “Tiruchi to Chennai is a long-distance bus. Even if we were to get off on the next stop, or within a few kilometres, we can adjust. But on a journey of over six hours, it is difficult to do so,” the user said. Another traveller, taking a Tiruchi to Madurai TNSTC bus hoped that new vehicles would be operated on bus routes with more footfall, as many office-goers and workers were troubled by the frequent breakdowns. “Many are just returning to work, and some buses which had been parked for months during the lockdown are not functioning well,” he said. The interiors of the buses too, need improvement they said. “The seats are old and worn out. Water seeps through the roof onto the seat and damages them. In some buses, the thick covering has been torn, exposing the cushion. On exposure to the harsh weather, the cushion breaks off too,” another user said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commuters-complain-of-damaged-seats-and-leaky-roofs-in-govt-buses/article36601802.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Police to act against erring bus drivers||With the private and the government buses blatantly continue to flout road safety rules and halt these passenger vehicles right on the highway even at unscheduled stops situated on the stretches being used every day by the top officials, the police are planning to crack whip against the erring bus drivers to ensure the safety of every road user. Drivers of almost all private and the TNSTC buses flout the road safety rules in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai at will even as the police are witnessing it. The private bus drivers manoeuvre the buses at high speed, park them right on the busy roads to drop or take passengers, and stop them at unscheduled stops suddenly ignoring the following vehicles’ safety etc. If someone asks them to follow the rules, the unruly drivers would just threaten and abuse him. Even though police have been posted at Vannarpet Traffic Island beneath the bridge, the government and the private bus drivers park the vehicles to take and drop the passengers at the spots where they are not supposed to do so. Even though this violation causes serious traffic jam in the busy morning and the evening, the police hesitate to take stringent action on the spot to regulate the traffic to bring back orderliness. “Violation of traffic rules has become an order of the day at Vannarpet traffic island. And, traffic violation will be in the worst shape in the morning and in the evening, thanks to the audacity drivers of the government and the private buses. They will listen to neither the police nor the law-abiding public, who are in fact abused verbally. Someone should teach these people fitting lesson to ensure rule of law on the roads,” says the manager of a restaurant at this busy spot. Another spot that witnesses violations throughout the day is the bus stop on the southern side of the flower market near Palayamkottai Gandhi Market, where the bus drivers would halt vehicle at least for five minutes blocking the 20-feet-wide stretch in the guise of taking the passengers. Most of the bus drivers can be seen leisurely talking on their mobile phones while stopping the buses at this stop, showing scant respect for other road-users. “Since the Gandhi Market traders are going to move to the temporary shops to be created on the adjacent Jawahar Ground as the age-old market is to be reconstructed, the crowd visiting these temporary shops will naturally overflow onto the nearby roads. In that scenario, this will be the worst traffic congested spot of the city for the next two years (until the construction of the market is completed),” said Murugan, a trader having his shop near this bus stop. Commissioner of Police N.K. Senthamarai Kannan said he would shortly have a meeting with the transport corporation officials and the owners of private buses to tell them in unequivocal terms that their drivers should scrupulously follow the road safety rules. “Else, the erring bus drivers and their bosses will be taken to task,” said the Police Commissioner, who is visiting the spots where the bus drivers cause traffic snarls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-act-against-erring-bus-drivers/article36602094.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Nominations filed||A total of 1,399 nominations were received on Tuesday from the people aspiring to contest local body polls to be conducted in the district in two phases on October 6 and 9. In Tirunelveli, 15 nominations were received for the posts of district panchayat councillors to take the total number of nominations filed so far to 21, and 135 nominations were received for the posts of panchayat union ward councillors. For the village panchayat presidents, 193 candidates filed their nominations while 1,056 nominations were received for village panchayat ward member posts. As of Tuesday, 4395 candidates have filed their nominations since September 15 for 2,069 rural local body positions. Wednesday is the last day for the filing of nominations. In Tenkasi, 1,254 nominations – nine for district panchayat councillor posts, 107 for panchayat union councillor posts, 152 for village panchayat president posts and 986 for the posts of village panchayat ward members – were submitted on Tuesday. In Kanniyakumari, eight nominations – three for Muttom panchayat president and five for village panchayat wards were submitted. So far, five nominations have been received for Muttom village panchayat president post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nominations-filed/article36602095.ece
22 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Red-necked phalarope spotted in Tiruppur dt.||Birdwatchers recently spotted a red-necked phalarope ( Phalaropus lobatus ), a migratory bird that breeds in the Arctic region, at Uppar dam in Dharapuram, making it the first possible sighting of the bird in Tiruppur district. Member of the Dharapuram Nature Society R. Magesh said on Monday that he and another member Sadhasivam Dhamu visited the Uppar dam on Saturday morning for birdwatching, when they spotted the lone red-necked phalarope. The duo confirmed the bird’s identity by consulting other experts and through the eBird web portal, he said. “It flew away shortly after we clicked its photograph and we could not find the bird on Saturday afternoon and on Sunday in the locality,” he said. Red-necked phalaropes are waders that are usually found in a flock near shorelines during migration. However, being spotted as a lone bird in a non-coastal area makes this a rare sighting, Mr. Magesh said. Its neck turns red only during breeding season between March and June as part of its breeding plumage, he added. A similar rare sighting of a red-necked phalarope occurred nine years ago in 2012 in Coimbatore. A. Pavendhan of Coimbatore Nature Society, who photographed the bird in September 2012 at Singanallur tank in Coimbatore, recalled that he and his team were able to see its unique feeding behaviour, where the red-necked phalarope swam in a circular motion to bring the food to the surface. “This could have been a passage migrant,” he said regarding the sighting at Uppar dam. Passage migrants Passage migrants are those birds that stop over at a particular location for a brief period of time before leaving to their usual destination during migration. Mr. Pavendhan, who was one of the three authors of the book ‘Birds of Coimbatore’, said that the red-necked phalarope was included as one of the 409 bird species in the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/red-necked-phalarope-spotted-in-tiruppur-dt/article36601830.ece
22 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur briefly||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department retrieved 1.67 acres of temple land belonging to Visalatchi Amman Subramanyar Temple in Nallur on Monday. According to officials, the land remained encroached for over a decade by a private individual, who had allegedly rented the land to other persons. Around 148.38 acres of land belong to the 200-year-old temple, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-briefly/article36601727.ece
22 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Stigma of disease carriers threatens Nilgiris’ only colony of Indian fruit bats||The Nilgiris’ only colony of Indian fruit bats, one of the largest bat species in the world, is under threat from local residents who want the trees they roost on to be cut down. The bats, also known as flying foxes, have been seen in the same area in Coonoor for the last few years. Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic last year, residents have been calling on the Forest Department cut down the trees to get rid of the bats. Nipah virus scare The calls have grown louder since cases of Nipah virus were reported in Kerala, and fears that the bats carry zoonotic diseases that are transmissible to humans. However, wildlife biologists and conservationists have called for the protection of the colony, by underlining the importance the bats play in the health of local ecosystems. According to Samson Arockianathan, a wildlife biologist and researcher who has been studying the colony of flying foxes in Coonoor since 2017, there were anywhere between 2,000 and 2,500 individuals which roost in Coonoor. “The bats have only recently been seen in Coonoor. One of the reasons may be loss of habitat in their home range. The bats only migrate to Coonoor each year during September and stay for the next four months before heading back to their home ranges, which I suspect is in Coimbatore,” said Mr. Arockianathan. Very little risk The wildlife biologists and other researchers said the bats consumed fruits in forests nearby, and there was very little risk of the animals passing on any virus to humans. “The bats mind their own business, and play a crucial role in the health of local ecology as they are seed dispersers of many varieties of fruit-bearing trees. The Forest Department should educate people to treat the animals with the respect and consideration they deserve as there have been instances reported worldwide of people attacking and killing wild bat populations,” said a Nilgiris-based ecologist. Complaints When contacted, Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, District Forest Officer (Nilgiris division), confirmed that they had received complaints about the bats from the public who fear increased risk of transmission of zoonotic diseases from the animals. “We are monitoring the issue, and want to study where the bats’ home range is and what is driving them to Coonoor each year. Once these factors become clear, we can take a decision on what needs to be done keeping in mind the welfare of the public,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stigma-of-disease-carriers-threatens-nilgiris-only-colony-of-indian-fruit-bats/article36601828.ece
22 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Decades-old bridge across channel collapses in Vellore||Decades-old small bridge across the water channel in Vellore collapsed after a sand-laden lorry tried to use the facility on Tuesday. No one was injured. Police said that the dilapidated bridge, which is around 20 feet wide, connects Gandhi Nagar in Sathuvachari on the Bengaluru Highway (NH 48) with the rest of the town, especially the areas around the Vellore Fort. Key link The bridge, which is maintained by the Vellore Corporation, can be used only by one bus at a time. Despite its poor condition and being narrow, the bridge remained a key link to major areas like Katpadi, Gudiyatham, Melvisharam and Arcot along the Palar river to the Bengaluru highway. After the collapse of the bridge, traffic has been diverted in the neighbourhood. A temporary bridge will be built soon mainly for the residents of the area to reach other parts of the district, Corporation officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decades-old-bridge-across-channel-collapses-in-vellore/article36602102.ece
22 September 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||For this HM, it’s scisssors before books||Fifty-six-year-old M. Napoleon quietly waited at the entrance of Sri Venkateswara Boys’ Higher Secondary School on Infantry Road in Vellore, where he has been working as a headmaster for over two decades now. He picked out students, who rushed through the gate to attend classes, making them form a separate queue on the campus. They were neither late-comers nor were they not wearing masks. Instead, they were stopped for a strange reason — sporting long and stylish hair. After a long break from classroom learning due to the pandemic, some students were returning to schools with trendy hairstyles. Mr. Napoleon put an end to this on Monday. “Students were given adequate time to get a simple haircut before they attend classes. Many did. But some took it lightly, prompting me take the scissors before books,” the headmaster said. Under a shady neem tree, two plastic chairs were kept ready to seat these students. Initially, the boys did not like it at all. Some even called their parents and complained. But the parents firmly stood with the school authorities on the issue. Left with no option, the students took turns to have a haircut. Of a total of 520 students in Classes XI and XII, 90 had their hair sheared. As the task was laborious, Mr. Napoleon roped in two professional hairstylists from the town to do the job for a nominal fee. In two sessions — forenoon and afternoon — they completed the task. During the lunch break, students of lower-level classes had fun watching their seniors learn life lessons under the tree. With a strength of 2,300 students, the school attracts pupils from different parts of the town like Katpadi, Anaicut, Virugampattu and Kosapet, as well as from neighbouring Polur in Tiruvannamalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-this-hm-its-scissors-before-books/article36601710.ece
22 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 30 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,218 with 30 new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total of 47,851 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 249. In Ranipet district, 20 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,895. In Tirupattur district, 16 new cases were reported and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,811. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 33, taking the total number of cases to 54,017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-reports-30-new-covid-19-cases/article36602049.ece
22 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||29 motors seized for illegal tapping of water||A surprise drive by municipal officials led to the seizure of 29 motor pumpsets from dwellings, indulging in illegal tapping of water from the Thenpennaiar River at Pillur and Ellis Chatram in Villupuram. Officials said that water was being sourced from the Thenpennaiar River and supplied through pipelines to the 42 wards in Villupuram municipality. Following complaints from residents, Municipal Commissioner Surendar Shah formed teams to check illegal tapping of water. The squads, which fanned out to different locations in Villupuram town on Monday, found that the pressure of water was high in certain dwellings alone. On carrying out random checks, they found the residents to be using motor pumpsets to suck water. The teams seized 29 motor pumps used for illegal tapping of water. Mr. Shah said that stern action would be taken against illegal tapping of water. He appealed to the residents to cooperate with the municipality and not use motor pumpsets as the water flow would get stopped abruptly, besides depriving water to other residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29-motors-seized-for-illegal-tapping-of-water/article36602053.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC upholds ban on crash guards, bull bars||The Bench also said the notification pointed out that fitment of crash guards or bull bars was in violation of Section 52 of the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988, which prohibits alterations at variance with specifications mentioned in the registration certificate of the vehicle concerned.  The court passed the orders while disposing of two public interest litigation petitions which insisted on effective implementation of the 2017 notification. ‘Not safe’ Ajay Francis Inigo Loyola, counsel for one of the petitioners, contended that fitment of crash guards changed the basic specifications of a vehicle and increased its length. He contended that scientific studies had been conducted to prove that the after-market fitments were not safe for motorists. However, senior counsel AR.L. Sundaresan, representing the manufacturers of crash guards and bull bars, claimed they only provided additional safety, and sought liberty to convince the Centre.  Accepting his plea, the judges made it clear that the orders passed by them would not prevent the manufacturers from making an appropriate representation to the Centre, and the latter from considering it in the proper perspective.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-upholds-ban-on-crash-guards-bull-bars/article36601683.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Dak adalat on September 29||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level dak adalat at the office of the Postmaster General, Southern Region, here at 11 a.m. on September 29 to redress grievances of postal customers. The customers can send their complaints to the office of the Postmaster General or email grievances to pg.madurai@indiapost. gov.in superscribing on the envelope ‘DAK ADALAT’ and send it by September 22. The complaints should contain full details of date and time of posting, addresses of the sender and addressee with phone number, registration receipt number with date and office of booking for money order, value payable post, registered, insured and Speed Post articles. Complaints on savings schemes and postal life insurance should have account number, policy number and full address of the depositor/insured, name of the post office, details of recovery and any reference from the department. The complaints should be sent through ordinary, speed or registered post. Only those cases in which the complainant was not satisfied with the response from division level office would be entertained in the adalat, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dak-adalat-on-september-29/article36602157.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Slurry fountain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slurry-fountain/article36602058.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In the fray||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-the-fray/article36601685.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Coimbatore sub-station  Mettupalayam road, part of Alagesan road, Narayanaguru Road, Saibaba Colony, Home Science College, Forest College, part of NSR road, Central Theatre, DB Road, Patel Road, Kaleeswara Nagar, Sellappa Gounder Street, CSW Mills, Range Gounder street, Sukrawarpet, Marakkadai, Theppakula Maidanam, Ramnagar, Avinashi Road, Gandhipuram, Siddhapudur, Balasundaram Road, Race Course, Circuit House, Air Force Admn college, Tatabad, Alagappa Chettiar Street, 100-feet road, Alamu Nagar, Sivanandha Colony, HUDCO, Pudiyavar Nagar part, Avarampalayam part, Bharathi Park 1 and 2, Bharathi Park cross 1,2, and 3, and Raja Annamalai Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36601726.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Coimbatore   Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Webinar on ‘Full Stack Web Application Development’, 9.30 a.m.; Signing of MoU, 11 a.m.  Rotary Club of Coimbatore East: World Rose Day, SLV Hospital and Cancer Centre, 4 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College: Guest Lecture on ‘Unleashing the Potential of Social Commerce through Direct Selling Platforms’, 11 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Workshop on ‘Basic Electronics via Simulation’, 6 p.m.  D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Seminar on ‘Motivation and Career Opportunities in Armed Forces’, 3.15 p.m.  Tiruppur   Ramraj Cotton: Gandhiya dhoti centennial celebration, Karunaiammal Wedding Hall, Ammapalayam, 4.35 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36601728.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode||Vellalar College for Women: Virtual workshop on ‘Quality Excellence Through Academic Audit’, N. Rajeswari, Principal, GVG Visalakshmi College for Women, Udumalpet, resource persons, 1.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article36601837.ece
22 September 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Students felicitated in Bidar and Belagavi districts||Students of some colleges in Belagavi and Bidar have done well in CET and the IIT JEE examinations. Students of Shaheen PU College in Bidar have done significantly well, with 26 students getting ranks below 500 in various streams. Nishat Fatima, who got the ninth rank in the state in Veterinary Science and Naturopathy and Yoga therapy, is looking forward to her NEET results. Abdul Qadeer, chairman, Shaheen group of institutions, felicitated Ms. Fatima in Bidar on Monday. He also congratulated Sahana Patil, Vivek Rakshe, Naveen Kumar, K. Akshata, Sujay Patil, Aditya Patil, Prajwal Patil, Shivani Rakshe, Harsha Niket, M. Shweta, Karthik Pawar, S. Kavya, M. Niyamatullah Siddique, Mohammad Yunus, Bushra Aiman, Zohra Desai, Mohammad Zubair, Syed Asher Hussein, Nida Huramain, Shaqlain Attar, and others. Students who got good marks in CET and JEE examinations were felicitated at KLE Society’s Raja Lakhamagouda Pre University College in Belagavi on Tuesday. Mohammad Kaif Mulla, who got the fifth rank in Veterinary Science, 15th in Agriculture and 119 in Engineering and cleared JEE with 99 percentile marks, was felicitated. He said he was considering joining one of the IITs or other options. He thanked his father S. Ahmed Mulla who is a cook in a school and his mother, a homemaker. Soham Chipre, who got the 519th rank for Agriculture and 1,660th rank in Engineering, and 1,256th rank in Veterinary Science, said he was hopeful of a good NEET rank and wanted to join a MBBS college. Akash Badadani, who got the 1,086th rank in Agriculture, 1,409th rank in Engineering, and 3,350th rank in Veterinary Science, has got 90.02 percentile marks, principal Vishwanath Kamagol said. He congratulated the students, parents and teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-felicitated-in-bidar-and-belagavi-districts/article36601872.ece
22 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Resolution in support of bandh||The Raitha Krishi Karmikara Sanghatane has passed a resolution expressing support to the all-India bandh called by farmers on September 27. In a meeting in Dharwad on Monday, the members said that they will join the bandh in protest against the new farm laws. It was also decided to educate farmers about the consequences of the farm laws. They will also oppose the Suvarna Corridor Scheme and the metered water supply scheme. Sanghatane leader V. Nagamal said that the Centre is least bothered about addressing farmers issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resolution-in-support-of-bandh/article36601860.ece
22 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Hold Belagavi corporation polls again’||A former member of the Belagavi City Corporation Vinayak Gunjatkar has said that there were several irregularities in the conduct of the recent city corporation elections and urged the State government to conduct the polls again. He and his lawyers met Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath in Belagavi on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum to him. Mr Gunjatkar complained that the electoral rolls were not prepared in accordance with the gazette notification and they had several errors. He said that the State Election Commission had not used VVPAT machines, which were a guarantee of transparency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hold-belagavi-corporation-polls-again/article36601873.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It took over 3 hours to control fire; cause remains a mystery||The apartment complex fire at Devarachikkanahalli near Bannerghatta Road on Tuesday broke out following an explosion-like sound eyewitnesses said, which led fire personnel to initially believe the blaze may have been caused by a cooking cylinder blast. The disaster claimed two lives – Bhagyarekha, 59, and her mother Lakshmidevi, 82. However, Maruti, Regional Fire Officer, South, Fire and Emergency Services, who led the firefighting, said firemen had recovered two cooking gas cylinders from the kitchen of the flat and ruled out a gas leak as the cause of the fire. “It is a very preliminary stage to speculate on the cause of the fire at the flat. Only a detailed technical investigation can help us get that answer,” he said. As the flat was locked for six months and all electric appliances were switched on on Tuesday, this could have led to the fire, another fireman suspected. An electric short circuit usually doesn’t cause a blast, which was reported by eyewitnesses, officials said. Three fire tenders conducted firefighting operations for over three hours to bring the fire under control. “The furniture, cots and mattresses have all caught fire, adding to the blaze. However, we managed to contain the fire to the flat and not allow it to spread,” Mr. Maruti said. The personnel also brought an aerial ladder and high-end rescue equipment to try and rescue survivors. However, the bodies of the two women who had died were charred and no one else was there in the apartment, so the ladder was not used. Ramakrishna, Joint Commissioner, Bommanahalli Zone, BBMP, who visited the spot, said the apartment - Ashrith Aspire - had received a plan approval in 2015 and the building was completed and occupied two years later. “The apartment has 72 flats in a Ground + 3 row of towers, so it is not a high rise and hence the fire audit was not done. A probe on building bylaws will be taken up,” he said. Residents evacuated As the fire broke out in the second floor flat at Ashrith Aspire apartment, all occupants of the72 flats at the time of the accident were evacuated. The residents were asked to not return to their homes for the day. While most shifted to their friends’ and relatives’ houses in the city, around 15 families who had nowhere to go spent the night at the clubhouse of a neighbouring apartment, where the BBMP and residents, arranged for food and bedding for the night. Though the fire was successfully limited to the flat where the accident occurred, smoke billowing out of the windows of the flat entered two flats above it. Fire and Emergency Services cut off power supply to the entire apartment to prevent any further accident. “By the time the fire was put out, it was already dark and as power was also not there, we haven’t been able to conduct a thorough physical and technical examination of the building and fire risks due to electrical circuits. So we have advised the residents to stay away till such an examination is completed,” a senior official said. “I was at the office when the accident occurred. My son was at home, he called and I rushed here. Our flat is diagonally opposite the flat where the accident occurred. We haven’t been able to go up and see. I hope our flat is not damaged,” said one of the residents to media persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/it-took-over-3-hours-to-control-fire-cause-remains-a-mystery/article36601620.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors see many new cases of diabetes post COVID-19||While it is known that senior citizens and people with co-morbidities are at a high risk of contracting COVID-19, doctors in the city are seeing many new cases of diabetes post the infection. Doctors said diabetes increases the risk of complications and death if COVID-19 is contracted. Nearly 62% of the total 37,648 COVID-19 victims, in the State so far, had either diabetes or both diabetes and hypertension, along with other co-morbidities. State Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra told the Hindu on Tuesday that while almost all the patients who succumbed to COVID-19 reported SARI and ILI symptoms, 62% of them had one or more co-morbidities, mainly diabetes and hypertension. “The State’s death audit committee has found that over 42% of the deaths were due to late reporting. Their underlying health conditions worsened leading to further complications due to late reporting,” the Commissioner said. New cases Notably, not only does COVID-19 have the ability to worsen existing diabetes, but the virus may also trigger new cases, said Haleema Yezdani, a diabetologist who has been tele-triaging and tele-treating COVID-19 patients through Emergency Response Team and Project StepOne groups. “While many non-diabetic patients are reporting symptoms of diabetes post COVID-19, diabetic patients are noticing sudden spikes in their blood sugar levels,” she said. Pointing out that patients with Type 1 diabetes are noticing more episodes of diabetic ketoacidosis (a complication where the body produces excess ketones) due to COVID-19, she said: “This is because the virus damages beta cells that are found in the pancreas. This prevents the body from making insulin, triggering hyperglycemia (or high blood sugar). Besides, during an acute infection the body is under a lot of stress, causing hormonal imbalance, and an imbalance in insulin secretion,” she said. The prolonged use of corticosteroids during and after the infection adds to the problem. Pandemic lifestyle Quoting a recent survey by the BBMP which revealed that 50.86% of Bengaluru’s population is diabetic, Mahesh D.M., Consultant (Endocrinology) at Aster CMI Hospital, attributed it also to the sudden change in the lifestyle owing to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns. “Lack of physical activities due to confinement to homes has further added to the problem. High prevalence of smoking and increased alcohol consumption and high intake of refined carbohydrates are risk factors. Poor nutrition in early life combined with overnutrition in later life also plays a significant role,” he said. He said that in the last two-three months, the hospital had come across 150-200 new patients with diabetes. “Prior to the pandemic, it was 75-100 during the same period. With Bengaluru being the IT capital, many people are leading a sedentary lifestyle. The number is expected to rise in the coming years,” he said. Pre-diabetic state Pramod V. Satya, consultant internal medicine (certified in diabetelogy) at Vikram hospitals, said pro-inflammatory state in COVID-19 produces hyperglycemia. “Most of the times COVID-19 patients will have a pre-diabetic state (borderline diabetic), which worsens with the infection. Besides, indolent altered sugar metabolism is uncapped by COVID-19 leading to diabetes. In patients who are completely euglycemic (having normal sugars) there is no evidence to prove that COVID-19 causes diabetes,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctors-see-many-new-cases-of-diabetes-post-covid-19/article36601636.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bill will be tabled to simplify TDR to speed up land acquisition: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday informed the Legislative Assembly that simplifying Transferable Development Rights (TDRs) by amending the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961, is the only viable option for land acquisition for widening of arterial roads in the State’s capital. The Chief Minister said a Bill would be tabled in the House for simplification of TDR and for eliminating survey of lands by multiple agencies for granting TDRs for those who agree to hand over lands for development and infrastructure projects. In a reply to M. Satish Reddy (BJP) during Question Hour, Mr. Bommai said land acquisition and handover of huge compensation has been the major causes for delay in the completion of Bannerghatta, Begur, and Sarjapur roads in the city. He said Rs. 4,475 crore would be needed for acquisition of land for Bannerghatta, Begurm and Sarjapur roads, all linked to Electronic City. Instead of TDR, land owners have been seeking compensation in monetary terms. Land compensation would burden the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and it would not be possible for the civic body to execute road widening projects on such high costs, he said. Land acquisition cost for the Bannerghatta Road is estimated at Rs. 2,320 crore, Rs. 575 crore for Begur Road, and Rs. 1,580 crore for Sarjapur road. Some land owners have filed petitions in the High Court opposing the TDR policy of the government and this has caused delay in completing the projects, Mr. Bommai said.  Widening of all three roads would be completed by March 2022, he said. Mr. Bommai said existing TDR regulations were complicated and they mandated surveys by the project implementing agency such as BBMP and Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. followed verification surveys by the Bangalore Development Authority, and other urban development authorities before TDR was issued. Survey of land under TDR by multiple agencies led to delays in granting TDR, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-will-be-tabled-to-simplify-tdr-to-speed-up-land-acquisition-cm/article36601659.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suspension, dismissal of 4,190 RTC employees revoked||The suspensions and dismissals of a majority of the employees of road transport corporations (RTCs) who took part in a 15-day bus strike in April, have been revoked. Transport Minister B. Sriramulu, after a meeting with representatives of unions of the employees, said that suspensions, dismissals and punishment transfers of 4,190 employees of all the four corporations have been revoked. Remaining cases The four RTCs had taken action against 5,737 employees for taking part in the strike, obstructing bus crew from discharging their duties, and assaulting crew on duty. The Minister said in the remaining 1,500 odd cases, further action would be taken after seeking legal opinion, as FIRs were filed against employees and also include cases of dismissing trainee and probationary employees from service. Most of these employees are working in Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC). Challenging the dismissal from service, many employees had even approached the Labour Court.  The Minister said that during the meeting with the unions, various issues such as pay disparity, non-payment of provident fund, harassment of crew by higher ups and others were discussed. A total of eight unions took part in the interaction. Funds raised The Minister told mediapersons that the Chief Minister has asked him to instil confidence among the employees. He said that after the outbreak of the pandemic, the BJP government had released Rs. 2,500 crore towards payment of salaries of the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suspension-dismissal-of-4190-rtc-employees-revoked/article36601635.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DPAR to inquire into protocol violation by former Mysuru DC||Speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri has written to the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) to inquire into alleged protocol violation by IAS officer and former Mysuru Deputy Commissioner and that the government will take suitable action if protocol was violated. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy informed the Legislative Assembly about the inquiry in reply to a breach of privilege motion moved by S.R. Mahesh (JD-S) on Tuesday. The Minister said the motion moved by the member was not breach of privilege but a protocol issue. Mr. Mahesh alleged that the officer had curtailed his privileges by placing orders for purchase of cotton bags suo moto . The member read out a news report regarding IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri and alleged that she had mishandled the district during the pandemic. Former Speaker K.R. Ramesh Kumar too said Mr. Mahesh’s motion would not be considered as breach of privilege and asked the Speaker to look into such issues. On media In another breach of privilege motion moved, Goolihatti Shekar (BJP) alleged that a Kannada daily and private television channels have reported that he would be joining the Congress and told the House he would remain in the BJP. Mr. Shekar said his constituency and other funds had been cut owing to publication of such false media reports. Mr. Madhuswamy said Mr. Shekar himself has informed the House that he is in the BJP and would not join the Congress. Hence, there was no question of breach of privilege. Many petitions Mr. Kageri said he had received many petitions from members and they were largely related to protocol issues. He said protocol guidelines have been issued to officials many times and if necessary the government can issue them again. The speaker told the media not to indulge in “character assassination” of members of the House by publishing news reports without verifying them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dpar-to-inquire-into-protocol-violation-by-former-mysuru-dc/article36601655.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Spotlight on fire safety in high-rises, multistoreys||The horrific fire accident in an apartment complex in Devarachikkanahalli has underscored the importance of fire safety, especially in highrises and multistorey buildings. Over the years, the number of apartments in the city has increased exponentially. It is, therefore, important to ensure compliance to fire safety norms. To create more awareness about the same, more than a year ago, the Bangalore Apartments’ Federation (BAF) and Beyond Carlton, an organisation working on fire safety, together launched a pilot to assess the fire safety measures in place in various apartments. Around 90 apartments in the city reportedly participated in the self-assessment. Uday Vijayan from Beyond Carlton said the objective of the pilot was mainly to create awareness among citizens and sensitise them about what to do in case of a fire. “Most people are apathetic to fire safety; it is a behavioural issue that needs to change. The pilot was mainly a checklist of all the measures that need to be in place, such functioning valves, conducting regular fire drills, having evacuation plans etc.,” he said. BAF vice president Shankar Swaminathan admitted that there was a need for more engagement with apartments on the issue. BAF, he said, hoped to scale up the pilot to bring in better awareness. “We had to motivate the apartments to participate in the pilot, as not many came forward when we launched it,” he said. Worker shortage Vikram Rai, general secretary, BAF, told The Hindu that as per rules, high rises, including apartments, that are higher than 15 metres are required to get fire clearance certificate every two years from the Fire and Emergency Services. However, the shortage of manpower for this in the department is a major issue. The department had in fact a couple of years ago had recommended to the Home Department to have empanelled professional agencies to assist the department for the fire audit of high rises in the city. Amar Kumar Pandey, Director-General of Police, Karnataka State Fire and Emergency Services, said that the fire audit was an on-going process and that fire personnel were auditing many high rises across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spotlight-on-fire-safety-in-high-rises-multistoreys/article36601623.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man who sexually harassed bus co-passenger held||The city police arrested a man who had sexually harassed a co-passenger on a Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus recently. The arrested has been identified as Madhusudhan Reddy, from Ballari district and residing at Vijayanagar in the city. He works at a private firm. The victim, a student who is also from Ballari and studying in a college in the city, had gone to her parents’ house for Gowri-Ganesha festival and was returning to the city on an overnight KSRTC bus trip. As the bus approached Peenya-Dasarahalli in the city, the accused, Reddy, who had been allegedly staring at the girl for a long time got up, sexually harassed her and got down from the bus at Peenya and ran away. Based on her complaint, the Bagalagunte Police tracked down the accused using the KSRTC ticket and CCTV footage from the bus stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-who-sexually-harassed-bus-co-passenger-held/article36601621.ece
22 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM assures JD(S) MLAs of releasing withheld funds||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday assured the JD(S) of releasing withheld development funds granted to the constituencies of JD(S) MLAs during the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led coalition government, in three phases, if tenders had been called for listed works. Replying to a debate in the Assembly on various development works that had come to a halt in the constituencies of JD(S) MLAs following withdrawal of funds granted to them, the Chief Minister observed that sometimes funds were being allocated beyond the budgetary provision. “Also, the COVID-19 situation has affected our finances. Hence, we have withheld various works granted to constituencies belonging to all legislators, including of our own party,” he said. However, he assured the JD(S) MLAs of releasing the grants even if the works had not been tendered, by examining various aspects to assess the need and after following procedures such as tendering. He said works to the tune of Rs. 943 crore under RDPR department, Rs. 232 crore under Urban Development Department, and Rs. 4,007 crore under PWD would be continued in the constituencies of JD(S) MLAs. Earlier, the JD(S) MLAs led by former Minister H.D. Revanna alleged that the government had withdrawn development works to the tune of thousands of crores sanctioned to their constituencies. There was a heated exchange of words and the JD(S) MLAs staged a dharna for a brief when the Speaker declined permission to some to speak on the issue. At one point, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri expressed anger over Mr. Revanna questioning his direction to wind up the debate as it was taking a long time. “Your conduct is not befitting the dignity of the House,” he told Mr. Revanna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-assures-jds-mlas-of-releasing-withheld-funds/article36601648.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kaveri software glitches to be fixed by year-end||Glitches in Kaveri software that is holding up property registrations intermittently across the State will be fixed by the end of December with a new software, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said on Tuesday. Stating that the software was overburdened currently, he told the Legislative Council that it was also being used by Departments of Revenue and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj among others. The Minister said that property registration was hit due to old hardware, including UPS and battery. He added that the issue should have been ideally resolved in 2014. “We released Rs. 12 crore to replace the hardware. About 50% of the problem will be set right once the hardware is replaced.” Earlier, raising the issue, JD(S) member Appaji Gowda said the public was being inconvenienced due to shutdown of the systems in the Sub-Registrar offices. The JD(S) member urged the government to accept cash for receipts less than Rs. 1,000 as common man had to go to banks to pay cash and get the receipt or pay online. Explaining the rationale for introducing bank payment, the Revenue Minister said there have been instances of Sub-Registrars not remitting collected amount for years. “Five to six Sub-Registrars were found doing this. Even demand drafts were being held back,” he said. He, however, said the government will look into the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kaveri-software-glitches-to-be-fixed-by-year-end/article36601651.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Furore over toilet facility||Moving a privilege motion against House Leader Kota Srinivas Poojary, the Congress on Tuesday urged a toilet facility in Vidhana Soudha that led to a brief exchange of words between the ruling and Opposition benches. The motion moved by former chairman Prathap Chandra Shetty accused breach of privilege of members as Mr. Poojary had not implemented the assurance he had given to the House to replace the canteen with a toilet. When Council chairman Basavaraj Horatti rejected the motion, Congress members were incensed and this led to arguments. Intervening in the argument, Mr. Horatti said that the matter can be amicably sorted out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/furore-over-toilet-facility/article36601652.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decision on length, tune of Naada Geethe before Oct. 2, says Minister||An expert committee has been constituted to resolve long-drawn issues related to length and tune of Naada Geethe (State anthem) and a formal decision will be announced before October 2, Minister for Kannada and Culture V. Sunil Kumar informed the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. Based on the expert committee’s report, the government will announce its decision before Gandhi Jayanti. The committee comprising Doddarange Gowda and other members has been asked to give a report in 15 days, Mr. Kumar told M.P. Kumaraswamy during Question Hour. The Naada Geethe, Jaya Bharata Jananiya Tanujate, was penned by poet Kuvempu and was officially declared the State anthem in 2004. Workers’ list Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar told Raje Gowda T.D. of the Congress that plantation workers have been included in the category of unorganised workers’ list. A total of 144 categories of workers have been included in the list of unorganised sectors in the State. The State has about 1.6 crore unorganised workers in various sectors, including plantation, and they are eligible to get coverage under the Atal Pension Yojana (APY), the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-length-tune-of-naada-geethe-before-oct-2-says-minister/article36601657.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nirani’s Twitter account hacked||The Twitter account of Large and Medium Industries Minister Murugesh R. Nirani was hacked on Tuesday. A case has been filed in this regard with the cybercrime police. Message from Minister After his account was hacked, the Minister said, “My Twitter handle @NiraniMurugesh has been hacked from an unknown foreign location today. We do not know the exact origin and identity of the culprit. I urge everyone not to fall prey to any fraudulent messages posted by the hackers and ignore any derogatory and unparliamentary messages on my account.” Facebook Recently, the Facebook account of the Minister was also hacked and the hackers had demanded money through the account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/niranis-twitter-account-hacked/article36601624.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exams postponed||DCET examinations for admission to II and III semester engineering courses scheduled to be held on October 23, have been postponed to November, in view of the diploma examinations fixed up to November 2021. Karnataka Examinations Authority said that submission of special category certificates scheduled between September 23 and 27 was also postponed and a revised timetable will be published on the KEA website. Final year/semester exams of B.A., B.Com, B.Sc., B.E., are not yet completed in some universities. The PGCET 2021 scheduled for October 22 and 23 has been postponed to November 20-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exams-postponed/article36601628.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||AC services from Sept. 23||The BMTC will be introducing air-conditioned services from September 23. According to a release, the BMTC will run 232 trips with 44 bus services on the following routes: Kempegowda bus station to Kadugodi Bus Station – 12 services with 64 trips; Kempegowda bus station to Attibele Bus Stand – 10 services with 54 trips; Kempegowda bus station to Banneraghatta National Park – five services with 30 trips; Banashankari TTMC to ITPL – five services with 20 trips and Central Silk Board to Hebbal – 12 services with 64 trips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ac-services-from-sept-23/article36601631.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Review meet on facilities at Hampi||Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment and Ballari in charge B.S. Anand Singh on Tuesday held a review meeting regarding infrastructure in Hampi, a World Heritage Site. According to a release, he directed officials of the Indian Archaeological Department and the State Archaeology Department to mark boundaries and display nameplates. He said the decision to simplify rules for allowing film shooting in Hampi will boost tourism and said that he will hold a meeting with film directors in this regard. He instructed officials to upgrade five toilets in Hampi. He said tourists visiting Hampi should get online and physical tickets and added that the network issue would be resolved soon with the installation of three towers. Mr. Singh said that G+1 house construction facility is allowed in Kamalapura and instructed the Hampi World Heritage Area Development Authority to make an appropriate amendment to the rule to make it G+2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/review-meeting-on-hampi-infrastructural-facilities/article36601627.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free supply of medicine: HC notice to govt.||The High Court of Karnataka, on Tuesday, ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking direction to the government to restore regular and free supply of iron chelation drugs in government hospitals immediately for thalassemia patients. A Division Bench, comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed the order while hearing the petition by the Thalassemia and Sickle Cell Society of Bangalore. Pointing out that thalaseemia patients are facing severe hardship in the State due to non-availibility of iron chelation drugs, the petitioner sought a direction to the government to organise camps for distribution in all district hospitals. The petitioner has stated that chelation drugs was available for free sometimes in government hospitals but of late the supply has been stopped and the authorities have not taken any action to restore the supply in spite of repeated representations, even up to the level of the Chief Minister back in March this year. Stating that there about 17,000 thalassemia patients in Karnataka whose lives are in danger due to non availability of chelation, the petitioner has claimed that most patients cannot afford to buy this medicine in the open market as it costs on an average Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,500 per day. Thalassemia is a disability due to blood disorder and is covered under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, and the chelation therapy removes excess iron from the body that accumulates due to frequent blood transfusion in thalassemia patients. If it is not taken regularly, excess iron will damage vital organs, some times causing death, the petitioner pointed out. The society has also sought directions to the government to ensure that thalaseemia patients are given adequate, safe, free, and timely transfusions, and to organise special camps at districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-govt-on-plea-to-restore-free-supply-of-medicine-for-thalassemia-patients/article36601634.ece
22 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bill to protect religious structures adopted||The Assembly adopted the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021, that seeks to insulate unauthorised religious structures from the court’s directive to demolish such constructions in public places. The Bill gives protection from the court order to all religious structures that have been built before the date of coming into existence of this legislation. It comes in the wake of outrage over demolition of a temple in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district. Congress MLA U.T. Khader taunted that the BJP would be known in future for demolishing temples. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who piloted the Bill, countered by pointing out that 161 of the total 315 unauthorised religious structures had been demolished in Mysuru when the BJP was not in power. The Assembly also adopted the Karnataka Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill and Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-to-protect-religious-structures-adopted/article36601649.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fiscal responsibility Bill adopted||The Council passed the Karnataka Local Funds Authorities Fiscal Responsibilities Bill in the midst of a walkout by the combined Opposition, who feared the Bill would lead to financial irregularities and centralisation of power. While House Leader Kota Srinivas Poojary piloted the Bill, the Opposition sought clarifications and expressed doubts whether it would help in better financial management of the local bodies. Members questioned the need to replace the Accounts Department to monitor the local bodies with the Urban Development Department for urban local bodies and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj department for rural local bodies. Congress member P.R. Ramesh said this was an attempt to keep the functioning of local bodies outside the purview of auditing by CAG. Mr. Poojary assured that auditing of accounts would continue, and the move would help in decentralisation and administrative convenience. However, not convinced, the the Opposition staged a walkout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fiscal-responsibility-bill-adopted/article36601653.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State govt. on plea complaining ill treatment of elephant by Tumakuru branch of Andhra Pradesh mutt||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking direction for urgent medical treatment, rescue, and rehabilitation of a 29-year-old elephant, which was given to a religious institution about 27 years ago. A Division Bench, comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, passed the order. It has been pointed out in the petition that the elephant, Lakshmi, was born as a Karnataka Forest Camp calf in 1992 and when she was 18 months, her custody was handed over to the Urgradhi Gavimath Mahasamsthan Uravakonda, Anantapur district, Andhra Pradesh, through an ownership certificate issued in March 1994. However, the elephant was retained at the Sri Kadasiddeshwara Mutt situated at Nonavinakere in Tumakuru district, which is a branch of the A.P.-based mutt, the petitioner said, while alleging that the elephant was regularly beaten, paraded on roads, and used for begging across Tumakuru, besides renting the animal to be used for private processions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-to-state-govt-on-plea-complaining-ill-treatment-of-elephant-by-tumakuru-branch-of-andhra-pradesh-mutt/article36601639.ece
22 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Chanakya varsity Bill adopted||The Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Tuesday adopted the Chanakya University Bill, 2021, amidst objections by Opposition parties which termed it as a “scandal”. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah alleged that moves were afoot to provide about 116 acres of land acquired for industrial purpose near Devanahalli to the proposed private university. While the land was acquired at Rs. 1.5 crore per acre, it was proposed to be given to the varsity at Rs. 50 lakh an acre, he alleged. However, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok maintained that the issues related to land were not part of the Bill. Hailing the intentions of the university, Mr. Bommai said the government was ready to give permission to 10 such universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chanakya-varsity-bill-adopted/article36601643.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||UAS-B holds 55th convocation||As many as 1,012 students were conferred with various degrees at the 55th Convocation (2019-20) of University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Bengaluru held on Tuesday at the GKVK campus in Bengaluru. While 659 students received bachelor’s degrees, 279 received master’s degrees and 74 received doctoral degrees. In the doctoral degree programmes, seven boys and five girls were awarded a total of 21 gold medals. Governor and Chancellor of the University Thawar Chand Gehlot distributed the medals. Trilochana Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, delivered a virtual address, in which he stressed upon the need to focus on secondary agriculture. Further, he said that the digital revolution has opened new windows for Indian farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uas-b-holds-55th-convocation/article36601625.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,900 infected with black fungus: Minister||Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar informed the Assembly that 3,900 people have been infected with black fungus in the State. On the issue of shortage of medicines in Bidar district, the Minister said indent has been placed to supply medicines to hospitals. During zero hour, Eshwar Khandre (Congress) spoke of non-availability of medicines in Bidar and that 50 people had been infected. He staged a dharna alleging that the Minister was misleading the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3900-infected-with-black-fungus-minister/article36601647.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||818 new cases||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 818 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,69,361. Bengaluru Urban reported 359 and eight deaths. Death toll With 21 deaths, the toll rose to 37,648. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.  As many as 1,414 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,17,944. The State now has 13,741 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.80%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.56%. As many as 1,01,549 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 69,117 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,64,86,898.   COVID-19 in Karnataka on September 21  Cases: 818 Deaths: 21 Discharges: 1,414 Tests: 1,01,549 Vaccinations: 3,03,981 Test Positivity Rate: 0.80% Case Fatality Rate: 2.56% //////////////////////////////////////////////////////||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/818-new-cases/article36601637.ece
22 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hotel told to close for denying entry to Dalits||Following a complaint from Dalits of Dindagur in Channarayapatna taluk, the Hassan district administration has issued a notice for closure of a hotel in the village for practising untouchability. The owner of the hotel, situated on the premises of a Muzrai temple, allegedly did not allow Dalits to enter the premises, and served food to them outside while others were allowed inside. Santhosh D.D., who has earned a diploma in theatre from Neenasam at Heggodu in Shivamogga district, said the hotelier had been practising untouchability since he opened the hotel a couple of years ago. “I happened to visit the hotel to meet a friend who was having food inside. As I stepped in, the owner stopped me. He told me that people of my caste are not allowed inside. I was shocked,” he said. In a village of over 500 houses, around 60 houses belong to Dalits. Vokkaligas and Lingayats are among other castes that residents of the village belong to. Educated young Dalits of the village have taken the issue of discrimination against them seriously. With the help of the Bhim Army, an organisation working for the downtrodden, they submitted memorandums to the taluk administration and officials seeking action against the hotelier, besides demanding entry into temples in the village. The village has three Muzrai temples and one private temple. “All these years, elders of our families used to stand outside the temples and offer prayers. After the hotel incident, we have resolved to enter the temples to put an end to the practice of untouchability in our village,” said D.N. Nataraj, a Dalit youth. Channarayapatna tahsildar J.B. Maruthi and other taluk-level officers visited Dindagur on September 20 to discuss the issue with all stakeholders. Except the Dalits, no one attended the meeting. Mr. Maruthi said, “We have issued a notice for closure of the hotel. The administration will not allow anybody to continue the practice of untouchability.” Regarding entry to temples, Mr. Maruthi said, “I spoke to a few villagers who said they neither stopped Dalits from entering temples nor opposed it. We will fix a day soon for their entry into temples, in the presence of a police force, to avoid any untoward incident. We are hopeful that there would not be any opposition,” he said. Fine imposed on family Meanwhile, a Dalit family of Miyapur village in Koppal district, which was recently fined Rs. 25,000 after its two-year-old child entered a temple in the village, appears to be reluctant to take the issue forward. As per the Koppal police, the family refused to lodge a complaint against villagers who held a meeting on September 11 and imposed the fine on it for allowing the child to enter the temple. “Just as we came to know about the incident, we rushed to the village. Despite our persuasion, the family was not ready to file a complaint. Then, we had a meeting in the village on Saturday and asked people from all communities to enter the temple to offer puja,” Koppal Superintendent of Police T. Sridhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hotel-told-to-close-for-denying-entry-to-dalits/article36601642.ece
22 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Operation to catch leopard intensified||With reports of a few more sightings of a leopard in the residential localities around Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi, the Forest Department has pressed a few more teams into service, apart from setting up traps and employing drone cameras to keep vigil. In a bid to boost the morale of the residents, who are frightened over reports about sighting of the wild animal in the vicinity of Rajnagar, Shiradi Nagar and Nrupatunga Hill, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil, along with Chief Conservator of Forest Manjunath Chauhan and Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Kshirsagar, held a meeting with residents and elected representatives in Hubballi on Tuesday. With reports about more sightings by the residents, the forest officials have intensified combing operations in the forests adjoining the residential localities. Fire crackers were also used to scare the wild animal away from the residential localities. Speaking to presspersons after meeting the residents, Mr. Nitesh Patil said that extensive combing operations were being carried out by the Forest Department with the assistance of the district administration. And, all necessary assistance is being extended to the Forest Department, he said. He said that the officials and personnel of the Forest and Police departments were working round the clock to trace and capture the wild animal. He said that the 17 acres of land adjoining the Kendriya Vidyalaya at Rajnagar, Hubballi, could be a safe haven for the wild animal as it was covered with thick vegetation. Emphasising the need for cooperation from the general public during the operation, Mr. Manjunath Chauhan said that he will appeal to the people to restrict their movements till the leopard is captured as the wild animal will usually come out of its hideout during sunrise and sunset. Based on information on its movement, traps have been set up at five places, he said. Mr. Yashpal Kshirsagar said that the forest personnel had found pug marks and a few have also reported sighting of the leopard and based on the available data, a map of the possible route of the animal has been chalked out. In all, 40 personnel have been deployed. For night operations, infrared drone cameras will be used, he added. Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Deputy Commissioner of Police Ramrajan, Tahsildar Shashidhar Madyal, Principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Rajnagar, Ravi Rajesh and others were present. Meanwhile, locals have also formed a few teams and are warning people and diverting them through alternative routes. Demolition After getting requisite permission from the competent authorities in New Delhi governing the administration of Kendriya Vidyalayas, the administration has begun the work of demolishing the old structure of the Kendriya Vidyalaya which is believed to be one of the possible hideouts of the leopard. The old building was abandoned soon after the school was shifted to the new building and the proposal for demolition of the old building had not received the requisite permission. After the meeting with residents, the Deputy Commissioner said that the administration will take up the demolition in the interest of the safety of people by getting permission from the competent authorities. Accordingly, the demolition began in the evening. School holiday In view of the leopard sightings, the district administration has declared a holiday for 12 schools located on the foothills of Nrupatunga Hill, including the Kendriya Vidyalaya in Rajnagar, where classes remain suspended since Monday. Mr. Nitesh Patil has ordered the closure of Janata High School, government primary schools at Shiradi Nagar, Chamundeshwari Nagar, Santosh Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Vishweshwar Nagar, the government high school in Vishweshwar Nagar, J.K. English Medium School, D.K. Public School, Chaitra Kannada Convent, V.S. Pillai Primary School and N.K. Thakkar English Medium School till the completion of the operation to capture the leopard. He has ordered the schools to hold online classes for the time being. Sightings On Monday evening, Anilkumar Koparde and his family are said to have seen the leopard climbing down from a tree next to their house, which is on the foothills of Nrupatunga Hill. There were also reports about a resident of Shiradi Nagar having seen a leopard carrying away a piglet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/operation-to-catch-leopard-intensified/article36601866.ece
22 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Railway Protection Force lauded||General Manager of South Western Railway Sanjeev Kishore has said that the Railway Protection Force has been doing a tremendous job in providing security to railway property and also to crores of railway passengers. He was addressing various contingents of Railway Protection Force (RPF) after receiving a guard of honour at the 37th RPF Raising Day in Hubballi on Tuesday. The Railway Protection Force came into existence on September 20, 1985. In his speech, Chief Security Commissioner, Railway Protection Force, Vijay Kumar Katarkar highlighted the achievements of the Railway Protection Force. During the RPF Raising Day at Willies Ground in Hubballi, a colourful and grand parade was organised. Four platoons of RPF, including one platoon of women staff, participated in it. A dog squad was also part of the parade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railway-protection-force-lauded/article36601864.ece
22 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Veerashaiva Lingayat should unite, say seers||There is need for members and leaders of the Veerashaiva Lingayat community to bury their differences and unite for facilitating the development of the community, according to several seers belonging to the community. Scores of seers of the Veerashaiva Lingayat community met at Lingayat Bhavan in Dharwad on Monday to deliberate the next course of action for getting various benefits for the community from the government. Akhil Bharat Veearshaiva Mahasabha organised the meeting. The meeting discussed at length the setbacks suffered by the community in terms of getting government benefits. The issue of other communities getting various benefits and members of the community reportedly shifting allegiance to other religions was also discussed. At one point, members of the community who took part in the meeting also raised questions about the contributions of the seers in the development of society. A demand for supporting the ongoing movement for 2A reservation for Lingayat Pachamasali community from a section of the participants led to commotion for some time, which even went to the extent of some threatening to walk out of the meeting. President of Dharwad unit of the Mahasabha Gururaj Hunasimarad pacified them and facilitated continuation of the discussion. Sri Dingaleshwar Swami of Balehosur Mutt, who has often courted controversies, made an appeal for burying the differences among the seers and leaders of the community. “Unity should become the mantra for strengthening the community,” he said. The seer also emphasised the need for keeping away “imported Gods” from other States and focussing on the deities that belonged to the Veerashaiva Lingayat community. Reacting to the seer’s observation, one of the participants, Basavanthappa Totad, sought to know who was responsible for the development to which the seer replied that the religious heads and parents were responsible for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/veerashaiva-lingayat-should-unite-say-seers/article36601867.ece
22 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Call for Kalaburagi Bandh on Sept. 27||As part of Bharat Bandh agitation called by farmers agitating on the borders of Delhi demanding the repeal of three farm laws, farmers organisations in Kalaburagi have called for a Kalaburagi Bandh on September 27. Addressing a media conference here on Monday, Raitha Krishi Karmika Sanghatane State secretary H.V. Diwakar, district president of All India Kisan Sabha Maula Mulla, district president of Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha Sharanabasappa Mamshetty, district president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Nagendrappa Tambe and other farmer leaders said that thousands of farmers, workers, students and youths will participate in the agitation. “Thousands of farmers have been protesting on the border of the national capital for the last 10 months demanding the complete repeal of the three farm laws. The BJP-led Union government is so keen on serving its corporate masters that it is deliberately ignoring the agitation. We, the people of the country, are with the farmers agitating on the Delhi border and we are part of their agitation. We too will observe Kalaburagi Bandh as part of Bharat Bandh agitation on September 27,” Mr. Diwakar said. He added that the agitation will be organised under the banner of Samyukta Horata Karnataka, a conglomerate of different organisations and individuals. “Apart from demanding the repeal of three farm laws, the agitation will also raise the issues of skyrocketing prices of essential commodities and the demand for a law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for farm produces ensuring 50% net profit on the cost of cultivation,” Mr. Diwakar said. As per information provided by Mr. Mamshetty, a bike rally will be taken out on the major streets of Kalaburagi on Saturday and a torch-light procession will be organised near the Central Bus Stand on Sunday as preparatory activities for the bandh. “On Monday, a rally will be taken out from Nagareshwar School in the Supermarket area to the office of Deputy Commissioner. We appeal to the people of Kalaburagi to support the farmers cause and participate in the agitation to make the bandh successful,” Mr. Mamshetty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/call-for-kalaburagi-bandh-on-sept-27/article36601862.ece
22 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KARNATAKA||Help for lonely hearts from Kerala panchayat||For those who are single and looking for a partner, a local body in Kottayam is ready to play cupid. Taking note of a gradual rise in the number of single youth in its limits, the Thidanadu grama panchayat has taken it upon itself to help them find suitable life partners. Across the State And not a moment too soon as a ‘marriage diary’ opened by the local body has received over 700 registrations since its launch just three days ago. According to the panchayat authorities, the matchmaking service will be handled directly by ward members in the first phase. As the number of registrations rises, the process will gradually shift to an online platform. The scheme intends to find suitable matches for the registered members in coordination with local bodies across the State. “The popularity of matrimonial apps and websites may make it seem a bit old-fashioned, but it stands out from the rest. The service is totally free of cost,” explains Viji George, president, Thidanadu panchayat. Sherin Perumakunnel, president of the panchayat's health and education standing committees, is coordinating the service. The registration of profiles can be done by filling an online application form, which is being circulated through social media. “We have received registrations from locations as far as Malappuram. After verification, these profiles will be forwarded to the presidents of different local bodies who have agreed to cooperate with us in this initiative. To address privacy concerns, all communications will be carried out through the official e-mail IDs of the persons involved,” explains Mr. Perumakunnel. Sample survey The initiative follows an online sample survey carried out among the youths in the panchayat, says Mr. Perumakunnel. “The survey revealed that there are many young men and women looking for life partners but have their marriages delayed or broken up due to various factors. “This was when we decided to step in,” Mr. Perumakunnel adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-for-lonely-hearts-from-kerala-panchayat/article36601545.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New jumbo nut hybrid cashew released at DCR in Puttur||The Directorate of Cashew Research (DCR), under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Puttur in Dakshina Kannada, has released a new jumbo nut hybrid cashew — Nethra Jumbo-1. According to Principal Scientist of the directorate J. Dinakara Adiga, about 90 cashew nuts of this variety made a kg. In other varieties, about 160 nuts are required to make a kg. This brings down the amount of labour required for harvesting the crop by almost a half. If other varieties required about 60 workers, it requires around 30-35 workers bringing down the mandays required for its harvesting by almost 50%. “The new variety can save about Rs. 16,000 a tonne on labour cost and fetch a premium of Rs. 10,000 for bigger size per tonne of nut yield. This gives an additional revenue of Rs. 26,000 for farmers on every tonne of nut yield making cashew cultivation a profitable venture under rain-fed horticulture,” he said in a release. “The process of harvesting through picking of fallen nuts accounts to major share of expenditure to the tune of nearly 40% in cashew cultivation,” he said. Nut size is another advantage of this variety. “Nethra Jumbo-1 produces 12 gram nut with a high kernel recovery of 29% and the kernels fall under grade larger (W130) than presently available highest export grade (W180),” he said. Most of the other released cashew varieties are of medium (7 gram) to small nut (around 5-6 gram) type with a few exception of bold nut types weighing around 8-9 gram. He said that the development of jumbo nut varieties will significantly reduce the manpower requirement for harvesting of nuts apart from fetching premium price from processors as it will lead to production of premium sized kernels with higher market price. The bigger nuts also improve processing efficiency in the factory as it will also save labour in processing apart from getting higher out-turn. Since the Nethra Jumbo-1 has bigger nut size, processors can pay around Rs. 10 more per kg. With this, one tonne helps a farmer get nearly Rs. 10,000, Mr. Adiga said. Apart from this, Nethra Jumbo-1 bears early in the season. Farmers will get good rate for the varieties that come early in the season. Farmers can bring this variety to market by January. The other varieties come to the market by March-May, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-jumbo-nut-hybrid-cashew-released-at-dcr-in-puttur/article36602182.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||People asked to inform ZP about waste black spots||In its endeavour to make Udupi district “Black Spot-free District” by October 2, the Udupi Zilla Panchayat has urged people to inform the panchayat about black spots to help the administration clear them. The general public, on finding black spots in their areas or any other localities, may send pictures and other details, including the name of the spot, those throwing garbage, vehicle registration number, jurisdictional gram panchayat through WhatsApp on Ph: 9483330564, said Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat in a release here. Details of such informers will not be revealed to anyone, he added. Dr. Bhat said that the Zilla Panchayat has taken up the mission called “Namma Ooru-Swatcha Ooru” to make the district black spot-free. The panchayat is identifying garbage dumping public places, including road flanks, bus stands, water bodies. It has decided to make these places black spot-free on a continuous mission mode. Cooperation by the general public in this endeavour will help the Zilla Panchayat to effectively implement the mission, he said.  Zilla Panchayat has taken up the mission called ‘Namma Ooru-Swatcha Ooru’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-asked-to-inform-zp-about-waste-black-spots/article36602173.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Police constables complete Tulu, Beary learning course||It has been over four years since constable Lata, a native of Davangere, started serving in the city. Earlier, she had problems speaking to people in Tulu fearing a rebuke by the locals. With a one-month training, Ms. Lata has developed the confidence to not only speak Tulu but also compose a small poem in the language. Constables Umashree, who hails from Hassan district, and Manjamma, who is from Ballari district, also share Ms. Lata’s feelings. “This month-long training has helped us not only to converse in Tulu but also in Beary,” said Ms. Umashree. Ms. Majamma thanked the resource persons for effectively training personnel in Tulu and Beary communication. They are among the 55 police personnel who have completed their one-month-long training in Tulu and Beary at the office of the Police Commissioner. A majority of the police personnel working in the city are from north and central Karnataka and efforts are being made to train them in Tulu and Beary. Then Police Commissioner M. Chandra Sekhar took the initiative to train personnel in the two native languages in 2016. Now, Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar has resumed the training programme. Mr. Kumar said that it is necessary for the personnel to adapt to the region they are posted in by following the language, culture, and tradition. This becomes a lot more important for police personnel as they need to be closely connected with the local people and curb anti-national activities in the coastal region. Training in Tulu was conducted by Rajesh Kadri and Sudha Nagesh, the two resource person deputed by the Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy. Karnataka Beary Sahitya Academy member Shamsheer Budoli and Razak Anantady conducted the Beary training session. The sessions were held between 9.30 a.m and 4 p.m. from August 4 to September 5. Lauding the effort of the personnel in learning the two languages, Mr. Kumar, in his valedictory address on Tuesday, asked the trainees to make good use of their new skill in the policing work. Taking the example of the former Director-General and Inspector-General of Police Ajai Kumar Singh, who did a doctorate in Kannada Vachana Sahitya, Mr. Kumar asked the personnel to take up studies in Tulu literature. Mr. Kumar said that more personnel will undergo training in the two languages in the coming days. President of Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy Dayanand Kattalsar asked the trainees to share the language skills they have learnt among their colleagues. Deputy Commissioners of Police Hariram Shankar, B.P. Dinesh Kumar and Channaveera Hadapad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-constables-complete-tulu-beary-learning-course/article36602188.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Training in canopy management in cashew orchards organised||The Directorate of Cashew Research (DCR), Puttur, organised a training for farmers on canopy management in the cashew orchard of Venugopal Kedilaya at Shibara near Puttur recently. As cashew trees grow extensively covering vast area, effective management of tree canopy is very important in harvesting a better crop, a release from the directorate said. A team of scientists from the directorate, comprising Principal Scientist (Horticulture) J. Dinakar Adiga, Scientist (Horticulture) Muralidhara B.M., Scientist (SPM and AP) Manjesh G.N. and Scientist (Agricultural Extension) Aswathy Chandrakumar visited the cashew orchard of Navneet Farms to advice on canopy management practices in cashew as well as other fruit crops. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Adiga highlighted the basic training practices as well as pruning practices to bring young cashew plants to proper shape for better penetration of sunlight and air. Mr. Muralidhara explained how to prune the plants right from beginning of the plantation as well as at the time of pruning for various cashew varieties. This was followed by actual on-farm demonstration of canopy management in the farm. Field workers in the farm were asked to demonstrate the technique of canopy management before the scientists for fine tuning their acquired knowledge. The time and extent of pruning for harvesting scion sticks were also explained in detail as requested by field workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/training-in-canopy-management-in-cashew-orchards-organised/article36602185.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MCC to verify background of ward committee applicants||Mangaluru City Corporation has agreed to verify the criminal and the political background of applicants who wish to be members of ward committees in view of complaints that many who have applied are members of political parties and have a criminal background. The decision follows a recent meeting of a delegation from Mangalore Civic Group (formerly known as MCC Civic Group) with Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar. The Commissioner said that he will get the complaints examined by the jurisdictional police and also the political parties. The formation of ward committees will, however, continue simultaneously. As and when responses from the police and political parties are received, necessary action will be taken, Mr. Sridhar told The Hindu here on Tuesday. Steps will be taken to address deficits, as complained by civic groups, over the course of time, the Commissioner said. A release from the group said that it demanded immediate cancellation of the provisional selection list of ward committees during its recent meeting with the Commissioner and that the selection be held afresh. It indicated some course-correction measures to be adopted for fresh selection. The Commissioner agreed to implement some of the measures to rectify the flaws. The group said that there were many flaws and violation of rules in the selection process, including selection of active political party workers, lack of transparency in the process. It suggested 10 course correction measures. Inclusion of political party members will defeat the very purpose of the ward committees as they are expected to monitor the functioning of councillors at the ward level. Mr. Sridhar, the release said, agreed to implement some of the measures, including verifying claims of not being an active party worker and not having pending criminal cases by the political parties and the police, respectively. He also agreed to set right deficiency in 49 wards where provisionally selected members are less than the maximum 10. The delegation included Nigel Albuquerque, Prathapchandra Kedilaya, Arun D’Souza, Anand Rao, Suresh Nayak, Oswald Pereira and Rajaram Addoor. The Mangalore Civic Group was formed in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-to-verify-background-of-ward-committee-applicants/article36602186.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Paintings go on show||A collection of watercolour paintings by Janardhan Rao Havanje from Udupi formed the eighth episode of Art of the Week series being presented by Art Kanara Trust that was unveiled here on Monday. The display was unveiled in the presence of architect Vasudev N. Shet, Head of the Department, Srinivas School of Architecture, and also Proprietor, Hayagreeva Design Studio, Mangaluru, INTACH Mangaluru Chapter Convener Subhas Chandra Basu and Francis Concessao from Francis Doris Skate City, Mangaluru, at Kodialguthu Center for Art and Culture, Ballalbagh. The Art of the Week series is presented by Art Kanara Trust jointly with S Cube Art Gallery and Mind Craft Studios. The paintings will continue to be on display till September 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paintings-go-on-show/article36602175.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two competitions to mark Beary Day||Akhila Bharata Beary Parishat, Mangaluru, will conduct two competitions for Beary Day to be observed on October 3. An essay competition for students up to pre-university will be conducted on the topic, “History and importance of Beary language”. Another essay competition for degree students and people in general will be conducted on the topic “Merits and demerits of new National Education Policy – 2020”. In addition, a Beary adage competition will be conducted for people in general. The participants will have to collect at least 50 Beary adages and send them to the parishat. The essays and adages should reach the parishat on or before October 1 either by post or by sending it through WhatsApp number 9743700920/9008503993. They should be sent to its office at Capital Avenue, ground floor, near State Bank of India main office. Each competition category will have three cash prizes in the order of Rs. 2,000, Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 500, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-competitions-to-mark-beary-day/article36602176.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Menhir from Megalithic period found in Basrur||A menhir, an upright standing stone, has been found at Basrur in Udupi district. T. Murugeshi, Associate Professor, Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, Mulki Sundar Ram Shetty College, Shirva, Udupi district, says, “Menhirs are upright stones from the Megalithic period. They are erected above a burial site or near a burial site as a memorial.” The discovery takes back the antiquity of Basrur to between 1,000 BC and 800 BC, which is the Megalithic period. The stone has a height of seven feet above the ground level. It was found on the roadside near the Venkataramana temple. “This stylistic menhir of Basrur has close resemblance to menhirs found in Baise and Nilskal in Shivamogga district,” he informed on September 20. The menhir in Basrur had been in the spot for as long as people could remember, but no one knew what it was. It is oriented in the north-west direction and leans slightly to the east. Menhirs are also called pregnancy stones because they resemble a pregnant woman. “But we do not know whether they were built in memory of deceased pregnant women,” he said. Basrur is a medieval trading city in coastal Karnataka. It was known by various names, like Basurepattana, Basurepura, Vasupura, Basaruru. The town is studded with many temples, which is an indicator of its splendid wealth. The Devi temple of Basrur has special importance with the feast of Devi performed once every 60 years. Mahalingeshwara temple, Kote Anjaneya temple, Tuluveshwara temple, Ramachandra temple, Umamaheshwara temple, Bhairava temple are the other surviving temples in the town in addition to Sadananda Mutt, Prof. Murugeshi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/menhir-from-megalithic-period-found-in-basrur/article36601869.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Conference||The Communist Party of India (Marxists) will hold its 23rd Dakshina Kannada District Conference for three days from November 22 at Gurupura-Kaikamba, on the outskirts of the city. The party held a preliminary meeting on Tuesday on constituting the reception committee for the conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conference/article36602170.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MESCOM meeting||MESCOM will conduct its consumer contact meeting at its Moodbidri sub-division office from 11 a.m. to noon on Friday. It will be in the virtual mode. The link to participate ishttps://meet.google.com/dvu -wkhu-edm. Call Ph: 08258-295051.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mescom-meeting/article36602171.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nukkad play||Employees of Konkan Railway Corporation staged a Nukkad play at Surathkal Railway Station near here on Tuesday to create awareness about cleanliness among passengers and general public. Staging of the play is part of Swatchata Phakwada being observed by Indian Railways from September 16. KRCL too has planned many programmes across its network to mark the cleanliness fortnight and create awareness on cleanliness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nukkad-play/article36602172.ece
22 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No garbage collection in Udupi tomorrow||There will be no collection and disposal of solid waste in Udupi city on September 23 due to Civic Workers Day. The function to observe the day will be organised in the Town Hall at Ajjarakadu in Udupi at 11 a.m. on Thursday, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-garbage-collection-in-udupi-tomorrow/article36602183.ece
22 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Four palace jumbos likely for Gujarat||The Chief Conservator of Forest (CCF), Mysuru, has asked the Deputy Conservator of Forest (Mysuru – Wildlife) to certify the health condition of four elephants that are in the custody of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family which has proposed to shift them to Gujarat. DCF K. Karikalan has been told to check the health status of the four elephants out of six, which have been identified for shifting to a temple in Gujarat, and submit a status report. The six female palace elephants – Seetha, Ruby, Gemini, Rajeshwari, Chanchala and Preethi – were reportedly rescued from a circus many years ago and were given to the royal family as it volunteered to take care of them. Some of them were used for “elephant safari” within the palace premises.  The consent of the Chief Wildlife Wardens of Karnataka and Gujarat is a must to transport the elephants as per the rules. The jumbos are said to be aged between 42 and 50, and were handed over to the palace when Srikantadatta Narasimharaja Wadiyar was alive. Sources told The Hindu that Pramoda Devi Wadiyar had written to the senior Forest officials expressing the family’s wish to hand over the four elephants to a temple in Gujarat that had come forward to take care of them. The DCF has been told to submit a fitness report of the four jumbos – Seetha, Ruby, Gemini and Rajeshwari. Mr. Karikalan told The Hindu that he had received instructions from the CCF for certifying the four elephants based on their health status. “I have told the respective RFO and veterinarian to follow protocols and check their health condition. Thereafter, I will submit a report to the CCF who is expected to communicate the same to the PCCF Wildlife for a decision,” he said. If the Chief Wildlife Warden grants permission for transporting the animals based on the DCF’s report, the CCF and the DCF would once again be told to make arrangements for shifting the animals. However, the cost of transportation and other expenses have to be borne by the caretakers. or those who are receiving the jumbos. The DCF is expected to submit his report this week. If the elephants are handed over to the Forest Department, they would be housed in camps but the cost incurred on their maintenance has to be borne by the caretakers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-palace-jumbos-likely-for-gujarat/article36601969.ece
22 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Yet another theatre to shut down in Mysuru city||Another single-screen theatre in Mysuru is slipping into oblivion. Saraswathi, in Saraswathipuram locality, is permanently stopping screening, disappointing movie goers, as it was one of the popular cinemas here. Confirming this to The Hindu , M.R. Rajaram, Secretary, Mysuru Film Exhibitors’ Association, said one of the partners of the theatre told him that they were shutting down. The theatre had not resumed screening despite the government lifting curbs and allowing screening with 50 per cent capacity. This is the fourth single-screen theatre after Sri Nagaraj, Shanthala and Lakshmi to permanently shut down. The first and second waves of COVID-19 have continued to sound the death knell to show business. “Two more theatres are also planning to wind up as running a theatre has become difficult with extreme tax burden and meagre returns. The theatres would have shut down maybe after 10 years but they are closing now because of the pandemic with zero or limited business over lockdowns and curbs,” Mr. Rajaram explained. He said that Mysuru may lose other single-screen theatres if the government failed to respond to their problems. Across the State, the theatres are in trouble and as many as 84 have ended their business in the last one-and-a-half years unable to bear losses. Only 580 theatres exist in the State. The government’s assurance to allow screening with 100 per cent seating capacity will not help as the damage is already done and many more will shut down, unable to recover from the impact of the pandemic. As far as Mysuru is concerned, the double taxation by the Mysuru City Corporation is one of the reasons and the repeated appeals to stop charging “super” commercial tax on properties including single-screen theatres have fallen on deaf ears. “How could an exhibitor pay Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh a year when the theatres were not doing business? How could we pay 100-150 per cent hike in taxes once in three years?” Mr. Rajaram, who is also the vice-president, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation, asked. “The taxation problems and other issues raised with the local authorities and the government have remained unaddressed. It seems the government does not want this sector to sustain and survive. The next generation is reluctant to run the business with risks and pressures involved and uncertainties galore,” he said.  The revenue model has failed to sustain theatres and it is time the model was renegotiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yet-another-theatre-to-shut-down-in-mysuru-city/article36601971.ece
22 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Railways test efficacy of disaster management plan||The ‘derailment’ of an express train with 15 passengers ‘trapped’ in two ‘capsized’ bogies at Ashokapuram railway station in Mysuru was part of a safety drill carried out by the Mysuru division of South Western Railway along with a team of personnel from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Soon after receiving a message around 9.56 a.m. on September 21 that the Tirupati-Chamarajanagar Express had ‘derailed’, railway officials rushed to the ‘accident site’ to carry out relief and rescue operations as per the standard protocol. An NDRF team comprising 20 personnel, led by Inspector General Harish Chandra Pandey, too reached the site. Personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services, doctors and nurses from the railway hospital also arrived at the spot to assist in the operation to rescue the 15 passengers ‘trapped’ in the ‘capsized’ coaches. The ‘rescue operation’ lasted about 70 minutes. The drill was carried out to test the efficacy of the Disaster Management Plan that included a range of activities enabling personnel from different departments of the railways to practice safety-related measures during an emergency. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railway, Mysuru, oversaw the ‘rescue operation’ along with other senior officials. Explaining the significance of such drills, he feels they would go a long way in improving preparedness of railways to deal with, as well as prevent, disasters due to human error. “Minimising the impact, be it loss of precious human lives or damage to infrastructure is of paramount importance. Preventive measures are assigned the highest priority during such drills to mitigate suffering,” he said. Adequate maintenance of all equipment, including those in Accident Relief Trains, will be carried out as laid down in the rules to ensure operational readiness at all times.  “Mysuru division is equipped with all necessary relief requirement, including a Self-Propelled Accident Relief Train (SPART), locomotive-hauled accident relief trains, a 140-tonne crane, and medical relief train with trained personnel, including doctors and paramedical staff to provide immediate aid to the injured. These can be moved to accident sites quickly,” he added. Personnel from Railway Protection Force (RPF), Government Railway Police and civil police force also took part in the exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-test-efficacy-of-disaster-management-plan/article36601973.ece
22 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Memory Walk’ taken out||Memory Walk, a silent rally, was taken out in Mysuru on Tuesday to create awareness about Alzheimer’s. The Mysuru chapter of Alzheimer’s and Related Disorders Society of India (ARDSI), which had organised the event, said the disease, caused by abnormal brain tissue changes, was the most common cause of dementia. For at least the last 15 years, a majority of the people with dementia have been living in developing regions of the world. “They account already for over 60 per cent of all cases; by 2040 this proportion will rise to 71 per cent”, President of ARDSI, Mysuru chapter, Hanumanthachar Joshi, said in a statement here. The Mysuru chapter of ARDSI was established in 2012 to cater to the needs of Alzheimer’s disease patients and their caregivers. The World Alzheimer’s month is observed in Septemberto sensitise the general public on the disease. The walk was among the series of events conducted by ARDSI, Mysuru chapter, in association with Sarada Vilas College of Pharmacy, Apna Desh, People’s Association for Geriatric Empowerment (PAGE), JSS Hospitals, Viveka Hospital, and Association of Community Pharmacists of India, Mysuru The rally began from Kote Anjaneyaswamy Temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/memory-walk-taken-out/article36601970.ece
22 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A multi-hued canvas for women artists||One of the elements that makes Lokame Tharavadu, an exhibition of contemporary art, stand out is the sheer number of artists — 267 — participating. The artworks featured include that of 56 women artists who practise their art on various media. Kajal Deth is known for her photographic works that document the great deluge of 2018. Some of her photographs and one video art are part of the exhibition. The video art showing an old man turning a wheel refers to him as a machine in the coir industry. "Growing up near the sea and the backwaters of Alappuzha, my visual sensitivity has been influenced by the lives of coir workers, farmers and fishers," says Kajal. Ecstatic moments Radha Gomathy works without a studio. Her ‘Alexa! Win this War!,’ an installation of 87 drawings and one text is part of the display. The drawings configure violent, angst-ridden, remorseful and ecstatic moments from the life of a couple. Many women artists see Lokame Tharavadu as an important milestone. "I don’t know about another show in the country that features this many women Malayali artists," says P.S. Jalaja, an artist who is part of Lokame Tharavadu. "Though the women artists in Kerala have perhaps 50 years of history, there are only about 200 of them who are actively practising. This is an important milestone and a matter of great pride," she adds. Writer-cum-academic Rekha Raj is among those who has highlighted the representation of women in the show. "I think it is the largest representation of women in Kerala's art exhibition history. I find the reflection of the lives of women in their works," she says. Different dimension Rathi Devi, whose painting series titled ‘Ummaram’ is on display, considers the show a great opportunity for her. “The display of each work is quite special. I think we can reach out to humans only by referring to other species. My art practice is also based on this thought,” she says. Sreeja Pallam, who has exhibited 40 paintings of working women, feels that women's art has another dimension and that Lokame Tharavadu is displaying its variety and attitudes. Aami Atmaja, another participant, says she has always felt that nobody knew about the women artists practising here. “The paintings of artists such as Santha C. on display here were kept under the bed for years. There are a lot of such artists and many of them may not have studied painting academically. I think this show solves the visibility problem faced by women artists.” According to Smitha G.S., another participant, one reason for this inadequate participation of women artists is that only a few are ready to come out of their houses.  Many women artists see Lokame Tharavadu as an important milestone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-multi-hued-canvas-for-women-artists/article36601935.ece
22 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Female health staff attacked by two men at midnight||The police have launched an investigation after unidentified assailants allegedly attacked and tried to abduct a 35-year-old female health staff at Pallana, near Thrikkunnappuzha, on Monday night. According to the Thrikkunnapuzha police, the woman, a native of Pallana, was returning home from work when she was attacked around 11.30 p.m. The police said it is a suspected case of attempted robbery. "The victim is a nursing assistant at the COVID-19 ward in the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. After her duty, she was returning home on a scooter when two motorcycle-borne men followed her and hit her with a helmet. She lost control of her vehicle and it hit an electric pole," said a police officer. Ornaments sought According to her statements, the assailants asked her to hand over her ornaments. "As she was not wearing ornaments, the duo tried to kidnap her. She managed to escape and find refuge at a nearby home. Around the same time, a police patrolling team reached the spot. Seeing the police vehicle, the two men escaped on their motorbike," the official said. The woman was admitted to a hospital on Tuesday morning. Her condition is stable. The police said that a case was registered in connection with the incident. "We have launched a probe to identify the vehicle and the attackers. We are in the process of examining CCTV visuals collected from various places," said, Manjudas M.M., circle inspector, Thrikkunnappuzha. Charges against police Meanwhile, the woman's relatives alleged that the police patrolling team had failed to act immediately and take her to the hospital. The Kerala State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has registered a suo moto case. SHRC member V.K. Beenakumari directed State Police Chief Anil Kant to look into the issue and submit a report in two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/female-health-staff-attacked-by-two-men-at-midnight/article36601936.ece
22 September 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Suresh Gopi comes out in support of CM||Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Gopi has come out in support of the government which is under attack from the Opposition over its alleged inaction concerning the Pala bishop’s controversial ‘narcotic jihad’ remarks. Talking to mediapersons at Kattappana on Tuesday, the actor-turned BJP politician said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other Ministers were aware of the situation and should be permitted to do what they have to. The government was doing what it could do and he would react if the intervention of the government was against the interests of the nation. It was not desirable to criticise the government on each and every issue, Mr. Gopi said. He was responding to a query by reporters as to whether time for intervention by the government in the controversy had elapsed. ‘An administrator’ The MP further said the Chief Minister was not required to respond to each and every comment against him or his government as he was “not a politician, but an administrator”. "He has to uphold the dignity of his office. Why should he respond? He only needs to act (take steps),” Mr. Gopi said. His remarks come against the backdrop of criticism over the “silence” and alleged lack of action by the Left government with regard to the bishop’s remark. The Congress had urged the government to convene an all-party meeting over the issue.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suresh-gopi-comes-out-in-support-of-cm/article36601937.ece
22 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Board invites orders for coffee seeds||Applications have been invited from coffee growers for placing indents for coffee seeds of Arabica and Robusta varieties. The indents should be submitted in the prescribed application to the liaison offices of the Coffee Board in Wayanad, Idukki, and Palakkad districts on or before November 12. The applications should be accompanied by an advance payment of Rs. 500 for 1 kg of seed payable by demand draft or through electronic mode, J. Nirmal Davis, Joint Director (Extension), Coffee Board, Kerala, said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/board-invites-orders-for-coffee-seeds/article36601900.ece
22 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Injured elephant found in Aralam farm||A wild elephant was found with serious injuries in the Cheenkannipuzha area in the 17th block of the Aralam farm in Kannur on Tuesday. The elephant had sores on its legs and body. Locals said there was a strong stench coming from the animal. It was tired and in pain, they said. However, they alleged that the forest personnel had not turned up despite being informed. Aralam Wildlife Warden Santhosh Kumar said that the injuries were caused by infighting, which occurred during this time as it was the mating season. They were keeping a watch on the animal and the chief veterinary surgeon Arun Sakaria had been consulted, who was expected to arrive on Wednesday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/injured-elephant-found-in-aralam-farm/article36601908.ece
22 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur varsity appoints first Emeritus Professor||M. Haridas, a former Professor in the Department of Biotechnology and Microbiology, Kannur University, and a senior researcher at the Inter-University Centre for Biosciences, has been appointed as the first Emeritus Professor in the Department of Biotechnology and Microbiology of the university. Dr. Haridas holds an M.Sc. in Life Sciences with a specialisation in Industrial Microbiology from Sardar Patel University, Gujarat. He pursued his post-doctoral studies in Structural Biology at AIIMS, New Delhi, and Massey University, New Zealand. He was the first biologist in India to be trained in X-ray crystallography of single crystals of proteins. This experience enabled him to establish the first protein crystallography research group in Kerala. He discovered protein crystal structures in many animals and plants. He began by developing experimental models to lay the theoretical basis for the fermentation of medicines in Ayurveda. His work also paved the way for the discovery of new drug molecules in modern medicine. He was instrumental in the discovery of the existence of a small molecule that binds to insulin and initiates insulin receptor-mediator molecular signalling. This finding could lead to a complete reversal of treatment for insulin-resistant diabetes mellitus and paediatric hyperinsulinemia. He is the author of over 100 international publications, over 30 chapters in edited volumes, and has two Indian patents. He is in the process of applying for an international patent. He is also the research mentor for 26 scholars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-varsity-appoints-first-emeritus-professor/article36601910.ece
22 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||‘Kodi Suni enjoying stay in jail’||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran has said that the government is conspiring to provide facilities to Kodi Suni in jail. Speaking to the media on Tuesday, Mr. Sudhakaran said Suni had been enjoying all the comforts of life since he was imprisoned. “All this is being done with the connivance of the government, and the Chief Minister should be prepared to respond,” he said. The KPCC president said religious harmony was deteriorating in the State. The Chief Minister should intervene to end the problems following the controversial statement of the Bishop of Pala, he demanded. Meanwhile, countering the allegation raised by the KPCC president, Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Kanam Rajendran said a meeting of religious and community leaders should not be called based on the “narcotics jihad” allegation of the Bishop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodi-suni-enjoying-stay-in-jail/article36601911.ece
22 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Varsity commissions library app MyLOFT||The Central University of Kerala has purchased the software My Library on Fingertips (MyLOFT) Library, a remote access app that will allow access to the e-resources of the university library. The university subscribes to over 13,500 e-journals, 1,082 e-books and 14 databases such as Scopus, IEEE /CSDL, Prowess IQ, MathSciNet, J Gate, States of India, NotNull Hindi Database, CMIE Database, and SCC online. Due to the COVID-19 situation, students are unable to access library materials physically. MyLOFT is a mobile app platform that helps libraries facilitate seamless and secure access to library subscribed premium e-resources. Vice-Chancellor H. Venkateshwarlu officially launched the MyLOFT software. He emphasised that MyLOFT would provide seamless access to the resources of the university library. The app allows one to access, organize, share, and read offline all of the subscribed e-contents. Students can bookmark their e-content to the app and have offline access on their smartphone whenever they need to access their content. Students, research scholars and faculty members can access the library 24x7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-commissions-library-app-myloft/article36601906.ece
22 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. selects firm for WTE project||The State government has entrusted the consortium of Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd with the implementation of the waste-to-energy (WTE) plant project at Brahmapuram. It has given approval for a tipping fee of Rs. 3,550 per tonne offered by the firm for the development of the integrated solid waste management project, with a waste-to-energy plant of 300 tonnes per day capacity to be set up on public-private partnership mode on 20 acres on the land owned by the Kochi Corporation. Tipping (gate) fee is the charge levied upon a given quantity of waste received at a waste processing facility. An order approving the firm stated that the consortium had quoted a tipping fee of Rs. 3,672 per tonne. Officials of the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation, which had invited the tenders for the project, held discussions with the company representatives to reduce the fee. After two rounds of negotiation, the bidder revised the fee to Rs. 3,550 per tonne, subject to the condition that a confirmation on per capita based viability gap fund of Rs. 102.09 crore can be made available for the project as per Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) guidelines. The WTE plant will have production capacity of 5 MW for the Ernakulam cluster of local bodies. The cluster comprises the Kochi Corporation and municipalities including Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Kalamassery, Eloor, Maradu, Aluva, Perumbavoor, Angamaly, North Paravur, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Piravom, and Koothattukulam. The firm to be chosen for the execution of the project on 20 acres at Brahmapuram will have powers to mortgage leasehold rights over the said area for raising funds for the initiative. The government had asked the Kochi Corporation Secretary to hand over the land to the KSIDC on lease basis. It will sub-lease the land to the firm for 27 years, with permission to mortgage leasehold rights for raising funds only for the project. The plant will be set up on design, build, finance, operate and transfer ((DBFOT) basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-selects-firm-for-wte-project/article36602153.ece
22 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Land acquisition for Atlantis rail overbridge to begin soon||The land acquisition notification for the much-delayed Atlantis rail overbridge will be published shortly. Nearly one acre of land will have to be acquired for the project. The Kochi Corporation had earlier taken possession of 1.7 acres. Ten houses and three other buildings are located on the land to be acquired for the overbridge, said an official of the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation Kerala, which is implementing the project. The social impact assessment of the project was completed some time ago and the report was submitted to the District Collector. The District Collector will have to issue the 11(1) notification under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The overbridge connecting Panampilly Nagar and M.G. Road, which would run parallel to the South overbridge, is expected to ease the city traffic pressure significantly. The land acquisition alone would cost the exchequer Rs. 48.87 crore. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board has earmarked Rs. 89.77 crore for the project. The Board has agreed to meet any possible escalation in the land acquisition and construction expenses for the project, the official said. The delay in getting the land has been the major obstacle before the implementation of the project. The construction could start once the land acquisition and other formalities are completed. It may take one year for the project to be completed, said a senior functionary of the Board. Incidentally, the construction of the road overbridge had topped the agenda of the Kochi Corporation for over two decades. Though the civic body had earlier tried to implement the project under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, it didn’t succeed as the Mission didn’t fund the land acquisition component of the project. The fixing of the alignment of the bridge and the proposal to reduce the width of its carriageway had generated heated debate in the city. The Kochi Corporation has brought the project to the attention of the State government. Industries Minister P. Rajeeve will review the progress of the project shortly, said Mayor M. Anilkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-acquisition-for-atlantis-rail-overbridge-to-begin-soon/article36602147.ece
22 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,545 new cases in Ernakulam||As many as 1,545 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday. A total of 1,514 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 25 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 11.53%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Thripunithura (71), Thrikkakara (47), Mudakuzha (47), and Kalamassery (42). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Elamkulam, North Paravur, Varapetti, Edavanakad, Kadamakudy, Thevara, Ayappankavu, Maneed, Ayampuzha, and Pothanikad, according to an official release. Around 13,398 tests were held on Tuesday. About 17,415 persons are under treatment in the district. Migrants vaccinated About 50,055 migrant workers in Ernakulam have received the first dose of the vaccine, according to official estimates. This include 13,330 doses facilitated by the employees of the migrant workers. Around 64% of the workers had received the first dose. P.M. Firoz, District Labour Officer, said that efforts were on to attain 100% target by the end of this month. Around 27 lakh people have received the first dose in Ernakulam and 12 lakh have received both the doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1545-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article36602152.ece
22 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Reminiscing 40 years of laughter||The image of a six-member team clad in jubba and performing mimicry in front of a packed audience at the Kerala Fine Arts Hall auditorium here on September 21, 1981 remains fresh in the memory of actor-director K.S. Prasad. A thunderous applause erupted at the end of the show as they ignited a laugh riot among the audience and went on to make their ‘Mimics Parade’ troupe a household name in the State and abroad. “It was Fr. Abel, founder of Cochin Kalabhavan, who was instrumental in launching such a professional group of mimicry artistes,” said Mr. Prasad on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the popular troupe here on Tuesday. Besides him, the initial members of the troupe included actor-director Lal, filmmaker Siddique, artistes Kalabhavan Ansar, Kalabhavan Rahman, and Varkichan Petta. “Over the years, the troupe provided a space for numerous talents, who played a key role in popularising mimicry in society,” he said. Mr. Siddique, who named the troupe ‘Mimics Parade’, recalled that they had considered various names like ‘Mimics Nite’, ‘Mimics Eve’ and a title by including the first letters of their names. “I echoed the view that the name should have an everlasting identity and one capable of catching the attention of the audience,” he said.  “The 40th anniversary of the troupe was observed without much fanfare as the founding members reminisced their journey together.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reminiscing-40-years-of-laughter/article36602156.ece
22 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Luxury cruise liner to call at Kochi port||A luxury cruise liner from Mumbai with 1,200 tourists on board will reach Kochi on Wednesday, signalling the reopening of the pandemic-hit tourism sector in Kerala to upcountry visitors. Luxury liner MV Empress of Cordelia Cruises will anchor at the Kochi Port around 5 a.m., said a communication here from the cruise operator. Around 800 guests on the ship from different States will disembark at Kochi to explore the city and its surroundings adhering to COVID-19 protocol. The tourists will be taken to Mattancherry and Fort Kochi, touching points of historical importance for which the area is known. A boat ride on the backwaters is part of their visit to the ‘Queen of Arabian Sea’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/luxury-cruise-liner-from-mumbai-to-call-at-kochi/article36602043.ece
22 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Congress confident of defeating no-trust motion||The district Congress party leadership has exuded confidence that the no-confidence motion being moved by the Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) against Thrikkakara municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan will not succeed as the party councillors as well as four rebel Congress councillors have decided to stay away from the discussion on the motion to be taken up on September 23. The Congress parliamentary party had decided early last week to settle any inter-party issues on September 26 in the wake of the no-confidence motion being moved by the LDF. Congress block president Noushad Pallechi said the first priority would be for defeating the no-confidence motion. He said reports in a section of the press about five Congress councillors not accepting the party whip to stay away from the motion discussions were exaggerated and that all of them would accept the whip. He also said that four rebel councillors had decided to support the United Democratic Front (UDF) on the issue and that the UDF council had the support of 25 councillors in the 43-member council, including five councillors from the UDF constituent Muslim League. The no-confidence motion may not be taken up for discussion if there is no quorum in the council and it will take another six months before a similar motion can be considered by the Opposition. The Opposition LDF has the support of 18 councillors, including a rebel. It will take twenty-two councillors to form the quorum for any discussion on the no-confidence motion against the Chairperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-confident-of-defeating-no-trust-motion/article36602148.ece
22 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Steps in place to promote merchandise exports’||While inaugurating Vanijya Utsav through a virtual platform, Union Minister for State for Commerce and Industry Som Parkash said that despite the global slowdown, his ministry had taken steps to facilitate agricultural exports and measures were in place to achieve merchandise exports worth $400 billion in financial year 2021-22.  K.S. Elangovan, Export Commissioner and Principal Secretary, Industries and Commerce, Kerala, highlighted the investor-friendly initiatives being promoted by the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-in-place-to-promote-merchandise-exports/article36602149.ece
22 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court turns down petition||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court recently dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking an inquiry into the exploitation of camp followers assigned to senior police officers. The petition was filed in the wake of reports on attack on police driver, Gavaskar, allegedly by the daughter of IPS officer Sudesh Kumar in 2018. The court dismissed the petition recording the submissions of the Assistant Inspector General of Police (PG), Police Headquarters. The AIG submitted that the camp followers were not deployed for domestic work of IPS officers. Besides, drivers did not come under the category of camp followers. The camp followers include cook, dhobi, cook cum sweeper, barber, sweeper-cum-sanitary worker and water carrier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-turns-down-petition/article36601950.ece
22 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Toll-free number for auto booking||Tukxi, an online auto booking platform based in Kochi, has introduced a toll-free number (1800 8904 199) to help commuters book auto offline. The toll-free number focuses on helping senior citizens who are not tech-savvy, to book an auto hassle-free and it will be available from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. through which anyone can book a ride manually. The service will be made available 24x7 subsequently, said a spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toll-free-number-for-auto-booking/article36602150.ece
22 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Woman diagnosed with mucormycosis||A 38-year-old woman was diagnosed with mucormycosis or black fungus here on Tuesday. A resident of Udayamperoor, she is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here. The fungal infection developed after she was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Senior officials of the district health wing said that they had not yet received details on how the woman contracted the secondary infection. Mucormycosis is generally seen in severely ill COVID-19 patients who are on steroids and whose blood sugar levels are disregulated. K. Babu, MLA, has written to Health Minister Veena George seeking financial help for the patient’s treatment. The district has so far reported 20 cases of mucormycosis. Nine persons have died owing to the fungal infection, according to official estimates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-diagnosed-with-mucormycosis/article36602154.ece
22 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Access nod for fuel stations: norms set aside||The Kerala High Court has set aside the government guidelines on granting access permission for setting up fuel stations along State highways and major district roads. The verdict was passed on Tuesday on a batch of writ petitions filed by some of the oil-marketing companies and their franchisees challenging the guidelines, which include minimum plot size and ban on fuel stations within a certain distance from road junctions. According to the petitioners, the guidelines were framed and approved without giving any opportunity to the stakeholders. The guidelines were identical to the Indian Road Congress standards which were withdrawn by the Centre. The State government contended that the guidelines were formulated taking into account the safety of road users and smooth flow of traffic along the State highways and major district roads. The court observed that the procedure adopted by the State government in framing the guidelines was wanting in many aspects. The expert committee which recommended the guidelines had not considered any empirical data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/access-nod-for-fuel-stations-norms-set-aside/article36601949.ece
22 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Dengue variant puts Kollam on high alert||The Health Department has sounded a high alert in the district and urged the public to stay vigilant after the presence of dengue variant DENV-2 was found in three places, including the Kollam Corporation. According to the department, the recurrence of dengue fever can be extremely dangerous. “The risk for the infection to spread is high due to intermittent rain. Chance of fatality is 200% for persons who get reinfected with DENV-2 after contracting the first strain. Therefore, seeking immediate medical help is very important,” said the District Medical Officer here on Tuesday. Symptoms include headache, fever, muscle aches, back pain, pain in the back of eyes and dry cough. Bleeding from the gums, excessive menstrual bleeding, bruise marks, bleeding from the nose and gum, blood in the stool, and extreme fatigue, are seen in severe cases. Preventive measures Apart from the Kollam Corporation, the eastern part of the district and Karunagapally are the other areas that reported DENV-2. The district administration has directed the Health Department to coordinate with the Haritha Keralam, Suchitwa Mission, and Kudumbashree units, to intensify preventive measures. The department has started a ‘Break the Cycle’ campaign to prevent mosquito larvae from completing their life cycle. Source destruction “Since rubber plantations have become the main hotspot, measures should be taken to eradicate mosquito-breeding sources. Stagnant water in tarpaulin, plastic waste, and indoor plants, should be regularly cleared.” While the department has started fogging, medicated mosquito nets and larvae eradication powder will be made available in areas that reported DENV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dengue-variant-puts-kollam-on-high-alert/article36601940.ece
22 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Action against illegal fishing: Fisheries dept.||Strict action will be taken against those who engage in illegal practices including bush park fishing, Fisheries Deputy Director has said. The department has launched a crackdown on unscientific and illegal methods by intensifying surveillance and enforcement. The public can contact the department on 0474 2792850 and report such cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-illegal-fishing-fisheries-dept/article36601938.ece
22 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Laptops distributed||Laptops were distributed to village extension officers in all grama panchayats under Ithikkara block panchayat here on Tuesday. Ithikkara block panchayat president N. Sadanandan Pillai inaugurated the distribution. Education standing committee chairman A. Dastakir presided over the function. Block panchayat welfare committee chairperson C. Shakuntala, members Nirmala Varghese, Sini Ajayan, Bindu Shibu, Sanitha Rajeev, and secretary S Shambhu, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laptops-distributed/article36601939.ece
22 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam logs 1,632 cases||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in the district with 1,632 persons testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 1,599 persons, including two health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission.  As many as 1,460 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 6,629. Meanwhile, 49,735 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 1,407 cases in Kollam Kollam reported 1,407 new cases and 1,431 recoveries on the day. While 1,400 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include seven health workers. At present the district has 26,651 persons under observation. The test positivity rate was 14.9%. 715 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 715 persons tested positive on the day. Of this, 712 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of four cases was yet to be ascertained. The disease claimed nine more lives in the district.  (With inputs from Kollam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-logs-1632-cases/article36601942.ece
22 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Excitement peaks for Expo 2020 Dubai||As Dubai opens its doors to host the much-awaited Expo 2020 from October 1, non-resident Indians (NRIs) in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) are excited about the six-month-long event spurring job opportunities after the COVID-19 lockdown. Expo 2020 was originally scheduled from October 20, 2020 to April 10, 2021. However, due to the pandemic, the event was postponed. It will now culminate on March 31, 2022. “We have been waiting for it for so long. Expectations from business houses are very high since an uplift is crucial after all spheres of activity went down due to the pandemic,” said Mohammed Hashim, an NRI in Dubai. Song launched On Tuesday, Expo 2020 Dubai launched its official song titled ‘This is our time’, highlighting the pride in the culture of the UAE and connecting nations from around the world through the universal language of music. “Millions of people are looking up to the greatest show in the world in recent times as it will pave the way for growth in all sectors,” added Mr. Hashim. The main site of Expo 2020 Dubai is located between Dubai and Abu Dhabi cities. Nearly 191 countries are participating in the event with every participating nation having its own pavilion. “Expatriates are feeling the excitement. Business opportunities will hopefully connect with job opportunities,” said M.R. Rajesh, a resident of Abu Dhabi. Investment consultant Santosh Raj, said the expo had been clubbed with the announcement of 50 new projects marking the 50th year of the UAE. “This is being viewed as a game-changer for introducing future technologies, especially Artificial Intelligence,” he said. “What we have in the last 20 years or so is only a small tip of the iceberg and the next 30 years are going to be even more spectacular. The UAE is mainly adapting to the changing world and finding new ways for sustaining and growing itself,” said Mr. Raj. India pavilion Meanwhile, India has already set up a massive four-floor pavilion focusing on 11 primary themes — climate and biodiversity, space, urban and rural development, tolerance and inclusivity, knowledge and learning, travel and connectivity, global goals, health and wellness, food, agriculture and livelihoods, and water, each having a dedicated zone all underneath one roof. The dynamic facade of the pavilion will narrate the 75-year-old journey of the democracy. Every week, it will turn into a screen where three selected stories of “constant change” and “timeless endurance” will be beamed. Besides showcasing over 100 movies, the pavilion will also be a vibrant cultural hub with hundreds of performances. It will also serve food and drinks from across India’s States and Union Territories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excitement-peaks-for-expo-2020-dubai/article36601904.ece
22 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||BTech marks: CU freezes order||Calicut University Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj has frozen an order that proposed to give up to 20 as moderation marks to help pass 2014 batch BTech students who failed in their exams. Mr. Jayaraj told The Hindu on Tuesday that the order was based on the precedence of giving moderation marks for the 2004 and 2009 batches. Some people had petitioned the university highlighting the previous incidents. However, the authorities later came to know that the 2014 batch students had time till 2022 to write supplementary exams, he said. “I have sought clarification on this,” he added. Moderation marks The decision to grant moderation marks had kicked up a row with the Thiruvananthapuram-based Save University Campaign committee approaching Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, the Chancellor, against it. They pointed out that the recommendations made by the Dean (Faculty of Engineering) and the sanction granted by the Vice Chancellor were akin to mark donation and against university rules. The recommendation was to extend the special moderation scheme provided to the 2009 BTech batch to the 2014 batch as well, for those who have cleared all papers except one. 200 students benefit Around 200 students were expected to benefit from the decision. The order was issued in February and was subject to the ratification of the university academic council, which is scheduled to meet on September 24. The committee functionaries pointed out in their memorandum to the Chancellor that the Syndicate or the academic council does not have the power to grant moderation marks. Only the examination board can do it and once the exam results are announced moderation norms cannot be altered. They had also alleged that the Vice Chancellor was acting under pressure from some Syndicate members. University sources said no student had been given the benefit of moderation marks though the order was issued in February. Earlier, the then Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel had courted controversy after he held a special adalat to help pass failed BTech students. The Governor later cancelled the granting of moderation marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-freezes-order-on-b-tech-moderation-marks/article36601892.ece
22 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hygiene training to be made mandatory in Corpn. limits||With the hygiene protocol to be implemented in Kozhikode from October 2, the Kozhikode Corporation is planning to start a hygiene training institute at Anakkulam to educate the public. “We are in the process of preparing a module for the training. It will cover different aspects of the protocol that concerns the public, including general waste management,” said S. Jayasree, health standing committee chairperson of the Corporation. Those who undergo the training will be issued certificates, which will be mandatory to apply for trade licences and building permits in the future. People from all sections of the society will have to undergo the training. The Corporation is also planning to create awareness about the protocol through a ‘Suchitwa Geetham’ (hygiene anthem) which will be played widely in public transport vehicles and public places. “We plan to implement the protocol the same way local self governance was implemented at first. The protocol needs to be read in every house like they read the holy books,” said Ms. Jayasree. Rewards The Corporation also has plans to reward those who implement the protocol in an exemplary manner. A residents’ association or a group of 50 to 100 houses, or the same number of shops and institutions, will be made a unit. Several such units come under a ward-level monitoring committee headed by councillors. The units can devise action plans on the implementation of the protocol. The best performing units will be rewarded with star status. Units that attain 5-stars thrice will be awarded a gold shield while those that get it twice will get a silver shield. The Corporation had brought up its draft hygiene protocol for discussion a week ago. Ms. Jayasree said suggestions for modifications were welcome and the protocol would be released by September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hygiene-training-to-be-made-mandatory-in-corpn-limits/article36601891.ece
22 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CPI(M) counters allegations made by suspected Maoists in Chakkittappara||Countering a series of allegations made by a suspected group of Maoists against the Chakkittappara grama panchayat authorities and some of the top party leaders, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), with the support of trade unions and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) allies, is busy with hosting a number of regional political campaigns in the rural areas of Kozhikode district to clarify its stance. Leaflets, notices The party came up with public campaigns in the wake of the recent visits of suspected Maoists in Chakkittappara with leaflets and notices which claimed that the panchayat authorities and some of the top LDF leaders were having secret plans to facilitate a multi-crore mining project in the Perambra estate land. The notices had also named a few leaders and warned that they would be liable to face consequences. ‘Maoists’ not traced As the police and anti-Naxal squads failed to find out any trace of ‘Maoists’, there was disgruntlement among local politicians. They were also in a dilemma on how to convince local people about their stance and put an end to the frequent visits of ‘Maoists’ in the village. Protests held Explanatory meetings with political workers’ participation were the first step covering all the villages closer to the forest areas in Chakkittappara. Such meetings have already covered over 200 locations. There were also torch-bearing protests claiming that the suspected Maoist elements were trying to mislead people with fake information and allegations. Local meetings are still under way with the cooperation of LDF-led trade unions and party workers. The cooperation of a large number of workers in Perambra estate has also been ensured in campaigns. Labourers’ support Trade union leaders in Perambra estate say they have the support of all 287 labourers to defeat the ‘Maoist’ propaganda. Some of the local CPI(M) leaders said the threats were mainly against senior leaders like T.P. Ramakrishnan, Elamaram Karim and panchayat president K. Sunil. They said strong legal action had already been sought from the police against the ‘Maoist’ elements who visited the Chakkittappara area four times and created a sense of insecurity among people. They also made it clear that the circulation of false information against the leaders could not be tolerated at any cost. CPI(M) leaders also pointed out that the plantation sector in the district managed to survive the difficult times mainly because of the patronage of the LDF government. They ruled out the allegation that there was a move to facilitate mining of minerals in the estate property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-counters-allegations-made-by-suspected-maoists-in-chakkittappara/article36601903.ece
22 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||FIFA honour for brand designer||Fahad Ali, a brand designer from Kozhikode, is on cloud nine after two of his designs were selected to be part of a range of luxury products that are to be brought out in connection with the FIFA World Cup in Qatar next year. In fact, his joy is two fold, since he is also one of the Official Fan Leaders selected by FIFA for the upcoming World Cup, and the only Indian to achieve this feat. Mr. Ali had taken part in a design competition jointly organised by Museum of Islamic Art, Qatar and the Blue Saloon, the official FIFA product licensee, inviting designs for their products. He had submitted entries in several categories, but his designs of a foldable bag and candles were selected. He also received a cash prize of 10,000 Qatar Riyals for the same. Later on, the cuff-links he designed were reconsidered as well. “This is a dream come true for me and an ultimate recognition for me as a designer,” said Mr. Ali, who is also an ardent football fan. It has been eight years since Mr. Ali started working in Qatar. He has a unique hobby of taking part in design and start-up competitions. His project, ‘Feed Me’, a mobile application for reducing excessive food wastage through real-time sharing, had taken him to the finals of a start-up competition earlier. Mr. Ali is part of the Qatar Fan Leader Network, the 400 members of which were selected based on their passion for their national team and their role as influencers in their local community. He is also an Official Fan Leader for Qatar 2022, selected by FIFA based on their experience travelling abroad to watch their teams play, and connection with fan groups, associations and societies. It was his visit to Russia to witness the previous FIFA World Cup that brought Mr. Ali this honour. The purpose of a Fan Leader is to propagate the messages from FIFA and to help football fans from other countries as they visit Qatar for the World Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fifa-honour-for-brand-designer/article36601902.ece
22 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Medicos to form human chain over wall issue||Students of the Government Medical College, Government Dental College, Government Nursing College and those who are pursuing paramedical courses, are planning to form a human chain on September 23 seeking urgent steps to construct a compound wall for the medical college campus. ‘Work stopped’ Aqif Nasim, general secretary of the medical college students’ union, said on Tuesday that the event would be held in the morning in line with the COVID protocol. He claimed that the Public Works Department had stopped the work on the compound wall after a section of local residents tried to disrupt it. He claimed that the college authorities had a High Court order in their favour to go ahead with the construction. Functionaries of the Moozhikkal-Medical College Pipeline Road Protection Committee, however, claim that they were not opposed to the construction of the wall, but the sealing and cutting of a road being used by hundreds of people every day for the past six decades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medicos-to-form-human-chain-over-wall-issue/article36601899.ece
22 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||SILA scholarships for six NIT-C students||A. Anjana, S. Kanyaparvathi, and Eldo Adai of third, fifth and seventh semesters respectively have won the SILA scholarships for B.Tech students of Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology Calicut (NIT-C) for 2021-2022. They will receive Rs. 50,000 each, for securing the top CGPA at the end of their first, second, and third year of study of the B.Tech Civil Engineering degree programme, S.D. Madhu Kumar, Professor and Dean (Students’ Welfare), NIT-C, said a press release said here. In total, six students will receive the scholarship this year, it said. Gompa Naveen, R.Harikrishnan, and Govind Mohan, have won the second place in their respective categories. They will receive Rs. 20,000 each. The SILA scholarship is paid out of a one-time contribution of Rs. 40 lakh made by Sivaramakrishnan S. Iyer, an alumnus of BE Civil Engineering of the institute. The scholarship was instituted in memory of his parents Subramanya Iyer and Lakshmi Ammal. This is the second time that a total amount of Rs. 2.10 lakh is being disbursed from a single source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sila-scholarships-for-six-nit-c-students/article36601898.ece
22 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||BJP: extremists against Ezhuthachan statue||BJP State president K. Surendran kicked up a controversy on Tuesday when he said that the Taliban mindset of parties such as the Congress, the CPI(M), and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was responsible for a statue of Thunchath Ramanujan Ezhuthachan not being installed in his native land of Tirur. Mr. Surendran, who was speaking at Tirur, alleged that it was a minority with extremist views that prevented the installation of Ezhuthachan’s statue. He alleged that the government had bowed before the extremists. “Nowhere in the world did people have to agitate for installing the statue of the father of their language. It is ridiculous to say that erecting the statue of Ezhithachan is haram (taboo) for some people,” he said. However, the authorities of the Thunchanparambu, where the legendary Ezhuthachan is believed to have been born, dismissed Mr. Surendran’s allegation as “mere Sangh Parivar ploy to create communal tension and divisions in the society.” Thunchan Memorial Trust officials said that right wing extremists had tried to implement their agenda several years ago. They had demanded a temple at Thunchanparambu so that the memorial could be manipulated the way they wanted. A group of right wing extremists had attempted to disrupt a meeting when Jnanpith Laureate O.N.V. Kurup was addressing the gathering at Thunchanparambu several years ago with the demand. Kurup had rejected their demand, saying that none should be allowed to destroy the secular credentials of Thunchanparambu. M.T. Vasudevan Nair, who took over the chairmanship of the Thunchan Trust later, continued the tradition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/extremists-preventing-installation-of-statue/article36601909.ece
22 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Vaidya Sala signs pact on cultivation of herbs||Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala has entered into an agreement with the Rubber Board to help rubber farmers cultivate medicinal plants as intercrops. Arya Vaidya Sala will help farmers cultivate 13 medicinal plants in their plantations, especially during the first seven years after planting the rubber. Rubber Board and Arya Vaidya Sala officials said here on Tuesday that cultivating medicinal plants as an intercrop in the initial years of rubber planting would help the farmers tide over their lean years. Herbal cultivation can be continued until the farmers start tapping their rubber trees. The agreement signed between Arya Vaidya Sala and the Nilambur regional office of the Rubber Board has specified such medicinal plants as Iruveli (Pavonia odorata), Kurunthotti (Jelly leaf), Orila (Desmodim gangeticum), Moovila (Pseudarthria viscida), Thechi (Ixora), Aadalodakam (Malabar nut), Karimkurinji (Strobilanthus), and ginger. “It’s a mutually beneficial project. When the farmers can get some income during the initial lean years of a plantation, Arya Vaidya Sala too can ensure availability of quality herbs,” said Shailaja Madhavankutty, senior manager (materials), who signed the agreement for Arya Vaidya Sala. T.P. Radhakrishnan, deputy rubber production commissioner at the regional office, Nilambur, represented the Rubber Board. Plantations under Nilambur-Karulai Rubber Producers’ Society will start cultivating medicinal plants soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaidya-sala-signs-pact-on-cultivation-of-herbs/article36601905.ece
22 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Lack of skill integration deplored||Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology (Digital University, Kerala) Vice Chancellor Saji Gopinath has deplored the lack of skill integration in the State’s education. Delivering the maiden Foundation Day Lecture at Al Shifa College of Arts and Science at Perinthalmanna the other day, Dr. Gopinath underscored the necessity of imparting skills from day one. Lack of skill integration in the State’s education was the sole reason for the low employability rate of students from Kerala’s campuses, he said. U.A. Latheef, MLA, inaugurated the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-skill-integration-deplored/article36601895.ece
22 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Karimpuzha Raman is Sringeri Mutt Dharmadhikari||The Sringeri Sharada Peetham has appointed Kerala Brahmana Sabha (KBS) State president Karimpuzha Raman as Dharmadhikari of Sri Sharadambal Temple and the Veda learning centre functioning under the Sringeri Mutt. Mr. Raman has been given the responsibility of expanding the activities of the mutt and maintaining the learning centre. Sringeri Mutt head Sri Sri Bharati Theertha Mahaswamiji chose Mr. Raman for the post and gave his blessings at Sringeri on Tuesday. Sri Sri Vidhusekhara Bharati, the 37th Shankaracharya, also gave his blessings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karimpuzha-raman-is-sringeri-mutt-dharmadhikari/article36602036.ece
22 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Bank secretary accuses MLA of orchestrating scam||The row over an alleged financial scam at the Seethathodu Service Cooperative Bank is snowballing into a major crisis for the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] with the bank’s secretary, who has been under suspension in connection with the issue, openly accusing party leader and Konni legislator K.U. Jeneesh Kumar of executing the scam. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, K.U. Jose, a member of the CPI(M) Angamoozhy local committee, stated that the scam in the bank had indeed been carried out by Mr. Kumar along with a few of his associates within the CPI(M) and the bank. The letter listed a series of alleged fund misappropriations by the bank over the years, carried out at the behest of the MLA. “The MLA is attempting to portray me as a party criminal and seeking to lay the entire blame on my shoulders. I have no one else to depend on other than the party. Against this backdrop, I request a review of the action being initiated against me based on an investigation report,” read the letter. Mr. Jose has been placed under suspension after an internal inquiry unearthed financial irregularities worth Rs. 1,62,89,007 in the bank. Responding to Mr. Jose’s allegations, the bank authorities reiterated that Mr. Jose was the lone person responsible for the scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-secretary-accuses-mla-of-orchestrating-scam/article36601943.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. to survey SC colonies||In yet another step to ensure that the funds meant for Scheduled Caste (SC) beneficiaries are reaching those deserving of it, the city Corporation is planning to conduct a wide-ranging ground-level survey in each of the 502 SC residential colonies within the city limits. The survey is meant to identify the socio-economic status of the families, and to address the gaps in the delivery of welfare schemes and developmental projects. 502 colonies According to a Corporation official, the capital city has a total of 502 residential colonies, with at least five SC families. The city has a total SC population of around 96,000. In each of the areas, the survey will be looking at the socio-economic profile of all the members, the infrastructural facilities, the condition of the houses, availability of sanitation, water supply, and power connections. “One of the issues that has been identified with various projects for the SC community is that the funds always do not reach the grassroot level. Not many are aware of the schemes and the benefits are given mostly to those who approach the Corporation, rather than identifying the persons who are in need and providing aid. So, if we have a comprehensive survey in which all the issues are captured, projects can be formulated to address these and funds can be utilised,” said the official. From the SC Development department, we get funds of more than Rs. 14 crore annually, while the Corporation’s annual plan has around Rs. 37 crore in SC/ST-related projects. The utilisation of these funds have not been fully effective, and there have been instances of funds getting lapsed. The Corporation authorities have held discussions with the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society Limited regarding the survey, which can begin after the Corporation council’s clearance. The issues regarding the utilisation of SC funds came to the fore recently with the embezzlement of funds meant for beneficiaries under a sub-office of the Department of Scheduled Caste Development functioning out of the city Corporation office getting exposed. Two SC promoters, who are facing allegations of fund embezzlement, were suspended following this. This has also led to the worsening of the acute staff shortage in the Corporation's SC development wing. Even though the sanctioned posts are already lesser than the required numbers, there are not enough staff to fill these too. Out of the five sanctioned SC promoter posts, there are only two promoters here now. There is only one SC development officer in place of the sanctioned number of two. Scrutiny The number of clerks is also very low at two. This has meant that there is no active work done on the ground to identify beneficiaries. The civic body had also recently decided to take control of the beneficiary selection process with scrutiny through ward sabhas, similar to the other welfare projects. Till now, the entire process was done by the SC promoters and the SC development officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-survey-sc-colonies/article36602196.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. to take on govt. over K-Rail||The Congress appears poised to open more battlefronts against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. The next round of skirmishing between the opposing fronts might centre on the LDF’s flagship programme K-Rail. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan told The Hindu on Tuesday that the Congress feared that the ambitious semi-high-speed railway project was a white elephant. A United Democratic Front (UDF) subcommittee headed by Indian Union Muslim League leader M.K. Muneer has studied the subject. The UDF would discuss the report on September 23 and calibrate a political response. The front aspired to galvanise popular local groups resisting the K-Rail project into direct political action against the government. ‘Narcotic jihad’ The controversy raging around Pala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt’s “narcotic jihad” sermon is likely to top the Opposition agenda. The Congress felt that it had stolen a march on the government by initiating discussions with Christian and Muslim community leaders. The party had arguably put the LDF on the defence by demanding an all-party meeting to mitigate the bitter controversy. At a stroke, the Congress had also directed the political spotlight away from the disputes within the party and the UDF. It had instead highlighted the government's “failure” to broker peace between communities and prosecute online “hate speech”. The Congress also had weaponised Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan’s “one-sided” visit to the Pala bishop’s house against the government. KPCC charge Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran slammed the LDF for not engaging Muslim community leaders simultaneously. The party felt the Minister’s “placatory call” had purportedly pushed Muslim leaders to take a hard line on the issue by insisting that the Pala bishop withdraw the statement as a precursor of détente with the Church. The LDF has pushed back against the Congress demand for an all-party meeting. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran said in Kannur that such a round table was pointless since the government had settled the issue. The LDF wanted to act as a self-appointed peacemaker between two communities. Nevertheless, the LDF has reportedly left the door open for a conclave of religious leaders instead of an all-party meeting on “narcotic jihad”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-to-take-on-govt-over-k-rail/article36601955.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||15,768 new cases||Kerala logged 15,768 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,05,513 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool is dropping at a fast pace with the State reporting more recoveries than new cases daily. On Tuesday, the active case pool had 1,61,195 patients, with 21,367 patients reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. The Health Department states that only 13.7% of the active cases are in hospitals. COVID deaths show no decline in the State despite the increasing vaccination coverage and decreasing hospitalisations. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 23,897 with the State adding 214 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Tuesday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 1,676 while the total number of COVID hospitalisations declined further from 24,704 to 23,909. Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 1,843, followed by Kottayam 1,632, Thiruvananthapuram 1,591, Ernakulam 1,545, Palakkad 1,419, Kollam 1,407, Malappuram 1,377, Alappuzha 1,250, Kozhikode 1,200, Kannur 993, Pathanamthitta 715, Idukki 373, Wayanad 237 and Kasaragod 186 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15768-new-cases/article36601952.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One: students a worried lot||The government decision not to allow new batches in higher secondary schools citing additional financial burden has come as a blow to students and parents. The high pass percentage (99.47%) in the SSLC examinations and the record number of students who secured A+ grade (1,21,318) have heightened worries that there will be a mad scramble for seats. With the first allotment list scheduled to come out on Wednesday, hopes of many students, particularly those in the northern districts, appear to have been dashed with no increase in batches forthcoming. The government order says the chances of regular physical classes are low this academic year in view of COVID-19. More seats have been sanctioned in seven districts where there is a shortage, and, hence, there is no need to sanction new batches. However, admission in a course or school of their choice may remain a dream for students, particularly those opting for the science stream. Abu Bakr Puliyakkel, president of the Parent-Teacher Association of Chaliyapuram Government High School, Malappuram, says 182 students passed SSLC from the school, but a good majority of them will not get admission to Plus One. The school has not been sanctioned higher secondary section, so its students have to seek admission in other schools. However, those schools will have their own students to accommodate, he says. Jaisal Elamaram, vice president, Vazhakad grama panchayat, is one of the hundreds of anxious parents who fear for their wards’ future. Mr. Elamaram, whose son studied at the Chaliyapuram school, says students will not get admission to schools of their choice as there are just not enough seats. Abdulla Vavoor, former president of the Kerala School Teachers’ Union, says nearly 11,000 students in Malappuram may not get Plus One admission and be forced to turn to open schooling. This is despite a 20% increase in seats . The government, he says, has the responsibility to protect children’s right to education, but it is avoiding that in the name of financial burden. Aided Higher Secondary Teachers Association State president R. Arunkumar says physical distancing will be impossible to maintain in classrooms that accommodate more students than they are meant to. It will be even worse in laboratories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-students-a-worried-lot/article36601956.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bid to make State fully antibiotic literate by 2023||The State, as part of strengthening its Kerala Antimicrobial Resistance Strategic Action Plan (KARSAP), is going ahead with a special campaign to make the State fully “antibiotic literate” by 2023. The project would be made a part of the second Navakeralam action plan, Health Minister Veena George said at a review meeting of KARSAP here on Tuesday. Activities under KARSAP had been at a standstill since the beginning of the pandemic and these would be revived. The meeting assessed the activities implemented so far under KARSAP by various departments. Setting goals The action plan would be strengthened by identifying short-term and long-term goals that should be strived towards, so that the broad targets of the KARSAP can be achieved in the next three years. Anti-microbial resistance (AMR) committees would be formed at the district level. The hub-and-spoke model successfully innovated by Ernakulam district would be scaled up across other districts. It was decided to hold AMR review meetings every three months and an elaborate campaign would be organised to create public awareness of AMR. Special awareness programmes would be organised in schools. Monitoring network The AMR monitoring network (KAR-Net) would be expanded. Studies conducted by various departments on antibiotic residues found in the environment, water sources, milk, fish, meat and other food items and possible measures to minimise this were presented at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-make-state-fully-antibiotic-literate-by-2023/article36601954.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Guru’s teachings relevant today: Minister||Minister for Culture Saji Cherian offered flowers at the statue of Sree Narayan Guru at Vellayambalam on Tuesday in connection with the death anniversary of the social reformer. The programme was organised by the International Centre for Sree Narayana Guru Studies under the umbrella of the Culture Department. The Minister said the department would organise year-long programmes that would give out the message that all religions are one. Only when religious extremism was countered strongly could gender equality be ensured in society. Sree Narayana Guru’s stance on gender equality was to provide education to women first. Wrong practices and superstitions in society were eliminating equality for women. Sree Narayana Guru’s messages and ideas were very relevant at a time when anti-women attitudes were gaining strength. Mr. Cherian also inaugurated a seminar on ‘Sree Narayana Guru’s philosophy and equality for women’ and released a book ‘Advaithathinte rithubhethangal,’ written by International Centre for Sree Narayana Guru Studies Director B. Sugeetha. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gurus-teachings-relevant-today-minister/article36602197.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Owners of cinemas expect financial package from govt.||With Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian making clear the State government’s intent to reopen cinemas in the next phase of relaxations to COVID-19 restrictions, cinema theatre owners in the State are hoping for an effective financial package to help them restart after an extended period of closure and mounting losses. One of the major demands now being put forward by the Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK) is for levying Rs. 5 service charge on each of the tickets sold, to enable the exhibitors to cover the expenses of running theatres as per the COVID-19 protocol. COVID protocol “To run the theatres as per the protocol, we need to ensure that each seat is sanitised and cleaned after the show. The entire theatre has to be sanitised several times during the day. For allowing in each person, we have to carry out checks of their temperature and on whether they are vaccinated. The theatre owners will have to incur expenses for these, which will have to be covered some way to make meagre profits,” FEUOK president K. Vijayakumar told The Hindu . Financial package The exhibitors have also demanded a financial package to help the theatres restart. According to Mr. Vijayakumar, the owners will have to spend a minimum of Rs. 5 lakh to get each screen readied for screening. After the first wave of COVID-19 too, the owners had spent similar amounts to ready the theatres for reopening. Some of them had spent higher amounts for a thorough revamp, but ended up with debts after the theatres closed again. Skeletal staff Even when the theatres had remained closed, around three employees have been working in each theatre to run the projectors, generators, and air-conditioning system for some time every day, to ensure that these remain working. As of now, the owners are ready to go ahead with the probable condition of 50% occupancy that will be stipulated by the government for reopening the theatres. Before the second wave hit, the organisations had insisted on permission to run the theatres at full occupancy to ensure adequate profits. Entertainment tax The FEUOK had also demanded last month that the entertainment tax, which was announced by the government to compensate the local bodies for the losses incurred after the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), be completely withdrawn. The State government had in January decided to waive entertainment tax from January to March. “The Chief Minister had assured us that all possible help will be provided to help the sector, which has been reeling under the pandemic. We are hopeful of a favourable response,” said Mr.Vijayakumar.  After the first wave of COVID-19, some theatre owners had spent Rs. 5 lakh to get each screen readied for screening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cinema-owners-expect-aid-package-from-govt/article36601914.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SAAC to start first cycle of accreditation||Ending years of uncertainty, the State Assessment and Accreditation Centre (SAAC) is set to be mobilised for peer team visits to higher education institutions for the first cycle of accreditation. A team led by former Director of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) Renganath H. Anne Gouda will visit Bishop Moore College, Mavelikara, the first institution to apply for the State-level accreditation, on September 23 and 24. The inspection will mark a milestone in the State’s education sector that has made abortive attempts to grade institutions in the past. The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC), which has been spearheading the activities of the SAAC, had initially envisaged its creation in the KSHEC Act of 2007. Later, the council had constituted an expert committee chaired by former NAAC Director A. Gnanam in 2012. The then Oommen Chandy government subsequently approved its recommendation to launch the Kerala State Assessment and Accreditation Council (KSAAC) in 2015. However, the project failed to take off. Proposal The KSHEC floated yet another proposal to establish the SAAC in late 2018 in line with the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations on assessment and accreditation that were notified in 2012 and 2018. Following lengthy discussions, the SAAC was finally operationalised on August 1, 2019. “Accreditation is an opportunity for the institution to self-consciously recognise its limitations through an external peer team assessment and strive forward towards the nationally or globally benchmarked standards. It will mark an all-out effort by authorities and the academic community to ascertain their collective strengths against weaknesses,” KSHEC Vice-Chairman Rajan Gurukkal said. The SAAC peer team scheduled to visit Bishop Moore College includes Sabu Thomas, VC, MGU; Michael Tharakan, Chairman, Kerala Council for Historical Research; and Fathimathu Zuhara, former professor, Calicut University. While assigning accreditation and grade to universities and colleges, the SAAC will incorporate State-specific parameters along with globally and nationally accepted criteria. The exercise is aimed at flagging deficiencies in institutions to ensure readiness for NAAC accreditation. The institutions will also be ranked in accordance with the metrics of the Kerala Institutional Ranking Framework. 15 institutions KSHEC member secretary Rajan Varughese said nearly 15 institutions, including Farook Training College, Malabar Christian College, both in Kozhikode and College of Applied Sciences, Adoor, are in various stages of application for SAAC accreditation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saac-to-start-first-cycle-of-accreditation/article36602203.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SI suspended for torturing youth||A Sub Inspector attached to the Poovar police station was suspended on Tuesday for allegedly torturing an autorickshaw driver after accusing him of inconveniencing tourists. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) P.K. Madhu suspended Sub Inspector Sanal Kumar, pending inquiry, following a preliminary probe undertaken by the Special Branch into the incident that allegedly occurred on Sunday. Further action will be taken after a detailed inquiry by the Neyyattinkara Dy.SP. The victim, Sudhir Khan of Kallingavilakom, was allegedly assaulted by a group of police personnel led by the Sub Inspector near the Poovar junction around 11 a.m. Meanwhile, the Poovar police claimed that Sudhir was part of a gang that has been pestering tourists by offering them boating services at cheap rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/si-suspended-for-torturing-youth/article36602198.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Over a crore above 18 fully vaccinated||Over one crore people above 18 years in the State are fully vaccinated against COVID-19 while another 2.41 crore have been covered with at least one dose of vaccine, said an official release issued by the Health Department here on Tuesday. As a proportion of the population, 90.31% of the target population in the State (2,41,20,256 persons) has received the first dose of vaccine while 37.78% (1,00,90,634 persons) has received both doses. Among those above 45 years of age, 96% have received at least one dose while 56% have been fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-a-crore-above-18-fully-vaccinated/article36601953.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First allotment list today||The first allotment list for Plus One higher secondary admission under the single-window system will be published on Wednesday. Students can take admissions from 9 a.m. on Thursday. Admissions will go on till October 1 . Allotment results can be checked out on the General Education Department’s admission gateway admission.dge.kerala.gov.in. Students should reach the school where they have got admission on the date and time specified on the allotment letter . They should be accompanied by their parents/guardians and carry the originals of certificates. Sports quota allotment will also be published on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-allotment-list-today/article36601957.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,591 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 1,591 COVID-19 cases and 1,657 recoveries as the active caseload stood at 15,503 on Tuesday. The test positivity rate stood at 12.6%. As many as 42,583 people were currently undergoing quarantine in the district. These included 2,210 people who were ordered to enter self-isolation during the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1591-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article36602199.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA work: traffic to be affected||Traffic will be partially affected from Observatory to Ayurveda College junction on account of the scheduled replacement of water supply pipes that will commence on Wednesday and continue until November 21. According to City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, the Kerala Water Authority work is likely to affect vehicular flow along Observatory, Nandavanam, Vanross, Oottukuzhy, Press Club Road, Manjalikulam Ground junction and Ayurveda College junction. Heavy vehicles will be restricted along the route during the period. Parking along the road sides will also be prohibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-work-traffic-to-be-affected/article36602200.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mar Barnabas inaugurates Church reunion fete||Suffragan Metropolitan Joseph Mar Barnabas of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church inaugurated the 91st anniversary of the reunion of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church at the St. John Paul II Malankara Syrian Catholic Church in Mannanthala on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion, the Suffragan Metropolitan stressed on the need for addressing the growing divides that have affected the society. He also reminded that strife-ridden Church denominations and religious groups will not be able to spread the message of peace in the world. Cardinal Baselios Cleemis Catholicos, Major Archbishop-Catholicos of Malankara Syrian Catholic Church, presided over the function. General Education Minister V. Sivankutty, Transport Minister Antony Raju and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, Shashi Tharoor, MP, Kadakampally Surendran, V.K. Prasanth, MLAs, Thiruvananthapuram Archbishop (Latin rite) M. Soosa Pakiam, Church of South India (CSI) moderator A. Dharmaraj Rasalam, Santhigiri Ashram general secretary Swami Gururetnam and Palayam Imam V.P. Suhaib Moulavi were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mar-barnabas-inaugurates-church-reunion-fete/article36602201.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SPC directive to strengthen night patrolling||State Police Chief Anil Kant has issued orders to strengthen night patrolling to improve law and order and prevent crimes. In a directive to District Police Chiefs, Mr. Kant has ordered steps to ensure adequate police presence between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. at major junctions, byroads, ATM kiosks, and places of worship. Beat patrol, night patrol, and bike patrol teams will be deployed. DySPs and Inspectors will oversee patrolling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-directive-to-strengthen-night-patrolling/article36601958.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Technopark to be fully vaccinated||The Technopark in Thiruvananthapuram is set to become a fully vaccinated workplace by the end of September with the second dose vaccination of the employees in various companies almost nearing completion. The intensive drive to reach the 100% target began last month through the Technopark Employees Cooperative (TEC) Hospital. Companies are getting their employees, family members and the support staff vaccinated as part of the drive. In addition companies on their own are also organising vaccination drive for their employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technopark-to-be-fully-vaccinated/article36602202.ece
22 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||When Rugmini Mami got a call from Mohanlal||Rugmini Mami of Punkunnam, Thrissur, a die-hard Mohanlal fan, is evidently on cloud nine. Her toothless grin bears ample testimony. Why shouldn't she be when the star actor himself has made a video call to his octogenarian fan and promised to see her in person once the pandemic recedes. Rugmini Mami says she never misses any film of her matinee idol that is shown on the television.  Till the pandemic Until the pandemic and as far as possible, she in fact used to catch them all in theatres. She imitates Mohanlal’s trademark gait with one shoulder slightly drooping and mimics some of his popular movie dialogues. She often mimics Mohanlal’s famous line ‘nee po mone Dinesha’ and sings the number ‘Sundari Sundari’ from the actor’s 1990 film Aye Auto to regale her neighbours whenever she gets a chance. Ardent wish Rugmini Mami says she has only one big wish in life: to see her favourite actor in person at least once. Rugmini Mami, with the help of vlogger Joby Chumannamannu, had expressed her ardent wish to meet Mohanlal several times on social media. Recent video A recent video that shows her in tears requesting the actor to visit her has gone viral. Apparently, the video reached the actor himself through a fan’s association. “Mohanlal has promised to visit me once the COVID-19 scare is over,” she exclaims with visible pride. Rugmini Mami’s husband, who served as a temple priest, died a couple of years ago.  Rugmini Mami says she never misses any film of her matinee idol that is shown on the television.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-rugmini-mami-got-a-call-from-mohanlal/article36602039.ece
22 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||School holds investiture ceremony||With the objective of developing leadership qualities in students, Blooming Buds Bethania Senior Secondary School, Kunnamkulam, organised an investiture ceremony. Fr. Benjamin O I C, manager of Bethany schools, addressed the students. He emphasised the importance of acquiring leadership qualities from school level. Sheba George, Principal, administered the oath of office to the new school prefects. Radhamani C., vice-principal, conferred the official badges to the leaders. All the new leaders vowed to uphold the values of the institution. Lavanya Giridharan has been chosen the school pupil leader and Jagbin Jason Cheeran the assistant school pupil leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/school-holds-investiture-ceremony/article36602037.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For spaces to gather||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-spaces-to-gather/article36601894.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homage to Guru||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homage-to-guru/article36601960.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Out of their habitat||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/out-of-their-habitat/article36601946.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Getting ready for the welcome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/getting-ready-for-the-welcome/article36602041.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nature’s way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natures-way/article36602205.ece
22 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dryland farming lacks support from government: survey||Sufficient allocations are not made for dryland farmers despite the cost of cultivation going up in areas like Anantapur, as per a survey taken up by the Rythu Sangham along with other people’s organisations in 22 mandals. Close to 43% lower sowing was reported in dryland farming in the district as all the budgetary allocations and strategies are meant for farmers in irrigated areas, the survey said. S.M. Basha, convenor of the survey and president of Sodhana(one of the organisations involved in the survey), held a board meeting with farmers on Tuesday where he said most of the small and marginal farmers had kept themselves away from agriculture activity during the kharif season as they did not have the confidence to recover the input of cultivating groundnut or an alternative crop. Many of the farmers were either selling small pieces of lands or going for ordinary labour work either in fields or construction activity to pay off debts, the team members said. Another social activist, Bose, was of the opinion that the NGOs and the political parties should ensure that enough budgetary allocations are made for agriculture and that the scientists reach out to the farming community realistically. Former MLC and practising doctor M. Geyanand said the expertise of the scientists in the Rekulakunta Agriculture Research Station was not reaching the farmers despite the Agriculture and Horticulture Departments having a large team at the grassroots level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dryland-farming-lacks-support-from-government-survey/article36602007.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka mulls bringing in law on religious conversion||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra informed the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday that the State government had been holding discussions on enacting a law to prevent religious conversion through inducement. The Minister was responding to a question by Goolihatti Shekar (BJP) during zero hour on alleged large-scale conversion of Hindus and Muslims to Christianity. To increase their population, some missionaries have been involved in conversions, and the government had been discussing various options to stop conversions through inducement, Mr. Jnanendra said. “It is fine if a person voluntarily adopts a religion. But, religious conversion by inducements is incorrect, and this could also lead to communal disharmony,” the Minister said.  ‘Rampant’ On the BJP member’s charge that some churches submit petitions to file cases of atrocities against Hindus, the Minister said action would be taken against police officials who register false cases. He claimed that “forced religious conversion is rampant” in Karnataka. Narrating his mother’s conversion to Christianity, Mr. Shekar said she was “brainwashed” into not wearing vermilion on her forehead and abandoning idol worship. His mother had a Christian community song as the ringtone, and this had “caused embarrassment to the family”, he said. More than 15,000 people, particularly belonging to Dalit and backward castes and the poor, had been converted to Christianity by missionaries in Hosadurga constituency by offering inducements, the member alleged. Devanand Chavan (JD-S) alleged that many people of the Banjara community in Vijayapura had been converted to Christianity. U.P. model K.G. Bopaiah (BJP) claimed that Christian missionaries had been targeting SC/ST colonies for conversion of Hindus to Christianity. There was a “dire need for a strong law on the lines of what exists in Uttar Pradesh” to stop religious conversions, he said. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri suggested to the Home Minister to examine prevailing laws in various States and enact a law in Karnataka to stop religious conversion through inducement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-mulls-bringing-in-law-on-religious-conversion/article36601551.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||FIR against 2 for harassing couple in Bengaluru||Days after a man and a woman from different communities were harassed for riding on a motorbike, the Sudduguntepalya police filed an FIR against two accused — Sohail and Nayaz. Based on the complaint by the woman, cases have been filed under various provisions of the IPC including promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, criminal intimidation, outraging the modesty of woman and others. The victim said that on September 17, after attending an office function, she had asked a colleague to drop her home. Around 9.20 p.m, near Dairy Circle, the duo was stopped by strangers. The accused harassed her by shining a mobile torch on her face, and then started making videos, and objected to her travelling with a man belonging to another religion. The accused also assaulted her colleague and verbally abused him and forced the woman to get down from the bike. She took an autorickshaw to reach home. The video of the men harassing the duo had gone viral. Taking cognizance of the incident, the police had taken up the case suo motu and arrested them. In Dakshina Kannada Meanwhile, the Dakshina Kannada Police arrested two men on charge of abusing a woman and assaulting a man belonging to another faith who was with her in a restaurant in Puttur on Monday evening. The two men said they are Hindu Jagarana Vedike activists. The police identified the arrested as Geetesh, 29, of Balamogaru village of Puttur taluk, and Ashok, 34, of Kendambady village of Puttur taluk. The two arrested and three others, all of whom are said to be activists of the vedike, entered the restaurant where the woman, a resident of Anekal, and her friends, one from Gottigere in Bengaluru and another, a resident of Ullal, were having dinner. They abused the woman for sitting with two men, and took their photographs. One of them was reportedly assaulted. The police rushed to the spot and took the woman and the two men accompanying her to safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fir-against-two-for-harassing-couple/article36601539.ece
22 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sub-Inspector injured as mobs clash during idol immersion||The Guntur Rural Police have taken 16 persons into custody in a case relating to an assault on a house allegedly belonging to a former TDP ZPTC member. Unidentified miscreants allegedly set fire to the house of Bathina Sarada, former TDP ZPTC member, after violence marred Vinayaka Nimmajanam carried out late on Monday. A motorcycle was charred and furniture damaged in the incident, according to sources. SP warns of action SP Vishal Gunni said that police would not spare anyone found guilty of arson in the incident that occurred late on Monday at Kopparu village in Pedanandipadu. “Police have formed three special teams under the Bapatla DSP to investigate the case and book the culprits and take action. The police have taken 16 persons into custody and the investigation is being carried out with the help of CCTV footage,” said Mr. Gunni. A case has been booked at Pedanandipadu police station. Meanwhile, a Sub-Inspector was among several injured persons in violent clashes between the YSRCP and TDP supporters during the Vinakaya Nimmajanam, held in the early hours of Tuesday at Ponnekallu in Tadikonda mandal. Tadikonda SI Venkatadri Naidu was injured when some unidentified persons threw chilli powder and hit him with a stone. The SI, despite bleeding from his injuries, went about his duties trying to bring the mob under control. As tension began to escalate, Mr. Naidu took out his service revolver to defuse the situation, but did not fire any shots. Superintendent of Police (Guntur Urban) K. Arif Hafeez dismissed reports that the SI had shot two bullets in the air to bring the situation under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-injured-as-mobs-clash-during-idol-immersion/article36601540.ece
22 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Fibernet contract bidding done in violation of norms: YSRCP MLA||The A.P. Fibernet contract was awarded to the Terrasoft consortium violating all set norms of bidding, Darsi MLA Maddisetty Venugopal has alleged. Speaking to the media at the party central office here on Tuesday, the MLA who lost the bid, gave a blow by blow account of how the bidding process was ‘rigged in a predetermined manner’. He said the Terrasoft consortium comprising Terra Soft, Himachal Futuristic Communications Limited and Horizon Broadcast LLP, was declared the L1 (lowest bidder), while his company PACE Power Systems Private Limited was named L2 in advance. “The Terrasoft consortium failed to meet the conditions on all counts. The bidding process was in violation of the general conditions as Horizon, one of the three bidders in the consortium, is not a registered company but an LLP. The financial conditions were not met as its capital was way less than what was prescribed and the technical terms were breached as it had no experience of the optic cable work in India,” the MLA said. ‘Company blacklisted’ “The Terrasoft was blacklisted for a year by the Andhra Pradesh Technology Services Limited (APTS) and it was lifted after two months. The letter was issued by a non-competent authority,” Mr. Venugopal alleged. The MLA said that the documents pertaining to the bidders related to tenders were not available online till the L1 and the L2 were finalised and added that he had given a complaint to the Managing Director of the Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation (APSFC) on these irregularities. ‘Fake experience certificate’ He further alleged that the Terrasoft had obtained a fake experience certificate of the Signum Digital Network regarding the supply and installation of digital head-end, adding that they had violated many terms of the contract. The APSFCL had called four tenders worth Rs. 2,700 crore related to the set-up boxes, CC cameras, BharatNet Phase-2, Mr. Venugopal said. He urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to investigate the irregularities occurred during these tendering process.  The bidding process was rigged in a predetermined manner. The Terrasoft consortium has no expereince of optic cable work in India. Maddisetty Venugopal, Darsi MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-fibernet-contract-bidding-done-in-violation-of-norms-ysrcp-mla/article36602021.ece
22 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP defaming govt. in narcotics case: Minister||Minister for Transport Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) has accused the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) of trying to defame the government by linking an isolated incident of seizure of drugs at a port in Gujarat to the State. Speaking to the media on Tuesday, the Minister said that a person residing in Chennai had used Vijayawada address for his business and was caught transporting drugs from Gujarat to Delhi. Although the incident happened a week ago, the TDP leaders, with the help a few ‘friendly’ media houses, are distorting the facts and showcasing as if Vijayawada had turned into a hub for narcotics trade. He said that the Vijayawada Police Commissioner had already issued clarification and denied the connection of the State with the Gujarat drug case, but a section of media is still out to defame the government. Further, the Minister questioned whether it was true that the previous TDP government had smuggled red sanders logs to Japan by the Heritage vans. “The Opposition party is splurging money to use social media platforms to defame the government. No matter how many such posts are trending on the social media, the people are with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. It is evident from the landslide victory of the YSRCP in the ZPTC and MPTC polls,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-defaming-govt-in-narcotics-case-minister/article36602023.ece
22 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||TRS, Congress supporters clash outside Revanth’s home||The Twitter war between Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy spilled over to the streets when the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Congress cadres clashed at Mr. Reddy’s residence on Tuesday, pelting stones and attacking each other with sticks. A group of TRS workers tried to lay siege to Mr. Reddy’s residence in Banjara Hills, and burn his effigy while protesting against his remarks on Mr. Rama Rao. TRS workers reached the place raising slogans against the Congress leader. Congress supporters clashed with them. Even as the supporters entered into an argument, some people from both the groups started pelting stones and attacking with sticks. The police intervened and separated both the groups, avoiding a major clash. The TRS workers were pushed away from the place by the police. The Congress party strongly condemned the attack.TPCC senior vice-president Mallu Ravi called for State-wide protest against the attack on the TPCC president’s residence. At a press conference later, TPCC Campaign Committee chairman Madhu Yaskhi Goud and senior leaders Addanki Dayakar, Bellaiah Naik, Sudheer Reddy and Kalva Sujtha condemned the attack and alleged that the TRS government was resorting to physical attacks on those questioning them and also foisting false cases against the Congress workers. Mr. Goud said the party would open a call centre at Gandhi Bhavan to provide legal help to the cadre being threatened by the police. He alleged that only KCR’s family was ruling the State and Ministers and MLAs had no freedom to do their Constitutional job. “What is wrong in fighting against the drug menace?” he asked and wondered why the TRS leadership was worried. He demanded that the BJP to conduct an investigation into KCR’s family. Earlier several organisations held a meeting at Gandhi Bhavan extending their support to the Congress party’s nation wide protests against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the BJP government and the TRS government. They extended support to the Maha Dharna at Indira Park on September 22, Bharat Bandh on September 27 and also Rasta Roko on Podu land issues on October 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trs-congress-supporters-clash-outside-revanths-home/article36601542.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P.’s claims on water diversion illogical: TS||Telangana Government has described as “baseless, needless and to be ignored being incorrect and illogical” the claims of Andhra Pradesh over sharing of Krishna water in lieu of Godavari water being diverted to the Krishna Basin along with installation of telemetry system at all such points of diversion by the neighbouring state. In a letter addressed to Chairman of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) M.P. Singh, Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation-General) of Telangana C. Muralidhar said on Tuesday that AP could not demand installation of telemetry at the locations of small diversions of Godavari to Krishna Basin to meet the needs of uncovered areas as it does not come under claiming additional share as per KWDT-I and GWDT awards. Instead, the diversions being made by Andhra Pradesh from Godavari to Krishna Basin would attract the provisions of August 1978 agreement and the water saved in Krishna due to such diversion would have to be “utilised upstream of Nagarjunasagar project within the Krishna Basin”, the ENC pointed out in the letter written to KRMB in response to a letter addressed to Telangana by KRMB on July 27 and a letter written to KRMB by AP on July 15. Stating that the detailed reply was for appreciation of the facts of the issue, Mr. Muralidhar mentioned that all the schemes mentioned by AP in its letter were contemplated by the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Government in Telangana region to divert Godavari water to Krishna basin. “Actually, the areas covered with such diversion would have been provided with irrigation facility from Krishna water through Srisailam Left Canal scheme proposed with 150 tmc ft utilisation till Munneru valley by gravity, proposed before KWDT-I,” he explained. Further, the 1954 project report of Nandikonda (Nagarjunasagar) contemplated irrigation of one lakh acres through a lift scheme from NS Left Canal. However, it was not taken up by the combined AP government and deliberately ignored the scheme and preferred water to areas outside the basin before KWDT-I with an aim to divert Krishna water to the outside-basin areas neglecting the needs within the basin in Telangana region. On the other hand, Sriramsagar project was unable to provide water to its intended ayacut up to stage-one due to insufficient inflow. As a result, against the envisaged utilisation of 145.35 tmc ft in stage-one and 22.9 tmc ft in stage-two average realisation was only 54 tmc ft. The statistics placed by AP based on National Water Development Agency reports in the present context were arbitrary and incorrect. The ENC stated that Telangana had an ayacut of 25 lakh acres in the upstream of Nagarjunasagar project within the Krishna basin and wass starving for assured water for decades for its highly drought-prone and fluoride-hit areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aps-claims-on-water-diversion-illogical-ts/article36601640.ece
22 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restraining order issued against Revanth||A local court here on Tuesday passed an interim order restraining Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy, his agents or any person representing him from making defamatory statements against Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao. The Third Additional Chief Judge of City Civil Court passed the ex parte ad interim injunction after hearing arguments presented by senior lawyer from High Court S. Niranjan Reddy in a defamation suit filed by the Minister the previous day. The court also issued notices Mr. Reddy in the matter. The court said Mr. Reddy and others should not make any derogatory, libellous or scandalous comments through print or electronic media. They were restrained from making such statements, linking the Minister with the ongoing investigation by Enforcement Directorate in connection with a drug racket, in public or through social media. Next hearing The suit was posted for October 20. Mr. Rao filed the defamation suit against Mr. Reddy, accusing the latter of making false propaganda against him by falsely linking him with drugs abuse issues. A verbal war through press conferences and tweets had been going on between the two leaders for the past few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restraining-order-issued-against-revanth/article36602014.ece
22 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||19,000 students to be screened for eye care||Sankurathri Foundation founder Chandrasekhar Sankurathri on Tuesday said that above 19,000 students in government schools would be screened to identify eye-related complications in East Godavari district. In an interaction with East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran during his visit to Srikiran Institute of Ophthalmology here, Dr. Chandrasekhar said children in the 87 government schools in and around the Kakinada would be screened and provided necessary medical aid under the aegis of the experts at the Sri Kiran Institute of Opthalmology. On Tuesday, the foundation authorities installed new facilities both in the Ophthalmology institute and Sarada Vidhyalam, which offers free education to prevent child marriages and child labour. In Pithapuram, MLA Pendam Dorababu inaugurated a surgical centre of the ophtholoomology institute that provides better eye care for the needy. Mr. Hari Kiran has inquired about the Electronic Medical Records System (EMRS) that was inaugurated on Tuesday. The EMRS maintains data of the patients admitted to the 16 branches of the institute in East, West Godavari, and Visakhapatnam district. In Sarada Vidhyalam on the Sankurathri foundation campus, a digital learning infrastructure was installed on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19000-students-to-be-screened-for-eye-care/article36601595.ece
22 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ISRO case: Rasheeda, Hasan seek damages||Mariyam Rasheeda and Fauzia Hasan, two foreign nationals who were imprisoned in Kerala during the investigation of the alleged Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage case, have moved the Supreme Court seeking compensation from the police officers who allegedly tortured them. The duo has sought Rs. 2 crore each as damages from the 18 police officers who have been arraigned as accused in the ISRO frame-up case. The Central Bureau of Investigation had booked the frame-up cases against the former investigation officers after a report filed by the Justice D.K. Jain Committee appointed by the Supreme Court to probe the alleged framing-up case. The petition was moved before the Supreme Court through the CBI. Incidentally, the CBI has moved the apex court challenging the bail granted by the High Court to these officers in the frame-up case. The State government had paid compensation to former ISRO scientist S. Nambi Narayanan, who was also arrested in the case. The 18 accused officers, submitted Ms. Rasheeda and Ms, Hassan, were responsible for their illegal arrest and detention. The two submitted that the officials conspired with the government to illegally detain them. The fake cases also led to mental, physical and torture and monetary loss to the family of ISRO scientists Mr. Narayanan and D. Sasikumar. The women complained that they were subjected to physical and mental torture inside and outside the prison for more than three years. Ms. Rasheeda submitted that she was sexually harassed by police officer Vijayan, the first accused in the frame-up case, on October 13, 1994 in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mariyam-rasheeda-and-fauzia-seek-damages/article36601543.ece
22 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala project gets approval||The State government has officially cleared the Cosmos Malabaricus project to map the history of Kerala between 1643 and 1852 using the Dutch historical archives of the 17th century. The Department of Higher Education has issued administrative sanction for signing an agreement between the Kerala Council for Historical Research (KCHR), the National Archives of the Netherlands and Leiden University in the Netherlands for the project. The seven-year collaboration aims to shed light on the history of Kerala using archival material pertaining to the Dutch East India Company available in India and the Netherlands. The total project cost estimated for the KCHR is Rs. 4.5 crore. Leiden University will have to meet expenses, including travel, honorarium and so on, to be spent outside India, according to the order. The project will make already available Dutch archival material accessible to the widest possible audience, including international and Indian scholars. Treasure trove of info The archival records written in the Dutch language of the 17th century contain a treasure trove of information related to the political and military organisations, dynastic developments, economic matters, social and religious aspects of Kerala. It is available in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the Netherlands. “We have plans to publish the archival sources in five volumes, both in Dutch and English languages. Efforts will also be made to publish it in Malayalam for the benefit of researchers and history enthusiasts in the State and outside,” said P.K. Michael Tharakan, Chairman of the KCHR. Preliminary discussions on the project were held during the State visit of King Willem-Alexander and Queen Maxima of the Netherlands to India in October 2019. An agreement was reached between the National Archives of the Netherlands and the Kerala State Archives for the digitalisation of Dutch records in Kerala. Two Indian student researchers will be sent to the Netherlands to obtain a postgraduate degree in History at Leiden University, which includes learning of Dutch language, especially Middle Dutch. Indian archivists and historians will receive training in palaeography and epigraphy and they will be familiarised with the historical context of the archival sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cosmos-malabaricus-project-gets-green-signal/article36601552.ece
22 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB traps three mining officials||Sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau on Tuesday trapped three officials of the Mines and Geology Department in the office of Assistant Director at Banaganapalle in the district. According to the ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police J. Siva Narayana Swamy, Mines and Geology office Superintendent Shaik Meera Hussain, office sub-ordinate M. Siva Shankar, and Data Entry Operator (Outsourcing), G. Dhanunjaya were trapped while allegedly accepting Rs. 60,000 cash from the complainant Jayaramudu of Belum village in Kolimigundla Mandal. The amount was allegedly sought by the accused officials for doing a favour of processing the file of fresh quarry lease and also renewal of quarry lease of the complainant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/acb-traps-three-mining-officials/article36602005.ece
22 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. logs 516 recoveries||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh reported a high of 516 recoveries from coronavirus infection in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday. The region registered four deaths, two each in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts, during the period. The cumulative tally crossed the 2.80 lakh mark as 131 persons in SPSR Nellore and 124 persons in Prakasam tested positive for the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-logs-516-recoveries/article36602008.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC reserves order on plea by sister of Gauri Lankesh||The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved for judgment a petition filed by the sister of slain journalist Gauri Lankesh against the dropping of organised crime charges against a man accused of harbouring her alleged killers. Kavitha Lankesh had moved the court challenging a High Court of Karnataka decision to drop charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act (KCOCA) of 2000 against accused Mohan Nayak, who is accused of harbouring Gauri’s killers. He was also accused of being a critical member of an “organised crime syndicate”. The question before the court is whether a person, against whom there is no evidence of being part of a syndicate in the past, can be identified as a member of that crime gang and booked under the KCOCA. HC quashes charges The High Court had quashed Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act charges against Nayak, an alternative medical practitioner, on the ground that he had no prior charge sheets under the KCOCA to prove that he was part of the “continuing unlawful activities” of the crime syndicate allegedly behind Gauri’s murder. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, senior advocate Husefa Ahmadi, for Ms. Kavitha, submitted there was no dispute about the involvement of a crime syndicate in the murder of Gauri Lankesh. “The charge sheet categorically makes out a case of a syndicate involved in the commission of the crime.... Once the argument of a syndicate is established, the argument whether a particular person [Nayak] was not part of earlier crimes of the syndicate is irrelevant,” Mr. Ahmadi submitted. Distinction drawn Appearing for the accused, senior advocate Basava Prabhu S. Patil, drew a distinction between “abettor” or “harbourer” and “a member of a crime syndicate” under the KCOCA. The apex court said in June that the accused should not be granted bail until Ms. Kavitha’s plea was decided. Gauri Lankesh was shot dead outside her home in Bengaluru in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-reserves-order-on-plea-by-sister-of-gauri-lankesh/article36601553.ece
22 September 2021||NIDAMARRU (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed as car plunges into canal||Two persons were killed when a car in which they were travelling fell in Chinna Kapavaram canal near Mandalaparru village in West Godavari district in the early hours on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as K. Sharath (30) and B. Sumanth (30), both natives of Tadepalligudem. The accident occurred when they were travelling from Tadepalligudem to Nidamarru, the police said. The Nidamarru police retrieved the bodies from the canal.  A case has been registered and an investigation has been launched, police officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-killed-as-car-plunges-into-canal/article36601588.ece
22 September 2021||PENUGONDA (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||22-year-old ends life||An engineering graduate, Visweswara Rao (22), allegedly died by committing suicide. He was found hanging at his house at Cherukuwada village in West Godavari district on Tuesday, the police said. The reason for the extreme step was not known immediately. A case has been registered and investigation is on. Persons struggling with depression are urged to call Dial 100 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/22-year-old-ends-life/article36601586.ece
22 September 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Differences between YSRCP MP, MLA out in the open in East Godavari||YSR Congress Party Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Tuesday dared party’s Rajanagaram MLA Jakkampudi Raja to reveal evidence, if any, of his association with the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders instead of tarnishing the image of the party. Speaking to newsmen here on Tuesday, Mr. Bharat warned Mr. Raja to stop attempts to tarnish his image as well as that of the party’s at a time when the Rajamahendravaram segment was being developed on all fronts.  ‘Committed worker’ “I am bound to the party. I have been a committed worker of the party. I am coordinating with various public representatives for the development of the constituency. The flyover projects, the funds granted to Adikavi Nannaya University and a medical college are a few examples of my contribution,” said Mr. Bharat. He advised Mr. Raja to strive for the development of the party and “stop encouraging anti-social activities, including operation of blade batches.” “Being elder to you, my advice is to put an end to the activities and mud-slinging initiatives that will tarnish the party image in the district,” he said. ‘Rs. 60 lakh granted’ Mr. Bharat further said that he had not been invited to participate in any developmental activities in the Rajanagaram Assembly segment despite the grant of Rs. 60 lakh funds for various works. “I cannot stoop to your level. However, it is the need of the hour to work together for the development of the parliamentary segment and the party.” Mr. Bharat added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/differences-between-ysrcp-mp-mla-out-in-the-open-in-east-godavari/article36602060.ece
22 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala bags award for geriatric care||The State which has initiated several model initiatives for geriatric care will now focus on utilising the expertise of senior citizens in various avenues for its development. A comprehensive survey will soon be conducted to identify those who could contribute to various fields. Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu told mediapersons here on Tuesday that the government also hoped to launch more welfare schemes for them. These included the Karunya at Home scheme through which senior citizens will be provided medicines at their doorsteps with the assistance of the Kerala Medical Services Corporation. The medicines will be provided from Karunya pharmacies at prices significantly lower than the market rate. Senior citizen clubs will be launched under the supervision of Kudumbashree units. Libraries and rented houses will be utilised for the purpose. Dr. Bindu said the recommendations submitted by a committee chaired by former judge of the Kerala High Court C.N. Ramachandran Nair on the alleged abuse of senior citizens at private old-age homes would be implemented. National award The State has bagged the Vayoshreshta Samman instituted by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment for geriatric care. It was adjudged the best in implementation of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-bags-award-for-geriatric-care/article36601547.ece
22 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD EO reviews arrangements in place for Brahmotsavams||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Tuesday took stock of the arrangements made for the conduct of the Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara, scheduled to commence from October 7, and gave a slew of instructions to the temple staff. At a review meeting at Annamaiah Bhavan, the EO exhorted the officials to ensure that fool-proof security arrangements are in place during the annual event, to be held in private this year as well in view of the threat of a third wave of the pandemic. He also instructed the officials concerned to ensure that the Alipiri footpath is ready for use well ahead of the commencement of the event, see to it that cleaning of cottages and decoration works of the temple and its precincts is done properly and that there is uninterrupted supply of free meals from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. at Nitya Annadanam complex on a daily basis. The General Manager (transport) and HDPP officials were directed to chalk out an action plan to mobilise at least 1,000 people a day to oversee arrangements of free darshan at the temple during the festival. Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel(SVBC) CEO Suresh kumar was asked to make required arrangements for the launch of Kannada and Hindi channels. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would make the customary presentation of a pair of silk ‘vastrams’ to the hill temple on behalf of the State government. He said ‘Dwajarohanam’ will be organised on October 7 followed by ‘Garuda Seva’ on October 11, Golden Chariot on October 12, Rathotsavam on October 14 and Chakrasnanam on October 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-eo-reviews-arrangements-in-place-for-brahmotsavams/article36602009.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Secretariat staff warned against absenteeism||Volunteers and staff members working in the various ward secretariats under the purview of Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) were warned against against absenteeism at work. The warning comes after MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, who went on a surprise visit to the two secretariats in the 13th division on Tuesday, found a few seats remaining unoccupied. He checked the attendance registers and expressed displeasure over the blank columns. Mr. Gireesha insisted that volunteers visit the secretariat office at least thrice a week, in spite of their pressing engagements on the field. “Those who do not turn up regularly at the office will be replaced,” he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/secretariat-staff-warned-against-absenteeism/article36602010.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Upasana prays at Srikalahasti temple||Upasana Konidela, entrepreneur and wife of Tollywood actor Ram Charan, offered prayers at Srikalahastheeswara Swamy temple on Tuesday. She was welcomed by Biyyapu Sri Pavitra Reddy, daughter of local MLA B. Madhusudhan Reddy. Ms. Upasana was formally presented with a shawl made by ‘Kalamkari’ artisans on the occasion. Ms. Sri Pavitra Reddy later donated a ‘Makara Thoranam’ (arch installed behind a deity), which is meant to be adorned to the idols of ‘Sri’, ‘Kala’, ‘Hasti’ (spider, elephant and snake) consecrated in the shrine. The arch was handed over by the MLA to EO D. Peddi Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/upasana-prays-at-srikalahasti-temple/article36602012.ece
22 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop discusses tips to use data in presentations, research||The online workshop organised by the Communication and Journalism department of Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV), in association with Indian School of Business’ Bharti Institute of Public Policy (ISB-BIPP), discussed ways to mine and unravel the data available in various portals to make policy decisions. Speaking at the workshop titled ‘Data and visualisation with examples from rural development and financial inclusion’ on Tuesday, keynote speaker Deepti Soni, a senior consultant (communication) with BIPP, explained every aspect available on the India Data Portal and the means to use them graphically in research and presentations. For journalists The data would be of immense use not only to researchers, administrators and policymakers, but also to journalists for taking up in-depth study and making vibrant reports, observed the head of the department T. Sobha Rani. Eight categories of data Data divided into eight categories viz., rainfall, fertiliser use, availability of primary health centres in the different states and current supply consumption were discussed at the meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-discusses-tips-to-use-data-in-presentations-research/article36602013.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for ecosystem to groom entrepreneurs||As part of the Vanijya Utsavam under way in the city, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy presented Industry Champion and Export awards to industrialists and companies excelling in their respective fields. During the inaugural on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan presented Industry Champion awards to eight persons. They included B.V.R. Mohan Reddy, executive chairman of Cyient Ltd; Kab Dong Lee, chief administrative officer of KIA India; Anil Chalamsetty, managing director of Greenko Energies; Avinash Chand Rai, CEO of Adani International; Ishaan Reddy Alla, promoter director of Ramky Group; CV Rajulu, vice president of NACL Industries; K. Madan Mohana Reddy, executive director of Aurobindo Pharma; and Josh Fougler, managing director of Rising Star Mobile India. Mr. Mohan Reddy hailed the initiatives like Nadu-Nedu, skill universities . He suggested that the government create an ecosystem for entrepreneurs and an institution which works on monetisation of research and development. Export Awards were presented to C. Sarvanan, CEO of Brandix India Apparel; Lee Yi Tse, general manager of Apache Footwear India; B.V. Krishna Rao, managing director of Pattabhi Agro Foods; Vanka Rajakumari, managing director of Indian Hari Industries; Pandava Prasad, general manager of SNF India; Singaluru Sarada Devi, partner R.V. Corp; and K. Srinivasa Rao, managing director of Amaravati Textiles. Mr. Jagan went through the exhibition of products and export services offered by companies and associations including Spices Board of India, Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology, Rice Exporters Association, Tea Board of India, Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority, Marine Products Export Development Authority, Plastics Export Promotion Council - Plexconcil and Railways. In the session on ‘Produce Local, Go Global’ Acting British Deputy High Commissioner Varun Mali, Commissioner of Industries (AP) J.V.N. Subramanyam and representatives of various Indian embassies (virtual mode) spoke about global investment .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-for-ecosystem-to-groom-entrepreneurs/article36602018.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central agencies probing drug racket||Even as the Andhra Pradesh police maintained that the drug racket which was unearthed a few days ago in Mundra of Gujarat has no links to Andhra Pradesh, the Central agencies, which conducted simultaneous raids at Mundra Port, Delhi, Ahmedabad and Chennai, are inquiring into the activities of the Vijayawada-based Aashi Trading Company. The Customs and Excise, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) National Investigation Agency (NIA), Central Intelligence, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and other agencies are investigating the drug smuggling racket. The DRI officials seized 2,998.22 kg of heroin being smuggled on the pretext of semi-processed talc stones in two containers at Mundra Port on September 15. DRI sleuths found that the consignment was booked by Aashi Trading Company, located at Gadiyaramvaari Street of Satyanarayanapuram in Vijayawada. During investigations, it was revealed that aGovindaraju Durgapurna Vaishali, wife of Machavaram Sudhakar, had registered the firm in August 2020. She had obtained Import and Export License Code (IEC) from the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Investigation officials, who reportedly picked up the couple from Chennai, are investigating on whether Sudhakar floated any other shell companies in other States, why they migrated to Chennai, their contacts with international exporters and any direct links with smugglers and drug racketeers. “Owner of Aashi Trading Company is intentionally maintaining low profile, by setting up the office in a small building, without a signboard and only a paper was pasted on the door. Mobile phones of the accused were seized and their activities are being verified,” said a police official under condition of anonymity. Investigation officers suspect that smugglers were carrying out their operations on the GST and IEC Code of Aashi Trading Company, and were paying commission to its owner. The couple had been staying in Chennai for the last eight years. Sudhakar is a native of Dwarapudi in East Godavari district and his wife is from Vijayawada. They started Aashi Trading Company in a building owned by Vaishali’s mother Govindaraju Taraka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-agencies-probing-heroin-drug-racket/article36601537.ece
22 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varla wants rowdy-sheet opened against Jogi Ramesh||Taking a strong exception to statement made by Guntur Range DIG Trivikram Varma that YSRCP MLA Jogi Ramesh did not attack the house of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu at Undavalli, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah has demanded that a rowdy-sheet be opened against the legislator. “The senior police officers should check facts before giving a clean chit to the YSRCP leaders. A video footage suggests that Mr. Ramesh, along with a mob, came to the house of the TDP national president in more than 20 cars. It is laughable that the DIG says Mr. Ramesh came to Mr. Naidu’s house only to discuss some issues with him,” Mr. Ramaiah told the media here. Mr. Ramaiah demanded that an attempt to murder case be registered against Mr. Ramesh, apart from opening of a rowdy-sheet for the unlawful behaviour of the YSRCP MLA. “The image of the police has touched a new low after D. Gautam Sawang took over as the DGP of Andhra Pradesh,” he alleged. The statements made by Mr. Trivikram Varma on the case was nothing, but a ‘farce’, alleged the TDP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varla-wants-rowdy-sheet-opened-against-jogi-ramesh/article36602026.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Here is an absolute delight for foodies||A swanky new restaurant of Absolute Barbecues, the country’s first wish grill eatery, has added to the bustle of Benz Circle, one of the busiest junctions in Vijayawada city. Despite economic slowdown due to the pandemic impact, the city is chock-a-block with new restaurants and eat-outs, thanks to foodies who defy anything to sate their taste buds. Bringing in uniqueness in the launch of their 45th outlet, the brand joined hands with Daddy’s Home, an initiative of Care & Share Charitable Trust, and rolled out a red carpet for the inmates, not just to throw a feast for them in the restaurant but also for its formal inauguration. A team of children cut the ribbon, marking the formal opening of thefacility. “We have a strong presence in Hyderabad, and we extended our footprint to Visakhapatnam. Vijayawada, as our next destination, is a natural choice,” said Ritam Mukherjee, Regional Head, South Operations. He said the restaurant’s “Wish Grill” was the USP as “we don’t serve food that we cook in our style. We are fully focussed on our clients’ satisfaction and cook as per their choices and flavours in live grills,” he explained. “We have a seating capacity for 130 guests and the place can be booked for birthdays and other functions,” he said, adding that hygiene and the COVID guidelines are top on their list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/here-is-an-absolute-delight-for-foodies/article36602229.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 more succumb to virus in State||The State reported 11 deaths due to COVID and 1,179 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,089 and 20,40,708. The number of active cases came down to 13,905, as 1,651 patients recovered in the past day. For the first time in 167 days, the active cases tally was below 14,000. The number of recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,12,714 and 98.63%. The daily test positivity rate of 49,737 samples tested in the past day was 2.37% and that of the 2.78 crore tests conducted so far was 7.34%. Chittoor reported three deaths while Krishna, Nellore and Prakasam reported two deaths each. East Godavari and Guntur reported one death each. East Godavari district reported 192 infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (190), Krishna (167), West Godavari (161), Nellore (131), Prakasam (124), Guntur (107), Visakhapatnam (47), Kadapa (30), Srikakulam (19), Anantapur (8), Kurnool (2) and Vizianagaram (1). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,89,626), Chittoor (2,42,377), West Godavari (1,76,835), Guntur (1,74,988), Anantapur (1,57,516), Visakhapatnam (1,56,251), Nellore (1,43,850), Prakasam (1,36,200), Kurnool (1,23,977), Srikakulam (1,22,580), Krishna (1,16,555), Kadapa (1,14,379) and Vizianagaram (82,679).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-more-succumb-to-virus-in-state/article36602020.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State received COVID donations worth Rs. 57 crore, says official||The State had received COVID-related donations worth Rs. 57 crore so far from various individuals and organisations across the world, said COVID-19 nodal officer Arja Srikanth. Dr. Srikanth, in a release, said that of the Rs. 57 crore worth of donations received, donations worth Rs. 31 crore were made for medical equipment like oxygen concentrators, ICU beds, masks and others while donations of Rs. 25 crore were made towards setting up of oxygen plants and Rs. 1.3 crore donations were made towards medicines. Among the companies that made donations worth more than Rs. 50 lakh including ACT and Swasth, Health Sciences North Hospital, ITC, United Memorial Medical Centre World Health Organisation, India Bulls, Maskon Cooperation, SCIMA, UNICEF, USISP, Mahindra and Mahindra Group, Vasavi College Alumni and Aditya Birla, according to the release. Dr. Srikanth said that more donations worth Rs. 25.2 crore were in the pipeline from Modulus Housing Solutions, NTPC, Diageo, Premas Life Sciences, Eisai Pharma, Assist International, US India Business Council, Crypto Relief in association with Vasantha Lakshmi Charitable Trust and Research Centre, and 10bedicu.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-received-covid-donations-worth-rs-57-crore/article36601587.ece
22 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cotton procurement to begin in November||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu said that the State government has drawn up plans to procure cotton from farmers through the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) from the first week of November. The Minister held a review meeting with CCI officials on Wednesday. Mr. Kanna Babu said that the government has fixed Rs. 6025 per quintal as a Minimum Support Price (MSP) for long staple cotton and Rs. 5,726 for a quintal of medium staple cotton. The farmers have cultivated cotton in 5.41 lakh hectares in the State during the 2021-22 kharif season. It is estimated that the cotton yield would be 9,33,128 lakh metric tonnes this year. Around 18,17,709.20 quintals of cotton was procured from 44,440 farmers in the State. The procurement was worth Rs. 1039.30 crore. CCI would procure the cotton through 50 Agriculture Marketing Committees (AMCs), and 73 ginning mills in the State. The CM App would be used during the procurement process, he said. Farmers and tenant farmers can sell their produce in three spells. After registering their names with Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) through an agriculture officer, farmers can select a CCI purchase centre to sell their produce. They will have to bring photocopies of their Aadhaar card and pattadar pass book. Payments would be made into the bank accounts which have Aadhaar seeding, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cotton-procurement-to-begin-in-november/article36601589.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nobel laureate to attend VIT-AP convocation||Nobel laureate M. Stanley Whittingham will be the chief guest at the VIT-AP convocation-2021, scheduled for September 23 (Thursday). Vice-Chancellor of the University S.V. Kota Reddy said at a press conference on Tuesday that the British-born American chemist, who won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work in developing lithium ion batteries and shared the prize with American chemist John Goodenough and Japanese chemist Yoshino Akira, will participate in the event in virtual mode. Director of Microsoft India Mayurika Singh would be the guest of honour. “The convocation is being held virtually due to the pandemic situation in the country,” said Dr. Kota Reddy. He said 90% of the 460 students graduating from the university this year had secured placements and the remaining did not opt for placements as they either had plans to pursue higher education, take over family businesses or wanted to turn entrepreneurs. The Vice-Chancellor said that to reach out to senior students who had lost their sole earning family member, COVID-19 scholarships were introduced to waive the tuition and hostel fee and 30 students had benefited by this. This was in addition to introduction of merit scholarships for students who had secured more than 80% marks in non-Engineering programmes such as BBA, B.Com Finance, BA LLB (Hons), BBA LLB (Hons). BA-MA (Public Service). B.Sc-M.Sc (Data Science), M.Sc (Physics) and M.Sc (Chemistry), the Vice-Chancellor informed. Dr. Kota Reddy said Mr. Whittingham would also virtually inaugurate four new buildings, the Mahatma Gandhi academic block, Neelam Sanjiva Reddy block for boys’ hostel, Savitrhibai Phule block for girls’ hostel and Rock Plaza, a place for extra-curricular activities for students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nobel-laureate-to-attend-vit-ap-convocation/article36601591.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Housing Corporation meeting held||Andhra Pradesh State Police Housing Corporation Chairman Mettukuru Chiranjeevi Reddy held a meeting with the corporation officials and police officers here on Tuesday. Several decisions regarding the development of the corporation in the State were discussed at the first meeting, Mr. Reddy said. Completion of pending projects and construction works at prisons came up for discussion, the Chairman added. Corporation managing director N. Sanjay, Principal Secretary (Home) Kumar Viswajeet, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, Director General (Jails) Hassan Reza, and Director General (Fire Services) Madireddy Pratap reviewed works being done by the corporation. Roads and Buildings Chief Engineer P.C. Ramesh Kumar, Corporation Chief Engineer Venugopal Raju and General Manager Seetarama Raju attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-housing-corporation-meeting-held/article36601584.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI hits out at policies of BJP govt.||The ‘anti-people’ policies’ of the BJP government like privatisation of public sector units(PSUs), three farm laws, four labour codes and hike in petrol prices came in for severe criticism from the participants in the rally, organised by the Communist Party of India(CPI), from Gajuwaka to Kurmannapalem here on Tuesday. The rally marked the conclusion of the ‘Jan Andolan’, organised by the CPI. Rajya Sabha Member from Kerala Binoy Viswam, CPI national secretary K. Narayana, State secretary K. Ramakrishna, State Assistant secretaries J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy and Muppalla Nageswara Rao, State secretariat members G. Obulesu, R. Venkayya and P. Harnadh Reddy, State executive members A.J. Stalin, AITUC State president Ravulapati Ravindranath, Mahila Sangham State executive president A. Vimala, CPI district secretary Balineni Venkataramana and city secretary M. Pydiraju led the rally. The participants raised slogans against the ‘lopsided policies’ of the BJP government and against its decision on strategic sale of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). They sang songs recalling the immense contribution of the VSP to the growth of Visakhapatnam city over the past few decades. They recalled the sacrifices made by the people for the establishment of the steel plant and opposed the decision to its privatisation. The participants also appealed to the public to make the proposed ‘Bharat Bandh’on September 27 a huge success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-hits-out-at-policies-of-bjp-govt/article36602232.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Increase services from Vizag airport, airline operators urged||Airline operators can now increase the flight movements from the Visakhapatnam International Airport with the commissioning of the N 5 taxi track recently. At a meeting organised here on Tuesday, Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao, representatives of the AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Tour and Travel Association of Andhra and the Air Travellers Association held discussions with the heads of SpiceJet and AirAsia. The Airport Director in his presentation said that peak hour moments from Visakhapatnam could now be increased by 30% due to addition of new taxi track. He appealed to the airline operators to start more services from the airport. He also said that there were facilities for night parking of flights and suggested overnight parking so that early morning flights from Vizag to various destinations and late night flights into Vizag could be operated for the convenience of passengers. Mr. Satyanarayana said that he would take up the issue of starting of dedicated cargo flights by convening a meeting with the leading cargo handling agents and pharma companies later this month. He appealed to the airlines to start flights to Vijayawada, Tirupati and additional flights to major metros soon and a flight to Bangkok in view of the high demand from the region. He also sought starting of international services to Dubai and Thailand soon. He promised the airline operators full cooperation and help from the State government and coordination with the Central government to facilitate better connectivity from Visakhapatnam. South India head of AirAsia I. Praveen, AP and Telangana Head Sai Kumar, National Head of SpiceJet Debajith and AP and Telangana Head Kishore participated on behalf of the airline companies. SpiceJet informed that the MAX Boeing 737 flights, which were grounded earlier, were back in action, and additional flights could now be added. It also promised to look into the revival of the cargo flight soon. The president of AP Chambers P. Krishna Prasad, president of Air Travellers Association of AP Kumar Raja and Airport advisory members Naresh Kumar and Vijaymohan of the Tour & Travel Association spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/increase-services-from-vizag-airport-airline-operators-urged/article36602234.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP to support agitation against VSP sale||Jana Sena Party (JSP) Political Affairs Committee (PAC) chairman Nadendla Manohar has said that it is time the agitation against the privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSK) taken forward and that party president Pawan Kalyan will visit the city next month to extend his support to the cause. “Mr. Pawan Kalyan has discussed the privatisation issue with the BJP leaders including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and sought revocation of the decision. We hope that the BJP-led Central government will take a good decision so that the employment opportunities of the people of the State are not affected,” Mr. Manohar told the media here on Tuesday. He said that the JSP had waited patiently all these days and would now switch to direct action. “There is no need for a compromise on the VSP issue. The plant is linked to the history of the region. So it should not be seen as any other PSUs when it comes to the policy of privatisation. The Centre has to revoke its decision. Many of the people who were displaced during the establishment of the VSP are yet to get jobs. Some political parties are playing a double game on the issue,” said Mr. Manohar. Taking a swipe at the YSRCP government, Mr. Manohar said that the State had been facing many problems since Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy assumed the office of the Chief Minister. “The JSP is firm on its stand pertaining to the agitation of Amaravati farmers unlike the other political parties, which are afraid to take on the ruling party,” he said. Local body polls Referring to the local body polls, Mr. Manohar accused the YSRCP of using force to make the elections unanimous. “The JSP has a good support of the people, especially women. But, the YSRCP used police force to work in its favour,” he said and claimed that the movement launched by the JSP on roads riddled with potholes was a success. Replying to a query as to why the JSP took time to make its stand clear on the VSP issue , Mr. Manohar said: “You have waited so long. Wait for some more time and you would see how Mr. Pawan Kalyan is taking up the issue.” Replying to another query, he denied that there was lack of coordination among the JSP leaders and workers. “We are a small party trying to strengthen it from the grassroots level, as part of which meetings and membership drives are being held across the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-to-support-agitation-against-vsp-sale/article36602029.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AP Ed.CET records 87% attendance||The Andhra Pradesh Education Common Entrance Test (AP Ed.CET-2021) was conducted in 69 examination centres in 34 places across the State on Tuesday. Out of the 15,638 candidates registered, 13,619 (87.09%) wrote the two-hour examination. Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, who is also the Chairman of AP Ed.CET-2021, has selected the question set at the School of Distance Education of the AU prior to the examination Registrar V. Krishna Mohan, Department of Education head T. Sharon Raju were present on the occasion. AP Ed.CET-2021 convener K. Visweswara Rao said that Kurnool recorded highest attendance of 91.53%, followed by Srikakulam district (90.79%). Krishna district saw the lowest attendance of 83.27%. The test was conducted in Telugu, English and Urdu, he said. “All precautionary measures pertaining to COVID-19 pandemic were taken at all the test centres. As many as 71 observers monitored the examination,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-edcet-records-87-attendance/article36602030.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to virtually launch American Corner in AU tomorrow||The U.S. Consulate General, Hyderabad, and the State government will launch an American Corner at Andhra University in Visakhapatnam on September 23. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and U.S. Consul General in Hyderabad Joel Reifman, along with USAID Mission Director Veena Reddy, will jointly inaugurate the American Corner. Mr. Jagan will participate in the event virtually. The programme will be held at GMR Auditorium in the College of Science and Technology, AU. Public Affairs Officer, U.S. Consulate Genera,l Hyderabad, David Moyer, and AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy will also attend the event. American Corner is a community gathering place that features guest speakers, movie screenings, English language classes, book clubs, education advising for U.S. universities, and celebrations of American holidays. The American Corner which is going to be launched in AU, is the third stand-alone American Corner in India, joining ranks with Hyderabad and Ahmedabad. American Corners around the world operate through joint partnerships to promote cooperation and understanding between the American people and people from the host countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-virtually-launch-american-corner-in-au-tomorrow/article36602235.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to launch solar thermal power project||Andhra University will launch a solar thermal power project in the campus. A team of officers led by New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP) Chairman K.K. Raju met Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy here on Tuesday. The officials discussed the setting up of a solar thermal power project in three areas of the varsity to cater to the varsity’s electricity needs and for the maintenance of hostel messes and auditoriums, using Australian technology. Mr. Raju said that the main motto is to make full use of non-conventional energy sources and reduce pollution. The varsity will build a one MW solar thermal power project on a BOOT (build, own, operate and transfer) model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-to-launch-solar-thermal-power-project/article36602238.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist formation week begins amid tight security||CPI (Maoist) formation week began on a low-key note in the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region amidst tight security by the A.P. and Odisha personnel on either sides of the border. In all the sensitive mandals in Visakha Agency, the police not only scaled up security presence and secured all the vital installations but also increased route marches and combing operations, and set up check-posts at all critical points. Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam, B. Krishna Rao, said there were no untoward incidents in the AOB region, or in any part of the Visakha Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-formation-week-begins-amid-tight-security/article36602031.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 47 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 47 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,761. Consecutively for the second day, the district has witnessed fewer than 50 cases. The death toll stands at 1,083 as no death was reported in the last 24 hours. Sixty-three persons recovered from the coronavirus taking the total number of recoveries to1,54,701. The recovery rate is hovering around 98.6 %. Nearly 30,000 people were administrated first and second doses of vaccine in the district on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-47-new-cases/article36602236.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CISF constable arrested for ‘smuggling’ liquor in train||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested a CISF constable for allegedly transporting 143 liquor bottles (750 ML) in a train illegally from New Delhi to Visakhapatnam city on Tuesday. The arrested was identified as Ch. Gowri Shankar (32), working at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner, SEB, S.V.V.N. Babji Rao, said that the constable was transporting the liquor illegally from New Delhi in A.P Express to sell here to friends and others at higher rates. Mr. Babji Rao said that the accused had admitted committing the offence six to seven times. The accused was sent in remand and cases were booked U/s 34(a) of A.P. Excise Act- 1968(Amendment Act 2020 in No.17).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cisf-constable-arrested-for-smuggling-liquor-in-train/article36602239.ece
22 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||620 kg ganja seized, one held||The district police on Tuesday arrested a person while he was allegedly transporting about 620 kg ganja in a lorry near Ananthagiri area in Visakhapatnam Agency. The market value of the seized ganja is estimated to be around Rs. 60 lakh. One more accused is yet to be nabbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/620-kg-ganja-seized-one-held/article36602237.ece
22 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gurajada’s works continue to inspire all, says Collector||Noted playwright, poet and writer Gurajada Apparao will continue to inspire youngsters as his works are relevant for all generations, according to District Collector A. Suryakumari. Ms. Suryakumari was speaking after paying floral tributes to Mahakavi Gurajada on the occasion of his 159th birth anniversary, at his house here on Tuesday. Calling upon the teachers to display his messages such as ‘Desamante matti kadoy... desamante manushuloy’ prominently in all schools and colleges, she promised to take steps to highlight them in all village and ward secretariats. MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy and MLC Penumatsa Sureshbabu said the government was taking steps to convert the house of the poet into a museum. North Andhra Teachers’ Constituency MLC Pakalapati Raghuvarma said Gurajada’s ‘Kanykasulkam’ had been translated into many languages. Central Tribal University Vice-Chancellor T.V. Kattimani and Lok Satta’s State executive president Bhisetti Babji offered floral tributes. Gurajada Samskritika Samakhya general secretary K. Prakash and others participated in the procession taken out on the occasion from Gurajada’s house to Gurajada Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gurajadas-works-continue-to-inspire-all-says-collector/article36601597.ece
22 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM / SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP loses much of its ground to YSRCP in parishad elections||The TDP seems to have lost much of its ground both in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts, which are considered its bastions since inception. In spite of facing many ups and downs in the last 30 years, its network in the rural areas has always been intact as has been seen despite its drubbing in the 1989, 2004, 2009 and 2019 general elections. However, the recent ZPTC and MPTC elections threw a completely different picture. The TDP had lost all the 34 ZPTC seats in Vizianagaram district, and managed to win only 86 out of 487 MPTC seats. While the YSRCP emerged victorious in 487 seats, other parties and Independents bagged the remaining. The election results in Srikakulam district were no different for the opposition party. It was defeated in all 37 ZPTC seats for which elections were held. The election had to be postponed in one seat following the death of a candidate. Out of 667 MPTC seats, the YSRCP had won 557. The TDP was confined to only 83 seats. The remaining seats had gone to the JSP, the BJP and Independents. Debacle in Tekkali The Tekkali Assembly constituency has always been the TDP’s citadel with the presence of the Kinjarapu family. In spite of the wave in favour of the YSRCP, the TDP could retain Srikakulam Lok Sabha and Tekkali Assembly seats in the 2019 elections. However, the party lost here in the parishad elections. Meanwhile, the YSRCP MLAs and leaders are in a jubilant mood. “There will no political life for the TDP in the State in the near future. The YSRCP will win almost all the 175 Assembly seats in the 2024 elections,” says K. Srinivasa Rao, Sringavarapukota MLA. “People have completely rejected the Telugu Desam Party as they understood that development and welfare are possible only with the YSRCP,” says A. Jogarao, Parvatipuram MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-loses-much-of-its-ground-to-ysrcp-in-parishad-elections/article36602061.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s exports grew despite economic downturn, says Jagan||About other projects, Mr. Jagan said the State was setting up a greenfield steel plant in Kadapa with an outlay of Rs. 13,500 crore. With partnership with GAIL, a gas distribution network to secure availability of gas for both domestic and industrial purposes has been taken up, he said. Ports’ capacity “The ports’ capacity will increase by 65 million tonnes per annum with the completion of three ports in Bhavanapadu, Machilipatnam and Ramayapatnam. The current capacity is 254 million tonnes per annum,” he added. “Given the proximity to neighbouring States, these three ports will contribute significantly to India’s foreign trade growth and promote port-led industrialisation,” the Chief Minister said. Secondary food processing units coming up in 25 parliamentary constituencies would support farmers and lead to value addition, which would increase exports and create 30,000 jobs directly and 50,000 jobs indirectly. Eight fishing harbours being developed would benefit 76,230 fishermen and create over 35,000 jobs, besides increase exports, he said. “Andhra Pradesh currently contributes 5.8% of national exports and we aspire to double this by 2030. To attain the goal, we have formulated a roadmap,” he said. The Chief Minister also invited the stakeholders to drop in suggestions or request for support, and assured the best support and cooperation from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-exports-grew-despite-economic-downturn-says-jagan/article36602016.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land dispute: Akbar Basha’s family attempts suicide again||Members of the Muslim JAC led by V.S. Ameer Babu, accompanied by TDP, Congress and Left party leaders, submitted a representation to the District Revenue Officer D. Malola seeking justice to Akbar Basha’s family. Mr. Ameer Basha, who is also the TDP’s Kadapa constituency in-charge, demanded action against the YSRCP leader I. Tirupal Reddy for the encroachment and the Mydukur police for the alleged complicity. Those with suicidal tendencies and distress can call 100 for counselling. Lokesh blames govt. Meanwhile, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary and MLC Nara Lokesh held the State government responsible for the alleged suicide attempt by Akbar Basha’s family. In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Lokesh alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy's relative Tirupal Reddy had encroached on the land of the Basha family. When the family asked for justice, the local CI threatened to encounter and kill them. Now, Basha, his wife and two daughters tried to end their lives again. “In an attempt suppress the details of this, the victims were kidnapped,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-dispute-akbar-bashas-family-attempts-suicide-again/article36602015.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unexpected visitor||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unexpected-visitor/article36601593.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lighting up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lighting-up/article36602241.ece
22 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Newly-married woman ends life||A 21-year-old woman of a village near Yellandu committed suicide by consuming pesticide on Tuesday morning after being allegedly cheated by a 24-year-old youth, who “deceitfully” married her by “hiding” some facts about his family history, over a week ago. According to sources, Venkatesh, a M. Tech graduate, of Yellandu allegedly befriended the woman, a degree student, belonging to their close relative’s family and married her last week.He allegedly concealed his surname and details of his family history before marrying her, sources added. The newly-married woman resorted to the extreme step after she came to know that Venkatesh allegedly cheated her by hiding his surname and family history. A few hours later, Venkatesh allegedly attempted suicide by jumping into a farm well near Yellandu. He was rescued by some locals and shifted to a hospital in Khammam on Tuesday afternoon. His condition was stated to be serious. A case has been registered and further investigation is on. ( Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/newly-married-woman-ends-life/article36602076.ece
22 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tribal tanda achieves 100% vaccination||Giving an impetus to the district administration’s efforts to accelerate the pace of COVID-19 vaccination in the tribal majority district, Chimna Tanda, a tribal village in Sujathanagar mandal, achieved 100% vaccination coverage on Tuesday. The District Collector, Mr, D Anudeep, felicitated the medical staff and others involved in the vaccination drive, who contributed their mite in ensuring vaccination of the entire eligible population of the tribal village against COVID-19, at a function held in the village on Tuesday. Of the total 3 lakh doses of vaccine administered in the district since January, nearly one lakh doses were given in the past one week alone, the Collector said, lauding the concerted efforts of all stakeholders in stepping up the vaccination drive in the entire district. Vaccines were safe, effective and vital to combat the COVID-19, he remarked, exuding confidence that the district would achieve significant milestones in COVID-19 vaccination drive soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tribal-village-achieves-100-vaccination/article36602085.ece
22 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Fear grips border areas||A palpable sense of fear gripped tribal people inhabiting scattered villages straddling the Telangana-Chhattisgarh border as police intensified combing operations in forest fringe villages of Bhadrachalam Agency to foil attempts, if any, by Maoists to hold meetings to mark their week-long celebrations of the CPI (Maoist) 17th formation day (September 21). Bomb disposal squads were deployed at strategic locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fear-grips-border-areas/article36602144.ece
22 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Protective measures save Hussainsagar promenade||The recently renovated Rs. 20-crore Hussainsagar Lake promenade suffered minimal damage despite thousands of Ganesh idols being immersed into the lake from the 12 cranes deployed for the occasion. On Tuesday morning, civic workers began hosing down the flamed granite pavement after another group of civic workers cleaned the trash left by revellers on Sunday and Monday. “The amount of trash in water is just half of what we have removed. We have been asked to clean up this place as more people are visiting now,” said Prakashi, a sanitary worker who was moved from Sanjeeviah Park to clean up the Tank Bund area. Unlike earlier years where the Tank Bund would remain unusable for a few days due to the rotting festival debris scattered everywhere, the pavement has been swept clean within hours. The use of 150-mm cobblestones in sections where cranes were deployed ensured that the surface remained undamaged despite deployment of 40-tonne cranes and the movement of thousands of devotees and visitors. Strategic placement of sandbags, logs of wood, and planned placement of electrical fixtures led to minimal damage to the surface. The only relics of the event were bits of coir fibre and remnants of gypsum sticking to the cobblestones. The cast iron railings also remained unaffected as a protective railings were tied to them to prevent damage. At places, the civic body erected protective netting to prevent people from throwing trash into the lake. But the full stretch of Tank Bund did not have the high protective netting. The result: Many families and individuals stopped the vehicles and threw plastic packets filled with religious paraphernalia. To clean the trash from the lake, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority is using floating trash collectors. “We are spraying this for bio-remediation. The plant and floral offerings decay and release a bad odour. This will ensure that algal growth is curtailed and foul smell doesn’t increase over the next few days,” informed Mahender, as a civic worker sprayed a clear liquid into the lake on the Necklace Road side. The taller idols, including the Khairatabad Ganesh idols, were immersed in the lake on the Necklace Road side. Unlike the Tank Bund promenade, the railings on the Necklace Road were damaged due to the cranes and other heavy machinery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protective-measures-save-hussainsagar-promenade/article36602128.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Innovation, manufacturing critical: Bharat Biotech chief||As a country, we need higher GDP growth, and innovation and manufacturing are critical. Innovation has moved from Europe to the United States, to Japan, and now, it is moving to China, remarked chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech International Ltd. Krishna Ella. Talking about why the Chinese succeed in science and technology despite their English handicap, he said it is all about having a good skill set. “We have good knowledge and good degrees, but we are not skill-oriented yet. Our government is already working on improving skill, and improving biological sciences and other sciences which are going to be critical for us to succeed,” he said while speaking at the two-day Vanijya Saptah as part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations to commemorate 75 years of Independence. The exhibition-cum-conference, which began here on Tuesday, is being organised by Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) and the Telangana government. Mr Ella said World Wars have brought about product innovation such as Penicillin and bigger flights in terms of engineering. “Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has shifted from chemical engineering to biological science,” he added. The world can be transformed if top 20 Indian pharma companies make one new molecule and sell it globally. Principal Secretary of Industries and Commerce department Jayesh Ranjan, Additional Director General of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry G. Seetharam Reddy and Export Commissioner D. Krishna Bhaskar also spoke at the inaugural session of the conference. Mr Ranjan said that to make India an export hub for different kinds of merchandise, three factors which have to be considered are quality of product, export infrastructure and supportive policies. Stating that immediate attention was not on exports when the pharma industry started to grow in Hyderabad five decades ago, he said, “Pharmaceuticals, particularly vaccines, require immaculate cold chain maintenance. It was not created at that point of time as focus was not there. Now, we are aware of the fact that we have to build infrastructure which caters to export too.” He added that quality export infrastructure is provided at Pharma City and Medical Devices Park, which are greenfield projects. Other trials Bharat Biotech has completed the Phase 2/3 trials of COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin for use in children under 18 years of age and is expected to submit the data by next week to the DCGI, Mr. Ella said, speaking to the media at the event. The data analysis is going on. We will be submitting the data by next week, he added. Intranasal immunisation can create an immune response in the nose, which is the point of entry for the virus, thereby protecting against the disease, infection, and transmission also, he noted. According to Mr Ella, the intranasal vaccine trials are conducted on three cohorts in which one group is administered Covaxin as the first dose and intranasal as the second. Similarly, intranasal-intranasal for the second group and intranasal-Covaxin for the third cohort is administered, 28 days apart. He said the trials will be conducted on about 650 volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/innovation-manufacturing-critical-bharat-biotech-chief/article36602142.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banyans at risk as four-lane road to Chevella greenlighted||Future of hundreds of banyan trees on the Chevella-Manneguda highway courts is uncertain yet again, with the proposal for road-widening getting sanction from the Central government. The State government has recently got approval from the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways for widening of the road between APPA junction and Manneguda via Chevella. Reducing travel time The road will be made four lane along the 46-km length, with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 928.41 crore, in order to prevent accidents. Widening of the road is set to cut short the commuting time to remote mandals of Vikarabad district such as Tandur, Pargi, and Kodangal. Besides, the road connecting Hyderabad with Bijapur, if widened completely, will simplify travel to several areas of Karnataka too. Though the proposal for road-widening was first mooted in 2018, it could not be taken up then, due to several constraints, including lack of funding. Another reason was the about 1,100 banyan trees hemming the road on both sides, which were proposed to be axed when the project came up. Century-old trees The banyans are nearly 100 years old, and planted during the Last Nizam’s time, claimed environmentalists who had launched a pitched battle with the State government authorities. An online petition launched by concerned citizens batting for the banyans has received close to 38,000 signatures. As a result, felling permission granted by the Forest department was revoked. In 2020, the trees scaled up to headlines again, when scores of them were found burnt, mutilated, and chopped. Field survey done by nature enthusiasts revealed that a total of 101 trees were sabotaged with deliberate intention of making way for the highway-widening. Field enquiry by the Forest department officials led nowhere, and campaigns were run educating the people of the villages along the road in order to prevent further damage. “Now that the road-widening proposal has got sanction and funding, the banyans are yet again in danger. The highway needs to be widened to prevent accidents. But the trees can be translocated, which we offered to do free of cost. We have enough individuals and organisations willing to adopt the banyans, and bear the translocation expenses — only if we get the permission,” says P. Uday Krishna from Vata Foundation. No permission yet Enquiries with the Forest department officials have revealed that tree felling permission has not yet been sanctioned. Officials from National Highways Authority of India could not be reached for their version.  The highway needs to be widened to prevent accidents. We have enough individuals and organisations willing to adopt the banyans, and bear the translocation expenses. P. Uday Krishna, Founding trustee, Vata Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banyans-at-risk-as-four-lane-road-to-chevella-greenlighted/article36602072.ece
22 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Venkatesh, Rana Daggubati to star in Netflix web series||Real-life uncle and nephew and stars with massive fan bases, Venkatesh and Rana Daggubati will be collaborating for the first time for a Netflix web series titled Rana Naidu . The series is an official adaptation of the American crime drama Ray Donovan . Of a professional fixer Produced by Sunder Aaron of Locomotive Global Media LLP, Rana Naidu will be directed by Karan Anshuman and Suparn Verma. The story will follow the life of Rana Naidu, a professional fixer for Bollywood and Mumbai’s elite. In a statement, Rana Daggubati said that the series heralds many firsts for him. It will be his first collaboration with his uncle and the first exploration of long form storytelling for both actors: “It is completely different from what both of us have done in our careers so far. I am extremely happy to work with a crew and a platform that knows this format the best. It will be new, challenging and fun. We are looking forward to filming soon.” Venkatesh added, “I cannot wait to work with Rana. I am sure we will have a blast on the sets. I am a huge fan of Ray Donovan and the team is pulling out all the stops to ensure we do justice to it.” Elaborating on the concept of Rana Naidu, the Netflix statement reveals that the character Rana Naidu is on the speed dial of Bollywood celebs, since there is no problem he cannot fix.  It is completely different from what both of us have done in our careers so far. It will be new, challenging and fun. Rana Daggubati, Actor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/venkatesh-rana-daggubati-to-star-in-netflix-web-series/article36602124.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three trees at Kacheguda rail depot get a fresh lease of life||Hacking off well grown trees left, right and centre in the name of road-widening is routine. But here is a unique case of a government institution making a special effort to protect three big trees and translocating them to an alternate location, rather than choosing the easy ‘chop off’ option. Even more heartwarming is the fact that the employees of South Central Railway’s (SCR)-Kacheguda maintenance coaching depot pooled money to fund the translocation exercise with the help of an external expert. “We have spent a considerable part of our careers under the shade of these trees and could not think of cutting them down. But, we needed the space for constructing an extra goods line in view of the rising demand for transport of perishables,” explained Coaching Depot Officer G. Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday. Once it was decided to relocate the trees, he spread the word among his staff and everyone pooled in amounts ranging from Rs. 200 to Rs. 3,000 or more. “We had to put a halt to the contribution once we reached Rs. 50,000 or I am sure we could have easily collected up to Rs. 80,000. Everyone was so enthusiastic,” he added. These Bottle Palm trees were planted in 2006 and since then have grown to near seven feet tall but were coming in the way of the proposed construction line necessary to tackle increasing freight movements through Kisan Rails. Mr. Rao and his colleagues planned the translocation on September 16, collected the money for hiring labour to dig up pits, earth-moving excavator and a crane, contacted the tree translocation expert and finished the job in seven hours flat the following day. The three trees were moved to less than a kilometre away within the same premises near another building and it will take two months to monitor their survival post-translocation. This exercise caught the attention of top officials too. “It is exemplary how the coaching depot did this work voluntarily. We want to protect our environment even while pursuing growth and expansion plans,” said SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-trees-at-rail-depot-get-a-fresh-lease-of-life/article36602070.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Move to give Waqf land to TMREIS raises eyebrows||The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB), several months after ruling out the possibility of leasing its properties to the Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society (TMREIS), has taken the proverbial U-turn. The Muslim Endowments panel passed a resolution which would soon enable leasing of land parcels under its custody to TMREIS for up to 30 years, and at low rents. Resolution passed While a resolution was passed recently, Waqf protection activists have raised concerns over the move. It was in 2019 that the idea of allotting Waqf land parcels to the TMREIS on lease was first floated. However, this had met with stiff resistance within the elected board, primarily over concerns about low rents which were likely to be paid. “It is strange that this is happening again. It appears that there is some pressure on the board from higher authorities. Why should Waqf land parcels be given? Are there no other government lands which can be allotted to TMREIS? Are other government-run schools being constructed on community lands? The rentals should be at prevailing market rates,” said Congress leader and Deccan Waqf Protection Society office-bearer Osman al Hajiri. According to sources from the board, some of the nine land parcels in Hyderabad, and its outskirts which are likely to be given on lease include two land parcels in Karwan – those endowed to the Kulsumpura Jama Masjid and the famed Toli Masjid – Pedda Amberpet, and Pahadi Shareef. Additionally, 20 Waqf land parcels in other districts of Telangana have been identified for this purpose. No comments While Telangana State Waqf Board Chairman Mohammed Saleem was contacted, he did not comment on the issue and stated he was busy preparing for an event scheduled on Wednesday, a source from the board who did not wish to be identified said, “The Waqf Act specifically deals with the leasing of lands in its custody. While now lease for up to 30 years can be executed, there are other factors, such as calling for open tenders. The issue of leasing land parcels on nomination basis is yet to be looked into. We are being told that the lease per acre per annum is likely to be Rs. 10,000, which is low. Concrete steps in terms of discussion and paper work with TMREIS are yet to be taken. ” Another source from the board said that leasing its land parcels to TMREIS would protect them from encroachments. This, the source added, was the need of the hour. “It is well known that over 70% of Waqf lands in Telangana are encroached. Having a government-run entity would ensure protection. Once the lease runs its course, the buildings constructed on the Waqf land will be Waqf’s,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/move-to-give-waqf-land-to-tmreis-raises-eyebrows/article36602137.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AOC Centre’s 1,300 km cycling expedition flagged off||General Officer Commanding (GOC) Dakshin Bharat Area Lieutenant General A. Arun, flagged off the Army Ordnance Corps (AOC) Centre cycling expedition commemorating the “Swarnim Vijay Varsh” of 1971 War on Tuesday. The expedition of 1,300 km over 10 days will see a team of 12 cyclists cover nine historical forts in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, including Golconda, Ghanpur, Gadwal, Adoni, Konda Reddy, Kondaveedu, Kondapalli, Khammam and Bhongir, to highlight the aspects of national integration and strong social fabric of the country. The team will return to Secunderabad on September 30. Lt. Gen. Arun on a three-day trip, also visited AOC Centre, 1 EME Centre and Artillery Centre here where he inspected the training, operational readiness and administration of the centres and complimented them on their high standards. At the Telangana and Andhra Sub Area, he was briefed on the operational readiness, humanitarian and disaster relief preparedness. The GO interacted with the veterans and war widows of the station, visited the Military Hospital in Secunderabad and Golconda, inspected the facilities for COVID and had a word of praise for healthcare workers, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aoc-centres-1300-km-cycling-expedition-flagged-off/article36602139.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FSSAI finds violation during inspection of leading five star hotel||A team of Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) conducted a surprise inspection of Chalet Hotels Private Limited (The Westin Hyderabad, MindSpace), in Raheja IT Park and found operations underway despite their FSSAI license being suspended, the agency said on Tuesday. The FSSAI is an agency of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and recently begun its operations in Telangana from its office in the BSNL CSC Building, Erragadda. According to a statement released to the media, the hotel’s license was suspended on September 14, for not conducting mandated third party audits. Common storage The FSSAI stated that expired raw and marinated chicken was found in the preparation area of the kitchen, and that vegetarian and non-vegetarian food was stored in the same place in the cold storage. Further, chicken with a short shelf life and red meat without a mention of the expiry date were found in cold storage. “The hotel has (prepared) foods like veg biryani, veg pulao, white rice, etc. in the cold storage with a shelf life claim of 36 hours which is seen as a serious contravention. In addition, the bakery area of the hotel was not complying with the hygiene requirements of Schedule 4 of Food Safety and Standards Licensing Regulations, with materials including food kept very close to open garbage bins,” the statement reads. The FSSAI also stated that chocolates and berries, which had expired, were found in the freezer cabinets of the bakery. “We went ahead with the inspection because they were operating despite the license being suspended. They later conducted a third party inspection, but the observations of this were to be complied,” Central Licensing Authority, Telangana, K. A. Arul Anand said.  The Hindu contacted the hotel, and their statement was awaited at the time this report went to the press.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fssai-finds-violation-during-inspection-of-leading-five-star-hotel/article36602143.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||DECs to oversee power reforms mooted||In yet another significant move to improve accountability and transparency among the power utilities, particularly distribution companies (discoms), as part of reforms the Ministry of Power (MoP) told the State Governments recently to set up District Electricity Committees (DECs) to have an oversight over all power schemes of the Centre and their impact on services to consumers. The committees would also have to ensure involvement of people in the process of power sector reforms. The committee would also ensure a role to elected representatives in taking decision related to power transmission and distribution at district level. To be headed by the most senior MP in the district, the DECs would comprise other MPs in the district as co-chairpersons, District Collector as member-secretary, all legislators in the district and Zilla Parishad Chairperson as its members. Other members would be representatives of MoP/New and Renewable Energy PSUs in the district. Chief/Superintending Engineer of Discom in the district would be the member-convenor. The fresh move is part of a series of decisions unveiled by the Centre in recent months to push reforms such as making discoms to give-up management of 33 KV transmission network as part of their distribution business to reduce commercial losses, downsizing the revenue sources with green energy open access policy to all consumers with consumption of over one megawatt power (1,000 units of energy a day) and to improve the viability of discoms by making it mandatory to install pre-paid energy meters to all consumers by March 2025. “On one hand, all these measures appear appropriate to make Discoms viable as most of them are in heavy losses due to commercial losses and short-funding of subsidies by the governments. On the other, the measures clearly indicate the possibility of privatisation of distribution business at field level, not necessarily at discom level – at sub-station or even lower level”, a senior executive of the Southern Discom said. The DECs are mandated to meet at district headquarters at least once in three months to review and coordinate overall development of power supply infrastructure in accordance with the Centre’s schemes. The aspects reviewed by DECs include progress and quality issues in the implementation of Deendayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana (DDUGJY), Integrated Power Development Scheme (lPDS), and Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (SAUBHAGYA). Further, the committees are mandated to review development of sub-transmission and distribution network including regular operations and maintenance of network, identifying further areas where strengthening is needed, impact of the works on quality and reliability of power supply, standards of performance and consumer services, complaints and grievance redress system and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/decs-to-oversee-power-reforms-mooted/article36602079.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-course in organic farming launched||Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) in collaboration with Association of Indian Organic Industry (AIOI) launched an online organic agriculture course on Tuesday. The launch was done virtually by Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Santosh Sarangi, AIOI chief executive officer P.V.S.M. Gouri, Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunandan Rao and university Vice-Chancellor V. Praveen Rao. V-C’s suggestions Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Praveen Rao said controlling weeds was a major challenge in organic farming and suggested the course organisers to include it in the syllabus. Certification of organic produce, quality and pest management issues also ought to be included in the curriculum, he opined. Further, he suggested the use of emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence, blockchain technology, robotics and drone technology on a large scale in organic farming and train the students in those areas.  Complimenting the initiative of the industry and academia, Mr. Sarangi said such a practice was already well established in the Western countries. Stating that there was a shortage of skilled manpower in the organic farming sector, he hoped that introduction of the course jointly by PJTSAU and AIOI would help overcome it. PJTSAU director (Research) R. Jagadeeshwar and Rajasekhar Reddy of 24 Mantra, an organic produce marketing company, were among those who participated.  It is imperative to train students in the use of emerging technologies such as AI, blockchain technology, robotics and drone technology in organic farming. V. Praveen Rao, Vice-Chancellor, PJTSAU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/e-course-in-organic-farming-launched/article36602067.ece
22 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||In-depth study of social sciences needed: Vinod||Osmania University launched the three-year BA (Hons) course in Economics and Political Science separately in Nizam College and Osmania University College for Women with an initial intake of 60 students each. These seats would be included in the third-phase of admissions under Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST) starting soon. Launching the course, B. Vinod Kumar, Vice-Chairman of the State Planning Board said that in-depth study of social sciences was the need of the hour and he had proposed the idea for the BA (Hons) courses given their demand in Delhi University and others. “Lot of Telugu students join these courses in Delhi,” he said, hoping that good talent will choose these courses here. He also asked the university not to dilute its importance allowing private colleges to cash in on the craze like engineering courses. He complimented the Telangana State Council of Higher Education and the CESS for taking the idea to fruition and coming up with this novel course. Commissioner for Collegiate Education, Navin Mittal said the proposed courses would enable students to gain a thorough conceptual framework and provide wide range of career options due to the choice of subjects and enhance prospects to pursue research. TSCHE Chairman R. Limbadri explained the effort that went into designing these courses along with the CESS and assured the colleges of adequate intellectual support. The course structure and inputs were provided by E. Revathi, Director, CESS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-depth-study-of-social-sciences-needed-vinod/article36602126.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks to know about action plan to contain viral fevers||Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to prepare an action plan to tackle the outbreak of viral fevers, especially dengue, without waiting for any specific orders from the court. A bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar, while hearing a taken-up PIL petition on the spread of viral fevers in the State, sought suggestions from the petitioner’s counsel and others on the measures to be taken to check viral fevers. Observing that the affidavit filed by GHMC Commissioner in the matter was “somewhat vague”, the Acting CJ said the court wanted specific action plan and not general statements. Senior counsel S. Niranjan Reddy, who was appointed as amicus curiae in the plea, said the HC had already given an order in 2019 in a similar matter. As per that order, the government had to constitute a committee of officials to monitor the incidence of viral fevers and take steps to check their further transmission. Advocate-General B.S. Prasad said the committee had suggested measures like undertaking large-scale larvae removal operations and cleaning areas with stagnant water. “That was done some nine months ago...what did the officials do to check escalation of viral fevers for this season?”, the Acting CJ sought to know from the AG. Not satisfied with the latter’s explanation, he said there was no need for the court to pass a fresh order every time on such matters of public importance. “Why are the officials not anticipating possible spread of such diseases and contemplate action?” he asked. The bench finally sought suggestions from the petitioner’s counsel K. Pavan Kumar, senior counsel S. Niranjan Reddy and the AG on the measures to be initiated to contain the spread of viral fevers before passing a final order on the matter. The plea was posted to September 29 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-seeks-to-know-about-action-plan-to-contain-viral-fevers/article36602132.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabinet panel to look into house site issues||The State Government has constituted a Cabinet sub-committee to study the issues pertaining to house sites across the State. The sub-committee will be chaired by Industries and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao and will comprise Ministers T. Harish Rao, T. Srinivas Yadav, E. Dayakar Rao, V. Srinivas Goud, Ch. Malla Reddy and P. Sabita Indra Reddy as members. Municipal Administration department special chief secretary will be convener. The panel has been asked to look into matters relating to unauthorized layouts, regularization of plots etc., according to orders issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cabinet-panel-to-look-into-house-site-issues/article36602082.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ace swimmer Rajiv Trivedi felicitated||Senior IPS officer and well-known swimmer Rajiv Trivedi was felicitated by former Director General of Police N. Swaranjit Sen at the Lanco Hills exhibition here. The two later took part in an interactive session with the participants on the ‘Role of Sports in our Lives’. Mr. Sen, himself an avid golfer besides being a cricketer in his early days, inaugurated the upgraded swimming pool at Lanco Hills Club House. Former SAI boxing coach E. Chiranjeevi, Lanco Community president Y.V. Gandhi, Swimming Federation of India treasurer and secretary of TSSWA Ramakrishna and NIS swimming coach G. Umesh were among those present. Sai Sri Shraddha (girls 50-metre freestyle), Ketan Raghava (boys 50-metre freestyle), Gautham Chirumalla (boys 100-metre freestyle), Mohal Gupta (100-metre freestyle) and Samiksha Patil (girls 100-metre breaststroke) were some of the swimmers who excelled, winning gold in the competitions held on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ace-swimmer-rajiv-trivedi-felicitated/article36602109.ece
22 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Century-old book revived by author’s grandson||A hundred-year-old book has taken on a modern avatar, thanks to a decade-long efforts by the author’s grandson. A Vade Mecum of all Anglo-Telugu Readers , published in 1920, has been edited and released now as ‘A Century of An Epic’. The book of Telugu phrases and sentences rendered into idiomatic and appropriate English exposes readers to English language in the pre-Independence era. The book was recently released by Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. “Some expressions sound funny given the contextual changes over the decades and that is what makes it further interesting,” says Dasu Kesava Rao, grandson of Dasu Kesava Rao Pant, the original author. First published in 1920, it had received such a phenomenal response that it went for reprints every year until 1938. Finding it amid a dusty pile of old books in 2010, the author’s grandson took a decade to refine, revive and reprint it. In British India, Telugu-speaking people spoke either ‘Butler English’ or word-to- word translation, which sounded unnatural. The author felt they needed to speak idiomatic English to communicate effectively, and published the book, ‘Vade Mecum’, a Latin expression corresponding to handbook or guide. The tagline assured readers: ‘If you read this book carefully, you will speak English beautifully’, says Mr. Kesava Rao, who retired as bureau chief of The Hindu in Hyderabad. The book contains 50-odd pages of Telugu phrases and sentences rendered into idiomatic and appropriate English, followed by English idiomatic expressions translated into suitable Telugu apart from a long list of Telugu proverbs with corresponding ones in English, and a large collection of useful English and equivalent Telugu words. Explaining the reason for bringing out the book after 100 years since its first publication, Mr. Kesava Rao says apart from nostalgia, he wanted the present generation to take a peek into English usage in India a century ago. The copy was in a very bad state, the pages having turned yellow and torn. But with the help of Veteran Journalists’ Association and senior journalists G.S. Varadachary and K. Lakshmana Rao, who were confident that the book would interest readers, it was was redesigned and retitled ‘A Century of An Epic’ to give it a contemporary look and character.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/century-old-book-revived-by-authors-grandson/article36602115.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi decries reported vandalism of his Delhi house||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi took to Twitter to condemn the reported vandalism of his Delhi residence, even as he described the alleged vandals as ‘radicalised goons’. “My Delhi residence was vandalised today by radicalised goons. Their cowardice is well known & as usual they came in a mob, not alone. They also chose a time when I was not home. They were armed with axes and sticks, they pelted stones at my house, my nameplate was destroyed,” he tweeted, adding that this was the third time that his house was attacked. Mr Owaisi said that the Election Commission office was beside his house, the Parliament Street Police Station across the road, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence, eight minutes away. “If an MP’s house is not safe, then what message is @AmitShah sending,” he further tweeted. The Hyderabad MP said that 13 persons attacked his house, out of which six have been detained. He also said that the house caretaker for 40 years, Raju, who later approached the police with a complaint, was assaulted and his grandchildren are now living in fear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/owaisi-decries-reported-vandalism-of-his-delhi-house/article36602134.ece
22 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Revanth damaging Telangana’s reputation’||The Telangana Rasthtra Samithi (TRS) has asked Telangana Congress chief A. Revanth Reddy to ensure that his leader Rahul Gandhi responds to the challenge thrown by Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao on both of them taking the drug analysis test at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). In continuation of the ongoing war of words between KTR and Mr. Reddy, TRS MLAs A. Jeevan Reddy, Guvvala Balraj and Gadari Kishore said that it had become a habit of sorts to criticise KTR for gaining cheap publicity. Mr. Jeevan Reddy said while KTR was the brand ambassador for development, the Congress leader was an ambassador for cheating. He challenged Mr. Revanth Reddy to meet the DGP if he had any evidence for an inquiry rather than making ridiculous allegations. He said Congress leader should take Mr. Rahul Gandhi to the pubs in Mumbai where the Congress was part of the government and in Punjab that was besieged with drug menace. Mr. Balraj warned that the TRS would change its tact in dealing with Congress leaders if they continued to target KTR, and react in similar abusive manner. He charged the Congress chief with trying to damage the image of Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-damaging-telanganas-reputation/article36602083.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Government issues orders on quota in allotment of liquor outlets||Members belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Goud community will get share in the allotment of liquor outlets (A4 shops) for the excise year 2021-23. As assured by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during a recent meeting, the government has announced quota for these communities in the allotment of retail liquor outlets. Accordingly, 15 % shops would be allotted to Goud community, 10 % to SCs and 5 % to STs during the licence period 2021-23. The Chief Minister during his Independence Day speech has announced resolve to provide quota to downtrodden sections in government licences for setting up fertiliser shops, liquor shops and bars, medical shops, hospitals and hostels. The State Cabinet which met recently cleared the proposal and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued orders providing reservations to these sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/government-issues-orders-on-quota-in-allotment-of-liquor-outlets/article36602145.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Councillors from Maharashtra visit GHMC||A team of councillors from Amaravati Municipal Corporation of Maharashtra on a tour of the city, visited GHMC headquarters on Tuesday, and interacted with officials from the Urban Community Development wing. Additional Commissioner, Urban Community Development, Shankaraiah, Director Vijayalakshmi, and Project Director Sowjanya briefed the team about the schemes of the State government through a presentation. Bank loans to self-help groups, shelter homes, training for the homeless, loans for the street vendors, rehabilitation of beggars, health and medical services, and other such schemes were explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/councillors-from-maharashtra-visit-ghmc/article36602131.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water Board to maintain sewerage in peripheries||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) will take up the sewerage maintenance in the peripheral wards of GHMC starting from October 1, as per directions from the Municipal Administration department. A crucial meeting with regard to this was held at the Water Board headquarters on Tuesday, presided over by Managing Director M. Dana Kishore and GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar. The meeting discussed transfer of staff, vehicles, jetting machines, and other equipment from GHMC to the Water Board, coordination between both the departments, grievance redress, and other issues. Coordination between GHMC zonal commissioners and general managers of the water board is of utmost importance, he said, and suggested that complaint registers be kept at ward offices for speedy resolution of sewerage issues. One more toll free number apart from the existing (155313) will be started for people to lodge complaints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-board-to-maintain-sewerage-in-peripheries/article36602129.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG plea on tabling of SFC, VC reports in Assembly||Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has requested Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan, to direct Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to take steps to place all the pending reports of the State Finance Commission (SFC) and Vigilance Commission (VC) in the Assembly as the next session is to commence on September 24. In a communication to the Governor, a copy of which was released to the media, FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy said there was no transparency and accountability in the functioning of the administration as no action is being taken on the vigilance reports. Since the formation of the Telangana State, not a single VC or SFC report has been tabled in the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fgg-plea-on-tabling-of-sfc-vc-reports-in-assembly/article36602140.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Next poll will be between BJP, TRS’||Former Union Minister and senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday said the next Assembly elections would be a straight fight between his party and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). The cadre should not rest for the next two years till the “corrupt and single family government is ousted,” he said and exuded confidence of the BJP forming next government with the ‘support of people’. Participating in a public meeting on the 25th day of TS party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ at Nizamsagar crossroads in Kamareddy, he said the ‘overwhelming people’s support’ to the padayatra was proof that people of Telangana wanted a change and development-oriented government”. People had the confidence in the BJP, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and state leadership, he said and charged that the TRS Government foundation itself was based on “falsehoods” with not a single promise made by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao fulfilled, be it farmers’ loans waiver, jobs, double bedroom houses for poor, three acres land to Dalits or unemployment allowance to youth. “Telangana people are now repenting voting TRS to power. Over one lakh government employees have retired during the last seven years but not a single vacancy has been filled,” he said. He was astonished that Mr. Rao ran the government from his residence and farm house without going to the Secretariat. The Government which is for CM’s kith and kin alone, with welfare of people neglected, should be dethroned. Lives of many people could have been saved if the Government had implemented the Ayushman Bharat health insurance during the COVID outbreaks, said Mr. Javadekar. Sanjay warning Mr. Sanjay Kumar, having completed 300 km of padayatra, continued to target Mr. Rao and warned against putting the farming community in a state of despair with threats of not purchasing the produce, be it paddy or maize. “The Centre had agreed to purchase 60 lakh tonnes of paddy but the government is unable to purchase 20 lakh tonnes,” he alleged. Dharni portal had become an albatross around farmers’ necks with no new passbooks being issued and no crop loans made available. Both Telangana Rashtra Samithi and Congress were trying to divert attention from his successful ‘yatra’ by rising the drug issue, he claimed. District chief T. Aruna, senior leaders Manohar Reddy and N.V. Subash were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/next-poll-will-be-between-bjp-trs/article36602081.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 244 new COVID cases||Telangana recorded 244 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total to 6,63,906. While 50,505 samples were put to test, results of 1,483 are awaited. One more COVID patient has died. The new 244 cases include 72 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 19 each from Karimnagar and Nalgonda, 18 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in Nirmal, Narayanpet, and Jayashankar Bhupalpally. From March 2, 2020 to September 21 of this year, a total of 2.59 crore samples were put to test and 6,63,906 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 4,938 are active cases, 6,55,061 have recovered, and 3,907 have died. The Health department officials said that 4.05 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccine were administered on Monday. On the whole, 1.62 crore people were administered first dose and 61 lakh were given second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-244-new-covid-cases/article36602069.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Immersion waste removed from lakes||GHMC and HMDA together removed 15,851 metric tonnes of waste material related to Ganesh idols immersion from various lakes and baby ponds in the city on Tuesday. The waste includes 25,531 Ganesh idols from lakes and 63,837 idols from baby ponds, a press statement informed. On Monday, the amount of waste removed from lakes and baby ponds was over 10,000 metric tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/immersion-waste-removed-from-lakes/article36602130.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AIIMS-Bibinagar, Gujarat forensics varsity ink pact||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Bibinagar has signed an MoU with National Forensic Sciences University, Gujarat on Tuesday. It establishes mutually beneficial collaborations in academics, student and faculty exchange programmes, joint research activities, to start joint degree programs, to establish state-of-the-art labss of forensic science, anthropology, odontology and toxicology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aiims-bibinagar-gujarat-forensics-varsity-ink-pact/article36602107.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Make detailed proposals on health infra initiatives: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed officials to prepare detailed proposals on health infrastructure initiatives launched by the State government. A report on the initiatives will be submitted to the XV Finance Commission. The Chief Secretary said focus should be on strengthening the primary health centres and steps to be taken with regard to the health infrastructure in Agency areas and remote villages of the State. Some of the primary health centres could be developed as mandal public health units. Finance special chief secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, Panchayat Raj secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/make-detailed-proposals-on-health-infra-initiatives-cs/article36602111.ece
22 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Crackdown on ganja smuggling in Nalgonda||Continuing the efforts to crack down on ganja smuggling in the district, Nalgonda police on Tuesday arrested two teams that were attempting distribution and sale of contraband in Nalgonda and Miryalaguda towns. The first team came in a scooter from Hyderabad, carrying about a litre of weed oil or concentrate extract of the ganja. The content was to be packed in 10 ml tiny boxes. SP A.V. Ranganath producing the accused persons said liquefied form of the contraband was easy for transportation. In a separate incident, in Miryalaguda, the I-Town police arrested a five-member team .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/crackdown-on-ganja-smuggling-in-nalgonda/article36602077.ece
22 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Vendors, autos blocking approach to old bus stand||The old Bus Stand area in the district headquarters has become congested with both flower vendors and autorickshaws using the same space available for passengers to enter the bus stand. There was a small space available at the bus stand which is being occupied by both the sections. Even the police are finding it difficult to clear the mess. “It becomes more problematic on Mondays when more rush is witnessed due to the local market,” said a commuter. Some auto drivers have lodged a complaint with Collectorate officials on Tuesday in this regard urging them to remove the flower shops and restore the auto stand. They said the auto drivers are being abused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vendors-autos-blocking-approach-to-old-bus-stand/article36602074.ece
22 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BJP MLA stages dharna for Dalit Bandhu||In a move to bring pressure on the State Government, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA M Raghunandan Rao held day-long dharna at the constituency headquarters Dubbak on Tuesday demanding that Dalit Bandhu be implemented for the beneficiaries in the constituency limits. This was first such dharna by one of the two BJP MLAs. The other one Raja Singh had not taken up any such agitation so far. On the other hand, the Congress led by party State unit president A. Revanth Reddy held three such meetings at Indravelli, Raviryal and Gajwel demanding that it be extended to all eligible in other sections as well. “We will question Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao about Dalit Bandhu during Assembly sessions that will commence shortly. With the same demand there will be a walk from Tank Bund to Assembly during the sessions. We will continue our fight for Dalit Bandhu and TRS MLAs should also demand the same,” said Mr Raghunandan Rao. He wondered whether the government would be in a position to implement Dalit Bandhu, which was unable to release pensions for the eligible. Party senior leader B. Shobha alleged that unable to face Etala Rajender, the Chief Minister brought Dalit Bandhu to seek votes from those sections in Huzurabad. She demanded that the Ministers and MLAs who were coming to Huzurabad should first implement the scheme in their constituencies. She demanded that an Act be passed in Assembly so that it was implemented by any government that would come to power later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-mla-stages-dharna-for-dalit-bandhu/article36602084.ece
22 September 2021||Greater Noida,||Nine arrested for stealing construction material||Nine members of a gang allegedly involved in stealing construction material from various sites were arrested following a gunfight with the police in Greater Noida, officials said on Tuesday. Two of them suffered bullet injuries during the gunfight on Monday night, said Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey. A manhunt is on for three other members of the gang, he added. Illegal firearms and ammunition were seized from their possession, Mr. Pandey said, adding that further probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nine-arrested-for-stealing-construction-material/article36601761.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||Court rejects bail pleas of four Bhima accused||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Tuesday rejected the medical bail applications filed by senior citizens Shoma Sen, Anand Teltumbde, Gautam Navlakha and Vernon Gonsalves. The four are among those accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case and are said to be suffering from several co-morbidities. Special Judge D.E. Kothalikar rejected the pleas by relying on recommendations from the high-powered committee set up to decongest prisons owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, the same court extended the interim bail granted to Rona Wilson, also an accused in the case. He was directed to be released from September 13 to September 27 to go to his home at Kerala and attend a mass for his late father. Mr. Wilson will now return to Taloja Central Jail on September 30. Prof. Teltumbde, 70, suffers from chronic bronchitic asthma, chronic cervical spondylitis, supraspinatus tendinopathy and prostatomegaly. Mr. Gonsalves, 69, suffers from hypertension, high blood pressure and piles. Mr. Navlakha, 67, is a patient of colonic polyposis, chronic gastritis, and hypertension. Prof. Sen, 63, filed her application stating that she multiple ailments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-rejects-bail-pleas-of-four-bhima-accused/article36601784.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||7th serosurvey likely to start this week; result to be specific||The Delhi government is expected to begin the seventh serological survey later this week, wherein part of data collection will be done through a mobile application, officials said. A serological survey is done to find out how much percentage of the population have antibodies against COVID-19, either through natural infection or vaccination. The government aims to collect 28,000 blood samples of random people from all 272 wards of the city. The result of the seventh survey will tell us the impact of the second wave of the pandemic, as the last survey was started in April, before the second wave and had to be cut short due to the spike in cases. The result is also expected to be more specific due to a change in the procedure, officials said. “Till now, we have measured only IgG in the blood samples. But this time, we are planning to measure neutralising antibodies, which give better protection against the virus,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . Preparations have been done and the survey is expected to start in two to three days, an official said. “Whenever blood is collected from a person for the survey, they are also requested to answer a questionnaire. This time, we do it using an android-based mobile application, which will speed up our entire process. In the earlier surveys, the details were entered on paper at the ground level and then collated,” the official said. Longest interval Since the Delhi government started doing serological surveys for COVID-19 in June 2020, this is the longest interval between surveys. In June, the team that did the sixth serological survey had recommended the next survey in June end or July first week. The government did not follow this and did not officially release the results. In August, Central government officials suggested at a DDMA meeting for a sero survey among children to know their exposure. During the meeting, Dr. V.K. Paul, member NITI Aayog, also emphasised the “need for high quality sero survey”. What is a serosurvey? Blood samples collected are tested in a lab using antibody testing kits to understand whether the person was infected by the virus and developed antibodies. A positive result would imply that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. This means that the person was infected at some point by the virus and developed immunity against it or it is due to vaccination. The first such survey, done in the city in June-July last year, had shown that 23.4% of the people surveyed had developed antibodies against the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/7th-serosurvey-likely-to-start-this-week-result-to-be-specific/article36601778.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kyrgyzstan woman, son found murdered in flat||A 28-year-old pregnant woman, hailing from Kyrgyzstan, and her one-year-old son were found murdered at a house in south-east Delhi’s Kalkaji on Tuesday, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena said that the victim has been identified as Myskal Zhumabaeva and son Manas. According to the police, a PCR call was received in the morning stating that a woman and her child have been murdered at a flat in Kalkaji’s K-Block. Quarrel with husband When the police reached the spot, the mother-son duo were found murdered and lying on the bed with stab injuries. The spot was visited by the crime team and senior officers, Mr. Meena said. Preliminary enquiry revealed that Myskal is the wife of one Vinay Chauhan and the couple used to reside in Greater Kailash. On Monday night, Myskal fell ill and complained of stomach ache. She wanted to visit a hospital and the couple argued over which hospital to visit, a senior police officer said, adding that Mr. Chauhan left the house after the argument and went to meet his friend Wahid. Stayed at friend’s place The police said that Myskal then called her friend Matluba Madusmonova, an Uzbekistan national, and Avinish to help her visit the hospital. After the check-up, Myskal went to Matluba’s house in Kalkaji and stayed the night there, as told to the police. Called husband “The friend said that when she and her flatmate woke up in the morning, they went to Myskal’s room and saw the mother-son dead,” the officer said. The friend called the victim’s husband after seeing the body who informed the police. Mr. Meena said that the husband told the police that the two got married over two years ago and that he runs a guest house. “All the versions given by people are being verified. CCTV footage and technical details are being obtained to ascertain the sequence of events,” Mr. Meena said. A case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and further investigation is under way.  Myskal Zhumabaeva fell ill and complained of stomach ache. She wanted to visit a hospital and the couple argued over which hospital to visit Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kyrgyzstan-woman-son-found-murdered-in-flat/article36601756.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital to receive heavy rain today||The Capital received light showers on Tuesday evening that brought relief from the maximum temperature of 35.6° Celsius recorded earlier in the day. The evening turned pleasant with cloud cover and in some parts of the city, a rainbow was visible briefly in the evening sky. The weather station at Safdarjung, which is the official record of the city, measured 3.6 mm of rainfall. The minimum settled at 25.8 degrees Celsius. Traffic disruption The Met Department has forecast heavy to moderate rain/thundershowers for September 22 and has issued an orange alert for the city asking people to be prepared/updated. The impact-based forecast has said that minor traffic disruption on roads can be expected with increased chance of vehicle accidents. It has also said that the rain could cause water accumulation in low-lying areas and on roads. “Check for traffic congestion on your route before leaving for your destination. Follow any traffic advisories that are issued in this regard. Avoid going to areas that face waterlogging problem often,” the Met Department said in its alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-to-receive-heavy-rain-today/article36601760.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Preserve properties affected by Central Vista’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to respond to a plea by Delhi Waqf Board, seeking the preservation and protection of its heritage properties that are likely to be impacted by the ongoing Central Vista Redevelopment Project. The Waqf Board sought the preservation and protection of six of its properties in the area within which the redevelopment work was ongoing. The properties are Masjid Zabta Ganj at Mansingh Road, Jama Masjid at Red Cross Road, Masjid Sunehri Bagh Road Near Udyog Bhawan, Mazar Sunehri Bagh Road behind Moti Lal Nehru Marg, Masjid Krishi Bhawan inside Krishi Bhawan Compound and Masjid vice-president at the official residence of the Vice President of India. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Central government, said he would take instructions on the Waqf Board's petition in a week's time. The court posted the hearing the matter for September 29. Senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose, representing the Waqf Board, said that his client, in no manner, intended to impede the ongoing project but merely sought a “clarification that the government would honour the integrity of these places of worship”. Mr. Ghose said one of the structures even housed the remains of Dr Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed, the fifth President of India and the father of former High Court judge Badar Durez Ahmed. The Waqf Board, in its plea, claimed that the six properties “are more than an ordinary mosque and have a distinction attached to them”. “The British Crown transferred a few of these properties to the predecessors of the petitioner by way of registered agreements; these waqf properties were also spared when government buildings were constructed around them or in their immediate vicinity; a few of these waqf properties were also withdrawn from the acquisition and their title was allowed to revert to the petitioner,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/preserve-properties-affected-by-central-vista/article36601769.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Plea seeks power connection for Pak migrants||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre, the Delhi government and Tata Power to respond to a petition seeking electricity connection for nearly 800 Hindu migrants from Pakistan who are currently living in Delhi Jal Board Maidan in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar. The petition, filed by Hariom who works for the welfare of ‘minority migrants’ from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan in India, said the migrants, mostly from Sindh region, have been living without electricity for the last few years. Dreams shattered “Migrants who have come to India from Pakistan on account of their religious persecution believed that coming to India will give their children a bright and safe future but their present existence without electricity in the slum has shattered all their dreams of meaningful existence,” the petition said. “During the pandemic when all schools have gone online, there is no electricity in the jhuggis [slums] and future of their children is in dark,” the plea, filed through advocates Samiksha Mittal, Akash Vajpai and Ayush Saxena, said. No use of Aadhaar The petition said most of the migrants are living on long-term visa and they have Aadhaar card with the same address on which they are currently living to validate their occupancy. However, as per the electricity distribution companies, Aadhaar can be used as an identity proof but not as a proof of occupancy of the premises, it said. The plea sought direction for providing electricity connection to the migrants on the basis of their Aadhaar card, long-term visa and passport under the DERC (Supply Code and Performance Standards) Regulations, 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-seeks-power-connection-for-pak-migrants/article36601753.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Food business operators to be brought under single platform||The Delhi government will bring together food business operators (FBOs) such as restaurants and hotels and NGOs that are currently distributing food to the needy, on one platform to reduce food wastage in the city, officials said. The government will also make sure that food donated to the needy is of the same quality of fresh food and both NGOs and FBOs stick to a protocol prepared by the government. This will be done as part of the ‘No Food Waste’ campaign, which is to start on September 29, International Day of Awareness of Food Loss and Waste. Workshop on Sept. 29 “We will be conducting a workshop on September 29 to train FBOs on donating excess food, as part of the campaign. Through the workshop, both NGOs and FBOs will pledge to adhere to the requirement of protocol and ensure that the donated food is of same standards as fresh food. We will also involve public in the programme through awareness drives,” an official said. All NGOs working as food distribution agencies are required to have a registration or licence under the Food Safety Standards Act, 2006. They must also maintain the protocol related to collection, storage, transport, and distribution of surplus food such as shelf life, storage temperature, reheating etc., as per the government. “On September 29, we will help NGOs to get licence. We will be carrying out a registration drive for NGOs,” the official said. The Department of Food Safety will do random sampling of the donated food to make sure that quality of the donated food is maintained. The Department of Food Safety is also planning to involve individuals who want to donate food and interested people can reach out to the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/food-business-operators-to-be-brought-under-single-platform/article36601774.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Honour confidentiality, HC tells I-T Department||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Income Tax Department to honour its assurance given to the court to maintain confidentiality of the documents seized during a survey operation at news portal Newslaundry ’s premises in the Capital earlier this month. An HC Bench gave the direction after ED’s counsel said the material seized by the agency will be used only in accordance with the law, which may include sharing it with other government agencies, and will not be leaked to third parties. “The respondent assures and undertakes before the court that the material seized shall not be leaked and the concept of confidentially as enshrined in the Income Tax Act shall be abided. The said undertaking given by the respondent is accepted by the court and respondent is held bound by it,” the court said. The court was hearing a petition by Newslaundry and its CEO Abhinandan Sekhri. Newslaundry , in its plea, said that the I-T officials impounded a hard disk and cloned copies of office desktops, laptop and phone of Mr. Sekhri, his personal email accounts, and a bunch of loose papers. The agency’s counsel said, “The material seized is in safe custody of the Income Tax Department. It shall not be leaked. It will be illegal to leak such material.” In view of the I-T Department’s assurance, Mr. Sekhri said he would not press the prayer with respect to a challenge to the survey operation at this stage.  The undertaking given by the respondent is accepted by the court and respondent is held bound by it HC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/honour-confidentiality-hc-tells-i-t-department/article36601754.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Address glitches in JNU entrance exam, NTA told||JNU students on Tuesday highlighted that there have been several glitches being faced by those appearing for the entrance test and have requested the National Testing Agency (NTA) to address them at the earliest. The JNU Entrance Examination that is being conducted by the NTA began at several locations across the country on Monday. The 18-minute long, multiple choice question, computer-based test is for admission to various courses offered by JNU and is being conducted till September 23. Problems faced The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad in a letter to the NTA director said that students were facing serious problems while taking the examination and asked the agency to deal with the complaints as a priority. “There have been several cases of technical glitches in the JNUEE examination process that has severely put the candidature of several aspirants into uncertainty. Some students have complained that there is no electricity in some of the centres allotted to them while other who have arrived at the examination centre printed on their hall ticket have not found their names on the rolls at the examination centre,” the ABVP said. ABVP president Shivam Chaurasia said that many of the aspirants have also been debarred from appearing for the examination without any reason, despite having completed the application process and paying the entrance examination fee as per the NTA notification. “These challenges that are being faced by the JNUEE aspirants is unfortunate, demotivating and reveals the unpreparedness of the NTA in dealing with efficient conducting of entrance examinations,” the ABVP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/address-glitches-in-jnu-entrance-exam-nta-told/article36601755.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||A wall art to pay tribute to Paralympians||Near the busy Hanuman Mandir roundabout on Pusa road, a wall has been given a makeover to pay tribute to the medal winners at the recently concluded Paralympic Games in Tokyo. The North civic body has repaired the wall, turning it into a canvas for artists from the Delhi Street Art (DSA). The artists from DSA said daily thousands of people would walk or drive past the wall but not look at it. Now, they said, the mural will draw their attention towards the achievements of the athletes. DSA founder Yogesh Saini said his team first created a tribute to the Tokyo Olympic winners at Madhubani Chowk and was looking to do the same for the Paralympic winners. “We found the perfect location partnering with the North body and hope that these murals will inspire many young athletes,” Mr. Saini said. The North body said they have been partnering with DSA for the last several months in the Karol Bagh zone and have created multiple murals, including Madhubani art on Walls of Kindness, a tribute to the Mangalyaan mission, women scientists, mathematicians, writers, musicians, artists and others. “This particular wall is our tribute to the amazing accomplishments of India’s Paralympic team at Tokyo”, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-wall-art-to-pay-tribute-to-paralympians/article36601782.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP to protest outside CM residence today||The Delhi BJP on Wednesday will hold a demonstration near Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence to demand unemployment allowance for lakhs of citizens. Delhi BJP president Aadesh Gupta said, “Mr. Kejriwal on an election campaign tour to Uttarakhand and Goa promised Rs. 5,000 unemployment allowance for the unemployed. But, back in Delhi, where the Kejriwal government had been in power for over seven years now, not a single paisa had been yet been spent in the name of unemployment allowance.” ‘25 lakh unemployed’ He said, “Mr. Kejriwal only knows how to mislead people...In Delhi, around 25 lakh unemployed have never been given any allowance.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-to-protest-outside-cm-residence-today/article36601763.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||In a first, BJP office gets sanitary vending machine||BJP national Mahila Morcha president Vanathi Srinivasan on Tuesday inaugurated the first sanitary napkin vending machine installed by the unit at the party office. Ms. Srinivasan said it was very important to tell women about issues like cleanliness during the menstrual cycle and their health. “Though the government has taken several steps in this regard whose results are there for everyone to see but we have to be sensitive and careful in our efforts especially when we are already grappling with a global health issue,” she said. State Mahila Morcha president Yogita Singh along with other office-bearers of the morcha distributed sanitary napkins and sanitisers to women under sewa and samarpan abhiyaan of the party.  Though the government has taken several steps in this regard whose results are there for everyone to see but we have to be sensitive and careful in our efforts.... Vanathi Srinivasan BJP national Mahila Morcha president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-a-first-bjp-office-gets-sanitary-vending-machine/article36601764.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Factory staffer arrested in fake robbery case||An employee of a cardboard factory has been arrested for allegedly concocting a robbery story in order to misappropriate Rs. 2 lakh, the police said on Tuesday. The police said that on Saturday, a PCR call was received where the caller said that two persons assaulted his driver, who was drunk, and snatched Rs. 2 lakh from him However, during questioning, the police said, he was found giving different versions and not able to explain exactly how the amount was robbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/factory-staffer-arrested-in-fake-robbery-case/article36601757.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man involved in 100 cases of snatching in police net||A 35-year-old man allegedly involved in 100 cases of snatching and robbery in the Capital has been arrested from Jodhpur in Rajasthan, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that the accused has been idnetified as Arjun, a resident of Jhuggi Lal Bagh. One goldsmith, who was the receiver of snatched chains, identified as Vishal Verma, has also been arrested, Mr. Meena said. According to the police, Arjun was wanted in 26 cases, including 10 in Dwarka district, 13 in west district, and three in Rohini district. He was released on bail in April. He returned to snatching and robbery, the police said. “On September 14, we received information that Mr. Arjun was going to Jodhpur to evade arrest. A police team reached Jodhpur and arrested him,” Mr. Meena said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-involved-in-100-cases-of-snatching-in-police-net/article36601758.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||5 arrested for vandalising Owaisi’s house||Five members of Hindu Sena have been arrested for allegedly vandalising the house of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief and MP Asaduddin Owaisi in New Delhi district’s Ashoka Road on Tuesday. DCP (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said an FIR has been registered in the case. In a video, Hindu Sena officer-bearer Lalit Kumar said he along with a few other members of the outfit had visited Mr. Owaisi’s house to teach him a lesson “because he speaks against Hindus in every rally and speech”. The members broke the nameplate and damaged part of a window.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5-arrested-for-vandalising-owaisis-house/article36601762.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 39 fresh cases, zero fatalities||The city reported 39 fresh COVID-19 cases and no deaths in last 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. This is the fourth consecutive day when the city reported zero deaths. The total number of deaths stood at 25,085 and cases at 14,38,556. A total of 66,278 tests were done in a day and TPR was 0.06%. Of the total cases, 14,13,071 people have recovered and there are only 400 active cases.s||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-reports-39-fresh-cases-zero-fatalities/article36601765.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Goel pays courtesy visit to President||After Prime Minister Narendra Modi nominated him as vice-chairman of the Gandhi Smriti and Darshan Samiti, former Rajya Sabha MP Vijay Goel on Tuesday paid a courtesy visit to President Ram Nath Kovind. According to Mr. Goel, the President said the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi should adequately be propagated and spread as much as possible. Gandhi Smriti and Gandhi Darshan are the two sites from where people coming from humble background to noted persons or holding high position take inspiration, Mr. Goel quoted the President as having said. According to Mr. Goel, the President added that especially the students and youth should follow Gandhi ji ’s teachings in their lives. Mr. Goel said he assured the President that the message given by Mahatma Gandhi would be spread all over India through various programmes, seminars and discussions. He also said museums in ‘Gandhi Smriti and Gandhi Darshan’ will be popularised by publicising them so that more and more people visit these sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/goel-pays-courtesy-visit-to-president/article36601767.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Shopping window||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shopping-window/article36601780.ece
22 September 2021||Washington,||U.S. not seeking a new Cold War: Biden||Delivering his first address at the UN General Assembly (UNGA), U.S. President Joe Biden said America was not seeking a “new Cold War” in a reference to the tensions between the U.S. and China. Mr. Biden said America was closing a chapter on “relentless war”, after its exit from Afghanistan and that it was opening a chapter on diplomacy, development and renewing democracy. “We are not seeking a new Cold War, or a world divided into rigid blocs,” Mr. Biden said. “The United States is ready to work with any nation that steps up and pursues peaceful resolution to shared challenges, even if we have intense disagreement in other areas...” he said. The President did not name China. He said America would compete vigorously and will stand up for its allies and oppose attempts by stronger countries to dominate weaker ones via changes to territory by force, economic coercion, technological exploitation or using information. Over the weekend, speaking to the Associated Press, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres had asked the U.S. and China to mend their “completely dysfunctional” relationship. “We need to avoid at all cost a Cold War that would be different from the past one, and probably more dangerous and more difficult to manage,” Mr. Guterres had said. In his speech on Monday, Mr. Biden said the world stood at an inflection point and the future would depend on how it responded to a number of crises faced by humanity — COVID-19, climate change, the choice between “universal principles” and “the pursuit of naked political power”. Democratic world “The authoritarians of the world may seek to proclaim the end of the age of democracy, but they’re wrong,” Mr. Biden said. “The truth is, the democratic world is everywhere. It lives in the anti-corruption activist, the human rights defenders, the journalists, the peace protesters…” Mr. Biden said the U.S., for its part, would, instead of fighting the wars of the past, focus on common challenges. He included trade, cyber issues, emerging technologies and the threat of terrorism on this list. He said he was prioritising working with alliances and regional organisations, naming several, including NATO, the European Union, the Quad, the African Union and others as it focused on regions and issues of consequence. He cited the Indo-Pacific as an example of one of the most consequential regions in the world. “We’ve ended 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan. And as we close this period of relentless war, we’re opening a new era of relentless diplomacy of using the power of our development aid to invest in new ways of lifting people up around the world; of renewing and defending democracy; of proving that no matter how challenging or how complex the problems you’re going to face, government by and for the people, is still the best way to deliver for all of our people,” Mr. Biden said. “U.S. military power must be our tool of last resort, not our first. It should not be used as an answer to every problem we see around the world,” he said. He dwelt on forms of U.S. engagement — such as vaccines, and funding to tackle the climate crisis.  Iran deal The President said the U.S. was willing to return to full compliance with the Iran nuclear deal if Iran did the same. He also said he was seeking the “complete denuclearisation” of the Korean peninsula and that the U.S. believed in the two state solution, emphasising its support for Israel , which he characterised as “unequivocal”. Mentioning the August terror attack at Kabul airport, Mr. Biden said the U.S. was adept at fighting terrorism without large-scale military deployments — such as by dismantling terror networks and financing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-not-seeking-a-new-cold-war-biden/article36601488.ece
22 September 2021||Toronto,||Trudeau’s party secures victory in Canada||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party secured victory in the parliamentary elections but failed to get the majority he wanted in a vote that focused on the coronavirus pandemic but that many Canadians saw as unnecessary. Mr. Trudeau entered Monday’s election leading a stable minority government that wasn’t under threat of being toppled — but he was hoping Canadians would reward him with a majority for navigating the pandemic better than many other leaders. Still, Mr. Trudeau struggled to justify why he called the election early given the virus, and the Opposition was relentless in accusing him of holding the vote two years before the deadline for his own personal ambition. In the end, the gamble did not pay off, and the results nearly mirrored those of two years ago. The Liberal Party was leading or elected in 158 seats — one more than they won 2019, and 12 short of the 170 needed for a majority in the House of Commons. The Conservatives were leading or elected in 119 seats, two less than they won in 2019. The leftist New Democrats were leading or elected in 25, while the Bloc Québécois were leading or elected in 34 and the Greens were down to two. “You are sending us back to work with a clear mandate to get Canada through this pandemic,” Mr. Trudeau said. “I hear you when you say you just want to get back to the things you love and not worry about this pandemic or an election.” Mr. Trudeau bet Canadians didn’t want a Conservative government during a pandemic. Canada has one of the highest vaccination rates in the world, and Mr. Trudeau’s government spent hundreds of billions of dollars to prop up the economy amid lockdowns. Mr. Trudeau argued that the Conservatives’ approach, which has been sceptical of lockdowns and vaccine mandates, would be dangerous. Mr. Trudeau supports making vaccines mandatory for Canadians to travel by air or rail, something the Conservatives oppose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trudeaus-party-secures-victory-in-canada/article36601486.ece
22 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban double down on all-male Cabinet||The Taliban expanded their interim Cabinet by naming more Ministers and deputies on Tuesday, but failed to appoint any women, doubling down on a hard-line course despite the international outcry that followed their initial presentation of an all-male government line-up earlier this month. At a news conference on Tuesday, Taliban government spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid held out the possibility of adding women to the Cabinet at a later time, but gave no specifics. He also said the Taliban are preparing rules for allowing teenage girls and women to return to schools and jobs in line with Islamic law, but did not say when that might happen. Mujahid defended the latest additions to the Cabinet, saying they included members of ethnic minorities, such as the Hazaras. He said the deputies were chosen for their technical skills. He bristled at international conditions for recognition, saying there was no reason for withholding it. “It is the responsibility of the United Nations to recognise our government (and) for other countries, including European, Asian and Islamic countries, to have diplomatic relations with us,” he said. Mujahid played down the financial problems, saying that much of the foreign aid to the previous government — widely seen as corrupt — was spent on funding America’s 20-year war against the Taliban. He suggested Afghanistan could manage without that aid, saying the country had sufficient resources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-double-down-on-all-male-cabinet/article36601484.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Evergrande crisis poses a dilemma for China’s regulators||A growing crisis at troubled Chinese real estate giant Evergrande, which appears likely to default on interest payments this week, has posed a hard choice for regulators of China’s ruling Communist Party, as they look to contain the fallout while pushing ahead with leader Xi Jinping’s ongoing crackdown on debt. China’s second-largest property developer — and the world’s most indebted real estate firm with $300 billion of liabilities — faces interest payments this week that it is struggling to make, sparking broader concerns on the impact on China’s real estate market, a key driver of growth in the world’s second-largest economy. While China’s authorities had many levers at their disposal to manage the debt crisis and avoid a “hard landing”, they still face a challenge, the Asian Development Bank’s Director of Macroeconomic Research, Abdul Abiad, said on Tuesday. The Evergrande situation “warrants careful monitoring”, he said, “because housing is an important component of the Chinese economy and makes up a substantial portion of household wealth” and property sector troubles would have “knock-on effects on the broader economy”. At the same time, he said, the Chinese banking system is adequately capitalised to absorb the Evergrande shock if it materialises. The People’s Bank of China, the central bank, last week injected $14 billion into the system to address liquidity concerns. Indeed, the background to the crisis at already debt-heavy Evergrande lies in a concerted push by the Communist Party regulators, starting last August, to enforce “three red lines” to regulate the borrowings of real estate firms “by defining thresholds on liability-to-asset ratio at 70%, net debt-to-equity ratio of 100%, and cash-to-short-term debt multiple of more than one time”, the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported. Failure to meet these targets would restrict access to loans, pushing many real estate developers to restructure starting last year as well as halt many projects. Wider crisis But whether or not the Communist Party feels the need to step in to stave off a wider crisis stemming from Evergrande’s expected defaults remains unclear. State media have in recent weeks warned real estate developers to not expect bailouts, although the broader concern is the impact on China’s financial system with banks standing to lose billions of dollars. “We don’t expect government actions to help Evergrande unless systemic stability is at risk,” S&P Global Ratings said in a research note reported by the Post . “Government support to prevent a default is only likely if contagion risks cause other large developers to fail. This could threaten the stability of the financial system and economy. We think the hit to the financial system from Evergrande alone will be manageable,” the note said. The Communist Party will, at the same time, also be concerned by the anger of thousands of homeowners who have already paid up for homes that may now never materialise, as well as the fears of thousands of others who had purchased a range of wealth management products from the company and now face losses. Last week, around 100 angry investors gathered at Evergrande’s headquarters in Shenzhen, prompting the deployment of security personnel there. “A company as big as yours,” one of the protesters was quoted as saying by Reuters, “how much money has been swindled from ordinary people?”  (With inputs from Vikas Dhoot)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/evergrande-crisis-poses-a-dilemma-for-chinas-regulators/article36601357.ece
22 September 2021||London,||Russia behind Litvinenko murder, rights court rules||The European Court of Human Rights on Tuesday backed the conclusion of a British inquiry that Russia was responsible for the killing of Alexander Litvinenko, a former Russian spy who died in London in 2006 after drinking tea laced with a radioactive material. A former agent for the KGB spy agency and its post-Soviet successor agency FSB, Litvinenko defected from Russia in 2000 and fled to London. While in Britain, Litvinenko became involved in exposing corruption and links to organised crime in the Russian intelligence service. He fell violently ill on November 1, 2006, after drinking tea with two Russian men at a London hotel, and spent three weeks in hospital before he died. His tea was found to have been laced with radioactive polonium-210. The British inquiry concluded in early 2016 that Russian agents Andrei Lugovoi and Dmitry Kovtun had killed Litvinenko, and that Russian President Vladimir Putin had “probably approved” the operation. Both Mr. Lugovoi and Mr. Kovtun have denied any involvement in the killing. Litvinenko’s widow, Marina, took the case to the Strasbourg-based court, vowing to get justice for her husband. “The Court found in particular that there was a strong prima facie case that, in poisoning Litvinenko, Mr. Lugovoi and Mr. Kovtun had been acting as agents of the Russian State,” it said in its judgment. The European court rejected Ms. Marina’s claim for “punitive” damages, though it did order Russia to pay her 100,000 euros in damages and 22,500 euros in costs. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov brushed aside the court judgment. “We’re not ready to take such rulings on board,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-behind-litvinenko-murder-rights-court-rules/article36601483.ece
22 September 2021||Kabul,||‘Rift emerges between factions’||Even though the Taliban have managed to capture Afghanistan and form a government, a rift has started to emerge between the factions in the group, media reports said. Writing for The Spectator , David Loyn said that Taliban co-founder Mullah Baradar had expected to run the government but was instead given a deputy’s role. Baradar wanted more roles for Afghanistan's many ethnic minorities in the government and has also argued that the green, red and black Afghan national flag should still be flown alongside the white Taliban flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rift-emerges-between-factions/article36601482.ece
22 September 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar’s Suu Kyi goes on trial for incitement, pleads not guilty||Myanmar’s junta has put ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi on trial for incitement, her lawyer said on Tuesday, the latest in a list of charges that could see her jailed for decades. She pleaded not guilty to charges of incite- ment, her lawyer said, adding she “seemed to be in good health,” a week after she skipped a separate hearing because she felt unwell.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmars-suu-kyi-goes-on-trial-for-incitement-pleads-not-guilty/article36601354.ece
22 September 2021||Khartoum,||Sudan government says foiled coup attempt linked to Bashir regime||Sudan’s fragile transitional government said it foiled an attempted coup on Tuesday involving military officers and civilians linked to the ousted regime of long-time autocrat Omar al-Bashir. Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok (in photo) said the coup attempt was the “latest manifestation of the national crisis”, in reference to deep divisions in Sudan during its move to democracy.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudan-government-says-foiled-coup-attempt-linked-to-bashir-regime/article36601356.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Dravidam 2.0 as a time to reflect, for action||As the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government in Tamil Nadu is celebrating its icons (Periyar E.V. Ramasamy, C.N. Annadurai and M. Karunanidhi) with renewed zeal, there is a need to revisit the Dravidian policies that have transformed the State. Today, Tamil Nadu is the most modern State that boasts a dynamic productive economy with impressive welfare provisions for its citizens. Its structural transformation has been substantial: less than 30% of its workforce is involved in agriculture, it is highly urbanised, and has a large industrial workforce. While this transformation has certainly created new opportunities and brought in a degree of inclusion, particularly for lower castes, Dalits and women, it has thrown up a set of fresh challenges. These are the problems of the “second generation”, as it were, and are quite unique to the State. The first generation of Dravidian policies, particularly its innovative approach to affirmative action, addressed quantitative concerns such as access to education and health for all, and the shift from caste labour to wage labour. The second generation needs a qualitative shift in the approach towards education, health, caste and gender issues, and decentralised governance. Poor education, employment The broad-based industrial transformation broke the occupational basis of caste by converting caste labour into wage labour, but it did not create enough decent jobs, with casual jobs being the predominant option outside agriculture. According to the latest Periodic Labour Force Surveys (PLFS)-2018-19, 62% of workers are in the informal sector and 82% of the workforce is not covered by any social security. Even among those with regular jobs and stable incomes, 75.2% do not have a written contract. This informality and resultant wage inequality are arguably a product of poor quality of education that the State has built in the last three decades. Even as Tamil Nadu was a pioneer in universal school education, which challenged the elitism India’s education system was known for, it has not been without its problems. In a recent report released by the Union Ministry of Education, Tamil Nadu scored the lowest among the southern States in learning outcomes for 2019-20 in the Performance Grading Index (PGI). One in four in Class VIII were not able to read Class II level text. More than 50% of students cannot do simple division. Since learning outcomes determine who goes to what college, this in turn reflects in labour market outcomes. Tamil Nadu’s achievement in higher education with a Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) of 51.4% compared to the all-India average of 27.1%, has not helped achieve quality in the job market. In fact, the increased enrolment itself is an outcome of mushrooming private colleges. Tamil Nadu accounted for more than a fifth of all educational loans availed in the country from public sector banks in 2013–14 as well as in 2015-16. But many of the private engineering colleges do not meet the prescriptions of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) in terms of infrastructure, qualified teaching staff, and syllabi. This disadvantages students from these colleges when they compete for employment, leading to poor returns on their investments in education. Tamil Nadu’s challenge is to focus on improving learning outcomes and arresting disparities in quality of education. Students who are the first in their families to access higher education are disappointed, and they happen to be largely Dalits and those from the lower rungs of Other Backward Classes. Feeble health care Tamil Nadu is known for its public health interventions and socially inclusive health personnel. But what is not spoken of as much is that the State is a pioneer in private medical services, which provided the template for corporatisation of medical services across India. A significant population in the State relies on expensive private health care. As per the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO)-75th round (2017-18), average medical expenses for hospitalisation in private hospitals was Rs. 35,581, higher than Gujarat, Maharashtra, and the all-India average of Rs. 31,845. Some of these fault lines became evident in the State’s health response to COVID-19. Despite having a well-functioning public health system, the State’s ability to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, reduce mortality, and to vaccinate the public has been inadequate. Its case-fatality ratio was more than neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and twice that of Kerala. This failure is attributed to the State’s neglect of decentralisation, whereas Kerala and Maharashtra performed better with their more decentralised efforts. Tamil Nadu has not seen its urban local body election since 2016. While the Tamil Nadu government’s recent policy of recruiting archakas (priests) from all castes is a laudable move, caste inequality in the economy persists. Inequality across caste lines is exported to urban areas while it has diminished in rural areas. Urban Tamil Nadu, which was seen as a space less marked by caste, now reproduces caste inequalities in new ways. Besides unevenness in higher education, the elites have invented a new mechanism — ‘opportunity hoarding’ — through their caste networks that sustain caste inequality. Many States which include Tamil Nadu’s neighbours Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, have introduced quotas for Dalits in public procurement for goods and services, Tamil Nadu is yet to enact one to display its credibility in addressing the Dalit question. Meanwhile, violence against Dalits is on the rise. The relative socio-economic and political rise of Dalits have a correlation with the rise in the violence against them. Often, this violence is physical in nature and targets the property of Dalits, which is a symbol of their material progress. Further, the State has a peculiar record when it comes to women’s empowerment. It has certainly increased overall women participation — the percentage of women (between ages 15-59) in the workforce is 42% against 34% in Gujarat, 41.3% in Maharashtra and 31% at the national level. Women’s participation even in the non-farm sector in Tamil Nadu is 61% as against 34% in Gujarat and 35% in Maharashtra. However, this quantitative increase in the participation of women in the modern economy has been accompanied by pervasive violence against them in social life. Not only is the violence against women much higher than most States but the violence is also justified by both men and women. As per the National Family Health Survey (NFHS)-2015-16, domestic violence against women is 45%, which is comparable to Bihar’s 45% (it is 33% at the all-India level). About 70% of women accept it and about 63% of men justify it. The State that boasts the Dravidian legacy of women’s empowerment has sent just 12 legislators (or 5%) to its 234-member Legislative Assembly in the recent election. Beyond ‘crony populism’ The State does not do well even in terms of “fiscal justice”, to use Thomas Piketty’s phrase. Not only is its tax-GDP ratio one of the lowest -8.7% in the country, TASMAC, or Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (a public sector network of liquor shops) continues to be a significant source of income. The State certainly must build new forms of fiscal progressiveness to move from this regressive taxation to something that the propertied class pays for. The State’s political apparatus has a reputation for corruption and rent seeking which Michael Walton and James Crabtree characterise as an exemplary case of ‘crony populism’. Dravidian parties have built a centralised mechanism for extraction of rents akin to pork-barrel politics which feeds into electoral funding. The State has one of the highest election expenditures per candidate in the country. Leaving aside the frenzied praise for Tamil Nadu’s success vis-à-vis the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled States in quantitative terms, what the State requires is a renewed approach to address the qualitative aspects of social policy and governance. Just as Dravidian icons identified, understood and addressed the challenges of their times, the new government in Tamil Nadu, while it offers hope, must be mindful of the new challenges of the here and now. Kalaiyarasan A. is a Fulbright-Nehru postdoctoral fellow at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, Brown University and Research Affiliate at South Asia Institute, Harvard University. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/dravidam-20-as-a-time-to-reflect-for-action/article36601342.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||What counts is seldom counted||India is busy debating the caste census when the regular Census itself has not been conducted owing to the pandemic. It is quite ironic that various elections have been held, and people gathered together at large rallies flouting COVID-19 norms, while the Census has still not been conducted. This is the first time that India has not conducted its decadal Census since the exercise began. Losing significance The design of the Census (whenever the exercise is held) can be improved. A digital Census would ensure better quality, coverage and quick results in this digital age. Given this promise on the one hand and the uncertainty in conducting the Census on the other, the demand for including caste enumeration within the Census only adds to the confusion. First, we must recognise what the Census does. It has lot of potential in policymaking and the exercise is not merely about counting the population. Unfortunately, though, the limited information collected, and the under-utilisation or non-utilisation of Census data, have limited the role of the Census in policymaking. Its importance is further diminished when numerous large-scale surveys are funded by the various ministries of the Government of India. These surveys are conducted periodically. They allow for a detailed analysis of the socio-economic issues of significance since the raw data are made available in the public domain. Hence, the Census, at best, serves as a framework for designing these surveys. But the fundamental reason why the Census has lost significance is because the data collected are not disseminated on time, despite the use of technology. The primary reason for this is that the government regulates the release of the numbers based on its calculations of whether or not the Census data have the potential to harm the political agenda. For instance, the data on internal migration collected in the 2011 Census were made available to the public only when the Chief Economic Advisor decided to write a chapter for the Economic Survey 2016-17 in 2017. This more-than-century-old decadal exercise is a matter of pride and distinction for this country. Unfortunately, its potential is hardly tapped by policymakers. Concerns now are only about counting castes and minorities, which will help political masters serve their own interests. Census data are mainly used by demographers, who have now redefined themselves as data analysts. That this exercise has been reduced to just a count of the population is a great pity. Census-based information was important at a time when there was no alternative way of gauging the dynamics of population change alongside its varied features like employment, education, etc. While there is no denying the fact that alternative sources of information have enriched our understanding of population dynamics and facilitated focused interventions through programmes and policies, the Census has lost its potential relevance. Information is released late owing to bureaucratic regulations. There is also a lack of interest by the scientific community in a nuanced exploration of the data. Despite the decadal nature of the data, the inter-Censal and post-Censal information could very well be generated with interpolation and extrapolation. Further, the fundamental demographic attributes around which the Census data are structured offer a lot of scope for interpretation and exploration for understanding future trends as well. The pseudo cohort inspection of the Census data can go a long way in informing us of the changing dynamics of population attributes over time. The fascination and engagement with the Census have been quite limited to two concerns: sex ratio and work participation (female work participation in particular). But the Census data, if explored intelligently and systematically without the limitation of survey-based data sets like biases, errors and representational issues, have much more potential. Characteristic information The primary axes of disaggregation of Census-based information are residence, age, gender, administrative units, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and religion. Apart from such disaggregation, the Census offers two units of analysis: at the individual level and at the household level. These may appear quite limited, but a lot can be inferred from these attributes of disaggregation. Attributes of disaggregation are simply meant for identification and they are more neutral for intervention purposes. Disaggregated attributes should serve a purpose, i.e., help policymakers make interventions, if any. If the reason behind such a purpose is to gauge selective adversity or failure in entitlements, then ascribed attributes like caste and religion are perhaps less important than objective criteria like adversity or failure itself. In fact, associating caste/religion for identification and intervention generates an environment of patronage. In political terms, this can create clientelism. While there is no disagreement that systematic adversities are generated by one’s caste position, it is not necessary to have the count of the attribute as it is to know the magnitude of adversity and its locational attributes. With a widespread information base through administrative records as well as periodic surveys, it is not difficult to focus on these adversities and alleviate them. Counting ascribed identities like caste and religion is perhaps less progressive than counting achieved identities or capability attributes like education and profession and other tangible endowments like the ownership of land, house and other consumer durables. Further, associating any adversity with an ascribed identity may at best help focus the intervention but the effort should be on addressing the adversity irrespective of the identity. Injustice or wrongdoings need not necessarily be associated with ascribed attributes. In fact, many make the fallacy of association leading to causation and that leads them to conclude that adversity/discrimination associated with ascribed attributes are largely due to the attributes themselves. Going beyond this association and examining the failure in entitlements and circumstantial differences will perhaps be more effective in thinking of interventions and in addressing concerns. A better example to this effect is blaming certain minority communities for high fertility rates rather than identifying the real reason for the same in terms of socio-economic exclusion. On the whole, count and characteristics are equally important, but the characteristics that are modifiable hold the key towards change. It is rightly said that what can be counted may not count and what counts is seldom counted. S. Irudaya Rajan is Chairman, The International Institute of Migration and Development, Kerala. U.S. Mishra is Professor, Centre for Development Studies, Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/what-counts-is-seldom-counted/article36601353.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The big deal behind the ruckus over AUKUS||The announcement of the new Australia-U.K.-U.S. (AUKUS) trilateral security pact (https://bit.ly/3tZUVvq and https://bit.ly/3EEWqE8) has naturally generated animated debate in strategic circles, coming as it does just days before the first in-person Quad Leaders Summit to be hosted by United States President Joe Biden on September 24 in Washington. Last week, HMS Queen Elizabeth, the flagship of the United Kingdom’s Carrier Strike Group, arrived in Japan after exercising with India, Malaysia and Singapore and traversing the disputed waters of the South China Sea. Exercise Malabar 2021, held in the Western Pacific from August 26-29, 2021, brought together, for the second year running, the U.S. Navy, Japanese Maritime Self-Defense Force (JMSDF), the Royal Australian Navy and the Indian Navy. Indo-Pacific is the core issue Earlier in April, France, which like the United Kingdom has historically been an Indo-Pacific power with territories and bases across the region, participated in a multi-nation naval exercise in the Bay of Bengal with the four Quad nations (the U.S., Japan, Australia and India). All this points to a vigorous strengthening of bilateral, trilateral and multi-lateral security dialogues and structures, seemingly different in scope and activity, but which converge on the core issue of maintaining peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific. There is no gainsaying the fact that rapid accretion in China’s economic and military capacities, but more particularly its belligerence, has led to a tectonic shift in regional security paradigms. The Quad is not a security arrangement though there is a widespread feeling that without stronger security underpinnings it would play a limited role in dealing with the real challenge of China’s militarisation. The Malabar exercise is not a naval alliance, even though the habit of cooperation is geared to facilitate communication and interoperability in times of need. Several countries have been obliged to review their defence preparedness in response to China’s rising military power and its adverse impact on regional stability. In August, Japan’s Defence Ministry proposed a budget of U.S.$50 billion for the fiscal year 2022, which represents a 2.6% nominal increase in its annual defence spending. The traditional ceiling of limiting defence spending to under 1% of GDP is no longer sacrosanct. Its Defence White Paper, for the first time, highlighted the urgent need to take stock of developments around Taiwan, a clear acknowledgement that Japan’s own security is linked to stability in the Taiwan Strait where muscle-flexing by China is the new norm. It is not without reason that Australia’s defence budget has seen enhanced outlays for the ninth straight year. For the financial year 2020-2021, it touched AUD 44.61 billion (USD$34.84 billion) representing a 4.1% hike over the previous year. The AUKUS pact will facilitate the transfer of nuclear submarine propulsion and manufacturing technologies to Australia, the first instance of a non-nuclear nation acquiring such capability. Even if the first of the eight nuclear-powered submarines may be available only around 2040, or perhaps a few years earlier, the very fact of Australia operating such advanced platforms adds a new dimension to the evolving maritime security architecture in the Indo-Pacific. It conclusively puts to rest a long-standing domestic debate on whether it was time for Australia to assess China through the strategic lens, overcoming the purely mercantile considerations that tended to dominate its China policy. A chance for the U.K. The AUKUS pact is also an emphatic assertion of the relevance of the U.S.-Australia Security Treaty (ANZUS). New Zealand, the outlier, walked away in 1984 from the treaty that ironically still bears its initials. Its “nuclear free” stance ran counter to the U.S. Navy’s non-disclosure policy in regard to nuclear weapons aboard visiting vessels. Close ties notwithstanding, Australia’s future fleet of nuclear submarines will not be permitted access to New Zealand’s ports or waters, as averred by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern. AUKUS provides a fresh opportunity to the United Kingdom to reinsert itself more directly into the Indo-Pacific. It is already a member of the Five Eyes (FVEY), an intelligence-sharing alliance built on Anglo-Saxon solidarity (Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the U.K., and the U.S.). AUKUS is not a substitute for the Quad. At the same time, it does not erode the Quad’s significance as a platform for consultations and coordination on broader themes of maritime security, free and open trade, health care, critical technologies, supply chains and capacity-building. The AUKUS submarine deal, on the other hand, is an undiluted example of strategic defence collaboration, and a game-changer at that. In 2016, Japan’s Mitsubishi-Kawasaki consortium that manufactures the Soryu-class diesel-electric submarine lost out to France’s Naval Group (formerly known as the DCNS) which bagged the contract to build 12 diesel-electric submarines in Australia to replace its six Collins-class vessels. The Shortfin Barracuda Block 1A submarine offered by France was a diesel-electric variant of its own Barracuda-class nuclear attack submarine. It is heightened threat perceptions that have now prompted Australia to switch from conventional to the far more potent nuclear attack submarines. Beijing’s stance is odd China, expectedly, has strongly criticised AUKUS and the submarine deal as promoting instability and stoking an arms race. This is sheer hypocrisy. China has the world’s fastest-growing fleet of sub-surface combatants, including the Type 093 Shang-class nuclear-powered attack submarine (SSN) and the Type 094 nuclear-powered Jin-class ballistic missile submarine (SSBN), not to speak of its burgeoning fleet of conventional diesel-electric submarines with AIP (air-independent propulsion) capability. Its nuclear submarines are on the prowl in the Indo-Pacific. Yet, China denies Australia and others the sovereign right to decide on their defence requirements! As for India, it operates one indigenously-built SSBN (INS Arihant) after returning the SSN (INS Chakra) on lease from Russia. It operates a number of conventional submarines, though far fewer than what it truly needs, including the Scorpene-class diesel-electric attack submarine which is manufactured at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd. (MDL) in collaboration with France’s Naval Group under Project 75. Australia’s role gets a boost Australia’s proposed nuclear submarines, whether the U.K.’s Astute-class attack submarine or the U.S.’s Virginia-class vessel, will potentially be fully equipped with advanced U.S. weapons such as the Mark-48 torpedoes, the Harpoon anti-ship missiles and the Tomahawk cruise missiles. These will give Australia quite a punch in terms of a stand-off capability. Situated as it is, far away from any other country, the diesel-electric attack submarines that it currently operates, or even those that it might have got from France, have limited capacity in terms of range and duration of mission as compared to nuclear-powered submarines. The growing focus on anti-submarine warfare across a more expansive region is clearly altering calculations. Australia’s nuclear submarines would help create a new balance of power in the Indo-Pacific, especially in tandem with the U.S. and the U.K. Australia will now have a more meaningful naval deterrence of its own to protect its sovereign interests. Australia is set to play a more robust role in ensuring peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific. France’s momentary pique at the cancellation of the contract by Australia should soon subside. As a major Indo-Pacific power, France is an important part of the regional security calculus. The setback ‘down under’ may spur France to focus afresh on partners such as India, which must strike a balance between continuing imports and implementing the all-important Atmanirbhar Bharat in defence manufacturing. Sujan R. Chinoy is the Director General of the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-big-deal-behind-the-ruckus-over-aukus/article36601345.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Swooping down on algorithms||China has pursued aggressive measures in its tech sector in the past few months, ranging from strong-arming IPOs to limiting gaming hours for children. A host of legislative instruments are in the process of being adopted, including the Personal Information Protection Law, the Cybersecurity Law, and the draft Internet Information Service Algorithm Recommendation Management Provisions.  Providing user autonomy The Management Provisions, released by the Cyberspace Administration of China, are possibly the most interesting and groundbreaking interventions among the new set of legislative instruments. The provisions lay down the processes and mandates for the regulation of recommendation algorithms which are ubiquitous in e-commerce platforms, social media feeds and gig work platforms. They attempt to address the concerns of individuals and society such as user autonomy, economic harms, discrimination, and the prevalence of false information.  Algorithmically curated feeds dominate most of our interactions on the Internet. For instance, this article could reach you on social media platforms like Twitter thanks to a recommendation algorithm. Such an algorithm helps a user navigate information overload and presents content that it deems more relevant to the user. These algorithms learn from user demographics, behavioural patterns, location of the user, the interests of other users accessing similar content, etc., to deliver content. This limits user autonomy, as the user has little opportunity to choose what content to be presented with. Algorithms tend to have certain inherent biases which are learned from their modelling or the data they encounter. This often leads to discriminatory practices against users. China is aiming to mandate recommendation algorithm providers to share the mantle with the users. The draft says users should be allowed to audit and change the user tags employed by the algorithms to filter content to be presented to them. Through this, the draft aims to limit classifications that the user finds objectionable, thereby allowing the user to choose what to be presented with. This also has ripple effects in platformised gig work, where the gig worker can understand the basis of gigs presented to her. Additionally, Article 17 of the draft specifically strikes at labour reform at the algorithmic level, by necessitating compliance with working hours, minimum wage, and labour laws. The draft has a clear emphasis on active intervention by recommendation algorithm providers to limit and prevent information disorder. This indicates how China is attempting to crack down on mis-/dis-/malinformation. It has to be read with the clear overtone of the draft requiring recommendation algorithm providers to “uphold mainstream value orientations”, “vigorously disseminate positive energy”, and “advance the use of algorithms in the direction of good.” Evidently, this is China’s attempt at dissuading any disaffection to the Party and remain in tight control of the social narrative. Lessons for the present Regulating algorithms is unavoidable and necessary. The world is lagging in such initiatives and China is hoping to lead the pack. The draft addresses pressing issues and entrenches some normative ideals that should be pursued globally. The regulatory mechanism institutionalises algorithmic audits and supervision, a probable first in the world. However, a distinct Chinese flavour of authoritarianism looms large in the draft rules. China has less than desirable records in liberty and is not the ideal choice to set standards through laws. It would be best for liberal democracies to steer clear of these overtures and stick to technically sound regulation which is free from the ails of censorship and social control. It is high time for India to invest better and speed up legislative action on the regulation of data, and initiate a conversation around the regulation of algorithms. India should strive to achieve this without emulating China, where this draft only complements a host of other laws. India must act fast to resolve the legal and social ills of algorithmic decision-making. Policymakers should ensure that freedoms, rights and social security, and not rhetoric, inform policy changes. Algorithms are as fundamental to the modern economy as engines to the industrial economy. A one-size-fits-all algorithm regulation fails to take into account the dynamic nature of markets. An ideal regime should have goals-based legislation that can lay down the regulatory norms for algorithms. Such legislation must aim to lay down normative standards that algorithmic decision-making must adhere to. This should be complemented by sectoral regulation that accounts for the complexities of markets. Sapni G.K. is a Research Analyst with the Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/swooping-down-on-algorithms/article36601348.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Changing the agri exports basket||The Indian government has been encouraging agricultural exports to meet an ambitious target of $60bn by 2022. The Ministry of Food Processing Industries shows that the contribution of agricultural and processed food products in India’s total exports is 11%. Primary processed agricultural commodities form the majority share. India’s export earnings will increase by focusing more on value-added processed food products rather than primary processed agricultural commodities (Siraj Hussain, 2021). From 2015-16 to 2019-20, the value of agricultural and processed food increased significantly from $17.8bn to $20.65bn. The Indian agricultural economy is shifting from primary to secondary agriculture where the focus is more on developing various processed foods. The Indian food processing industry promises high economic growth and makes good profits. Changes over the years India’s agricultural export basket is changing from traditional commodities to non-traditional processed foods. Traditionally, Basmati rice is one of the top export commodities. However, now there is an unusual spike in the export of non-basmati rice. In 2020-21, India exported 13.09 million tonnes of non-basmati rice ($4.8bn), up from an average 6.9 million tonnes ($2.7bn) in the previous five years. Similarly, Indian buffalo meat is seeing a strong demand in international markets due to its lean character and near organic nature. The export potential of buffalo meat is tremendous, especially in countries like Vietnam, Hong Kong and Indonesia. In 2020-21, the export of poultry, sheep and goat meat, cashew kernels, groundnuts, guar gum, and cocoa products went down in terms of value and total quantity. The export of processed food products has not been growing fast enough because India lacks comparative advantage in many items. This may imply that the domestic prices of processed food products are much higher compared to the world reference prices.  The main objective of the Agriculture Export Policy is to diversify and expand the export basket so that instead of primary products, the export of higher value items, including perishables and processed food, be increased. The exporters of processed food confront difficulties and non-tariff measures imposed by other countries on Indian exports (Siraj Hussain, 2021). Some of these include mandatory pre-shipment examination by the Export Inspection Agency being lengthy and costly; compulsory spice board certification being needed even for ready-to-eat products which contain spices in small quantities; lack of strategic planning of exports by most State governments; lack of a predictable and consistent agricultural policy discouraging investments by the private sector; prohibition of import of meat- and dairy based-products in most of the developed countries; withdrawal of the Generalised System of Preference by the U.S. for import of processed food from India; export shipments to the U.S. requiring an additional health certificate; and the absence of an equivalency agreement with developed countries for organic produce. The way forward The Centre’s policy should be in the direction of nurturing food processing companies, ensuring low cost of production and global food quality standards, and creating a supportive environment to promote export of processed food. Developed countries have fixed higher standards for import of food items. Reputed Indian brands should be encouraged to export processed foods globally as they can comply with the global standard of codex. Indian companies should focus on cost competitiveness, global food quality standards, technology, and tap the global processed food export market. India has competitive advantages in various agricultural commodities which can be passed onto processed foods. It has the potential to become a global leader in the food processing sector. Parashram Patil is an Nehru Memorial Museum and Library Fellow, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/changing-the-agri-exports-basket/article36601349.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||A welcome decision||In a welcome move to address the huge vaccine inequity globally, India will, from October, resume exporting much needed COVID-19 vaccines. The decision comes after the Government severely restricted vaccine exports in March and stopped them in mid-April. The renewed export drive, known as Vaccine Maitri, will first prioritise the global vaccine-sharing platform, COVAX, and neighbouring countries. Just four days after the vaccination programme kicked off in India on January 16, India shipped the first batch of vaccines to Bhutan and the Maldives as a part of its vaccine diplomacy. Till mid-April, India had supplied nearly 20 million doses to COVAX and donated nearly 11 million, while nearly 36 million doses were sold to 26 countries. But with the daily fresh cases and deaths in the second wave beginning to surge in March and the supply of vaccines from the two manufacturers not meeting domestic demand, the priorities quickly changed and the export of vaccines was put on hold. It became possible to export vaccines till March mainly due to the slow uptake of vaccines by health-care and frontline workers and Covishield vaccine manufactured late last year nearing the six-month expiry date. The daily uptake of vaccines began climbing steadily with vaccine eligibility too — all above 45 years from April 1 and all adults above 18 years from May 1. With most developed countries hoarding vaccines and prioritising their vaccination, and India too halting all exports, vaccine supply to the COVAX facility has been hit. As a result, about 80% of the nearly six billion doses administered globally have been in high- and upper middle-income countries. Vaccine inequity is striking in Africa — just 2% of the six billion doses have been administered here and less than 3.5% of its people fully vaccinated. While efforts are being made through COVAX to increase vaccine supply to Africa, the continent will still end up with 25% fewer doses than anticipated by the end of 2021. Only 15% of the over one billion doses pledged by the developed countries have reached Africa, which has made unsuccessful attempts to buy vaccines. And now, with the U.S. and other developed countries focusing efforts on approving booster doses for certain categories, the supply of vaccines to Africa and other countries to immunise even health-care workers will continue to be restricted. A vaccination policy that leaves many of the countries in the Global South vaccine deprived will be hugely counterproductive. As long as vaccine inequity prevails, the virus will continue to circulate, thereby increasing the possibility of more dangerous variants, far more transmissible and resistant to vaccines than Delta, emerging. India’s decision to resume vaccine exports is, hence, commendable. The need to quickly ramp up vaccine production here to sustain exports even while meeting the ever-rising domestic demand cannot be overemphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-welcome-decision/article36601336.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Junior council||No member of the previous Council of Ministers has found a place in the reconstituted Ministry led by Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel in Gujarat. Of the 25-member council of the BJP, nine members including the Chief Minister are first time legislators. Only three members have any previous ministerial experience. Ten are cabinet rank Ministers, five are MoS with independent charge and nine are MoS. Seven belong to the Patidar community, which got the lion’s share; there are four from STs, two from SC communities, and eight from the various OBC castes. The BJP hopes to blunt the anti-incumbency sentiment against it before the State goes to polls next year through this clinical scrubbing. The party has been in power since 1998  without a break. Over the years, several Ministers had become power centres, and many were accused of being arrogant and aloof. The previous Vijay Rupani government had Ministers who continued from councils led by Keshubhai Patel, Narendra Modi and Anandiben Patel. While the Chief Ministers changed, political heavyweights such as Nitin Patel, Kaushik Patel, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and Saurabh Patel continued as influential Ministers. They have all been eased out this time. Whether they will quietly fade away or create trouble for the new Chief Minister is an open question. The BJP has done a balancing act in ensuring representation for major castes and communities, while cutting out veterans to rope in fresh faces. Purshottam Solanki, who served as a junior Minister in all BJP governments due to his formidable hold over the numerically strong Koli community in the Saurashtra region, has been dropped. Three Koli leaders who have been inducted are not influential beyond their own seats. Similarly, tribal representatives in the council are also relative lightweights. The BJP may be raising a new leadership for the party among different communities and regions to tackle the many barriers in its path to yet another Assembly victory, and beyond. Some leaders sidelined in the past by the party tried to revolt, but few survived eventually. The change of guard in Gujarat and the composition of the new Council of Ministers suggest that the party leaders in the State have little autonomy or control over their own fate. The blueprint of the BJP’s Gujarat strategy is firmly in the control of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. They draw their strength considerably from their control of the party’s Gujarat government. The new council is indebted to the central leadership, at least to begin with. The question is whether they can marshal enough support for the BJP’s continuing dominance in a State that is critical for its national hegemony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/junior-council/article36601337.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Campaign for prohibition urged||Concerted effort and sustained campaign to create public opinion against the repeal of the dry law in Tamil Nadu so that the Government could not ignore it — this line of action was indicated by the Congress leaders (both wings) who addressed the South Zonal Prohibition Workers’ conference here to-day [Madras, Sept 21]. Mr. Morarji Desai, who inaugurated the two-day conference, said prohibition was the first victim of the onslaught on the country’s basic values and culture. “We are being involved now in the craze for material propensity and enjoyment to the exclusion of everything else — at the cost of a human approach to life and character,” he said. “If we allow liquor to corrupt people, all our values would be destroyed,” he added. On the organisation of a satyagraha, Mr. Morarji Desai said that the programme should be carefully drawn up and volunteers given proper training. “Start it on a small scale and extend it gradually; but never give up till the goal is reached,” he said. Mr. K. Kamaraj suggested the constitution of a broadbased non-political committee to organise and take part in demonstrations throughout the State so that the people would be aroused to agitate for the closure of the liquor shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/campaign-for-prohibition-urged/article36601346.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||ADB cuts India’s 2021-22 growth forecast to 10%||The Asian Development Bank has cut its forecast for India’s GDP growth in 2021-22 to 10%, from 11% projected earlier, with downside risks dominating the economic outlook. The ADB also sees rising input costs fuelling inflation to a faster 5.5% pace, than the 5.2% previously estimated. While the COVID-19 second wave had disrupted the recovery since the ADB’s April forecast for 11% growth, the Bank expects the economy to ‘rebound strongly in the remaining three quarters and grow by 10% in the full fiscal year before moderating to 7.5%’ in 2022-23. Still, the risks to the outlook tilt to the downside and depend mainly on the evolution of the pandemic, the ADB’s director of macroeconomic research Abdul Abiad told The Hindu.  “The primary risks are centred around the pandemic,” said Dr. Abiad. “Until we get to the point that we have really widespread vaccination, countries still are at risk of renewed outbreaks as the Delta variant is much more infectious. So the main risk weighing on the outlook is if vaccination hasn’t progressed widely, the health system gets strained and the government needs to put restrictions on mobility again,” he explained. ‘Bit optimistic’ Conceding that the ADB’s outlook was a ‘bit optimistic’ compared to the Reserve Bank of India, which now expects 9.5% growth this year, Dr. Abiad said: “We didn’t change it much from our earlier forecast, because we have only had one quarter of the fiscal year yet and with the wide uncertainty, we wanted to stick to that and see how things evolve.” That the second wave accelerated very rapidly but also declined very rapidly, allowing the economy to reopen was another key factor behind ADB’s assessment, and was backed by the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) readings that had ‘switched to highly positive for India’, he pointed out. “Because consumption will recover only gradually, government spending and exports will contribute more to this year’s growth than they did in the previous fiscal year,” the ADB said in an update to its Asian Development Outlook for 2021, emphasising that the healthy trend in export orders suggested that ‘strong external demand’ had helped cushion the impact of the second wave on the economy. Blaming the uptick in India’s inflation on rising global oil prices and higher duties on gasoline and diesel fuel, along with double-digit consumer price inflation for pulses and vegetable oil, the ADB said a deficient monsoon could augur further inflationary pressure. “Rising prices for oil and other commodities will further increase input and transportation costs for producers, which they will pass on to consumers. These push factors and the second-round effects of persistently high headline inflation from last year will keep core inflation elevated,” it warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adb-cuts-indias-2021-22-growth-forecast-to-10/article36601314.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adani to take on Ambani, invest $20 bn in green energy||Unveiling his infrastructure conglomerate’s green vision, billionaire Gautam Adani on Tuesday said his group will invest $20 billion over the next 10 years in renewable energy generation and component manufacturing and produce the world’s cheapest green electron. The port-to-energy conglomerate plans to triple its renewable power generation capacity over the next four years, foray into green hydrogen production, power all data centres with renewable energy, turn its ports into net carbon zero by 2025, and spend over 75% of capital expenditure until 2025 in green technologies, he said. Speaking at JP Morgan India Investor Summit, the Adani Group chairman said the investment will be in renewable energy generation, component manufacturing, transmission and distribution. Adani Group’s “integrated value chain, our scale and experience puts us on the path to be the producer of the least expensive green electron anywhere in the world,” he said. The announcement came weeks after India’s richest man Mukesh Ambani announced an investment of $10 billion in clean power and hydrogen fuel over 3 years. Many saw the June 24 announcement as the petrochemical czar’s direct competition with India’s second-wealthiest man, Mr. Adani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-to-take-on-ambani-invest-20-bn-in-green-energy/article36601317.ece
22 September 2021||MUMBAI,||SpiceJet gets investors’ nod to transfer cargo unit to arm||SpiceJet said it has received shareholders’ approval to transfer its cargo and logistics services business to its subsidiary, SpiceXpress and Logistics Private Ltd., on a slump-sale basis, for Rs. 2,555.77 crore. “The consideration for the slump sale shall be discharged by SpiceXpress by issuance of its shares in favour of SpiceJet,” the company said in a statement.  “The transfer will result in a one-time gain of Rs. 2,555.77 crore for SpiceJet, wiping out a substantial portion of it’s negative net worth,” SpiceJet added. The airline had a negative net worth of Rs. 3,300 crore as on June 30. The company said it had also received the shareholders’ approval to raise funds by issue of eligible securities through Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP). It plans to raise Rs. 2,500 crore.  “The shareholder approval paves the way for our long-term plans to take a concrete shape and result in unlocking significant value for the company and all its shareholders,” said Ajay Singh, CMD, SpiceJet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/spicejet-gets-investors-nod-to-transfer-cargo-unit-to-arm/article36601324.ece
22 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Relook taxation on interest on FDs, urge SBI economists||Retail depositors are earning negative returns on their bank deposits and hence, there is a need for reviewing taxes on interest earned, economists at the country’s largest lender SBI have said. If not for all the depositors, the taxation review should be carried out for at least the deposits made by senior citizens who depend on the interest for their daily needs, the economists led by Soumya Kanti Ghosh said in a note, which pegged the overall retail deposits in the system at Rs. 102 lakh crore.  TDS trigger on interest At present, banks deduct tax at source at the time of crediting interest income of over Rs. 40,000 for all the depositors, while for senior citizens the taxes set-in if the income exceeds Rs. 50,000 per year. As the policy focus has shifted to growth, the interest rates are going down in the system which pinches a depositor. “Clearly, real rate of return on bank deposits has been negative for a sizeable period of time and with RBI making it abundantly clear that supporting growth is the primary goal, the low banking rate of interest is unlikely to make a north bound movement anytime soon as liquidity continues to be plentiful,” they wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/relook-taxation-on-interest-on-fds-urge-sbi-economists/article36601328.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Amazon incurs $1.2 bn in legal fees to maintain India presence’||U.S. e-commerce giant Amazon, which is said to be investigating alleged bribes paid by its legal representatives in India, spent a staggering Rs. 8,546 crore, or $1.2 billion in legal expenses, for maintaining a presence in the country during 2018-20, sources said. Sources aware of the firm’s public account filings said entities of Amazon — including Amazon Retail India Pvt. Ltd., Amazon Seller Services Pvt. Ltd., Amazon Transportation Services Pvt. Ltd., Amazon Wholesale (India) Pvt. Ltd. and Amazon Internet Services Pvt. Ltd. (AWS) — paid Rs. 3,420 crore in India during 2018-19 and Rs. 5,126 crore during 2019-20 towards legal fees. Amazon is locked in a legal tussle over the takeover of Future Group and is facing a probe by the Competition Commission of India. While the company declined to comment on the legal fee issue, traders body CAIT claimed that Amazon spending 20% of its revenue on lawyers was questionable. “The whopping amount spent under legal professional fees clearly shows how Amazon and its subsidiaries are misusing their financial muscles to bribe and manipulate Indian government officials,” CAIT National Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal wrote in a letter to Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-incurs-12-bn-in-legal-fees-to-maintain-india-presence/article36601326.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘India added 521 MW of rooftop solar in Q2 2021’||India has added 521 MW of rooftop solar capacity in April-June this year, which is the highest capacity installed in a quarter, according to a Mercom India report. India added 521 megawatts (MW) of rooftop solar capacity in the second quarter of the calendar year 2021, a 53% increase quarter-on-quarter compared with 341 MW installed in Q1 2021 (January-March), according to Mercom India Research’s newly released Mercom India Rooftop Solar Market Report Q2 2021. Rooftop solar installations were up 517% year-on-year (y-o-y) compared with the 85 MW installed in Q2 2020 (April-June 2020). Rooftop solar capacity additions in India in Q2 2021 (April-June) were the highest in a quarter. As per the report, installations were significantly higher than the previous quarter despite the second wave of the COVID-19 and related state lockdowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-added-521-mw-of-rooftop-solar-in-q2-2021/article36601481.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SEBI drops adjudication against RIL||Markets watchdog SEBI has disposed of adjudication proceedings without imposing any penalty on Reliance Industries Ltd. in a matter related to alleged incorrect disclosure of diluted earnings per share in its financial results more than 13 years ago. SEBI decided not to impose any penalty for the alleged violations mainly on two grounds, including that the amendment to the relevant law that made incorrect disclosure of information by a listed company punishable came into force prospectively from March 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-drops-adjudication-against-ril/article36601321.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||HDFC offers home loans at 6.7% till Oct. 31||HDFC Ltd. has announced a limited period home loan offer starting at 6.7% for the festival season. The offer will be applicable on all new loan applications irrespective of the loan amount or employment category. The special rate is linked to the borrower’s credit score. “This is a close-ended scheme and will be valid till October 31,” HDFC said. “I am sure this offer will help prospective home buyers to realise their dream,” said Renu Sud Karnad, MD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-offers-home-loans-at-67-till-oct-31/article36601322.ece
22 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Tata Motors to raise CV prices as costs climb||Tata Motors Ltd. said it will raise the prices of its commercial vehicles (CVs) by about 2% with effect from October 1 following a continuous rise in input costs. “The continued rise in the cost of commodities, such as steel and precious metals, necessitates the company to pass on a part of it through increase in price of the products” the company said. Tata Motors said it had tried to minimise the impact by absorbing a certain portion of the cost and would continue to deliver the lowest total cost of ownership to its customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-motors-to-raise-cv-prices-as-costs-climb/article36601329.ece
22 September 2021||new delhi,||Carlyle sells Rs. 3,267-cr. stake in SBI Cards||U.S. private equity fund CA Rover Holdings, part of the Carlyle Group, on Tuesday sold 3.4% stake in SBI Cards and Payment Services Ltd. for Rs. 3,267 crore through open market transactions. According to NSE bulk deal data, the PE firm sold a total of 3.2 crore shares, amounting to 3.4% stake. The shares were sold at an average price of Rs. 1,021.05, valuing the transaction at Rs. 3,267 crore. CA Rover Holdings had held a 6.5% stake at the end of June. Meanwhile, Societe Generale purchased 85.06 lakh shares of the card issuer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/carlyle-sells-rs-3267-cr-stake-in-sbi-cards/article36601565.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Paytm staff add 5.45 lakh shares to IPO pool||Digital payments and financial firm Paytm has received more than 5.45 lakh shares from about 20 more employees for monetisation in its upcoming IPO. According to a regulatory filing by One97 Communications (OCL), about 20 more employees have converted their ESOPs into a total of 5,45,735 shares. Earlier, 200 former and current employees had converted their ESOPs into shares, taking the total count of employees to about 220. Last week, Paytm gave time till September 22 to employees to convert their ESOPs into shares for monetisation in the upcoming IPO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/paytm-staff-add-545-lakh-shares-to-ipo-pool/article36601318.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,||CavinKare enters men’s grooming||FMCG company CavinKare has announced its foray into the men’s grooming segment with the unveiling of a slew of hair and body care products under the Biker’s brand. CavinKare also unveiled products in the shampoo category for the Tamil Nadu market. “This foray into the men’s grooming category, which is expected to cross $1.2 billion by 2024, marks a significant step in the CavinKare 2.0 growth strategy,” said Venkatesh Vijayaraghavan, CEO & director – FMCG, CavinKare. “The pandemic has been a game changer for the beauty and hygiene category,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cavinkare-enters-mens-grooming/article36601330.ece
22 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Flipkart to hold Big Billion Days from October 7 to 12||Flipkart will hold the 8th edition of its annual sale event ‘The Big Billion Days’, between October 7 and 12. This year’s event would bring forth new opportunities for home grown brands, sellers and consumers from metros to Tier 2 cities and beyond, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flipkart-to-hold-big-billion-days-from-october-7-to-12/article36601315.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||DoT issues order to enable people to get mobile SIM at doorsteps by using Aadhaar, Digilocker docs||The Department of Telecommunications on Tuesday issued an order that enables customers to apply for a new mobile connection online and get the SIM delivered at their doorstep on verification using Aadhaar or any eligible document stored in Digilocker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dot-issues-order-to-enable-people-to-get-mobile-sim-at-doorsteps-by-using-aadhaar-digilocker-docs/article36601327.ece
22 September 2021||Chennai,||Stem cell bank LifeCell raises Rs. 225 crore||Stem cell bank and reproductive genetic testing services provider LifeCell International Pvt. Ltd. said that OrbiMed Asia Partners IV has invested Rs. 225 crore in return for a minority stake. “The existing founders will invest Rs. 30 crore,” said Mayur Abhaya, MD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/stem-cell-bank-lifecell-raises-rs-225-crore/article36601331.ece
22 September 2021||Chennai,||Yamaha introduces Aerox 155 Maxi Sports Scooter||India Yamaha Motor Pvt. Ltd. unveiled Maxi Sports Scooter — Aerox 155 and a new version of 155cc super sport motorcycle YZF-R15. With Aerox 155, IYM enters India’s premium scooter space. It comes at a starting price of Rs. 1.29 lakh (ex-showroom, Delhi). YZF-R15 V4’s prices begin at Rs. 1,67,800 (ex-showroom, Delhi).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yamaha-introduces-aerox-155-maxi-sports-scooter/article36601333.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYNAGAR,||Rohit punches his way to glory||Delhi teenager Rohit Mor punched above his weight to upset Commonwealth Games bronze medallist Mohammad Hussamuddin and win his maiden title in the National boxing championships at the Inspire Institute of Sports (IIS) here on Tuesday. Nineteen-year-old Rohit, a 2020 Khelo India champion, heavily relied on his fabulous footwork and defensive skills to beat Hussamuddin, the 69kg defending champion, 5-0 in the 71kg final. Using his height Rohit used his height to his advantage as he boxed from a long range. He moved swiftly and ducked smartly when Hussamuddin dashed forward to attack in the first two rounds. A frustrated Hussamuddin went all out to catch up in the final round, but could not succeed. “I had done my homework well and my footwork really helped. I need to work on my strength and punching,” Rohit said. Defending champion Varinder Singh was a class act as he retained the 60kg crown. Moving like a dancer, the Asian bronze medallist entertained by dictating the pace, displaying superb counter-punching and showcasing some gamesmanship. He outwitted the talented Etash Khan Muhammed of Services 5-0. World Championships bronze medallist Shiva Thapa (63.5kg) claimed his fifth National title, while ‘Best Boxer’ Deepak Kumar (51kg) took his second.  The results (finals): 48kg: Govind Sahani (RSPB) bt Kuldeep Kumar (Chd) 5-0; 51kg: Deepak Kumar (SSCB) bt Ankit (Har) 5-0.   54kg: Akash (SSCB) bt Rajpinder Singh (Pun) 3-2; 57kg: Rohit Mor (Del) bt Mohd. Hussamuddin (SSCB) 5-0; 60kg: Varinder Singh (RSPB) bt Etash Khan Muhammed (SSCB) 5-0.   63.5kg: Shiva Thapa (Asm) bt Dalveer Singh Tomar (SSCB) 5-0; 67kg: Akash (SSCB) bt Aditya Pratap Yadav (UP) 5-0; 71kg: Nishant Dev (Kar) bt Amit Kumar (DDNH) 5-0; 75kg: Sumit (SSCB) bt Rohit Tokas (RSPB) 5-0.   80kg: Sachin Kumar (SSCB) bt Vinit (Har) 4-1; 86kg: Lakshya (SSCB) bt Prayag Chauhan (RSPB) 5-0.   92kg: Sanjeet (SSCB) bt Naveen Kumar (Har) 5-0; 92+kg: Narender Kumar (SSCB) bt Sagar (Chd) 4-1.   Best boxer: Deepak Kumar (SSCB); Best promising boxer: Nishant Dev (Kar); Team championship: Winner: Services; Runner-up: Railways .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-punches-his-way-to-glory/article36601606.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Tyagi’s sensational final over helps Rajasthan pull off a royal heist||Kartik Tyagi bowled a phenomenal 20th over to help Rajasthan Royals turn the tables on Punjab Kings in a thrilling finish at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium on Tuesday. Chasing a target of 186, Kings looked well on course as openers K.L. Rahul and Mayank Agarwal added 120 in just 11.5 overs. Aiden Markram and Nicholas Pooran took the team close to the target. With four required off the final over, Tyagi bowled five dot balls and conceded just one run as Kings lost the plot and went down by two runs. Earlier, Royals lost six wickets for just 19 runs off the last 21 balls. After being put in by Punjab Kings, Royals were bowled out for 185 off the final delivery. Arshdeep Singh was the main reason for the Royals’ retreat. The left-arm seamer bowled superbly to take five for 32 from his four overs. Earlier, the Royals’ new opening pair of Evin Lewis (36, 21b, 7x4, 1x6) and Yashasvi Jaiswal (49, 36b, 6x4, 2x6) started confidently. Mohammed Shami may have succeeded to keep Jaiswal quiet for most of the first over, but his last two balls were dispatched to the boundary on either side of the wicket. Ewin Lewis, fresh from his brilliant run in the Caribbean Premier League and playing his first game for Royals, looked in good nick, as he swung debutant seamer Ishan Porel over long-on for a six to get off the mark. Lewis went after the Bengal bowler, whom he hit for four boundaries in his second over, as the Royals raced to 40 for no loss in four overs. In the next over, the openers raised fifty before Lewis perished. The West Indian was sent back by a fine, low diving catch at extra-cover by Mayank Agarwal off Arshdeep, who provided the much-needed break through for Kings in his very first over. That brought Royals captain Sanju Samson to the crease, but he didn’t last long. Liam Livingstone, beginning a new innings with Royals, was starting to explode when he was brilliantly caught by a diving Fabian Allen at deep mid-wicket. A blistering 43 off just 17 balls (2x4, 4x6) by Mahipal Lomror should have been the launch pad for the death overs, but that was not to be as Kings and Arshdeep had other ideas.   Kings 106 for no loss  Kings were 106 for no loss in 10 overs with Rahul (41) and Mayank (58) at the crease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arshdeep-strikes-as-royals-lose-their-way-after-blistering-start/article36601560.ece
22 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Paartalu and BFC part ways||Barely a week after Bengaluru FC assistant coach Naushad Moosa said that Erik Paartalu would be joining his teammates for the ISL 2021-22 pre-season, the club announced the Australian’s departure by “mutual consent”. The equation between the midfielder and club seemed to be tense ever since media reports in Maldives showed Paartalu and two other BFC members in breach of COVID-19 protocols ahead of the AFC Cup playoff, which was eventually called off. The 35-year-old even claimed that he was being denied a chance to train with the team and was also dropped from the 29-man AFC Cup squad. However, he returned to India and was training at the Inspire Institute of Sport in Ballari before Tuesday’s announcement. Paartalu was one of BFC’s key players and was part of the side which won the ISL in 2018-19 and finished runner-up in 2017-18. He played 67 ISL games, scoring nine goals and accounting for eight assists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paartalu-and-bfc-part-ways/article36601604.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Determined Capitals face desperate Sunrisers||Following contrasting runs in the Indian leg this edition, Delhi Capitals and Sunrisers Hyderabad face off eyeing a common goal — resuming their Indian Premier League campaigns with a victory in Dubai. If the numbers from the previous editions are pointers to the future, then teams target 16 points to reach the playoffs in an eight-team field. Going by that indicator, DC is just two wins away from playoffs while SRH needs seven victories in as many matches to make the grade. With the teams returning after more than four-and-a-half months, players will have to find their form. The last time the two met, DC won in a Super Over. Since then, SRH lost two more matches even as Kane Williamson replaced David Warner as skipper, three days before IPL was postponed in May. DC, with quality players in all departments, will start as the favourite. The return of Shreyas Iyer lends further solidity to the side that is looking to do one better than its runner-up finish in Dubai last year. Bowling attack better SRH, let down by its bowlers so far, will look to a fully fit Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Rashid Khan, Sandeep Sharma, Siddarth Kaul, and options like all-rounders Jason Holder, Mohammad Nabi, Vijay Shankar and Kedar Jadhav, to justify their reputation. The SRH batting, relying heavily on Warner and Williamson, will miss wicketkeeper-opener Jonny Bairstow. This brings a chance for Wriddhiman Saha to play in the top order. In the otherwise brittle middle-order, Manish Pandey’s utility can never be overestimated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/determined-capitals-face-desperate-sunrisers/article36601561.ece
22 September 2021||Mackay,||Australia steamrollers off-colour India||India’s frailties in the batting and bowling departments were laid bare as the mighty Australia gave the visitors a nine-wicket hiding in the first women’s ODI to extend its record winning streak to 25 matches. India, which is aiming to post 250-plus regularly to challenge the likes of Australia, could only manage 225 for eight. Darcie Brown returned a 4/33. Fifth on the trot Skipper Mithali Raj (61 off 107) recorded her fifth consecutive fifty, which was also her 59th overall, while the other contributions came from debutants Yastika Bhatia (35 off 51), Richa Ghosh (32 n.o. off 29) and veteran pacer Jhulan Goswami (20 off 24). Australia gunned down the target in 41 overs as India’s bowling lacked the teeth. The four-time World Cup-winner last lost an ODI in October 2017. After a sedate start of 30 runs in eight overs, Australia openers Alyssa Healy (77 off 77) and Rachael Haynes (93 n.o. 100) changed gears to run away with the game. Healy was the aggressor in their 126-run stand with her dominating knock comprising eight fours and couple of sixes. She was eventually caught at mid-off trying to hit another six off leggie Poonam Yadav. Haynes and skipper Meg Lanning (53 n.o. off 69) then shared a 101-run stand to take Australia to a resounding win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-steamrollers-off-colour-india/article36601564.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Solaris leads Maximus||Solaris led Maximus by 18 IMPs after two rounds of 10 boards in the quarterfinals of the Team of four Gold event in the 18th HCL International bridge championship played virtually on the Real Bridge platform on Tuesday. Solaris had 66 points to 48 by Maximus with two more rounds left in the quarterfinals. In other quarterfinal matches, Russia led Shree Cement by nine IMPs, Texan Aces was dominating Monica Jajoo by 36 IMPs, and Formidables lived up to its name for a 66-17 lead over Slammers. Similarly, in the Team of four Silver event, Prayas led Jiya by eight IMPs in the quarterfinals at the end of two of four rounds of ten boards each. In other matches, Dr. SSMC led Sahyadri 59-38, Talluri led Dr. Sanghi 75-65 and Ganga Gomti was 74-49 ahead of Jagoron.  The results:   Team of four Gold (pre-quarterfinals): Maximus bt Arun Jain 114-66; Russia bt Hope N Prey 148-44; Texan Aces bt Diamond Harbour 217-29; Slammers bt Podram 105-74; Formidables bt Bedis 65-55; Monica Jajoo bt Leslie 91-87; Shree Cement bt Maya Meera Sneha 96-55; Solaris bt Aristos 100-81.   Team of four Silver (pre-quarterfinals):   Prayas bt Tarun 74-64; Dr. SSMC bt TBA 112-75; Talluri bt Snapdragon 108-18; Jagoron bt Prabhav 154-36; Ganga Gomti bt Surprise 129-42; Dr. Sanghi bt Great Royals 96-79; Sahyadri bt MG Sports 100-56; Jiya bt Spartans 112-70.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/solaris-leads-maximus/article36601739.ece
22 September 2021||KOCHI,||A special ‘1973’ on Blasters’ jersey||Kerala Blasters FC honoured the state’s first-ever Santosh Trophy-winning team on its first kit that was launched for the coming Indian Super League season. ‘1973’, the year Kerala won its first Santosh Trophy National title, will be inscribed on the nape of all the team's yellow jerseys for home matches to celebrate the triumph. “This one is special for me because when we made a commitment to the development of football in Kerala we knew that we had a rich legacy that we had to honour. This year when we wear the Yellow armour we will take with us the spirit of the class of 1973,” said Nikhil Bharadwaj, the Director of Kerala Blasters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-special-1973-on-blasters-jersey/article36601886.ece
22 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kochi to host women's international football tournament||Kochi will host an international women's football tournament in December. The tournament is intended to provide much needed exposure and pratice for the Indian senior women’s team that will take part in the AFC Asian Women's Championship which will be held early next year. Abhishek Yadav, the Deputy General Secretary of All India Football Federation (AIFF), said it will be a four nation tournament and that the AIFF is in the process of finalising the participating nations. “The tournament will be held in Kochi in the first week of December. We are thankful to the Kerala Government for agreeing to host the tournament. It is part of AIFF's and Kerala Government's endeavour to promote women's football. We are trying to get couple of strong teams from either Europe or Asia and we will finalise it as soon as the ongoing qualifiers are over,” said Abhishek Yadav. The former international said if other States follow the example of Kerala, which has given importance to Santosh Trophy football championship, the tournament will regain its lost glory. "Kerala is one of the few States which still gives a lot of respect to the national championships. There is lot of passion and emotion attatched to Santosh Trophy in Kerala. As a player I have experienced the passion of the crowd. If other States can emulate Kerala's passion, I am sure Santosh Trophy will regain its lost glory," he said. He added that Kerala will be the host of the next junior and sub-junior national football championships for boys and girls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kochi-to-host-womens-international-football-tournament/article36601887.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||The man who has kept in touch with his inner child||You tend to remember where you first met your heroes. Of India’s great spin quartet, I met Erapalli Prasanna and Bhagwat Chandrasekhar at the KSCA while attending a camp for schoolboys. Venkatraghavan I met at a movie theatre (showing Murder on the Orient Express , with Albert Finney as Poirot). But I can’t pinpoint where I first met Bishan Bedi. It’s as if I have known him all my life. In any case he treats you as if he has known you all your life too, so beginnings don’t really matter. I have been fortunate to watch and report cricket while some of India’s greatest players, from Tiger Pataudi to K.L. Rahul have been in action. The spin quartet was always special, and I was privileged to work in the cities where they lived and spend hours and hours in their company. Bedi, the youngest and most colourful of them, turns 75 this week. A book of essays in his honour is being released, but celebrations will be muted. There are the Covid restrictions for one, while Bedi’s health as he recovers from a stroke will not allow him to party.  This is a pity because he is the most sociable of cricketers, happiest in the company of other cricket people, and with a wealth of anecdotes to share. It is never difficult to tell where Bedi is in a crowd — it is where the laughter rings the loudest. Not only is Bedi a wonderful story-teller himself, he is at the centre of other people’s stories too, many apocryphal. He has become the generic author of anything spoken against authority; the man most likely to have said something aptly funny, and therefore by extension the man who actually said it. Yet for all his gifts, Bedi has one quality that outshines others but is seldom commented upon. He venerates cricket, and feels physically hurt if someone or something interferes with the purity or integrity of the sport. In his book, cricket is played a certain way, and players who do not adhere to this have no place in it. Skill is to be admired, of course, but even more so is an attitude of reverence towards the game. Grace in motion Those who never saw Bedi bowl — the YouTube videos don’t do him justice — have missed one of sport’s great sights. His action had all the elements of high art — balance, rhythm, pattern, unity, variety, deception, consistency — all put together like a symphony by a master. The gentle loop sometimes ended in vicious pace off the wicket, the apparently quick delivery came to you long after you had played the drive. If the quartet were a group of bank robbers, Prasanna would be the one with the plan, Venkat the one who would draw the map pointing out where the dangers lay and how to get past the cameras, Chandra would be in charge of the explosives. Bedi would be the one with the plans to distract the authorities, tricking them into looking in the wrong place. They brought their various gifts together not for harm (except to a few egos) but to provide the sport with some of its most delicious treats. Batsmen sometimes appeared transfixed when the ball didn’t appear where it was meant to or went the wrong way or trapped them in front of the wicket at a speed that remained in their nightmares. Post-retirement, Bedi was the glue that held the quartet together. He is an inveterate letter writer; he calls up friends regularly. The arrival of social media made it all so much easier. He wrote and wrote. All four were protective of one another. When I once wrote something mildly critical of Venkatraghavan, Bedi berated me, mildly but firmly. I am not sure if Venkatraghavan minded so much, but Bedi certainly did. When someone asked Prasanna at a function who he thought was the best batsman in his time, he named the England player Tom Graveney, and gave this as his reason: “For me the best batsman is the one who played Chandra best.” Chandra often said, “Pras is like an older brother to me,” while Bedi “saw god in Chandra.” Venkat was the intellectual, the only one to make time to visit Mohenjo-daro on the quartet’s first visit to Pakistan. “You cannot think of us singly; we were a group,” Bedi once said. And it’s true. As players they did their best work together, after all. When boyhood heroes age, they remind us how we have too. But Bedi has never lost touch with his inner child, full of fun and mischief and a love for sweets. One year he took me to the Golden Temple and explained things with a deep understanding. Bedi the bowler was great, but Bedi the man is greater still.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-man-who-has-kept-in-touch-with-his-inner-child/article36601602.ece
22 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Delhi FC stuns Blasters, in quarters||Second Division side Delhi FC sprang a surprise as it downed former Indian Super League (ISL) runner-up Kerala Blasters FC by a solitary goal in its concluding Group C league match at Kalyani Stadium before progressing to the quarterfinals of the 130th Durand Cup football. The other ISL side in the group, Bengaluru FC, did a spectacular turnaround when it erased a two-goal deficit to beat regimental side Indian Navy 5-3 and cemented its position on top of the group standings. Delhi FC, which ended with a win and a draw, took the second spot in the group to join Bengaluru FC (seven points from two wins and a draw) in the knockout stage. Kerala Blasters and Indian Navy, which had three points each to their name, crashed out of the tournament.  The results:   Bengaluru FC 5 (Leon Augustine 53, Harmanpreet Singh 61, 81, Ajay Chhetri 75-pen, Huidrom Thoi Singh 90+2) bt Indian Navy 3 ( Jijo F. 19, Sreyas V.G. 30. J. Vijay 90 + 4).   Delhi FC 1 (Willis Plaza 53) bt Kerala Blasters 0.   The quarterfinal line-up:   Sept. 23: Mohammedan Sporting vs Gokulam Kerala FC.   Sept. 24: Army Red vs FC Bengaluru United, FC Goa vs Delhi FC.   Sept. 25: Bengaluru FC vs Army Green .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-fc-stuns-blasters-in-quarters/article36601608.ece
22 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Bandovic confident of good show||Chennaiyin FC’s chief coach Bozidar Bandovic appeared optimistic ahead of the Indian Super League 2021-22 season beginning in Goa on November 19. The 51-year-old said he was satisfied with the current squad. “We have a good balance between experienced and young players. We need to work hard and give our maximum,” he said at a virtual press conference on Tuesday. Bandovic said, “the players can score goals as they have the personality and quality. Why we are here is to score more goals. I believe we will be better [this time].” He also stressed that domestic players will be given equal importance. He hoped that the foreigners, who have signed for the club, will make a difference. “They are experienced and will adapt well,” said Bandovic. Pre-season Bandovic answered that he was not a big fan of a long pre-season when asked as to why Chennaiyin hadn’t started training while other teams already had. “I believe eight weeks is enough to make the team ready.” When asked whether defensive midfielder Dhanpal Ganesh was still with the team as there were reports of his possible exit from Chennaiyin, Bandovic said, “he is not with us [in Goa].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bandovic-confident-of-good-show/article36601668.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Anantapur Rural Football League gets a major fillip||Football in the Rayalaseema region got a major fillip with the LaLiga and its global partners BKT Tyres and Puma extending their support to the Anantapur Rural Football League, which reached over 3,000 boys and girls. The joint initiative, started in 2018 by the LaLiga Foundation, LaLiga women’s football department and the Vicent Ferrer Foundation, provides an opportunity to play football and receive education to over 3,000 boys and girls, aged between 11 and 19, at Anantapur. Coming together to donate face masks to the students and staff who are part of the league, the move is reflective of LaLiga’s commitment in promoting grassroots development of football in India, a statement from the organisers said on Tuesday. “The top-flight Spanish league has been working with the Vicente Ferrer Foundation with the aim of developing football in the most deprived communities of Anantapur. The initiative was carried out keeping in mind the health and safety requirements due to the pandemic,” they said. The captain of Real Betis women’s club, Irene Guerrero, visited Andhra Pradesh in 2018 to run an interactive workshop for three days for the young players and coaches, marking the first time an international woman footballer visited Anantapur. “We have been working with the Vicente Ferrer Foundation for the Anantapur project for over three years now. The enthusiasm with which the students and coaches have responded and their outstanding progress is very inspiring,” Jose Antonio Cachaza, MD — India, LaLiga, said. “Training actions were jointly developed both in person and virtually, training referees, trainers, and young players and the LaLiga’s Women’s Football Department and the LaLiga Foundation collaborated with a donation of €20,000 to contribute to the development of the urgent actions carried out by the Vicente Ferrer Foundation in April.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anantapur-rural-football-league-gets-a-major-fillip/article36601996.ece
22 September 2021||BENGALURU,||‘Next few years are going to be tough’||India’s tame 1-3 defeat to Finland in a Davis Cup World Group-I tie last weekend has raised fresh questions about the standard of the sport in the country. There is currently no Indian men’s singles player ranked in the top-150, and this year, Sumit Nagal’s first round appearance in the Australian Open — courtesy a wild card — was the lone Major main draw singles match featuring an Indian. Zeeshan Ali, Davis Cup coach, in an interview, said the next few years will be a period of painful rebuilding. Excerpts:  What were the reasons for the loss? Both against Croatia’s Borna Gojo (rank 277) in the World Group qualifier last year and Finland’s Otto Virtanen (rank 419), we were hoping that Prajnesh [Gunneswaran] would win. He was ranked around 150. In Davis Cup, rankings don’t always matter but the player has to play as per his ranking. Yes, Virtanen played like a top-100 player, but it cannot always be the case that only your opponent rises to the occasion. It has been six years since an Indian beat a higher-ranked player in the Davis Cup (164-Somdev Devvarman against 40-Jiri Vesely in 2015). You have to reach beyond what you are capable of and the biggest example is Leander Paes. Ramkumar’s matches against [Marin] Cilic and [Emil] Ruusuvuori were close, but it never felt like he was in a position to win. The difference in class and the level of tennis showed. Doubles specialists are also ageing. Is the cupboard empty? No doubt the next few years are going to be tough. We have just two or three players to rely on. Sumit, Ramkumar and Yuki [Bhambri], if fit. We need to consistently play top-100 level tennis. Our players should compete in bigger events consistently, not just Challengers, so that they know what to do against top-notch opponents like Cilic. We need to start building a younger team, with 17 and 18-year-olds, and invest time and money in those with hunger. Do you see any positive signs? It’s a little hazy. Sumit needs to play, and Sasi Kumar [Mukund] also. It was a bit disappointing to see them skipping Davis Cup to play Challengers. In our days, Davis Cup meant so much. You are not just doing it for yourself, but for the country. That feeling and emotional connect seem to be lacking now [in the younger generation]. Sumit, Ramkumar… these are the guys who can still deliver. And we need the younger guys to step up in doubles. How much is India’s tennis ecosystem to blame? The top-200 players need to be playing bigger events. As far as I know, ATP 250 in Pune is not happening in 2022. So, the next big tournament will be end of 2022 or early 2023. Where does that leave our players? One event of that calibre is not enough. We need to have four or five.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/next-few-years-are-going-to-be-tough/article36601557.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYNAGAR,||‘We need to put all effort for a good 2024 Games’||With an objective to achieve a better performance in the 2024 Paris Olympics, the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) is thinking of making some changes and resuming competitions, including the India Open and the boxing league, sooner than later. Speaking to The Hindu here on Tuesday, BFI president Ajay Singh said the review of the Tokyo Olympics would be done with an aim to get better results in Paris. “We are doing the review. Also we are looking at 2024. Part of the reason we are here is to see how our boxers are doing and identify some good support staff. We need to look at 2024 and 2028 and see what best we can do. “The performance in the Olympics was not as good as we wanted it to be. Certainly we will make some changes. We need to put all our energy and effort to ensure we’ve a good 2024 Games,” said Ajay Singh. The BFI chief said some steps, including changing the boxer identification programme and conducting the boxing league again, would be on the priority list. “We want to ensure that we have a better boxer identification programme in terms of having more Open championships so that we are not dependent only on the National structure for boxer identification. We want to promote the (Indian) Boxing League and Fight Nights in a big way. “We want boxing to be part of India’s sporting culture. In the long term that’s the vision and that’s what will get us medals like some other countries. I think India is on the cusp of medals in boxing, whether that happens in 2024 or 2028. “We are discussing with the licensees of the League. We are also discussing a proposal for the Fight Nights. We should get going really soon.” Ajay Singh said the India Open, which was held up due to COVID-19, would resume soon. “In India Open, we expect to get 25 teams early next year. We can have three or four of our teams and we would get much more training and exposure,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-need-to-put-all-effort-for-a-good-2024-games/article36601738.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||HCA expresses disappointment||“We are extremely disappointed with the way BCCI has ignored the Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) when it came to allotting international fixtures to be hosted at home,” HCA secretary R. Vijayanand said on Tuesday. “This despite the fact that HCA has always been in the forefront in raising the bar to conduct any international match — be it T20, ODI or a Test — with a touch of class, showcasing its organising capabilities,” the secretary said in a statement. “Importantly, being founder-member of the BCCI, we feel it is not the way we should be treated. This is nothing but step-motherly treatment meted out to the HCA by the BCCI. We are always known for our capabilities and organisational skills and can proudly recall how HCA hosted, the advances IPL games at short notice. “And, if someone tries to find any excuse, we wish to reiterate that the Apex Council is working unitedly with the specific intent of promoting the game as was evident by the top brass, including the HCA president Mohd. Azharuddin, attending the BCCI meetings,” Vijayanand said. “In fact, HCA is one of the very few BCCI affiliated units which has kept its slate clean as far as financial records are concerned as all audited accounts have been submitted so far. Even now, we sincerely appeal to the BCCI to give a serious thought and consider HCA as a host for any international fixture in the near future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-expresses-disappointment/article36601879.ece
22 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Heart-centered approach to sports coaching||Heartfulness Education Trust and the Association of Indian Football Coaches formally launched a three-day national programme, Coach to Heartfelt Coach, designed to introduce a heart-centered approach to sports coaching in schools. More than 3,000 coaches are expected to take part in the virtual programme this year. “In the 35 years of my life as a player and coach, much has revolved around producing champions. Around 11 years after I began to coach, I realised that the number of people who come out confident in sports is a lot less than those that come out of sports dejected,” P. Gopi Chand said. “It’s not about how many champions we make, but how many of them are on the journey. For too long sport has been for the winning few and it’s time we change that. “Sports gives us more than medals — it helps us to share with the team, being part of the team, and gives life lessons. It is in the art of the coaching and heart of the coach — integrity, compassion, and trust — are important,” Gopi added. Aditya Thackeray, Maharashtra Minister for Tourism and Environment and Dinesh Nair, AIFC Founder & Director, were also present. The programme enables coaches to connect with the infinite potential of their hearts and features heart-fulness practices for inner peace, self-transformation and overall well-being.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/heart-centered-approach-to-sports-coaching/article36602103.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Australian women notch up 25 not out||It all began on an insanely hot day at Vadodara. In front of a big crowd, Australia defeated India by eight wickets with nearly 18 overs to spare in the first Women’s ODI at the Reliance Cricket Stadium. That was on March 12, 2018. More than three years later, the women in yellow have yet to lose an ODI. On Tuesday, they beat India by nine wickets at Mackay to register their 25th straight win. They had broken the record earlier in the year when they beat New Zealand in the first of a three-match series at Mount Maunganui. With that victory, they went past the 21-match streak of Australia’s men’s team. Ricky Ponting’s men had achieved their feat in 2003.  For the record, after whitewashing the host in Vadodara — it was sweet revenge for their stunning loss to the Indians in the World Cup semifinal in the previous year — the Australian women won the three-match series against Pakistan at Kuala Lumpur, New Zealand in Australia, England in England, West Indies in the West Indies and against Sri Lanka and New Zealand in Australia. Women’s cricket hasn’t probably seen a team quite like this. “This is the strongest women’s team I have ever come across,” says former India all-rounder and commentator Reema Malhotra. “They are such a dominant side with great depth.” She believes the team draws its strength from its domestic cricket and excellent selection policy. “The Women’s Big Bash League has helped their players immensely,” says Reema. “And the Australian selectors tend to pick the right players. They reward hard work and back their players, even if some of them go through a tough period.” Truly remarkable Sujith Sumasunder, former India opener and Head of Education at the NCA, and one who is doing his PhD in sports psychology, says what the Australian women’s team is doing is truly remarkable. “When a team goes through a phase like this, nothing less than a win is expected of them,” he says. “And when they dominate the way they do, like Clive Lloyd’s West Indies side used to, they can intimidate the opposition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australian-women-notch-up-25-not-out/article36601554.ece
22 September 2021||BIEL (Switzerland),||Ramkumar in pre-quarters||Davis Cupper Ramkumar Ramanathan knocked out his doubles partner and fourth seed Tomas Machac of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-2 in the first round of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here on Tuesday. In the Challenger in Bucharest, Sumit Nagal was beaten 3-6, 7-5, 7-5 by Lorenzo Giustino of Italy in the first round.  Other results:       $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Billy Harris (GBR) & Palaphoom Kovapitukted (Tha) bt Diego Augusto Barreto Sanchez (Esp) & Rishab Agarwal 6-4, 5-7, [10-8]; Emiliano Maggioli & Gian Marco Ortenzi (Ita) bt Cedric Stanke (Ger) & Karan Singh 6-2, 6-4.   Davide Galoppini & Marco Miceli (Ita) bt SD Prajwal Dev & Nitin Kumar Sinha 6-4, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ajeet Rai (Nzl) & Giorgio Ricca (Ita) bt Andrej Duric (BIH) & Krithik Maknur Shivaram 6-2, 6-2.   Ugo Blanchet & Mayeul Darras (Fra) bt Niki Poonacha & Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 7-6(2), 6-3.   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo, Egypt: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Yasmin Ezzat (Egy) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi bt Gloria Ceschi (Ita) & Maria Sholokhova (Rus) 1-6, 7-5, [11-9] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-in-pre-quarters/article36601742.ece
22 September 2021||Kolkata,||A big task for ATKMB||ATK Mohun Bagan will take on FC Nasaf of Uzbekistan in the AFC Cup inter-zonal semifinal at the latter’s home in Qarshi on Wednesday. The semifinal, which starts the knock-out stage of the tournament, will be a big task for ATK MB which is returning to competitive football after a prolonged break following the end of the Indian Super League’s seventh season in March. ATK MB, which is the ISL runner-up, did well in the group league stage of the AFC Cup in August where it maintained an unbeaten record to reach the inter-zonal semifinal. Right composure Mohun Bagan coach Antonio Lopez Habas hoped that the team will show the right composure against a strong opponent. ATK MB had a week-long camp at Dubai, where Habas picked up the Finland midfielder Joni Kauko instead of Hugo Boumous to marshal the forces from the centre of the park. “No coach in the world can guarantee 'victory'. Our preparation in Dubai has been quite good. We are optimistic,” he said. The match starts at 8.30 pm (IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-big-task-for-atkmb/article36601611.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||Praggs in second spot||R. Praggnanandhaa returned to winning ways by beating compatriot Aditya Mittal and moved up to the second place behind Germany’s Vincent Keymer after 14 rounds of the Hou Yifan Challenge online rapid chess tournament on Tuesday. Praggnanandhaa (10.5 points from 14 rounds), who won nine rounds on the first two days, went winless on Monday after suffering three losses - to USA’s Christopher Yoo, Keymer and fellow Indian Leon Mendonca. Before suffering his third loss of the day, Praggnanandha drew with USA’s Abhimanyu Mishra, the world’s youngest Grandmaster.  Keymer on top Keymer (11 points from 13 rounds) defeated Praggnanandhaa’s sister R. Vaishali in Tuesday’s opening round to stay atop the points table. Mendonca was fifth with 7.5 points from 13 rounds while Mittal and Vaishali were tied eighth with 6.5 points from 13 rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/praggs-in-second-spot/article36601607.ece
22 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Deepak bowls well||G. Deepak Chand (five for four) helped GoSports Falcons score an emphatic 10-wicket win over Kiran Cricket Nets in the Bezawada T20 invitation cricket tournament.  The scores: Kiran Cricket Nets 60 in 17.1 overs (G. Deepak Chand 5/4) lost to GoSports Falcons 63/0 in six overs (Guruvan 36 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-bowls-well/article36601992.ece
22 September 2021||Madrid,||Barca held by Granada||Less than a week after a demoralising loss to Bayern Munich in the Champions League, Barcelona faltered at Camp Nou again, being held by winless Granada 1-1 in the Spanish league. Barcelona needed a 90th-minute equaliser by defender Ronald Araujo, sparking jeers by many in the crowd of nearly 27,000 on Monday. The setback added pressure on coach Ronald Koeman and club president Joan Laporta. The draw left Barcelona in seventh place, five points from leader Real Madrid with a game in hand. Heading ahead Coached by former Spain manager Robert Moreno, Granada opened the scoring two minutes into the match with a header by Domingos Duarte off a set-piece. Barcelona squandered two great chances to equalize before halftime — Sergi Roberto hit the crossbar from inside the area and Araujo’s header was brilliantly saved by Granada goalkeeper Luis Maximiano. Memphis Depay and Luuk de Jong also failed to capitalise on scoring chances in the second half, but Araujo finally broke through with a close-range header in the 90th. Veteran defender Gerard Pique played as a striker after coming into the game in the final minutes. Napoli moved top of Serie A on Monday thanks to a 4-0 stroll at Udinese which made sure it maintained its 100 percent start to the season. Perfect 12 Goals from Victor Osimhen, Amir Rrahmani, Kalidou Koulibaly and Hirving Lozano earned Luciano Spalletti’s side an impressive win at the Dacia Arena which gives it a perfect 12 points from four games, two points ahead of Inter Milan and AC Milan, who sit second and third respectively. Roma is a further point back alongside Fiorentina as Napoli remains the only team to win all of its matches so far this term in Italy’s top flight. Udinese lost for the first time this season and sits seventh, level on seven points with Lazio, Atalanta and Bologna as Napoli gave off early signs of being title contenders.  The results: LaLiga: Barcelona 1 (Araujo 90) drew with Granada 1 (Duarte 2).   Serie A: Udinese 0 lost to Napoli 4 (Osimhen 24, Rrahmani 35, Koulibaly 52, Lozano 84) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barca-held-by-winless-granada/article36601612.ece
22 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Taliban bans IPL broadcast||Taliban-ruled Afghanistan has banned the broadcast of the Indian Premier League (IPL) in the country over the presence of “female audience and spectators” in stadiums. “Afghanistan national (TV) will not broadcast the @IPL as usual as it was reportedly banned to live (sic) the matches resumed tonight due to possible anti-islam contents, girls dancing & the attendance of barred hair women in the (stadium) by Islamic Emirates of the Taliban,” former Afghanistan Cricket Board (ACB) media manager and journalist M. Ibrahim Momand had tweeted when the IPL action resumed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/taliban-bans-ipl-broadcast/article36601555.ece
22 September 2021||JALANDHAR,||Randeep Barua posts win||Randeep Barua beat M. Kantimahanthu Roop 5-7, 7-6(2), 6-1 in the pre-quarterfinals of the over-55 event in the ITF Seniors tennis tournament at the Singha Sports Academy on Tuesday. Rain intervened on the second day’s schedule, and matches had to be played late in the evening under floodlights.  The results: Over-35 (pre-quarterfinals): Narendra Choudhary bt Gaurav Oberoi 6-0, 6-0; Rewant Datta bt Rohan Narayan 6-2, 6-0; Avinash Kunwar bt Pankaj Ahlawat 6-1, 6-1; Sachin Patil bt Swarnesh Chaturvedi 6-0, 6-1.   Over-55 (pre-quarterfinals): Randeep Barua bt M. Kantimahanthu Roop 5-7, 7-6(2), 6-1; Rakesh Kohli bt Atiqur Rahman 6-0, 6-0; Bhushan Akur bt Naresh Vij 6-0, 6-0;   Over-65 (league): Murthati Suresh bt Narahari Kadekar 6-0, 6-1; Vinayak Gujrathi bt Rymbai Hydar Ali 6-1, 6-4; Mridulal Barkakoti bt Narahari Kadekar 6-0, 6-0; Narender Janweja bt Rymbai Hydar Ali 6-1, 3-2 (retired) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/randeep-barua-posts-win/article36601741.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: V.A. Parthasarathy Memorial Trophy, Group A, Vijay vs Nelson (IC-Gurunanak); Young Stars vs MCC (SSN); Swaraj vs UFCC (T. Nagar) (SRMC, turf); Group B, Grand Slam vs Globe Trotters (TI-Murugappa); MRC-A vs India Pistons (CPT-IP, turf); Jolly Rovers vs IOB (IITM-Chemplast), 9 a.m. CDCA league, I div., RKS CC vs Reddy CC (8 a.m.), Sumangali ‘A’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36601664.ece
22 September 2021||KOCHI:,||Bino George, Kerala’s head coach for Santosh Trophy||Bino George has been retained as the Kerala team’s head coach for the Santosh Trophy National football championship’s South Zone phase, which will be held in November. T.G. Purushothaman will be the assistant coach, said the Kerala Football Association on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bino-george-keralas-head-coach-for-santosh-trophy/article36601884.ece
22 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Sahana, Srikanth win||Sahana Murthy and P.V. Srikanth Kashyap emerged the junior girls’ and boys’ champions respectively in the Sri C.V.L. Sastry memorial State championship table tennis tournamenthere.  The results (juniors, finals): Girls: Sahana Murthy bt A. Niharika 11-8, 11-4, 8-11, 11-4, 11-5.   Boys: P.V. Srikanth Kashyap bt Rohith Shankar 11-1, 7-11, 6-11, 11-5, 11-9, 11-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sahana-srikanth-win/article36601962.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||champion outfits||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/champion-outfits/article36601663.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 07:58 IST,||Sudoku — September 22, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-22-2021/article36602407.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||Killing it softly||There is a scene in Manu Ashokan’s Kaanekkaane that has Suraj Venjarmoodu’s mastery over the craft written all over it. It is when his character, Paul Mathai, transforms from a grieving father to an angry man seeking vengeance. Manu’s second film, which made a quiet entry on Sony Liv, has turned out to be the pick of cinebuffs as a result of powerhouse of talents: Suraj, Tovino Thomas and Aishwariya Lekshmi. But it is Suraj’s act as a doting grandfather yet an implacable foe that stood out. He is all praise for the director, who made his debut in 2019 with the much-appreciated Uyare . He says that the script and director helped him breathe life into the elderly, grey-haired Paul who loses his daughter in an accident. Paul, however, begins to suspect if it was an accident or planned murder. That is when Paul turns into an investigator, determined to discover the truth behind his daughter’s death. The perfect act “It is a character that could have easily been melodramatic but Manu ensured that my act never crossed that line. For any memorable character, 50% is shaped by a good script, director and actor. But it becomes complete only when viewers appreciate it. That is what makes Paul so special,” says Suraj. He asserts that having two brilliant actors like Tovino and Aishwariya certainly helped him ace the character. “Even the actors with small parts did so well. I feel it is Manu’s ability that he got all of us to come up with realistic acts. Manu conveyed exactly what he wanted me to do,” says Suraj. He feels Kaanekkaane is so doing well because the characters are relatable. He observes that with Kerala witnessing a spike in dowry-related deaths, there is a great deal of discussion on marriage, its sanctity and the challenges the institution faces in a rapidly-changing world. “In this film, it is situations that bring about changes in people and make them act in the way they do. That is what happens in real life too,” he says. A happy man Suraj has moved from strength to strength with a range of performances that all began with a small role in Abrid Shine’s Action Hero Biju . The actor has been on a roll since the lockdown, with his character of a chauvinistic husband in Great Indian Kitchen going places. “Both my films that were released on OTT during the lockdown have done extremely well. I would have loved to see these films in theatres. But since OTT is the only way out for now, it has been a lifesaver in garnering new viewership for Malayalam films,” he says. During the lockdown, in addition to Kaanekkaane , Suraj worked in Roy with Shine Tom Chacko, Jana Gana Mana with Prithviraj and Pathaam Valavu with Indrajith. Though he made his entry into tinsel town as a comedian, Suraj’s recent films have him getting into serious characters with the absence of his trademark slapstick comedy and the Thiruvananthapuram slang that used to win him applause. “I have been getting ‘serious’ characters ever since some of my roles with a serious outlook struck a chord. But I will soon be doing a fun-filled film. Humour is my lifeline; it is in my breath and I am looking forward to act in a light-hearted movie. However, audienes have changed and they are not going to accept the kind of comedy that used to elicit laughter before,” says Suraj. Suraj has directed several skits and programmes for the small screen. But he does not feel he is ready to turn director. “When my friends step behind the camera, I am tempted but I also know what a difficult job it is. After acting in 300-plus films, I am aware that being a director is not for everyone. So, for the time being, I plan on doing my best as an actor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/killing-it-softly/article36601980.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||‘My work is all about connecting with people’||Last February, before the pandemic hit us,Aadhi of Hiphop Tamizha fametook a one-day trip to Kanchipuram. There was a wedding in the family, and saris had to be bought. “I was called to do driver velai ,” he grins, recalling that day. Even as the ladies in his family sifted through various sari designs, a bored Aadhi chatted up with the shopkeeper and pestered him to show him how they weave threads into a sari. “I got a first-hand glimpse into the whole process and the livelihoods of the people behind it.” Aadhi knew there was a film idea somewhere there, but he still needed a young hero. “If you’ve been to Kanchipuram, you might see a group of guys hanging around on bikes when you enter town. If you are a tourist, they will guide you to the shops, depending on your budget and preference.” Aadhi envisioned himself as one of those guys, named that character Sivakumar, and weaved a storyline out of it. That film is Sivakumarin Sabadham (SS) , releasing on September 30 in theatres. Produced by Sathya Jyothi Films, it features Madhuri, Prankster Rahul and a host of newcomers. Its calling card, of course, is Aadhi himself, who has written and directed it, apart from scoring the music and starring in it. “When I was in college, we would study and produce, shoot and direct music videos on the side. We have even physically distributed our CDs to people back then! Today, I do pretty much the same job, but am being paid for it and have an audience watching the content I put out. SS came along with a lot of pressure as it was a big project and needed to be shot with intense pandemic protocols. But it has me doing all the things I am very passionate about.” Aadhi wrote SS as a theatrical, because he is convinced that cinema hall is a place that connects people. “When people connect with a sequence on screen, it becomes a successful theatrical moment. Take the ‘Vaadi Pulla’ song from Meesaya Muruku. If a person oblivious to the song watches it in the theatre, he might be puzzled as to why everyone is cheering…but that is because the song has already clicked, and fans erupt at seeing the meaning of song being fulfilled on the big screen.” So, how does he work towards creating such moments which connect with youngsters? “It automatically falls in place, because I am always connected with ground reality. I am first an audience, and then a filmmaker. My team is like a training ground for aspirants; in Meesaya Muruku , we introduced a dozen people who are now doing various things on their own. I want everyone in my team to grow bigger than me.” With Anbarivu and another project lined up, Aadhi believes that he is growing as an actor. “When my first film released in 2017, it clashed with Vikram Vedha at the box office. The collection of Vikram Vedha was huge, but my film opened bigger than them in the opening day. That is because a big group of youngsters came to the theatres that day. Since then, the openings of my films have become much bigger. And today, there is a production house that is investing and making me a star….”  Studio on the go Though he is busy with acting, the composer in him is still active. He is currently composing for Telugu film Agent and Tamil fantasy flick Aalambana. “In my earlier years, my music needed to be hits and make money. Now, I have reached a space where I can try music solely to satisfy my creative thirst,” he says. While Agent will explore action-based music, Aalambana will have an Arabic flavour in its music. “My upcoming flick, Anbarivu, has me as its hero, where my only job is to follow the instructions of the director. The minute my shot was over, I would head to my caravan which has an entire studio setup. I have nearly 60 songs, out of which I’m putting together a dozen songs in an upcoming album. I have mini studios in my caravan, home, office and car, and can compose whenever I get free time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-work-is-all-about-connecting-with-people/article36601917.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||Women safety: Uddhav, Koshyari in letter war||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday wrote to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, advising him to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to call for a special session of Parliament on women’s safety in the country. Mr. Thackeray was replying to Mr. Koshyari’s letter supporting opposition Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) demand to call for a special session on women’s safety in the State in the wake of Saki Naka rape case in Mumbai. Mr. Thackeray in a detailed letter to the Governor listed out cases of atrocities against women in States like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat. “You expressed worry regarding women’s safety after Saki Naka incident. We too are worried. But the topic is not limited to Saki Naka. It is nationwide. All the victim women are looking at you with great hope. Therefore, kindly demand a four-day long special session of the Parliament to voice against atrocities on women across the country by writing to Prime Minister Modi and Home Minister Shah. Saki Naka incident will also be discussed there,” said Mr. Thackeray in his letter. He added that such incidents bring shame to State, country and entire society. “While the State government is taking strict actions, these issues must be discussed at the national level,” he said. Prior to his advise, the Chief Minister questioned Mr. Koshyari’s action of writing to him and asking him to convene a special session of the State legislature. “At a time where government is doing its work (post-Saki Naka incident) by taking necessary steps, your notice to discuss the issue will create a new argument. Governor joining the chorus with anti-government elements will harm the parliamentary democratic process,” he said. A delegation of the BJP had visited Mr Koshyari in the wake of Saki Naka rape incident, claiming the law and order situation has been deteriorated in the State with increase in crime against women. The delegation had demanded a special session of the State legislative Assembly to discuss the issue. Following this, Mr Koshyari wrote to Mr. Thackeray conveying the same. ‘Immediate action’ Mr Thackeray in his letter highlighted the immediate measures taken by Mumbai police in arresting the accused. He also informed about the high-level meeting on law and order in the State as well as formation of Nirbhaya squads in every police station. The CM reminded Mr. Koshyari of incidents of atrocities against girls and women in Delhi, Bihar Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat and even highlighted the support extended to the accused, instead of victim, by respective police forces. “BJP does not seem to have noticed these incidents neither demand a special session in these States,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/women-safety-uddhav-koshyari-in-letter-war/article36601929.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||Sena leader files defamation suit against Kirit Somaiya||After sending a defamation notice, Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab filed a defamation suit of Rs. 100 crore at the Bombay High Court against BJP leader Kirit Somaiya for making malicious and malafide statements against him. Mr. Parab, 56, seeks an unconditional apology and a permanent injunction against Mr. Somaiya, from making any statements against him. ‘No response’ The suit mentions, “On June 10, 2021, Mr. Somaiya tweeted about Mr. Parab with respect to some construction at Dapoli, Ratnagiri which was defamatory. On September 3, 2021, he again tweeted that Mr. Parab is engaged in criminal activities. After a series of tweets, on September 14, 2021, Mr. Parab issued a legal notice to Mr. Somaiya and asked him to delete the defamatory tweets and tender an apology. However, since he did not respond to the notice, the suit has been filed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sena-leader-files-defamation-suit-against-kirit-somaiya/article36601925.ece
22 September 2021||Mumbai,||Custodial death: Mumbai court pulls up police for delay in trial||A Mumbai court on Tuesday pulled up the police officers and prosecution for “failing to proceed with the trial against police officers despite repeated notices and letters” in the custodial death of 27-year-old Khwaja Yunus in 2008. The case dates back to 2008, when Yunus, who worked in Dubai as a software engineer, was visiting his family in India in December 2002. He was holidaying at his hometown in Parbhani, when a bomb ripped through a BEST bus in Ghatkopar, killing two persons and injuring over 50. Picked up by police He was picked up by the Ghatkopar police in connection with the blast and was remanded in police custody under the repealed Prevention of Terrorism Act. Eyewitnesses had said Yunus vomited blood for three days and then died in custody. After continuous efforts made by Yunus’s mother Aasiya Begum Dhiraj Mirajkar, the third prosecutor in the case was appointed in November 2015. However, on April 17, 2018, the Maharashtra government “cancelled his appointment as a special public prosecutor (SPP).” Commenting on the non-appointment of a SPP since then, Judge UJ More said, “As I have observed since the last two dates there is delay at the instance of prosecution to proceed with the case pertaining to the year 2009. The record reveals that despite repeated notices and letters to the police officers as well as the prosecution there is no concrete process.” The court went on to say, “Failure of the police officers to take appropriate measures for speedy trial which struck up for more than 12 years without fault of the victim such as part of the prosecution as well as investigation agency in custody death case has been repeatedly brought to the notice of State CID/ prosecution agency, however no concrete steps for proper prosecution of the case seems to have been taken by either of them.” Booked for murder Those accused are then assistant police inspector, now dismissed Sachin Vaze and three policemen – Rajendra Tiwari, Rajaram Nikam and Sunil Desai. They are booked for murder, conspiracy and destruction of evidence and the trial against them commenced on May 3, 2017, at the city civil and sessions court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/custodial-death-mumbai-court-pulls-up-police-for-delay-in-trial/article36601932.ece
22 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Naveen Patnaik — an election-ready politician||Thrice in the past one month, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has gone public with the announcement, launch and distribution of smart health cards under the Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana (BSKY). He is likely to attend two more district-level smart health card distribution programmes in this month itself. Like the Rs. 2-rupee-rice scheme launched by the government in 2009, the health card system is touted to be another game-changing welfare programme in the CM’s political journey. It is obvious that the BJD supremo won’t let it go like any ordinary welfare scheme. Wherever the events marking the distribution of the cards are organised, the Biju Janata Dal makes sure that Ministers and party MLAs remain present there in large number. Distribution of the cards is scheduled to be held in Balangir on September 22. The three meetings there are likely to be made grand affairs akin to impressive public meetings organised in the run up to any election. What makes Mr. Patnaik get into campaign mode when there is neither any serious election on the horizon nor is there any serious political adversary to challenge his grip? The five-time-CM is known to keep reminding people of his welfare schemes without waiting for any election dates to be announced. He has earned the distinction of being an election-ready politician. “The Odisha Assembly is the most sanitised building with people’s representatives, employees and journalists subjected to regular COVID-19 check-ups. However, Mr. Patnaik chose not to attend the session physically for fear of catching infection. But he never hesitates to fly down to distant districts for these public events,” said Satya Prakash Nayak, Congress spokesperson. ‘Schemes in phases’ Mr. Nayak said, “These events are organised in a big way at the expense of the exchequer whereas the BJD is busy delivering political messages. Nowhere in the country a CM keeps launching one scheme in phases week after week.” Though the dates of both the civic body and the panchayat elections have not been announced, the Chief Minister broke his 10-month-long COVID-19 isolation addressing a massive meeting in Kalahandi district in January. The occasion was the inauguration of a 43-km lift irrigation canal which would irrigate over 25,000 hectares of farmland in 38 gram panchayats from the Upper Indravati project. He had also announced development projects worth Rs. 2,085 crore. Hordes of Ministers and MLAs attended the event to create the maximum buzz. Similar strategy was adopted during the foundation laying ceremony of the hockey stadium in Rourkela a few months ago. About 90 MLAs and a number of Ministers had camped in Sundargarh district prior to Mr. Patnaik’s arrival. The event appeared like a high-voltage campaign in which the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party is good at.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/naveen-patnaik-an-election-ready-politician/article36601927.ece
22 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Cancel bauxite lease, urges environmentalist||Prafulla Samantra, Goldman Environmental prize awardee, urged the Odisha government to cancel mining rights awarded to the Hindalco Industries Limited to excavate bauxite from the Maliparvat deposit in the Koraput district. “Maliparvat is home to 36 perennial streams which flow into the Kolab river. Besides, thousands of tribals grow vegetable crops which is irrigated by the water flowing down from Maliparvat,” said Mr. Samantra. He said villagers had been protecting the forests around the Maliparvat for the past five decades. “In 2007, the Maliparvat bauxite mining lease was awarded to the Hindalco Industries Limited. At that time the company’s environment impact assessment report mentioned that there was no water-body in Maliparvat,” said the environmentalist. “Till 2011 the company failed to carry out mining and subsequently, its environmental clearance expired. But, in 2012-2014 it started mining illegally without going in for renewal of environmental clearance,” Mr. Samantra alleged. He said, “Due to local tribals’ resistance, mining activities stopped. The Expert Appraisal Committee of the Ministry of Environment and Forest had even objected to the renewal of the clearance in 2020.” ‘Extension for 50 years’ “But in April 2021, the company got extension of mining lease for 50 years and was allowed to apply for fresh environmental clearance, for which public hearing will be held September 22.” Mr. Samantra said, the small deposit of 14 million tonnes would not provide the State government much royalty. “However, its ecological value and the livelihood of thousands of tribals are immense,” he said. The noted environmentalist demanded immediate cancellation of the mining right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cancel-bauxite-lease-urges-environmentalist/article36601986.ece
22 September 2021||Jaipur,||Policeman suspended||A police constable was suspended for allegedly sending obscene text messages and videos to a minor girl in Ajmer, a senior official said on Tuesday. Accused Vikram Singh was posted at Pisangan Police Station and has been booked under relevant sections of the IT and POCSO Acts, he said. According to the complaint lodged against Singh by Pisangan panchayat samiti member Pradeep Kumawat, the policeman was harassing the girl for the last few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/policeman-suspended/article36601984.ece
22 September 2021||Moradabad (U.P.),||Seven get life sentence for burning alive sisters||A special SC/ST court on Monday awarded life imprisonment to seven people for setting two sisters belonging to the Dalit community on fire in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad in 2010. The sisters were burnt alive in Kothiwal Nagar on December 18 by a mob protesting a double murder for which their brother was an accused. In a 26-page order, special SC/ST court judge Sandhya Choudhury found the seven accused guilty on the basis of evidences produced by Additional District Government Counsel (ADGC) Anand Pal Singh and charged them under the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act. Sateesh Madan, Sagar Bhandula, Banti Malik, Asha Sachdeva, Amarjeet Kaur, Vinod Kajkad and Sania Kohli were convicted by the court and a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh each was imposed on them. They were sent to districts jail Moradabad, Mr. Singh said. On the day of the incident, a mob gathered outside the house of Rajo and set it ablaze. While she escaped unhurt, her daughters Gita (22) and Monu (20) were burnt alive in the ensuing fire. Rajo’s son Rakesh, who worked as a sweeper, was accused of murdering a 30-year-old woman and her eight-year-old daughter during a robbery on December 9, 2010.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/seven-get-life-sentence-for-burning-alive-sisters/article36601985.ece
22 September 2021||Muzaffarnagar,||Muzaffarnagar riots: court to frame charges||A court here on Tuesday fixed September 24 as the date to frame charges in a Muzaffarnagar riots case against former Uttar Pradesh Minister Saeeduzama and nine others. The former Minister, former MP Kadir Rana, ex-MLA Maulana Jameel and seven others have been accused of inciting communal tensions through inflammatory speeches in 2013. Special Judge Gopal Upadhyay has fixed Sept. 24 for framing of charges after eight of the accused appeared before him on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/muzaffarnagar-riots-court-to-frame-charges/article36601933.ece
22 September 2021||Agartala,||TMC leader likely to visit Agartala despite ‘ban’||Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is expected to arrive here on Wednesday morning even after authorities imposed a ‘ban’ on his scheduled rally and the party not getting any relief from the High Court. Party sources said the leader would attend a very important party programme and address a news conference during his brief stay. Triprua police sent him and four senior leaders ‘notice to appear’ to join investigation in connection with their alleged involvement in creating ruckus at the Khowai police station in Khowai district on August 8. One of the noticed leaders, Kunal Ghosh, appeared before the Investigating Officer at the NCC police station here on Tuesday. After the questioning, Mr. Ghosh complained of sickness and he was immediately admitted at a private hospital. TMC which was earlier denied permission to hold rallies on two previous dates this month had deferred the programme to September 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tmc-leader-likely-to-visit-agartala-despite-ban/article36601750.ece
22 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Man held for trying to damage statue||A 25-year-old man was arrested for trying to cause damage to the statue of BR Ambedkar in Phillaur town of Jalandhar district, with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday describing it as a tragic incident. Mr. Channi said an exemplary action will be ensured against the miscreants indulging in these types of dastardly acts. Bhiku Meena, hailing from Madhya Pradesh, had allegedly tried to damage the statue by throwing a stone and a flower pot at it on Monday night, the statement said. Mr. Channi, in an official statement, described it as a very unfortunate incident which has bruised the psyche of people who respect Baba Sahib Ambedkar, the Chief Architect of the Constitution. No one will be allowed to disturb the hard-earned peace in the state, the Chief Minister said, adding that he has already directed the DGP to enhance surveillance in every nook and corner of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-for-trying-to-damage-statue/article36601924.ece
22 September 2021||September 22 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID precaution||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-precaution/article36601988.ece
22 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC denies interim relief to TMC MP||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declined to grant any interim relief to TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira Banerjee, who had sought quashing summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal. Justice Yogesh Khanna asked the ED to respond to the couple’s plea within three days and posted it for further hearing on September 27. “Let me be very clear. I am not granting any stay. I am issuing notice,” the High Court clarified. Mr. Banerjee, in his petition filed jointly with his wife, has challenged the summons order issued by the Assistant Director of the ED asking for his personal appearance along with a voluminous set of documents in New Delhi on Tuesday. During the hearing, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the couple, said he was not asking for any stay of the proceedings but to keep their questioning in West Bengal. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the ED, opposed the plea saying if they have any apprehensions, they can take appropriate remedy. The agency also opposed the plea saying money laundering has national and trans-national ramifications and its investigation is not restricted to any police station or area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-denies-interim-relief-to-tmc-mp-wife/article36601783.ece
22 September 2021||Morena,||Lightning kills 5||Five men were killed and a woman injured in lightning strikes amid heavy rains in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena and Betul districts on Tuesday, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lightning-kills-5/article36601923.ece
