23 September 2021||NEW DELHi,||Rs. 50,000 for each COVID death||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has recommended the payment of Rs. 50,000 each as ex gratia assistance to the next of kin of those who died of COVID-19, including those who succumbed to the virus while involved in relief operations and preparedness activities. Certification required The financial aid would be given, provided that the cause of death is certified as COVID-19. The money would be provided by the States from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). The disbursement of the amounts would be carried out by the District Disaster Management Authority/district administration concerned to the families. In case of grievances regarding certification of death as prescribed by the Health Ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), district-level committees comprising Additional District Collector, Chief Medical Officer of Health (CMOH), Additional CMOH/Principal or HOD Medicine of a medical college (if one exists in the district) and a subject expert would propose the necessary remedial measures, including issuance of amended official document for COVID-19 death after verifying facts in accordance with the Health Ministry and ICMR guidelines. “In case the decision of the committee is not in favour of the claimant, a clear reason for the same shall be recorded,” the NDMA guidelines annexed in the 11-page affidavit said. The Supreme Court, in a judgment on June 30 based on a plea filed by advocate Gaurav Bansal, had directed the NDMA to recommend guidelines for giving ex gratia assistance to the families of persons who died of COVID-19 as mandated under Section 12 (iii) of the Disaster Management Act of 2005. The guidelines underscored that the payment of ex gratia would be a “continuous scheme”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-50000-ex-gratia-for-each-covid-death/article36622084.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Work on cross-drain under flyover at Pumpwell Circle completed||With National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) failing to address flooding at Pumpwell Circle here, the Mangaluru City Corporation has completed construction of a cross-drain below the flyover. The about-a-100-m-long cross-drain has been covered by perforated grills to allow rainwater that gets accumulated at the circle to drain. The cross-drain is connected to the main drain ahead. The corporation commenced the work on this cross-drain in the third week of July. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar had said in July last week that the corporation took up the cross-drain work after NHAI failed to address the flooding issue despite a letter from the corporation to that effect. A concrete drain with precast slab along with three chambers closed by perforated plates will be constructed, he had said. The Pumpwell Flyover is part of the four-laning work on National Highway 66 (Kochi-Panvel) and the project took nearly a decade to be completed thereby becoming a subject for social media trolls. Despite the completion of the project, roads beneath the flyover used to get flooded whenever there was heavy rain. When the flooding issue was raised at a DISHA meeting chaired by Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel here in July, NHAI Mangaluru Project Director Shishu Mohan had said that flooding was a creation of the media. “They zoom in on small water puddles and show as if the roads were flooded,” he told the meeting. Soon thereafter, the city corporation decided to address the issue as NHAI’s indifference was inconveniencing, among others, its residents. Mr. Sridhar told The Hindu on Wednesday that the corporation has written to NHAI seeking reimbursement of the cost incurred towards the construction of the drain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-on-cross-drain-under-flyover-at-pumpwell-circle-completed/article36622584.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covishield fine, but not Indian certification: U.K.||In an unexpected move, the United Kingdom added Indian-made Covishield to its list of recognised vaccines, but refused to recognise vaccine certificates given to those administered the vaccine in India. The decision, which means Indian travellers to U.K. will still be subject to 10-day quarantine rules, is expected to further fuel the rift between both countries over what India has called a “discriminatory practice”, and had threatened reciprocal measures against, even as officials from both countries continued to discuss the issue. British and Indian officials said they hoped ongoing discussions on “vaccine certifications” would be resolved soon, but could not confirm when. According to the amended U.K. government rules set to be adopted from October 4, “Formulations of the four approved vaccines [AstraZeneca, Pfizer BioNTech, Moderna and Janssen], such as AstraZeneca Covishield, Vaxzevria and Moderna Takeda qualify as approved vaccines.” However, India continued to remain on the list of “Amber countries”, and not included in the list whose “public health bodies” were recognised for issuing vaccination certificates. The U.K. cleared 18 countries, including Canada, Denmark, Antigua and Barbuda, for the “Green List”, allowing fully vaccinated travellers from those countries to fly to the U.K. without any quarantine requirements. Quarantine required The latest U.K. travel guidance rules and the recognition of Covishield means that a traveller from the ‘Green List’ countries who has been vaccinated with the Covishield vaccine can enter the U.K. without quarantine, but not a traveller from India who has been administered the vaccine. “Covishield is not an issue...[But] India is an Amber country, and there are still some COVID cases in India,” U.K. High Commissioner Alex Ellis told news channel NDTV in an interview on Wednesday, adding that “the question is on certification”. Mr. Ellis said U.K. NHS app officials and Indian officials who deal with the CoWIN app had been in talks, on the working of their respective apps and security protocols used, explaining that the U.K. hopes to eventually find a mutually acceptable protocol for accepting Indian travellers without quarantines. “Because we have to have confidence, obviously, just as India would have to have confidence in the U.K., from our app, to make sure, ‘This looks okay’,” Mr. Ellis added. The development came a day after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his British counterpart, Elizabeth Truss, in New York and urged the U.K. to address the issue around the status of the Covishield vaccine and the 10-day quarantine for Indian travellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covishield-fine-but-not-indian-certification-uk/article36622086.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,||NEET fraud: CBI books coaching centre||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against a Nagpur-based coaching centre and others for offering to arrange admissions in top government medical colleges by adopting fraudulent means. On specific information that proxy candidates would be appearing for bonafide students in the NEET held at five centres in Ranchi and Delhi on September 12, the CBI’s Anti-Corruption Branch, Delhi, registered a case against Parimal Kotpalliwar, who runs M/s R.K. Education Career Guidance, an education consultancy firm in Nagpur. The probe agency was informed that Mr. Kotpalliwar had contacted parents of candidates and offered admission in reputed colleges for a huge amount. The parents were asked to deposit post-dated cheques and original mark sheets of the candidates for Class-X and Class-XII as security, which would be returned after receiving the agreed amount of Rs. 50 lakh. The modus operandi was to use forged documents by morphing photographs in identity cards to facilitate proxy candidates to write the exam, the CBI FIR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/neet-fraud-cbi-books-coaching-centre/article36622109.ece
23 September 2021||MYSURU,||Bomb threat to GST office in Mysuru turns out to be a hoax||A bomb threat to the office of Goods and Services Tax (GST) of Commercial Tax Department in Mysuru on Wednesday turned out to be a hoax. However, tension prevailed for a long time at the GST office on Bidaram Krishnappa Road in Devaraja Mohalla here after an anonymous letter claiming that a bomb had been planted in the building was found by the police. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Pradeep Gunti, told reporters that the anonymous letter was found thrown near the gate of an auditor’s office in Lakshmipuram police station limits around 11 a.m. on Wednesday. Immediately, officials and employees in the office were asked to vacate the premises and a search was carried out by the bomb detection squad. However, no explosives were found in the entire premises. But the news about the bomb threat spread panic among the employees, who ran out of the office. The police, who vacated the employees as well as the vehicles parked on the premises, placed barricades on either side of the road passing in front of the office building. Joint Director of Commercial Tax Department (Enforcement) Manjunath told reporters that the bomb threat was communicated to them by the police and added that they had not received the threat letter directly. As soon as the police informed them about the bomb threat, all the employees, estimated to be around 80, vacated the building to facilitate a search operation by the police, he said. Senior police officials, including Mr. Gunti. visited the GST office of the Commercial Tax Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bomb-threat-to-gst-office-in-mysuru-turns-out-to-be-a-hoax/article36622454.ece
23 September 2021||KOCHI,||Ensure protection to COVID warriors, HC tells police||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday observed that the police need to ensure that the life of COVID warriors was sufficiently protected against attack from unscrupulous elements. The Bench of Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Kauser Edappagath made the observation in the context of a nursing assistant being attacked at Haripad recently by some anti-social elements on her return home. The court said it was pained by the incident. It could not be regarded as an isolated incident. Society owes a duty When it came to the COVID warriors and their services, society owned a duty to ensure that they were protected from unscrupulous elements lurking in the dark to pounce on them. Obviously, the police need to pull up their socks and ensure that the life of all such warriors was sufficiently protected. The court made the observations when a revision petition by the Private Hospitals Association against the charges fixed for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals came up for hearing. The court was prima facie of the view that the treatment during the 30 days after a patient turned negative should be reckoned as COVID treatment. Treatment charges The court asked the State government to clarify why a separate order on post-COVID treatment charges was issued, especially when deaths occurring 30 days after a patient tested negative were treated as COVID death. On the parity of reasons, the treatment of a patient during the same period after he/she turned negative should be reckoned as COVID treatment. Senior government pleader S. Kannan submitted that the government had issued an order fixing rates for treatment of post-COVID syndrome, multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children and adults, and COVID associated mucormycosis /COVID Associated Pulmonary Aspergillosis to streamline the rates of post-COVID treatment. Patients in the above the poverty line (APL) category have to bear the cost of treatment. The government through the order ensured that private hospitals did not charge exorbitant rates for treatment from APL category patients. The treatment for COVID complications was free to all below the poverty (BPL), Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP) and Karunya Benevolent Fund (KBF) beneficiaries in government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-protection-to-covid-warriors-hc/article36622437.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,||Syro-Malabar Church rallies behind Mar Kallarangatt||The Syro-Malabar Church on Wednesday threw its weight behind Pala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt, alleging a concerted move to isolate and attack him for a ‘warning’ issued to the laity during worship and warning that such attempts will be resisted In a statement, the Public Affairs Commission led by Archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath said Mar Kallarangatt had not spoken in a manner that would portray a community or a religion in poor light. His aim was to warn against an organised anti-social activity. Religious hatred Those who made an issue out of his speech labelled it as "communal and religious hatred", two words which could easily be sold in Kerala society. ‘‘They forgot the fact that the speech was made at a church addressing its followers. Some politicians and media, through their interventions, presented the speech as an issue between two religions. Such a wrong presentation paved the way for a controversy and meaningless discussions," the statement said. Drug smuggling ‘Narco jihad’ was a term used by the European Foundation for South Asian Studies in connection with narcotic drug smuggling in Afghanistan in 2017. A paper substantiated use of proceeds from this by terrorist outfits. Huge quantities of contraband drugs that originated from Afghanistan were seized just a few days ago from Gujarat. The bishop was warning the laity against the existence of such activities. It added that the call for action against the bishop was an orchestrated one.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/syro-malabar-church-comes-out-in-support-of-bishop/article36622386.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,||VTU proposes new four-year BSc programme in 66 engg colleges||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) wants to start a four-year BSc programme in over 60 engineering colleges in the State from the 2021-2022 academic year. The idea was mooted in anticipation of a rise in demand for undergraduate college seats as all second year pre-university students have been deemed pass this year after the examination was cancelled due to COVID-19. The university has sought permission from the State government to start the programme in both government and private colleges. Vice-Chancellor of VTU Karisiddappa said that they have identified 66 colleges. Once approved, admissions will be conducted by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA). “We decided to start B.Sc courses in engineering colleges as they have the best faculty members in many subjects such as physics and mathematics. The teachers have vast experience and skill in these subjects and are qualified to teach students,” he added. CET  ranking   However, the university has decided that students will be admitted based on the rank in the Common Entrance Test 2021. Prof. Karisiddappa added that the first priority will be given to students who have written the CET. “If after this allotment, any seats are unfilled, we will allow other students to take part in the counselling process,” he said. Merits of new course Expanding on the merits of studying BSc in engineering colleges, he said that students will be able to pick subjects such as computer science and artificial intelligence as the National Education Policy allows flexibility in choosing subjects. While the decision has been welcomed by education experts and the teaching faculty, students said that they should have been informed earlier. Suma S., a II PU student who enrolled in a BSc programme at a government first-grade degree college, said, “If I knew there was an option to pursue a BSc programme in an engineering college, I would have applied for the CET and written it.” “I want to pursue research in pure sciences, but I am interested in some of the modules studied by engineering students. This would have been ideal for me. I wish the government and the university had planned this before students completed their admissions,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vtu-for-bsc-course-in-engineering-colleges/article36622102.ece
23 September 2021||Belagavi,||Police trace boy who was sold by his mother in Vijayapura||Vijayapura Police have now traced the one-month-old boy who was said to have been sold by his mother for Rs. 5,000. The pre-mature baby has been admitted to the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi, for treatment, where it is recovering, the police said. The police arrested Mohammad Rafiq Hawaldar, a 27-year-old businessman from Devara Hipparagi, who had bought the child. This follows a week-long investigation after a complaint from Sunanda Tolabandi, convenor of the District Child Helpline. The complaint said that the 25-year-old woman from one of the villages in the district met Kasturi Padasalagi, a nurse in the Mother and Child Hospital in Vijayapura and confided in her that she was very poor and was finding it difficult to take care of her two children. Suggestion The nurse then suggested that she could help find buyers if the woman was willing to give up her child. The woman went back home only to return to the hospital for getting treatment for the child. Buyer The nurse and her husband then approached the woman. She took pictures of the woman and her baby and sent them to a buyer. The buyer came to the hospital and took away the child, after paying Rs. 5,000 to the woman. The woman accepted the money reluctantly, the complaint said. A team of officers was formed to trace the baby and arrest the accused. The nurse and her husband were taken into custody for questioning. However, they were let off. Based on information gathered, the accused buyer was arrested and the baby rescued. Health Department officers, meanwhile, suspended the nurse. The police have registered a case under Section 370 of Indian Penal Code. The accused revealed during interrogation that he had purchased the baby for one of his relatives who was childless, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-trace-boy-who-was-sold-by-his-mother-in-vijayapura/article36622339.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,||A post-pandemic boost to State tourism||The newly built cruise terminal at the Kochi port received the first batch of tourists on Wednesday as luxury cruise liner MV Empress from Mumbai called at the port, marking a start to the revival of post-pandemic domestic tourism in Kerala. The Lakshadweep-bound luxury cruise liner, carrying 1,200 travellers, had a stopover here with 300 travellers deboarding the ship for a day-long onshore sightseeing. Kerala Tourism accorded a warm welcome to the guests with martial dancers and women in traditional off-white dress greeting them. The snow-white vessel, owned by Cordelia Cruises, became the first luxury cruise liner to anchor at the state-of-the-art terminal of the Kochi port after the devastating COVID-19 pandemic swept across the world. The day-long Kochi leg is scheduled around Mattancherry and Fort Kochi, touching several points of historical importance. Boat rides along the backwaters to take in the charm of the ‘Queen of Arabian Sea’ were also arranged, said a communication from the organisers. The Lakshadweep islands is the next destination of the cruise liner, but passengers who have opted for just the Kochi package will be taken to other parts of the State, according to Voyages Kerala, the tour agent. The tourists walked down the terminal around 9.30 a.m., one-and-a-half hours after MV Empress anchored at the terminal in sunny weather. The guests were received by Kerala Tourism Joint Director K. Radhakrishnan and Deputy Director T.G. Abhilash, who said Kerala tourism signalled a busy future following the waning of the pandemic even as the onshore tour adhered to strict COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-post-pandemic-boost-to-state-tourism/article36622390.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,||BBMP says no safety grille on balconies||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday warned residents against the installation of safety grille and other “unsafe practices”, a day after a 59-year-old woman and her elderly mother were trapped and killed in a fire that broke out inside their flat. Visuals of one of the victims, Bhagyarekha, 59, in the barricaded balcony screaming for help as people watched helplessly from below sent shockwaves across the city. Sealed safety grille installed in the balcony of the apartment at Devarachikkanahalli impeded rescue efforts. “Going forward, these kinds of unsafe practices leading to danger in the construction of the houses will not be permitted. If there is a need for modification at the residential complexes/other buildings, pre-approval must be obtained from BBMP competent authorities,” said BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta. In most apartments across the city, installing safety grille or barricading balconies is a common practice as a means to protect children from toppling over. It is also seen as a safety measure against possible intruders. However, it is also against the rules. Within the BBMP limits, as per the Building Construction Guidelines-2003 and National Building Code of India-2016, after obtaining the Occupancy Certificate and the Commencement Certificate, covering the balcony and additional construction/modifying in balconies are against rules. But this has been observed across the city, said the BBMP in a circular.  A resident of Ashrith Aspire — the apartment complex where the fire broke out — said the builder had not put safety grills for the balconies, but that individual flat owners chose to put them up. “There was a spate of burglaries in the area a few years ago and many took to installing grills. A few flats have put up grills with an option for an emergency exit. But the flat damaged by fire was completely enclosed. We will bring this up in our association meeting. At least all flats must have an emergency exit option in these grills,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bbmp-says-no-safety-grille-on-balconies/article36622103.ece
23 September 2021||Mangaluru,||Seven COVID-19 deaths in twin districts||Dakshina Kannada reported five COVID-19 deaths and 108 new cases on Wednesday. With 121 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 1,125. A fine of Rs. 1,06,43,070 has so far been collected in 87,504 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported two deaths and 47 new cases. With 268 persons discharged, there were 528 active cases in the district. With 29,298 people vaccinated on Wednesday, the total number of people given the vaccine in Dakshina Kannada reached 20,95,504. Of these, 14,82,841 have received their first dose and 6,12,663 their second. In Udupi district, 23,617 people were vaccinated taking the total number of people covered to 12,96,408. Of these, 8,93,621 have received their first dose and 4,02,787 their second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-covid-19-deaths-in-twin-districts/article36622585.ece
23 September 2021||Vijayawada,||HC suspends G.O.s on special invitees to TTD||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, in an interim order on Wednesday, suspended the operation of G.O. Nos 568 and 569 through which the State government nominated 52 special invitees to the trust board of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). The court held that the appointments were contrary to Section 96 of the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act of 1987 and issued notices to the State government and the TTD returnable within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-suspends-gos-on-special-invitees-to-ttd/article36622083.ece
23 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Elusive leopard keeps forest personnel on their toes||Forest Department personnel have intensified combing operation for the elusive leopard that has snatched away the sleep of residents in localities in the vicinity of Nruptunga Hills in Hubballi. Following reports about leopard sightings and the panic that it has created in the city, the forest officials have set up traps and have been combing the forest area behind the Kendriya Vidyalaya premises in Hubballi but without any success. On Wednesday, the personnel began combing operation in the morning. Armed with necessary equipment, tranquillisers, a team comprising 40 personnel carried out the search for several hours but to no avail. Senior officials of the department too are camping in the vicinity and they are being assisted by the police. Meanwhile, the demolition of the old building of Kendriya Vidyalaya, which is suspected to be a possible hideout of the wild cat, is being carried out with great speed. Forest personnel are also using infrared drone cameras in the search operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/elusive-leopard-keeps-forest-personnel-on-their-toes/article36622341.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||WHO tightens global air quality norms||The World Health Organization (WHO), in its first-ever update since 2005, has tightened global air pollution standards in recognition of the emerging science that the impact of air pollution on health is much more serious than earlier envisaged. The move does not have an immediate effect in India as the National Ambient Air Quality Standards do not meet the WHO’s existing standards. The government has a dedicated National Clean Air Programme that aims for a 20% to 30% reduction in particulate matter concentrations by 2024 in 122 cities, keeping 2017 as the base year for the comparison of concentration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/who-tightens-global-air-quality-norms/article36622221.ece
23 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,||Local body polls for U.T. announced||Local body elections in the Union Territory will be held on October 21, 25 and 28. Counting of votes will be held on October 31. Elections will be held to appoint chairpersons for five municipalities, 116 ward councillors in the municipalities, 108 council ward members of commune panchayats, 108 village panchayat presidents and 812 ward members of village panchayats after a gap of 10 years. State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas said polls would be held first for the municipalities of Karaikal, Yanam, Mahe and commune panchayats of Kottucherry, Nedungadu, Neravy, Thirumalairayanpattinam and Thirunallar in Karaikal region of the Union Territory on October 21. As many as 2,305,02 people, spread across 364 polling stations in the three enclaves, would vote in the first phase. The second phase would be held on October 25 for the Pondicherry and Oulgaret municipalities. As many as 4,441,99 people would cast their votes in 631 polling stations in the two urban bodies. The final phase would be held to elect the representatives of Ariyankuppam, Bahour, Mannadipet, Nettapakkam and Villianur commune panchayats in Puducherry region on October 28. The last date for filing of nominations in the first phase has been scheduled for October 7, second phase on October 11 and third phase on October 15. The polling hours will be 7 a.m to 6 p.m with the last one hour set aside for COVID-19 patients and persons with symptoms of novel coronavirus, Mr. Thomas said. With the announcement, the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) has come into force with immediate effect. The details of Model Code of Conduct, electoral rolls, polling stations, contact details of officers concerned are available onhttps://sec.py.gov.in. No processions Considering the prevailing situation arising out of the pandemic, the Commission wanted voters, candidates, their agents and all officials involved in the election process to get vaccinated. Further, as a precautionary measure, the SEC has decided to ban processions, roadshows, street plays and rallies. However, public meetings and house-to-house campaign would be allowed with strict restrictions. In order to avoid crowding, the Commission had facilitated online filing of nominations. COVID-19-infected candidates could also file nominations online. An announcement of the schedule for indirect elections for the post of vice-chairman of municipalities, chairman of commune panchayats, vice-chairman of commune panchayat council and vice-president of village panchayat in communes would be made after the results of direct elections were announced, the SEC said.  The Union Territory has a chequered history of local body elections. After a gap of 38 years and through the intervention of the court, elections were held in 2006. The tenure of the local bodies came to an end in 2011 and the elections were delayed due to various factors. The Supreme Court had on April 5, this year, directed the government and SEC to hold the polls within six months. “We were supposed to complete the schedule as per Supreme Court directions by October 5 but there is a 26-day delay. We will file a petition in the court explaining the reasons for the delay. Lot of preparatory works have to be carried out as there was no SEC in place for several years. The delimitation exercise was completed recently,” Mr Roy said. Officers on special duty Ravideep Singh Chahar, Arjun Ramakrishnan, secretary to SEC (headquarters) Vanjulavalli Sridhar and consultant, SEC, R. Chandirashekharan were also present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/local-body-polls-for-ut-announced/article36622176.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Kovalam gets Blue Flag certification||The Kovalam beach near Mamallapuram in Chengalpattu district in Tamil Nadu with its facilities for surfing, bathing and parking and its accent on safety has received the Blue Flag, a world-renowned eco-label certification for beaches, marinas and boats. The certification, which is provided for the duration of a tourist season, is based on 33 criteria, including water quality, especially with respect to the presence of e-coli in the water, said Sujeetkumar Dongre, National Operator for Blue Flag programme, which is implemented by Society for Sustainable Urban Development in India. “For the past two years, Kovalam has worked on achieving these standards, including environmental education and environmental management. Local people and other beach users have been taught the importance of the beach and keeping it clean and safe. They have ear-marked a safe bathing area under the watch of life guards, life guard towers and a control room, a trained paramedical staff to provide first aid and CCTV coverage of the beach area,” he said. The beach is an accessible one for the differently abled persons with exclusive toilets and parking space for their use too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kovalam-gets-blue-flag-certification/article36622162.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Man gets 10 years in jail for rape||II Additional District and Sessions (Special) Judge Abhay Dhanpal Chougala has sentenced Umesh (31) of Kalinja village in Belthangady taluk to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment on finding him guilty of sexually assaulting a woman between December 2014 and February 2016. According to the charge-sheet, the woman worked in a press in Baikampady and Umesh worked as a crane operator, in a firm nearby. In June 2014, the two came to know each other. Assuring the woman of marriage, Umesh raped her by taking her to a place near a school in Thokur on December 5, 2014. He continued to rape her on subsequent days. When she got pregnant twice, he asked her to take medicines and abort the child. Her family members got to know of this and she was thrown out of the house. She then lived with Umesh in a house in Hejamadi where he continued to sexually assault her. On February 16, 2016, when she insisted Umesh to marry her, the latter revealed that he was already married to another woman. Umesh not only refused to marry her as she belonged to Scheduled Castes but also deserted her. After a complaint was filed at the Mulky Police Station, Umesh was arrested. When the woman gave birth to a girl child, the blood samples of the child, the woman and Umesh’s were sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for DNA analysis which revealed that Umesh was the biological father of the child. The then Assistant Commissioners of Police Madan Gaonker and Uday Naik investigated the case, while the then ACP Rajendra filed the charge-sheet. Prosecutor Jyoti Pramod Nayak examined 24 witnesses, including the FSL Assistant Director Purushothama, who carried out the DNA analysis. The woman did not support the prosecution. Holding Umesh’s offence as a crime against society, the judge sentenced him to 10 years in jail and imposed on him a fine of Rs. 10,000 for an offence punishable under Section 376 (2)(n) of Indian Penal Code. Umesh was also sentenced to six months and asked to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000 for an offence punishable under Section 417 of the IPC. Both the sentences will run concurrently, the judge said. The judge asked the District Legal Services Authority to award suitable compensation to the girl child under the Karnataka Victim Compensation Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-gets-10-years-in-jail-for-rape/article36622586.ece
23 September 2021||Vijayawada,||Focus on house sites cases: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, during a review meeting on the Spandana programme on Wednesday, directed the officials to focus on more on cases pertaining to house sites distribution pending in courts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/focus-on-house-sites-cases-cm/article36622081.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Yogesh Singh is new DU V-C||Professor Yogesh Singh, currently Vice-Chancellor of Delhi Technological University, has been appointed as the new Vice-Chancellor of the University of Delhi. The varsity has not had a permanent V-C since Yogesh Tyagi was suspended in October last year. In a phone interview with The Hindu soon after the announcement, Mr. Singh emphasised that he was a team player and would take all viewpoints on board. He acknowledged the challenge that almost half of DU’s faculty positions are vacant, and expressed hope of bringing in hybrid learning innovations that he has experimented with at DTU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yogesh-singh-is-new-du-v-c/article36622222.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Vaccinate all above 18 years in three months, HC tells State||The High Court on Tuesday instructed the State government to ensure that all those above the age of 18 years got two doses of COVID vaccine within three months. It also directed the government to vaccinate all teaching and non-teaching staff of schools within two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccinate-all-above-18-years-in-three-months-hc-tells-state/article36622368.ece
23 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Sharnbasva University appoints Registrar||Chancellor of Sharnbasva University Dr. Sharnbasawappa Appa has appointed Basavaraj S. Mathapati as Registrar (Evaluation) of Sharnbasva University with immediate effect. Secretary of Sharnbasveshwar Vidya Vardak Sangha and Member of the Board of Governors of Sharnbasva University Basavaraj Deshmukh announced the decision taken at a high-level meeting of the university held under the chairmanship of Dr. Appa here on Wednesday. The Board of Governors of the university decided to elevate Dr. Mathapati, who was holding charge as the Dean in the university, as Registrar (Evaluation) to fill the vacancy caused by the untimely death of Lingraj Shastri. Dr. Shastri died in a road accident on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sharnbasva-university-appoints-registrar/article36622340.ece
23 September 2021||MYSURU,||Bombe Mane is back in Mysuru||Bombe Mane, a journey into the world of dolls, is back in Mysuru and the 17th edition of the annual exhibition showcases exclusive pieces representative of the quaint rituals of Dasara festivities. Exquisitely hand-crafted dolls by master artisans are on display atNazarabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bombe-mane-is-back-in-mysuru/article36622457.ece
23 September 2021||Mumbai,||Warrant issued against ex-Mumbai police chief||Another bailable warrant has been issued against former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh for not appearing before a panel set up to probe corruption charges levelled by him against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/warrant-issued-against-ex-mumbai-police-chief/article36622407.ece
23 September 2021||Patna,||14 get life term in scribe’s murder case in Bihar||A local court in Bihar’s Samastipur district on Wednesday sentenced to life imprisonment 14 people accused in the journalist Vikas Ranjan murder case. Ranjan was killed over a land dispute on November 25, 2008, in Rosera sub-division of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-get-life-term-in-scribes-murder-case-in-bihar/article36622408.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Leadership tussle: Rahul likely to visit Chhattisgarh||Amid the leadership tussle in Chhattisgarh, ex-Congress president Rahul Gandhi is likely to visit the State by the end of September. After the change of guard in Punjab, speculation grew that Chhattisgarh was likely to be the next State that could see a leadership change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/leadership-tussle-rahul-likely-to-visit-chhattisgarh/article36622224.ece
23 September 2021||Chennai,||VCK to contest civic polls on independent symbol||VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Wednesday said the party will contest the rural local body polls in 9 newly carved-out districts, on an independent symbol as part of the DMK alliance. He announced 16 candidates for the seats in Villupuram (East) and Kancheepuram (South) districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vck-to-contest-civic-polls-on-independent-symbol/article36622140.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Mangaluru University to fill backlog posts||Mangaluru University will initiate the process of filling the backlog reserved category teaching and non-teaching posts within a month from now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mangaluru-university-to-fill-backlog-posts/article36622582.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Mangaluru Central to be developed||It is back to the beginning for the railway station development project for Mangaluru as the Railway Ministry has decided to redevelop Mangaluru Central instead of Mangaluru Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mangaluru-central-to-be-developed/article36622589.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Chanakya University Bill passed amidst protests||Raising a storm over allotment of land to set up Chanakya University near Devanahalli, Congress and JD(S) accused the government of causing losses to the exchequer. The Bill was passed after they staged a walkout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chanakya-university-bill-passed-amidst-protests/article36622104.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Urja’ emerges at Shivajinagar||Tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urja emerged at Shivajinagar on Wednesday after covering a distance of 855 m. Metro workers cheered as the head of the TBM emerged at the Shivajinagar underground station on the Pink Line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/urja-emerges-at-shivajinagar/article36622107.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Terrorism knows no age, says NIA||A remark from the Supreme Court on Wednesday that two Kerala youth, accused under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for Maoist links, were but “young boys” saw the NIA respond that “terrorism knows no age” and “Naxalites, Maoists are very sharp, shrewd people” who covered their tracks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/terrorism-knows-no-age-says-nia/article36622223.ece
23 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Five arrested in Koppal temple entry case||Five people, including the priest of a local temple at Miyapur village in Kushtagi taluk of Koppal district, have been arrested after a Dalit family was fined Rs. 25,000 when a three-year-old child entered the temple. Following a complaint by Assistant Director of Social Welfare Department, Kushtagi, Balachandra Sanganal, the police registered a First Information Report at Kushtagi Police Station late on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-arrested-in-koppal-temple-entry-case/article36622342.ece
23 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Street meetings in support of bandh||The call by Samyukta Kisan Morcha for the Bharat Bandh on September 27 seeking repeal of the new farm laws has received support from various organisations. On Wednesday, members of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) visited various localities to sensitise the general public on farmers agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/street-meetings-in-support-of-bandh/article36622344.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Gang rape: Home Minister to seek fast-track trial||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Wednesday assured the Legislative Assembly that he would seek trial of the Mysuru gang rape case in a fast-track court, while Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would push for capital punishment for the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gang-rape-home-minister-to-seek-fast-track-trial/article36622455.ece
23 September 2021||Chennai,||‘Existing law adequate to eliminate NEET’||Justice A.K. Rajan, who led a high-level committee to look into the impact of NEET, said existing laws were adequate to eliminate NEET for admissions to government-run medical colleges affiliated to Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/existing-law-adequate-to-eliminate-neet/article36622141.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||WHO tightens global air quality norms||The World Health Organisation (WHO), in its first-ever update since 2005, has tightened global air pollution standards in recognition of the emerging science in the past decade that the impact of air pollution on health is much more serious than earlier envisaged. The move does not have an immediate effect in India as the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) do not meet the WHO’s existing standards. The government has a dedicated National Clean Air Programme that aims for a 20% to 30% reduction in particulate matter concentrations by 2024 in 122 cities, keeping 2017 as the base year for the comparison of concentration. These are cities that do not meet the NAAQS when calculated from 2011 to 2015. However, experts say the WHO move sets the stage for eventual shifts in policy in the government towards evolving newer stricter standards. “This will soon become part of policy discussions — much like climate targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions keep getting stricter over time — and once cities and States are set targets for meeting pollution emission standards, it could lead to overall changes in national standards,” said a senior official, who is part of a high- level commission to monitor air quality standards. The person declined to be identified as he is not authorised to speak to the media. The upper limit of annual PM2.5 as per the 2005 standards, which is what countries now follow, is 10 microgram per cubic metre. That has now been revised to five microgram per cubic metre. The 24-hour ceiling used to be 25 microgram but has now dropped to 15. The upper limit of PM10, or particulate matter of size exceeding 10 microgram, is 20 microgram and has now been revised to 15, whereas the 24-hour value has been revised from 50 to 45 microgram. India’s NAAQs — last revised in 2009 — specify an annual limit of 60 microgram per cubic metre for PM10 and 100 for a 24-hour period. Similarly it’s 40 for PM 2.5 annually and 60 on a 24-hour period. There are also standards for a host of chemical pollutants including sulphur dioxide, lead and nitrogen dioxide. Environmental organisation Greenpeace, in a statement, said the new guidelines meant that among 100 global cities, Delhi’s annual PM2.5 trends in 2020 was 16.8 times more than the WHO’s revised air quality guidelines, while Mumbai’s exceeded eight-fold, Kolkata’s 9.4, Chennai’s 5.4, Hyderabad’s 7 and Ahmedabad’s 9.8. “WHO’s new Air Quality Guidelines are an evidence-based and practical tool for improving the quality of the air on which all life depends. I urge all countries and all those fighting to protect our environment to put them to use to reduce suffering and save lives,” WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a statement. Every year, exposure to air pollution is estimated to cause 7 million premature deaths and result in the loss of millions more healthy years of life. Severe health crisis “Air pollution is a severe health crisis and WHO’s revised air quality guidelines bring back the focus to the issue,” said S.N. Tripathi, Professor, IIT Kanpur & Steering Committee Member, National Clean Air Programme, India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-tightens-global-air-quality-norms/article36621975.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul likely to visit Chhattisgarh where a leadership tussle is on||Amid the leadership tussle in Chhattisgarh, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is likely to visit the party-ruled State by the end of September. After the change of guard in Punjab, speculation gained ground that Chhattisgarh was likely to be the next State that could see a leadership change. It was not clear if the Congress high command would take a call on the leadership question before Mr. Gandhi’s visit, but the issue was wide open. The arrival of State Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo in Delhi on Monday and Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu meeting party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal on Tuesday further fuelled talks of a possible change of leadership and Cabinet reshuffle in the State. Top party sources, however, said the talks about an impending reshuffle were not correct. “The date or other issues of rotating chief ministership have not been finalised. Both the leaders have been told to keep quiet and not issue statements against each other. The high command will let them know when it takes a call on the issue,” said an All India Congress Committee (AICC) functionary. According to a rotation formula agreed in December 2018 when Mr. Gandhi was the party president, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was to hand over his position to Mr. Deo by June 16 this year. Various public events Though both the leaders have avoided making direct public statements, Mr. Baghel had been using various public events to show his strength and support among the MLAs. On Tuesday, Mr. Baghel hosted a dinner for the tribal MLAs from the Bastar region, comprising seven districts, at the Chief Minister’s residence. Last week, 36 Congress MLAs were said to have expressed their support by pledging to resign if the Chief Minister was changed. “The central leaders have not yet decided, but such antics won’t go down well,” said another AICC leader who was familiar with the situation in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-likely-to-visit-chhattisgarh-where-a-leadership-tussle-is-on/article36621992.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Responses to travel fears should evolve: Minister||As India and the U.K. go back and forth on the recognition of Indian-made Covishield and the vaccine certificates issued by New Delhi for travel to Britain without the mandatory quarantine period, Minister of State for Information Technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar said the “fear and paranoia” that has gripped the world with regard to travel during the pandemic needed to evolve as countries came to grips with COVID-19. Answering a question on the current exchange between the Indian and British governments on the terms of travel and recognition (or the lack of) of Indian vaccine certificates even of Astra-Zeneca developed Covishield by the British government, Mr. Chandrasekhar said the general “atmosphere of the unknown” was informing most decisions by various countries. “During this pandemic, fear and paranoia is high with regard to travel. As countries get more confident, these things will have to evolve in terms of their response,” he stated. He said it was his personal opinion that some countries would take a stronger view on which vaccine would be accepted by their medical fraternity because of the “unknown about the pandemic” whereas earlier “an approval by the World Health Organization (WHO)” used to suffice. Mr. Chandrasekhar was addressing a media conference at the BJP headquarters here on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the U.S. in the next few days. “As the world will seek a more rule-based, transparent and democratic future in the post-COVID order, India under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi will play a most significant role in shaping it,” he said. He said Mr. Modi had, especially in the last 18 months, led India not only under the challenging circumstances of the pandemic but also amid terror threats and expansionism by other countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/responses-to-travel-fears-should-evolve-minister/article36622022.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Visit to strengthen U.S. ties, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said his visit to the U.S. would be an occasion to strengthen the Indo-U.S. Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership and also consolidate ties with Japan and Australia. In a statement just before leaving for the U.S., Mr. Modi said he would conclude his visit with an address at the U.N. General Assembly (UNGA), which will focus on the pressing global challenges, including COVID-19, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues. “I will be visiting the U.S. from September 22-25 at the invitation of His Excellency President Joe Biden of America. I will review the India-U.S. Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest,” he said. Meeting with Harris “I am also looking forward to meeting Vice-President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation, particularly in science and technology,” the Prime Minister added. Mr. Modi said he would participate in the first in-person Quad leaders’ summit along with Mr. Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. The summit provides an opportunity to take stock of the outcomes of the Quad leaders’ virtual summit in March and identify priorities for future engagements based on our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region, he added. “I will also meet Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga to take stock of the strong bilateral relations with their respective countries and continue our useful exchanges on regional and global issues,” he said. “My visit would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with the U.S., consolidate relations with our strategic partners, Japan and Australia, and to take forward our collaboration on important global issues,” Mr. Modi said in his departure statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visit-to-strengthen-us-ties-says-pm/article36621993.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Terrorism knows no age, says NIA||A remark from the Supreme Court on Wednesday that two Kerala youth, accused under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for Maoist links, were but “young boys” saw the National Investigation Agency (NIA) respond that “terrorism knows no age” and “Naxalites, Maoists are very sharp, shrewd people” who covered their tracks. Arguing against their bail before a Bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and Abhay S. Oka, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, for the NIA, said it was not as if they were “caught reading Karl Marx”. The “incriminating” material found on students Thwaha Fasal and Allan Shuhaib, in their twenties, clearly drew the “inference” that they were “members of a terror organisation”, he said. “Terrorism knows no age. There are enough instances of young people involved in terrorism. They catch them young as they are amenable,” Mr. Raju said. But the court then asked the law officer why Section 20 of the UAPA, which dealt with punishment for being a member of a terror organisation, was dropped against the two in the NIA chargesheet. The NIA has chargesheeted the two young men and another for associating and supporting a terror organisation. If found guilty, these offences attract either a fine or imprisonment up to 10 years. However, being a member of a terror organisation is a far graver offence. It is punished with imprisonment up to life. “Are you basically saying that you can just infer that a person is a member of a terror organisation merely from the nature of the material found in his house? Have they been incarcerated for months on the basis of your inference? Where is the incriminating material to show they are members?” Justice Rastogi asked. Maoist notices Mr. Raju said investigators found 15 Maoist notices ostensibly for distribution of literature urging armed revolution and independence for Jammu and Kashmir and loads of electronic evidence. Countering for Fasal, senior advocate Jayant Muthuraj said the police had not found any incriminating material on the two youths, except a copy of the Madhav Gadgil report on the ecology of Western Ghats, at the time of arrest. Senior advocate R. Basant, for Shuhaib, said the very fact that the accused had been chargesheeted only for associating or supporting a banned organisation pre-supposed that they were not members of the outfit. Mr. Basant will continue his submissions on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terrorism-knows-no-age-says-nia/article36622073.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Let women take NDA exam in Nov.’||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pushed the armed forces to live up to its reputation as “the best response team we have” to stand up to an emergency, iron out creases and make history happen by allowing women to write the National Defence Academy (NDA) exam in November this year. The court was responding to a statement made by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) in an affidavit that it would have the “mechanism” to induct women into the NDA ready by May 2022. Senior advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul, for petitioner Kush Kalra, countered that if the NDA entrance exam is announced in May 2022, the actual exam would take place later in September. This would mean that the actual induction of women cadets into the prestigious military academy, the gateway to the three Services and a male bastion, would happen in 2023, with a delay of a whole year. A Bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B.R. Gavai said it was time the armed forces buckle up and make “a beginning”. The court refused to vacate its order of August 18 that women would write the NDA entrance exam in 2021 itself. The exam is scheduled for November. The MoD, represented by Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, urged the court to let the November 2021 exam go on as before, without women taking it. It stated that the military establishment would need at least six months to “prepare” for the start of the process for induction of women into the NDA. Ms. Bhati submitted that a study group had been formed to look into the infrastructure and course requirements for women cadets in the NDA. But the court made it plain that though it was in favour of giving time to the study group, it did not want to delay women from taking the exam. “We do not accept this situation. The armed forces treat everything as an emergency. They are the best response team we have. They deal with far more difficult situations in the country’s borders, they can deal with this. Do not ask us to vacate our order [of August 18],” Justice Kaul addressed the MoD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-women-take-nda-exam-in-nov/article36622076.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Hetero cleared to make Sputnik V||A subject expert committee that advises India’s drug regulator has recommended Hetero Biopharma’s proposal to manufacture Sputnik V, the Russian COVID-19 vaccine. The panel’s decision, which will help enhance availability of the vaccine, followed a proposal from the Hetero group that included interim safety and immunogenicity results from the Phase III clinical trials it had conducted. The committee, which examines COVID-19 related proposals under an accelerated approval process, at its meeting on September 16, said: “After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for grant of permission to manufacture Sputnik V vaccine for restricted use in emergency situations subject to various regulatory provisions.” Sputnik V is one of the three vaccines being used in India’s inoculation programme. The Drugs Controller General of India had accorded it emergency use authorisation in April this year. However, four months after a pilot launch of the Sputnik V in the country, the vaccine is available only in select towns and cities. Hetero is among a clutch of firms with whom Russia’s sovereign wealth fund RDIF, which is globally marketing the vaccine, had entered into manufacturing partnerships. While recommending grant of permission to Hetero Biopharma, the expert committee said regulatory provisions would include the firm submitting the safety and immunogenicity data from the ongoing clinical trial for review, as and when available, besides submitting the PI (Product Information), SmPC (Summary of Product Characteristics) and factsheet to CDSCO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hetero-cleared-to-make-sputnik-v/article36622024.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Drug haul: role of Pakistani elements being examined||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) is questioning the suspects arrested in connection with the 3,000-kg heroin seizure at the Mundra port in Gujarat to determine the identities of other foreign nationals who were part of the international drug trafficking syndicate. The agency has so far arrested four Afghan nationals, two of whom were living in an apartment at Greater Noida in Uttar Pradesh. A Kandahar-based company, Hassan Hussain Ltd., was shown as the exporter of the consignment that was sent through the Bandar Abbas port in Iran. A possible role of Pakistan-based elements is also being examined. The syndicate had roped in several local people to facilitate the smuggling on the pretext of importing talc stones from Afghanistan. Among them were allegedly Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and her husband, Machavaram Sudhakar, who had been living in Chennai for the past several years. The masterminds used an import-export licence in her name to show import of the consignment by Aashi Trading Company in exchange for commission, as alleged. The Vijayawada premises, from where it was being run, is owned by her mother. On Tuesday, the Vijayawada police said Ms. Vaishali had taken the GST registration in August last year “on the address at D.No. 23-14-16, Satyanarayanapuram, Gadiyaramvari Street, Vijayawada”. The accused obtained the importer-exporter code from the Directorate General of Foreign Trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drug-haul-role-of-pakistani-elements-being-examined/article36621978.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||R.N. Ravi, now T.N. Governor, resigns as Naga interlocutor||R.N. Ravi, who has taken charge as the Tamil Nadu Governor, on Wednesday resigned from his position as interlocutor in the Naga peace talks and his resignation has been accepted by the Union Home Ministry. “Shri R.N. Ravi’s resignation as interlocutor for the Naga peace process, submitted by him today has been accepted with immediate effect by Government of India,” the Ministry tweeted. Mr. Ravi, a 1976-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the Kerala cadre, retired as Special Director, Intelligence Bureau, in 2012. He was appointed as Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC) in September 2014 and subsequently made the interlocutor in the Naga peace talks. In 2019, he was appointed as Nagaland Governor to further facilitate the talks. Mr. Ravi signed a framework agreement with the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-(Isak Muivah), the largest Naga group, on behalf of the Union government on August 3, 2015, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Naga talks had hit rough weather since early 2020, as the NSCN-IM refused to hold any dialogue with Mr. Ravi. Following this, Home Minister Amit Shah deputed a team of Intelligence Bureau officials to continue the discussions with the NSCN-IM. Currently, former Intelligence Bureau Special Director A.K. Mishra, who was appointed an adviser in the Ministry last year, is holding talks with the NSCN-IM. He is likely to succeed Mr. Ravi as interlocutor. Long-drawn talks The NSCN-IM has been demanding a separate constitution and flag for the Nagas and the assimilation of all Naga-inhabited areas in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur. The talks with the government have continued for more than 23 years. On Monday, Mr. Mishra resumed talks with the NSCN-IM leadership in Dimapur. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma also met NSCN-IM leader Thuingaleng Muivah on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rn-ravi-now-tn-governor-resigns-as-naga-interlocutor/article36622005.ece
23 September 2021||Washington,||PM urges mutual consent for COVID-19 vaccine certificates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that international travel should be made easier through mutual recognition of vaccine certificates, amid several countries adopting different sets of rules to allow foreigners to enter their territory in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic that has caused unprecedented disruption. In his video remarks at the Global COVID Summit hosted by U.S. President Joe Biden, Mr. Modi also said India was ramping up production of vaccines and emphasised that supply chains of raw materials must be kept open . “We also need to focus on addressing the pandemic’s economic effects. To that end, international travel should be made easier, through mutual recognition of vaccine certificates,” Mr. Modi said. His remarks come on a day when the U.K. government issued an updated international travel advisory to include AstraZeneca’s Covishield among the eligible COVID-19 vaccines, but kept India out of the 18 countries on an approved vaccinations list, requiring Indians to follow rules set out for “non-vaccinated” travellers. On Monday, the U.S. announced a new international travel system under which fully vaccinated individuals would be allowed to enter the country beginning early November. Pointing to the unprecedented disruption due to the pandemic, Mr. Modi said: “And, it is not yet over. Much of the world is still to be vaccinated. That is why this initiative by President Biden is timely and welcome.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-urges-mutual-consent-for-covid-19-vaccine-certificates/article36622075.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Credit for nation-building can’t go to only one family: Minister||Nation-building was too important a task “to credit one family or one Prime Minister”, Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy said during the annual general meeting of the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML) society on Tuesday. According to a written statement from his office, Mr. Reddy said in his speech: “We all know that nation-building is too important a task for us to credit one family or one Prime Minister. Nation-building is a collective effort that sees contributions from the Prime Minister of the day to the ordinary honest tax-paying citizen. It, therefore, gives me immense pleasure that the Ministry of Culture has been given the task of building of the new Museum of Prime Ministers…” The museum dedicated to all the Prime Ministers so far and in the future has been under construction at the Teen Murti Estate, which was home to Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and was converted into the NMML after his death. Mr. Reddy said since India had started the celebrations of 75 years of Independence, which will be in 2022, the NMML should engage the youth in order to become “architects of India at 100”. “The Government of India is not only celebrating the 75 years as Mahotsav but also working towards developing a common vision for the next 25 years. Hence, we need to ensure that the road to 2047 is marked by progress and prosperity,” Mr. Reddy said. He said the government would provide whatever help necessary for the growth of the institute. “This sangrahalaya [museum] will be a glowing tribute to the role played by Prime Ministers in the making of modern India,” he added. The meeting, which was chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who is the Vice-President of the NMML Society, also included discussions about the kind of space and exhibits dedicated to various Prime Ministers, according to sources. NMML Director and Culture Secretary Raghvendra Singh did not respond to a request for comment on when the project would be completed. The project was announced in 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by October 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/credit-for-nation-building-cant-go-to-only-one-family-minister/article36622002.ece
23 September 2021||Patna,||Judge sets unusual bail condition||In an unusual order, a local court in Bihar’s Madhubani district has granted bail to an accused charged with outraging the modesty of a woman and attempted rape, on the condition that he washed and ironed the clothes of all women of the village free of cost for six months. The accused is required to obtain a certificate of completion from the mukhia (village headman) or any respectable public servant of the village and file the same in court. The Additional Sessions Judge-1 of Jhanjharpur Avinash Kumar also asked the accused to furnish a bail bond of Rs. 10,000 with two sureties of the like amount. Earlier in August, Judge Kumar had granted bail to a man arrested under the State’s prohibition laws on condition that he paid for the education of five poor children for three months and their parents duly certified it. His latest order followed a virtual bail hearing of Lalan Kumar Safi, 20, a washerman by profession, lodged at Laukaha police station of Madhubani district since April 19. “The petitioner shall wash and iron the clothes of all women of the village of informant, including informant/victim free of cost for six months and after completion of six months shall obtain a certificate from mukhia/sarpanch or any respectable public servant of the village and file it in the court concerned,” said the judge in his September 16 order. Village head intimated A copy of the order was also sent to the village head saying, “If the petitioner fails to fulfil the condition imposed herein, mukhia/sarpanch  is given liberty to intimate the same to the court.” The petitioner’s lawyer had submitted that the accused was a washerman and was ready to “do community service relating to his profession” to show his respect for women. While seeking regular bail, the lawyer had also submitted to the court that the parties had reached a compromise and the informant did not want to proceed with her case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judge-sets-unusual-bail-condition/article36622006.ece
23 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam govt. flags Mizoram ‘encroachments’||The government and people of Mizoram have been encroaching upon land in Assam along the 164.6-km interstate boundary since 1980, an Assam Forest Department report has alleged. At the heart of the land conflict between the two northeastern States is the 1,318-sq.km Inner Line Reserve Forest along the boundary. The conflict most recently claimed the lives of six Assam police personnel in July, a fortnight after the report was prepared by the department’s Southern Assam Circle headquartered in Silchar. Inner Line boundary According to the report, the boundary was notified on March 9, 1933, which clearly defines “Inner Line” as the district boundary of the Lushai Hills. A district of undivided Assam, Lushai Hills became Mizoram, first as a Union Territory in 1972 and a State in 1987. “The major portion of the boundary between Assam and Mizoram runs along natural features like rivers, streams and watersheds. Only two portions of the boundary, from Chattachura Peak to Longai and from Rukni river to Dholai river, do not follow definite natural features,” the report said. “During the time of demarcation in 1959-60, one of the camps of the Assam Survey party engaged in the demarcation work was set on fire by local Mizo people and as a result, valuable government properties like tents, survey equipment, official records, maps… were gutted,” it said. Incidents of encroachment in both Singla and Longai were recorded in November 1985, the report said. Portions of Kalakand and Shantipur areas inside Singla “were occupied with the help of armed forces of Mizoram” and they “gradually encroached upon a total of 75 hectares”, the report alleged. But while the encroachers left these areas “with no known reasons” after senior Assam officials visited these areas in February 2017, the “government of Mizoram” has continued to control areas under Longai Reserve Forest by forcing Assam Forest personnel to retreat about two km inside the boundary, the report said. “Since then, they have encroached 320 hectares within Longai by raising teak plantations, constructing permanent buildings, etc.,” the report said, adding that the Mizoram government has been controlling the entire two km stretch after constructing a road. Hailakandi division Similarly, in the Hailakandi division of the Assam Forest Department, an encroachment of about 1,000 hectares of forest land by Mizoram at two different locations — 425 hectares at Kachurtal and 575 hectares at Dholcherra — have been recorded. Mizoram has rejected the 1933 demarcation of the interstate boundary. The State recognises a regulation in 1873 that “includes areas wrongfully tagged with Assam” in 1933.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-flags-mizoram-encroachments/article36622011.ece
23 September 2021||Guwahati,||Activist writes to CJI on MP, MLA defections||An Assam-based activist has written to Chief Justice of India (CJI) N. V. Ramana asking why MPs and MLAs cannot be booked under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code for cheating people who voted for them. The elected representatives betrayed the voters of a constituency by switching parties, said Satya Ranjan Borah of Kutumba Surakshya Mission in his letter on September 21. “It has become common nowadays for political leaders to change their parties just after being elected, whether it is panchayat and municipality, Assembly and Lok Sabha elections and even Rajya Sabha elections,” he wrote. “If any individual can be punished under Section 420 for cheating or misleading another individual, why should we give an open platform for these cheats who have cheated not an individual but the people of this nation,” he stated. Impose curbs Mr. Borah requested the CJI to ensure that certain restrictions are imposed on elected representatives, such as preventing them from joining any other political party for four years after the date of winning an election and a 10-year ban on contesting any kind of election after defection. Congress MLAs Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain joined the BJP soon after being elected in May last. All India United Democratic Front MLA Phanidhar Talukdar also joined the BJP less than a month ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activist-writes-to-cji-on-mp-mla-defections/article36622020.ece
23 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Rising crime worries Rajasthan Police||The rising crime graph in Rajasthan has become a cause of concern for the State police, while recent daylight shooting incidents in Jaipur, in which several persons were killed, have created panic among the public. Six unidentified persons shot a history-sheeter in broad daylight in Jaipur’s Bani Park area on Tuesday. A Gurugram-based project consultant was earlier shot dead outside the National Highways Authority of India’s office in the city’s posh Vaishali Nagar on August 26. The National Crime Records Bureau’s data for 2020 has put a spotlight on crimes against women in the State, while several cases of alleged involvement of policemen in bribery and liquor and opium smuggling have highlighted the need for discipline and tough action in the police force. The police also faced embarrassment recently when a video of an officer indulging in indecent acts went viral. Rajasthan has registered the highest number of rape cases in the country, as per NCRB data. Though the State stood fifth in crimes against women, as many as 5,310 rape cases were registered in 2020. The pendency rate with the police, at 13.2%, was counted among the lowest. More FIRs being lodged The increase in crime figures is mainly attributed to the State government's instructions that every complaint made to the police must be registered as a First Information Report. Following Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s remarks that there was no need to worry if more FIRs led to rise in figures, the office of Director-General of Police sent several circulars to the districts with the orders for registration of cases under all circumstances. Additional DGP (Crime) Ravi Prakash Meharda said the NCRB report had stated that the rise in crime and increase in registration of crime by the police were clearly two different things, which were often confused. The statistics released by the State police also depicted a 28% increase in atrocities against Dalit women, 20% in burglary and 28% in cases of theft between January and July this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rising-crime-worries-rajasthan-police/article36622227.ece
23 September 2021||Srinagar,||Six more government staff sacked in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday terminated the services of six government employees for “posing a threat to security” under amended Article 311(2)(c), which requires no departmental inquiry except for a police or official report. Among the terminated employees are two policemen and two teachers who hail from Kishtwar in the Chenab Valley, Poonch the Pir Panjal Valley and Anantnag, Baramulla and Budgam districts in the Kashmir Valley. They were identified as teacher Hamid Wani from Bijbehara in Anantnag; Kishtwar constable Jaffer Hussain Butt; junior assistant in the Roads and Buildings Department Muhammad Rafi Butt, also from Kishtwar; teacher Liyaqat Ali Kakroo from Baramulla; range officer in the Forest Department Tariq Mehmood Kohli from Poonch; and constable Showkat Ahmad Khan from Budgam. “The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution that in the interest of the security of the state it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Jaffer Hussian Bhat, a constable. The L-G is satisfied after considering the facts and circumstances of the case and on the basis of the information available that the activities of Butt are such to warrant his dismissal from the service,” one of the six orders reads. The administration, since the Union government ended J&K’s special constitutional position in 2019, has started a process of terminating services of government employees with alleged militant links on the basis of police investigations. 20 sacked so far Around 20 employees, including the two sons of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin, have been sacked so far. On April 21, the government constituted a special task force (STF) to identify and scrutinise the conduct of government employees, and lodge cases against those involved in any cases related to posing threat to the country’s security or anti-national activities. J&K regional parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have opposed the amended law and demanded that such employees should be allowed to be heard in the court of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-more-govt-staff-sacked-in-jk/article36621987.ece
23 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||2,500 rhino horns turned to ashes in Assam||The “world’s largest stockpile” of rhino horns was consigned to flames in eastern Assam’s Bokakhat, the headquarters of the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve, amid Vedic rituals on Wednesday. The event, timed with World Rhino Day, was aimed at dispelling myths that have driven the illegal horn trade and the poaching of the animal. Wildlife officials said 2,479 of the 2,623 horns stored in 12 district treasuries since 1979 were burnt in six large iron pyres placed at a stadium in Bokakhat, about 240 km east of Guwahati. The pyres were lit remotely through drones. Among those destroyed were 21 fake horns seized from smugglers and traders and 15 African rhino horns brought from the Assam State Zoo in Guwahati. “We organised this event to convey to the world that rhino horns are just a mass of compacted hair and they have no medicinal value. We urge people not to kill these rare animals or buy their horns based on superstitions or myths,” Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said after initiating the programme. “Rhino horns are burnt in Africa but not so many at a time. I think we have set a world record,” Dr. Sarma said, adding that all horns recovered from rhinos dying naturally or during disasters and accidents would henceforth be burned annually. P. Sivakumar, Director of the Kaziranga National Park, said 29 horns implicated in court cases, will be kept in the treasuries while 94 others, including the heaviest at 3.05 kg, will be preserved for exhibition or educational purposes. Museum planned The State government will set up a natural history museum near the national park to showcase the preserved horns. The weight of the horns destroyed was 1,305.25 kg while the weight of those to be preserved is 131.05 kg, officials said. Before the destruction, experts had studied the horns using scientific methods at the treasuries they were kept in. Each horn was cleaned, weighed, photographed, labelled with a unique barcode, packed and sealed again after extraction of DNA samples. The ashes will be stored in a life-size rhino replica to be displayed at Mihimukh, the main entrance of Kaziranga Park, Mr. Sivakumar told The Hindu . The event was preceded by an elaborate Vedic ritual that entailed performing the last rites. Wednesday’s event was the second mass-burning of animal body parts in eastern India. A stockpile of rhino horns and elephant tusks was burnt in West Bengal’s Chilapatha forest (Alipurduar district) in 2005-06.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2500-rhino-horns-turned-to-ashes-in-assam/article36622078.ece
23 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||U.P. CM asks public to follow ‘rashtra dharma’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday raised the nationalist pitch before the Assembly election by appealing to people to follow “rashtra dharma” (duty towards nation) and shun caste differences. Striking a conciliatory note with farmers in Amroha, Mr. Adityanath said a committee had been formed to look into increasing the State Approved Price (SAP) of sugarcane without delay. The panel will also look into “ensuring the smooth payment of sugarcane dues of farmers by the mills”, the Chief Minister said, highlighting that during the COVID-19 pandemic no sugar mill was shut down in the region. On a tour of western Uttar Pradesh to share the accomplishments of the BJP rule, Mr. Adityanath said his tenure remained “riot-free” and the State was “emerging as an export hub”. He was speaking in the Dadri town of Gautam Buddha Nagar before moving to Hapur and Amroha. On Tuesday, he addressed meetings in Moradabad and Sambhal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-cm-asks-public-to-follow-rashtra-dharma/article36621976.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Terrorism knows no age, NIA tells SC||The NIA has chargesheeted the two young men and another for associating and supporting a terror organisation. If found guilty, these offences attract either a fine or imprisonment up to 10 years. However, being a member of a terror organisation is a far graver offence. It is punished with imprisonment up to life. “Are you basically saying that you can just infer that a person is a member of a terror organisation merely from the nature of the material found in his house? Have they been incarcerated for months on the basis of your inference?” Justice Rastogi asked. Mr. Raju said investigators found 15 Maoist notices ostensibly for distribution, literature urging armed revolution and independence for Jammu and Kashmir, and loads of electronic evidence. Besides, the law officer said, the duo were clandestinely meeting with a known “semi-underground” Maoist leader. “Naxalites and Maoists are very sharp, shrewd people. It is very difficult for investigating agencies to track evidence or build a case,” Mr. Raju said. Senior advocate R. Basant, for Shuhaib, said the very fact that the accused have been chargesheeted only for associating or supporting a banned organisation pre-supposes that they were not members of the outfit. Mr. Basant would continue his submissions on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terrorism-knows-no-age-nia-tells-sc/article36621980.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Let women take NDA exam in November: SC||Senior advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul, for petitioner Kush Kalra, countered that if the NDA entrance exam is announced in May 2022, the actual exam would take place later in September. This would mean that the actual induction of women cadets into the prestigious military academy, the gateway to the three Services and a male bastion, would happen in 2023, with a delay of a whole year. A Bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and B.R. Gavai said it was time the armed forces buckle up and make “a beginning”. The court refused to vacate its order of August 18 that women would write the NDA entrance exam in 2021 itself. The exam is scheduled for November. The MoD, represented by Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, urged the court to let the November 2021 exam go on as before, without women taking it. It stated that the military establishment would need at least six months to “prepare” for the start of the process for induction of women into the NDA. Ms. Bhati submitted that a study group had been formed to look into the infrastructure and course requirements for women cadets in the NDA. But the court made it plain that though it was in favour of giving time to the study group, it did not want to delay women from taking the exam. “We do not accept this situation. The armed forces treat everything as an emergency. They are the best response team we have. They deal with far more difficult situations in the country’s borders, they can deal with this. Do not ask us to vacate our order [of August 18],” Justice Kaul addressed the MoD. The court said it understood that induction of women into the NDA was a “big step” for the armed forces, but “we believe the process of women taking the exam has to begin without delay”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-women-take-nda-exam-in-november-sc/article36621982.ece
23 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. orders CBI probe into seer’s death||The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government late on Wednesday recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the death of prominent seer Mahant Narendra Giri in Prayagraj, the State Home department said. Mr. Adityanath had on Tuesday said those guilty in the alleged death by suicide case of Narendra Giri would be punished after an independent investigation. The police, meanwhile, have booked Anand Giri, a close disciple of Narendra Giri till they had a public fallout earlier this year, for abetment of suicide and brought him to Prayagraj for questioning after detaining him in Haridwar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-govt-orders-cbi-probe-into-seers-death/article36622071.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Rs. 50,000 compensaton for each COVID death||“The ex gratia assistance to families affected by COVID-19 deaths will continue to be provided for deaths that may occur in the future phases of the COVID-19 pandemic as well, or until further notification,” the NDMA said. The NDMA made a point that the pandemic has not abated. The total number of deaths continues to rise. There is also uncertainty about new variants of the virus and likely future waves. It advocated “financial prudence”. Financial prudence “Therefore, it is not possible to ascertain the total financial burden emanating from the ex gratia assistance. Financial prudence demands that we plan in a manner that assistance can be provided to a large number of people, should the number of deaths rise,” its guidelines said. The guidelines noted that States have already been incurring large expenditure from SDRF on various aspects of COVID-19 prevention, management and response. The Centre has also, from the national budget, announced several measures to curb the impact of the pandemic. The vaccination drive, provisions for the welfare and support of orphaned children and the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana package were among the measures. “State governments have announced welfare measures from the State budgets. So, in effect, some financial and material assistance has already been provided in different forms to some of the most vulnerable sections,” the NDMA said in its guidelines. The NDMA said that while the pandemic was an “unprecedented disaster”, other natural disasters that occur frequently must also be taken into account. “It is important that sufficient funds are available under SDRF to provide a timely and effective response to other disasters as well,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-50000-for-each-covid-death/article36621979.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Covishield fine, but not Indian certification: U.K.||The latest U.K. travel guidance rules and the recognition of Covishield means that a traveller from the ‘Green List’ countries who has been vaccinated with the Covishield vaccine can enter the U.K. without quarantine, but not a traveller from India who has been administered the same vaccine. “Covishield is not an issue...[But] India is an Amber country, and there are still some COVID cases in India,” U.K. High Commissioner Alex Ellis told news channel NDTV in an interview on Wednesday, adding that “the question is on certification”. CoWIN app Mr. Ellis said that U.K. NHS app officials and Indian officials who deal with the CoWIN app had been in talks, on the working of their respective apps and security protocols used, explaining that the U.K. hopes to eventually find a mutually acceptable protocol for accepting Indian travellers without quarantines. “Because we have to have confidence, obviously, just as India would have to have confidence in the U.K., from our app, to make sure, ‘This looks okay’,” Mr. Ellis added. The development came a day after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his British counterpart, Elizabeth Truss, in New York and urged the U.K. to address the issue around the status of the Covishield vaccine and the 10-day quarantine for Indian travellers. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had stated on Tuesday that India could impose “reciprocal measures” if the U.K. did not keep its assurances to resolve the issue, and called the policy that excluded Indian-made vaccines and Indian travellers, as “discriminatory”. British entry protocols also came in for severe criticism from the Opposition Congress, with Kerala MP Shashi Tharoor cancelling a visit to the U.K. in protest. In response to the calls for India to place reciprocal quarantine restrictions on U.K. travellers, Mr. Ellis tweeted, “They already do”, pointing to Indian Health Ministry guidelines that require travellers from U.K., Brazil and South Africa to remain in home quarantine for seven days, even if they test negative on arrival in India. The MEA declined to comment on the U.K.’s latest decision, as well as the British High Commissioner’s contention that they were not completely assured about the working of the Co-WIN app, that issues certificates of vaccination for Indians, including those who have been administered the Serum Institute’s Covishield, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Russian-made Sputnik vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covishield-fine-but-not-indian-certification-uk/article36621983.ece
23 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Ex-Meghalaya CM meets Trinamool leaders, sparks speculation of rift||Former Meghalaya Chief Minister and Congress veteran Mukul Sangma met Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata on Tuesday, triggering speculation amid a reported rift within the Congress in the State. A party loyalist confirmed Dr. Sangma’s meeting with Mr. Banerjee in the West Bengal capital. “He was in Kolkata for some work and honoured an invitation from the Trinamool leadership. Nothing much should be read into the meeting,” the loyalist said on Wednesday. Dr. Sangma is from the Garo Hills. The import of the meeting, however, was not lost on many in Meghalaya, given a series of events pointing to a rift within the Congress. A few days ago, Dr. Sangma and some MLAs skipped a programme where five senior leaders rejoined the Congress. He also avoided a function to mark the anointment of Lok Sabha member Vincent H. Pala as the Meghalaya Pradesh Congress Committee president. The All India Congress Committee (AICC) did not keep Dr. Sangma in the loop while choosing Mr. Pala as the State unit chief, a party leader said. But Mr. Pala junked speculation about a rift within the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-meghalaya-cm-meets-trinamool-leaders-sparks-speculation-of-rift/article36621984.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. demands probe into heroin seizure||The Congress on Wednesday demanded a Supreme Court-monitored investigation into the alleged bribery case involving e-commerce firm Amazon and the recent seizure of nearly 3,000 tonnes of heroin in Gujarat. At a press conference, party general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said these were “very serious” issues involving national security and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should answer the nation. Mr. Surjewala claimed that the company whose imports were seized had earlier imported 25,000 kg of the same type of drugs worth Rs. 1.75 lakh crore. He said that as per media reports, Ashish Traders, whose import-export licence was allegedly used for the consignment, received merely Rs. 10 lakh as commission. “Who is the drugs cartel? Why is the drug cartel prospering right under the nose of Narendra Modi and [Home Minister] Amit Shah? Is this not pushing India’s youth into the menace of drugs? Where are those drugs now? Is it not a breach of national security as these came from and are connected to the Taliban and Afghanistan. Why has Adani Mundra port not been investigated,” he asked. On the alleged bribery allegations involving e-commerce giant Amazon, he asked how can the company spend Rs. 8,546 crore in “legal fee when the Law Ministry’s annual budget is only Rs. 1,100 crore”. “Who received the money? Was this money given to annihilate the trade and business of crores of small shopkeepers, MSMEs and traders so that e-commerce company like Amazon could take away their businesses and livelihood,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-demands-probe-into-heroin-seizure/article36621990.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||NEET fraud: CBI books coaching centre||The modus operandi was to use forged documents by morphing photographs in identity cards to facilitate proxy candidates to write the exam, the CBI FIR said. The username and password of the candidates who applied for NEET was obtained to make necessary modifications to get desired examination centres. Copies of e-Aadhaar of the candidates were taken for morphing photographs. According to sources, at least five students engaged the services of proxy candidates arranged by Mr. Kotpalliwar, with the help of two persons Diwakar and Munna, at one centre in Ranchi and four centres in Delhi. Mr. Kotpalliwar, along with his associates, had come to Delhi on September 9, 2021. The CBI’s FIR said the actions of the suspects prima facie revealed offences of cheating, forgery and other offences under the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000. The coaching centre and unknown others indulged in fraudulent acts in NEET UG-2021 conducted on September 12, 2021, “thereby cheating the National Testing Agency, genuine meritorious candidates and the general public at large,” the CBI said. However, sources in the agency said the proxy writers engaged for the candidates did not turn up at the NEET centre and the candidates were marked “absent”. Five persons who were associated with the coaching centre in Nagpur were taken into custody for acting as middlemen. “The proxy candidates who were engaged to impersonate the bonafide students did not turn up. Investigators were tracking the case closely and there was evidence to corroborate information received. A probe is on to check how many candidates engaged proxy writers with the help of the suspects and whether any fraud was actually committed,” a CBI official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neet-fraud-cbi-books-coaching-centre/article36622074.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article36621997.ece
23 September 2021||Pune,||Thackeray begins 2-day Nashik tour||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray began a two-day tour of Nashik on Wednesday with the objective of rebuilding his party’s sagging fortunes ahead of the crucial civic body polls to be held in February 2022. This is Mr. Thackeray’s third visit to the district in less than two months, signifying his intent on ‘recapturing’ the Nashik Municipal Corporation, which was once considered his party’s bastion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thackeray-begins-2-day-nashik-tour/article36622410.ece
23 September 2021||Srinagar,||J&K constable killed by colleague’s fire||A policeman died of bullet injuries after another policeman opened fire at him mistaking him to be an “anti-national element” at Handwara in north Kashmir late on Tuesday. A police spokesman said Ajay Dhar, a resident of Handwara’s Langate, suffered bullet injuries when “a sentry assumed that there was an attack by anti-national elements and opened fire”. Dhar died of injuries, the police said, adding that he was “forcibly trying to enter a temple at midnight”. Meanwhile, the body of a missing soldier has been recovered after a year at Kulgam. Locals said the body of rifleman Shakir Manzoor Wagey was spotted at Mohammad Pora and was identified by his father. Shakir of the Territorial Army and was missing since August 2, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-constable-killed-by-colleagues-fire/article36621989.ece
23 September 2021||Patna,||Former CM’s remark on Ram flayed||Former Bihar Chief Minister and president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) Jitan Ram Manjhi’s comment on Lord Ram and the Ramayana sparked a row on Wednesday, with many political parties criticising him. BJP leaders launched an attack on Mr. Manjhi, whose party is part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the State, and said he should delete the word “Ram” from his name. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress leaders, too, condemned Mr. Manjhi’s comment and said the relevance of Lord Ram in Indian society was not to be questioned. “No one can erase the existence of Lord Ram and the relevance of the Ramayana from our society. Mr. Manjhi says such things to be in the news,” said State BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/former-cms-remark-on-ram-flayed/article36622000.ece
23 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘I had offered to quit, was asked to stay’||Former Punjab Chief Minister and Congress leader Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he had offered to resign three weeks ago, but was asked to continue. “I was ready to leave after a victory, but never after a loss. I had offered my resignation to Congress president Sonia Gandhi three weeks ago, but she asked me to continue. If she had just called me and asked me to step down, I would have,” he said. “As a soldier, I know how to do my job and leave once I am called back.” Capt. Amarinder said he had told Ms. Gandhi after leading the Congress to another sweeping win in Punjab that he was ready to hang up his boots and allow someone else to take over as Chief Minister. “But that did not happen, so I will fight.” He said he felt humiliated when the Congress Legislature Party meeting was called in a secretive manner, without taking him into confidence. “I would not have taken MLAs on a flight to Goa or some place. That is not how I operate. I don’t do gimmicks, and the Gandhi siblings [ex-Congress president Rahul Gandhi and AICC general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi] know that is not my way,” he said. “Priyanka and Rahul are like my children… this should not have ended like this. I am hurt.” ‘Keeping options open’ He said the Gandhi siblings were quite inexperienced and their advisers were clearly misguiding them. He said he was still keeping his political options open. “You can be old at 40 and young at 80,” he said, making it clear that he did not see his age as a hurdle. Referring to complaints that he was not acting against the “Badals” and “Majithia” in the sacrilege and drugs cases, he said he believed in allowing the law to take its course.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-had-offered-to-quit-was-asked-to-stay/article36622003.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajiv Bansal is Civil Aviation Secretary||The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Wednesday approved a reshuffle of senior IAS officers, appointing new Secretaries for a dozen departments. Chairman and Managing Director of Air India Rajiv Bansal was appointed Secretary of the Civil Aviation Ministry. He will take over from Pradeep Singh Kharola, who is set to retire on September 30. Labour and Employment Ministry Special Secretary Anuradha Prasad was appointed Secretary of the Inter-State Council Secretariat of the Home Ministry. Pradeep Kumar Tripathi was shifted from the post of Steel Secretary to Department of Personnel and Training Secretary. Govind Mohan was appointed Culture Secretary, K. Rajaraman as Telecommunications Secretary and Delhi Development Authority Vice-Chairman Anurag Jain was appointed Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade Secretary. K. Sanjay Murthy was appointed Higher Education Secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajiv-bansal-is-civil-aviation-secretary/article36622019.ece
23 September 2021||Pune,||Thackeray begins 2-day Nashik tour||Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray began a two-day tour of Nashik on Wednesday with the objective of rebuilding his party’s sagging fortunes ahead of the crucial civic body polls to be held in February 2022.  This is Mr. Thackeray’s third visit to the district in less than two months, signifying his intent on ‘recapturing’ the Nashik Municipal Corporation, which was once considered his party’s bastion. He has been concentrating on rebuilding the party in Pune as well, inaugurating a ‘war office’ earlier this year in Pune city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/thackeray-begins-2-day-nashik-tour/article36622226.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU to reopen for third-year scholars||Jawaharlal Nehru University will start with its third phase of reopening from September 23 in which all third-year PhD research scholars, both hostellers and day scholars, will be allowed to enter campus. The university said it had taken this decision keeping with the guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority regarding reopening of educational institutions with maximum 50% seating capacity. It added that phase IV of the reopening will commence on September 27 in which all final-year MSc, BTech fourth-year and MBA final-year students will be allowed to enter and reside on campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jnu-to-reopen-for-third-year-scholars/article36622411.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||SC dismisses appeals in fake toolkit case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed appeals filed by the Chhattisgarh government challenging a State High Court order to stay the investigation on an FIR against former Chief Minister Raman Singh and BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra for their tweets in connection with an alleged fake toolkit case. “Let the Chhattisgarh High Court decide the case,” a Bench headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana said. The Bench said many cases concerning the toolkit issue were pending in various High Courts and this one could not be given separate treatment. “Don’t waste your energy here. We are not inclined to entertain the special leave petitions. We dismiss the SLPs,” the court told senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, appearing for the State. The apex court requested the Chhattisgarh High Court to expeditiously decide the pleas related to the fake toolkit case, saying the matter must be decided without being influenced by earlier observations.  It had noted that averments in the FIR “clearly indicates that no public peace or tranquillity is being adversely affected and it is purely political rivalry between two political parties”. On May 19, an FIR was lodged based on the complaint of Akash Sharma, president of the National Students’ Union of India’s (NSUI), Chhattisgarh unit, that Mr. Singh, Mr. Patra and others had circulated fabricated content on social media platforms using a fake letterhead of the Congress, projecting it as a toolkit developed by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-dismisses-appeals-in-fake-toolkit-case/article36621981.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Term Moplah rebellion a genocide’||Prajna Pravah, an organisation associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, has demanded that the 1921 Moplah Rebellion be termed a “genocide” and a memorial be set up in memory of those who lost their lives in that set of events. It announced a series of events to raise support for the move. J. Nandakumar, convener of Prajna Pravah, said the body was going to organise events on September 25 and 26 in Delhi and at the block-levels in Kerala to make their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/term-moplah-rebellion-a-genocide/article36621985.ece
23 September 2021||Srinagar,||Traders’ strike brings Jammu to a standstill||Life in Jammu was affected on Wednesday due to a traders’ strike. The bandh was called by the Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industries (JCCI) in protest against the government’s “anti-traders measures” and “proposed opening of Reliance stores” in Jammu. Markets, shops, and business establishments were closed. Shopkeepers accused the administration of taking “anti-trade” measures. JCCI president Arun Gupta said these measures would negatively impact local traders and business houses in Jammu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/traders-strike-brings-jammu-to-a-standstill/article36621988.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||WHO chief thanks Health Minister Mandaviya for announcing resumption of COVID-19 vaccine shipments||World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Tedros Ghebreyesus on Wednesday thanked Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya for announcing the resumption of COVID-19 vaccine shipments to the COVAX global pool. “Thank you Health Minister @mansukhmandviya for announcing #India will resume crucial #COVID19 vaccine shipments to #COVAX in October. This is an important development in support of reaching the 40% vaccination target in all countries by the end of the year. #VaccinEquity,” Mr. Ghebreyesus tweeted.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-chief-thanks-health-minister-mandaviya-for-announcing-resumption-of-covid-19-vaccine-shipments/article36622013.ece
23 September 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. supports Uddhav’s demand for Parliament session to discuss atrocities against women||A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to call for a Parliament session to discuss atrocities against women, the Congress extended support to Mr. Thackeray’s demand. The State unit of the Congress on Wednesday pointed to the numbers from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2020, saying Uttar Pradesh was at the forefront in atrocities against women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-supports-uddhavs-demand-for-parliament-session-to-discuss-atrocities-against-women/article36622017.ece
23 September 2021||Patna,||14 sentenced to life in scribe murder case||A local court in Bihar’s Samastipur district sentenced 14 persons convicted in journalist Vikas Ranjan’s murder to life imprisonment on Wednesday. Mr. Ranjan was killed in a land dispute on November 25, 2008, in Rosera sub-division of the district. The family members of the scribe had named the 14 persons, including a local Lok Janshakti Party leader Swayamvar Yadav. The prosecution had produced audio and video clips to the court to support their case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/14-sentenced-to-life-in-scribe-murder-case/article36622018.ece
23 September 2021||Mumbai,||Won’t appoint new prosecutor in Yunus case till Oct. 14: Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that it would not appoint a new prosecutor till the plea seeking to bring back the old prosecutor was heard on October 14 in the custodial death of 27-year-old Khwaja Yunus in 2009. Those accused are then assistant police inspector (now dismissed) Sachin Vaze and three policemen — Rajendra Tiwari, Rajaram Nikam and Sunil Desai. They have been booked for murder, conspiracy and destruction of evidence and the trial against them commenced on May 3, 2017, at the city civil and sessions court. The court posted the matter for October 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wont-appoint-new-prosecutor-in-yunus-case-till-oct-14-maharashtra/article36622025.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi University gets new Vice-Chancellor||Professor Yogesh Singh, currently Vice-Chancellor of Delhi Technological University, has been appointed the new Vice-Chancellor of Delhi University. The university has not had a permanent V-C since October last year when Yogesh Tyagi was suspended over allegations of irregularities and dereliction of duty. In a phone interview with The Hindu soon after the announcement, Dr. Singh emphasised that he was a team player and would take all viewpoints onboard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-university-gets-new-vice-chancellor/article36622412.ece
23 September 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of drainage channels begins||Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran on Wednesday inaugurated mass desilting of all drainage channels in Aruppukottai town and other local bodies in and around the municipal area. The Minister said the exercise that was being carried out till September 29 in all the local bodies in the district would ensure removal of all blockages in stormwater drainage and irrigation channels ahead of the monsoon. It would help in free flow of rainwater and prevent flooding of low-lying areas. Officials would clear the debris and desilt Kammavar stormwater drainage (one km long), surplus channel of Seval tank (3 km), drainage of Nehru ground (1 km), storm water drainage in Netaji Street and Pattabiraman Temple Street (each 1.5 km), surplus channel of Sengottai oorani and Mettangarai drainage channel (1 km). Machinery like earthmovers and jet-rodding machines and 60 workers would be engaged in the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-of-drainage-channels-begins/article36622311.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Island Grounds to be developed as a year-round tourism hub||Imagine being seated with friends, watching a musical night show, munching on some comfort food with a gentle sea breeze adding to the ambience, and all this in the heart of the city. The Tourism Department has plans to redevelop the Island Grounds into a tourism hub and a consultant has been tasked with making a detailed project report. Tourism Secretary B. Chandramohan said plans were afoot to make the 20-acre land a year-round event place. “The city does not have a space where people can sit, dine and watch a performance. We will have exhibitions, car shows, performances, concerts and a food court. We have had an initial discussion and the concept is coming out really well. The design is under way,” he said. Island Grounds is where the annual India Tourist and Industrial Trade Fair is held in December-January, which attracts large crowds. The sutrula porutkaatchi, as the exhibition is called in Tamil, is famous for its stalls showcasing government achievements, fair ground rides, and the famous Delhi pappad among other things. There is ample space to park vehicles. N. Ravi, who was formerly with Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC), said this was a welcome idea and would bring revenue to the Corporation. “Not everyone likes to go to malls since they are very expensive and are air-conditioned and with closed spaces. A permanent sale of handicrafts that the State is famous for too will be great. This could be on the lines of the Delhi Haat where artisans could make craft items. People can shop and relax too. Earlier, we used to have food fairs, flower shows and dog shows which used to attract crowds,” he said. The Greater Chennai Corporation had passed a resolution a few years ago stating that world-class tourism infrastructure will be developed along the Cooum. Heritage buildings along the Cooum were supposed to be identified and restored to attract tourists. Proposals for a nature trail near College Road was made by the civic body. Thiruvanmiyur resident Geetha Shanmugasundaram said that apart from the beaches, malls, cinemas, and restaurants, there was not much to do in the city. “The Chetpet park has a lot of space to walk around. People need to be involved in activities for which we do not need to spend much and at the same it should be entertaining and educative,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/island-grounds-to-be-developed-as-a-year-round-tourism-hub/article36622164.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘New law not necessary to exempt government colleges from NEET’||The report of the high-level committee headed by former Madras High Court judge A.K. Rajan on the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) has created a lot of discussion in Tamil Nadu. In an interview with The Hindu on Wednesday, Justice Rajan spoke about certain key aspects of the report. Edited excerpts:  There appears to be a widespread consensus among political parties in Tamil Nadu that NEET should be abolished. However, the difficulty seems to be in figuring out the way. What are the recommendations that you have made on this? I have given two recommendations. First is that the existing laws themselves are adequate to eliminate NEET for admission to government medical colleges affiliated to Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University (TNMGRMU). This is because entry 32 of List II (State List of Schedule 7 of the Constitution) places incorporation, regulation and winding up of universities exclusively within the State government’s purview. Moreover, entry 44 of List I (Union List) excludes universities from the Union government’s purview. That makes it clear that only the State government has powers to make laws for regulation of universities run by it, including matters related to admission and award of degrees. This power has been exercised to create TNMGRMU through the TNMGRMU Act. Consequently, only TNMGRMU has the right to decide on matters of admissions. The Union government cannot make any law for this. Therefore, NEET is not applicable at all in so far as the government medical colleges are concerned. The Act 3 of 2007 (Tamil Nadu Admission in Professional Educational Institutions Act), which abolished the Common Entrance Test (CET) and made the Plus-Two marks the criteria for admissions to professional courses, is still valid for medical colleges run by the State government. If the government is not willing to take this advice, a separate law can be enacted, similar to the Act 3 of 2007, under which both government and self-financing medical colleges can be brought under its purview. This is what the government has done now. The President had declined assent to similar Bills seeking exemption from NEET in the past. How hopeful are you that the recent Bill [passed by the Tamil Nadu Assembly] will receive his assent? The present government has made a much stronger case this time. Therefore, a different view may be taken. This Bill need not face a similar fate. For example, the then Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa, passed a Bill to abolish the CET [for State Board students]. However, that was struck down. When the DMK came to power in 2006, an expert committee was formed under [late] M. Anandakrishnan [former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University]. Based on its recommendation, another Bill was passed to eliminate the CET, which received the President’s assent. Apart from data showing a reduced number of students from government schools, Tamil medium and rural background entering MBBS since NEET was introduced, your report argues that NEET will severely affect the availability of doctors in rural areas. However, there is criticism that this is only hypothetical as the first batch of MBBS students who got admitted through NEET has not even completed their course. How do you substantiate this argument? It is fine if people do not want to believe the report. They can independently collect data on the profile of doctors, particularly their community, working at Tamil Nadu’s primary health centres. That will make it clear who are serving in rural areas. It is also a common sense to think whether students born and brought up in cities like Chennai will be interested in serving in remote rural areas. With the present regulations, more students from other States are joining medical courses here. Despite signing a bond that they will serve for at least two years in the State, they are not coming forward to do so. If they are unwilling to serve within the State itself, how can they be expected to serve in rural Tamil Nadu. The data in the report show that government school students were at a disadvantage while joining MBBS even before NEET. Your report talks about the need to reform school education and move from ‘coaching’ towards ‘learning’. Can you elaborate? The data show that 99% of students who got admitted post-NEET had gone for coaching. These data are now collected as part of the application process. Coaching focuses only on preparing students to answer questions in a particular exam as opposed to learning a subject. We knew that even before NEET, many private schools were ignoring Plus-One and only teaching Plus-Two syllabus for two years. Such practices should be avoided. The Plus-Two examination must have questions from Plus-One syllabus too.  (For the full interview, visit https://bit.ly/AKRajan)   This Bill need not face a similar fate. The present government has made a much stronger case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-law-not-necessary-to-exempt-government-colleges-from-neet/article36622146.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,682 fresh infections||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded 1,682 fresh infections, taking its tally to 26,50,370. Chennai’s daily case count fell marginally, as 194 people tested positive. Coimbatore topped the table with 235 cases. Erode (130), Chengalpattu (110) and Tiruppur (101) followed in terms of case count. Six districts — Dindigul (7), Perambalur (4), Ramanathapuram (2), Tenkasi (5), Theni (5) and Virudhunagar (9) — reported under 10 cases each. At present, 17,027 people are under treatment in the State. Of them, 2,068 people are in Chennai. As many as 1,627 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,97,943. With 21 more people succumbing to the infection — six deaths in private hospitals and 15 in government facilities — the toll rose to 35,400. Chennai, Chengalpattu and Thanjavur recorded three deaths each, while Erode, Ranipet and Tiruvarur logged two each. Coimbatore, Dindigul, Kancheepuram, Pudukottai, Tiruvannamalai and Tiruchi recorded one fatality each. Among the deceased was a 45-year-old man from Erode, who had no co-morbidity. He was admitted to the Erode Medical College Hospital, Perundurai, September 15. He tested positive the next day and died on September 20 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Two more private labs in Coimbatore have been approved for testing. With this, the State now has 300 testing facilities — 69 in the government sector and 231 private laboratories. As many as 1,51,802 samples were tested. So far, 4,48,52,048 people have been tested. The government is expecting nearly eight lakh doses of vaccines to arrive on Thursday. While the State will receive 50,000 doses of Covaxin, two consignments of Covishield are also expected. On Wednesday, 66,214 doses were administered in 912 sessions.  Coimbatore topped the table with 235 cases. Erode (130), Chengalpattu (110) and Tiruppur (101) followed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1682-fresh-infections/article36622150.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Translation of govt. orders in Tamil gathering pace||The translation of government orders into Tamil is gathering pace as more departments are coming on board, translating especially orders that are of public interest. In a July 12 communication, the Chief Secretary had referred to the Tamil Nadu Official Language Act, 1956, and underscored that Tamil be used completely at government offices. “At a review meeting held by the Department of Tamil Development on September 20, it was found that about 33% of the government orders issued had been translated, and about one-fourth of the Departments had complied with the Chief Secretary’s directive,” a source told The Hindu . The Departments issuing the government orders are to hand over a copy thereof to the Tamil Translation Department. Under Secretaries of all Departments have been appointed nodal officers, and will produce a weekly report. A senior official said the Departments had been instructed to give priority to the orders of public interest. “On several occasions, the revision of the pay scale of employees and related issues are dealt with in an order. We have instructed them to give priority to the orders that are of wide public interest.” In 2013, the government launched the Tamil Unicode Tamil All Character Encoding-based fonts and keyboard drivers developed by Tamil Virtual Academy. It instructed all Departments of the Secretariat and the Heads of Departments to use Tamil Unicode fonts instead of propriety fonts like VAANAVIL-AVVAIYAR. In June this year, the Chief Secretary said in his communication that the online Tamil Unicode Conversion Tool developed by Tamil Virtual Academy would ease the conversion of texts in the non-unicode format without altering their content and reiterated that all Departments use Unicode. He also underlined that Tamil Unicode Standard was among the objectives of e-Governance Policy 2017 and all Departments should adhere to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/translation-of-govt-orders-in-tamil-gathering-pace/article36622300.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judges rap Joint Commissioner of HR&CE for disrespecting the court||The Madras High Court on Wednesday came down heavily on a Joint Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department for filing a reply in a “cavalier manner” to a public interest litigation petition which had complained of encroachment of a major portion of over 400 acres of land belonging to the Bhaktavatsala Perumal temple at Tirukannamangai in Tiruvarur district. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu were irked over the Joint Commissioner G. Thennarasu having told the court that although some encroachers were in possession of the temple land, the procedure contemplated for evicting the encroachers, under the HR&CE Act of 1959, was cumbersome and he could not commit any time limit within which the encroachers could be evicted. The judges pointed out that the Joint Commissioner had reported that some parts of the temple land had been leased out and some were under encroachment. However, the official had not provided the exact extent of the properties that had been leased out and the extent that was under encroachment. The officer had not stated as to who had leased out the temple lands and the number of encroachers. “The cavalier manner in which the counter-affidavit has been prepared cries out for immediate action to be taken against the Joint Commissioner, including for contempt. Indeed, the arrogance of the Joint Commissioner knows no bounds as he suggests in the last paragraph of the affidavit that the procedure contemplated in the HR & CE Act, 1959, is cumbersome and therefore the time limit may not be fixed,” the Bench said. After directing the Joint Commissioner to file an affidavit to show cause why action should not be taken against him for the disrespect shown to the court in the manner in which the counter affidavit had been drafted and for dereliction of duty in not paying attention to any detail or seeking to furnish the same to court, the judges ordered that the HR&CE secretary should file all those details by October 20. The interim orders were passed on the PIL filed by activist advocate ‘Elephant’ G. Rajendran complaining about lack of will to retrieve the encroached temple property. “The Secretary would do well to enthuse government servants in the department so that such complete lack of accountability as is revealed from the counter-affidavit filed by the Joint Commissioner here is more the exception than the rule,” the order read. The judges made it clear that the Secretary should furnish full details regarding the extent of land owned by the temple, the measures taken to retrieve the lands under encroachment, particulars of tenants to whom the temple lands had been let out and the accounts pertaining to the rent that might have been tendered. The details must be made available when the case gets listed next month, they ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judges-rap-joint-commissioner-of-hrce-for-disrespecting-the-court/article36622616.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on career counselling in engg.||Sona College of Technology, along with The Hindu EducationPlus, will on Saturday conduct a career counselling webinar for students on the topic “Engineering education counselling- what direction?”. The webinar is for students from Classes X, XI and XII, and will be held at 11 a.m. Panelists include Chocko Valliappa, vice-chairman, Sona group of institutions; Sona Yukthi, founder and chief executive officer of Vee Technologies HireMee; Anil Sivadas, founder and president, Enventure Engineering LLP, and Sandhya Chintala, executive director, IT-ITeS Sector Skills Council and vice-president of NASSCOM. The session will be moderated by R. Sujatha, deputy editor- reporting, The Hindu. To register for the event, visithttps://bit.ly/SONATH Eor scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-career-counselling-in-engg/article36622154.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM unveils book on Srinivasan Services Trust||Commemorating 25 years of their work in rural development, the book, A Silent Revolution - The Journey of the Srinivasan Services Trust , was released on Wednesday. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin unveiled the book and Venu Srinivasan, chairman, TVS Motor Company; managing trustee, Srinivasan Services Trust, presented the first copy of the book to him. Authored by Snigdha Parupudi, the book traces the journey of the Trust, which is the social arm of Sundaram-Clayton Limited and TVS Motor Company, and how they have facilitated development by improving the lives of rural communities. “We have only played a role of a catalyst. It is the thousands of people across the villages we work with who have spearheaded this revolution of change and carried it forward. We have stood by, and encouraged them,” said Mr. Srinivasan, reflecting on their journey. The book details the trust’s work towards enhancing the socio-economic status of the underprivileged in rural India and the interventions of the trust across six key areas. Mr. Srinivasan said creating and working towards self-empowered societies is the way to go. “To build societies, we need to empower women. With this comes the empowerment of the community at large, and then we move on to health infrastructure, education and other aspects that need attention,” he explained. Their journey, Mr. Srinivasan said, had been one filled with discovery, learning and trust. “There is so much to learn in terms of native, basic wisdom from the rural communities we work with. A big, lasting change requires patience and the importance of being patient is something we have imbibed over the years as well,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-unveils-book-on-srinivasan-services-trust/article36622159.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pallikaranai marshland will not be dredged unnecessarily’||The Madras High Court on Wednesday recorded the submission of the State government that desilting of Pallikaranai marshland in Chennai was done in the past, after obtaining expert advice, only to maintain better water level in the wetland and that no dredging work would be undertaken in future except when such a necessity arises out of removal of encroachments from the waterbody. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu recorded the submission made by government counsel C. Harsha Raj while disposing of a public interest litigation petition preferred by environmental activist G. Sundarrajan of Poovulagin Nanbargal early this year. The litigant’s counsel M. Radhakrishnan argued against sidelining of Conservation Authority of Pallikaranai Marsh Land (CAPML). In reply, the government counsel assured the court that all funds received from the Centre for maintaining the wetland would be deposited only in the bank account of CAPML. Mr. Raj said Rs. 20.30 croreceived from the Centre in 2018 had been deposited into that account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pallikaranai-marshland-will-not-be-dredged-unnecessarily/article36622165.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs meet Minister on Ford issue||Over 50 micro, medium and small enterprises (MSMEs) from across the State who supply materials and components to Ford gathered in Chennai to present details on how their production would be impacted due to the car maker’s decision to cease manufacturing at its plant in Maraimalai Nagar, Chennai. T.M. Anbarasan, Minister for Rural Industries, was present at the Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation Ltd (Sidco) office to listen to the woes of the MSME units. The MSME owners whom The Hindu spoke to said that on an average they would lose anywhere between Rs. 50 lakh and Rs. 4 crore a month depending on the volume (the number would vary for each unit depending on the component they supplied). Data provided by heads of various MSME units shows that around 15% of production directly goes to Ford and the remaining 85% is supplied to other companies who add these parts to the components that they make and supply to Ford. S. Nargunam, Managing Director of Excel Die Castings, which is housed inside the Sidco Industrial Estate, Thirumudivakkam, said, “We are the manufacturers of aluminium pressure die castings and have been supplying mirror assembly parts to Ford company as Tier-2 (through tier-1) for the past ten years. Because of Ford’s decision, we will be losing orders to the tune of Rs. 2.28 crore for the year 2021-22.” Dilsen Auto Components, which makes plastic injection moulding products will see a loss of Rs. 10 lakh-Rs. 12 lakh per month due to Ford’s decision to wind up. It’s proprietor Sudharsan said that they were supplying 30,000-40,000 pieces per month to the tier-1 company for the past 10 years. A Chengalpattu-based unit which makes air ducts through blow moulding process said that 50% of its annual production goes to Ford and the revenue impact would be a loss of Rs. 1 crore per month. Ranipet based PM Techno Pvt Ltd, which makes combination switches and gear shifters for the car maker, would be losing business to the tune of Rs. 18 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh per month. “We make child parts and send it to our Tier 1 firm and from there certain products are exported,” said M.Ellai Arasan, the firm’s director of New Products Development. After listening to the concerns, the Minister said that he would take all these issues to the notice of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ford-closure-will-hit-us-hard-say-msmes/article36622174.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK for 20% quota for Tamil medium students in higher education||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Wednesday demanded that students who study in Tamil medium schools should be given 20% reservations in medical college admissions based on the data released by Justice A.K. Rajan’s report on the impact of NEET in Tamil Nadu. Similar quota must be provided in all streams of higher education. In a statement, he said though the data that number of students studying in Tamil medium schools has decreased after the introduction of NEET was known last year, it was the responsibility of the Centre to ensure that Tamil medium students get equal opportunity in medical admissions. Quoting from the document released, he said that 98.01% of students who joined medical courses via NEET were those who studied in English medium schools while only 1.99% of the students came from Tamil medium schools.  Though the State government introduced 7.5% horizontal reservations for Government school students, which resulted in a 100 times increase in number of students joining medicine from 3 to 336, the number of Tamil medium school students joining medicine has increased only by .30%. Wave against NEET PMK youthwing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said a wave against NEET is going to blow across India citing the letter written by Maharashtra Congress chief to Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray stating that there are several irregularities in the conduct of NEET and that the State should be exempt from it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-for-20-quota-for-tamil-medium-students-in-higher-education/article36622577.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS cautions against dengue||In the wake of Union Health Ministry’s advisory to 11 States, including Tamil Nadu, over serotype-II dengue cases, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Wednesday urged Chief Minister to take all measures to prevent the spread of dengue and create awareness among the general public on the disease. Mr. Panneerselvam cited reports about rains in various parts of the State and the northeast monsoon expected from next month and said the chances of the spread of dengue were high. “Both the government and the public have the responsibility to prevent the spread of dengue,” he said. The AIADMK leader also underlined the need for issuing necessary instructions to officials to prevent the spread of dengue and to take all precautionary measures in public places. While the impact of COVID-19 had still not ended, and when the possibility of a third wave still worried the public, reports about the spread of dengue was like rubbing salt into the wound, he felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-cautions-against-dengue/article36622202.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 share auto passengers die in accident||Three persons were killed and three injured after the share auto in which they were travelling hit a barricade, overturned and a lorry rammed it on G.S.T. Road near Irumbuliyur signal on Tuesday night. The injured have been admitted to a private hospital. According to the Chromepet Traffic Investigation Wing, the share auto was going from Tambaram railway station to Perungalathur with nine persons travelling in it. The share auto driver fled the spot. However, he was arrested on Wednesday. The three persons who died were identified as Nagamuthu, 36, of Puducherry, Isaac Raj, 51, of Panruti and Sundararaj, 37, of Perungalathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-share-auto-passengers-die-in-accident/article36622172.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No water supply for two days in southern areas||Areas in south Chennai will not receive water supply on Friday and Saturday as Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) has scheduled to take up maintenance work at the Nemmeli desalination plant. A press release said the water treatment activities at the plant will be stopped from 6 a.m. on September 24 to 10 a.m. on September 25. Water supply to Adyar, Velachery, Besant Nagar, Sholinganallur, Injambakkam., Neelankarai, Kottivakkam, Perungudi, Palavakkam, Thiruvanmiyur, Mandaveli and Mylapore will be stopped on the two days. Consumers may store sufficient quantity of water in advance. They may contact the respective area engineers for tanker water supply for urgent requirements. The telephone numbers are: Area Engineer-IX – 8144930909 (Mandaveli and Mylapore); Area Engineer, XIII – 8144930913 (Adyar, Velachery, Besant Nagar, and Thiruvanmiyur); Area Engineer XIV –8144930914 (Kottivakkam, Palavakkam, and Perungudi) and Area Engineer XV - 8144930915 (Enjambakkam, Neelankarai, Sholinganallur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-water-supply-for-two-days-in-southern-areas/article36622160.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Translator wants Tirukkural couplets to be displayed in planes, trains||T.E.S. Raghavan, 92, says Tirukkural couplets should be written with their meaning not only in buses but also in airplanes and trains. “A life is not lived, and is wasted, if one has not read Tirukkural ,” said Mr. Raghavan, who won the Sahitya Akademi award for 2020 for his translation of Tirukkural into Hindi. He is well-versed in Tamil, Sanskrit and Hindi. “I studied the Tamil vidwan course at Madras University, Siromani in Sanskrit and MA Hindi at Mysore University. As Tamil is my mother tongue, I had a natural interest in Tirukkural ,” said Mr. Raghavan, who worked as a Tamil and Hindi teacher at the Hindu High School at Triplicane before joining Shree Mangichand Bhandari Jain Higher Secondary School at T. Nagar. There are Tirukkural translations in Hindi, but what sets Mr. Raghavan’s work apart is its poetic rendition. “I have followed ‘kural venba’ — four words in the first line and three in the second — even in Hindi.” He first published the Hindi translation in 1990 and a new edition came out recently. “One should read and listen to kural day and night. It is common for people of all religions,” said Mr. Raghavan, whose work was appreciated by late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi and late President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. Mr. Raghavan, who has also translated the Daya Sathakam , Mukundamala , Bhaja Govindam and other Sanskrit works in Hindi, explained that he had not translated Nalayira Divya Prabandham because the work had already been done by some.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/translator-wants-tirukkural-couplets-to-be-displayed-in-planes-trains/article36622167.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TVS firm, KPN sign settlement agreement||TVS Automobile Solutions Pvt. Ltd on Wednesday signed a settlement pact with KPN Travels India Ltd. over the issue of payment of dues. Earlier this month, NCLT Chennai ordered insolvency proceedings against KPN Travels in a case filed by TVS Automobile Solutions. TVS had said KPN failed to pay dues of Rs. 3.94 crore for supplies made from August 31, 2017 to December 31, 2019 and, along with interest of 18% a year, the total outstanding worked out to Rs. 5.27 crore. KPN has agreed to pay Rs. 4.5 crore against the outstanding amount in two instalments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvs-firm-kpn-sign-settlement-agreement/article36622175.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘NEET eliminated multiple entrance tests’||The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) has eliminated multiple entrance tests usually conducted by different States, deemed universities and central institutions for medical admissions and saved students’ energy, time and money in preparing for them besides reducing anxiety and stress, former Anna University Vice Chancellor E. Balagurusamy has contended. He felt the State had passed an anti-NEET Bill based on what he believed was a “lopsided report” of the Justice A K Rajan panel. However, he acknowledged that coaching had replaced learning in schools and rued that in most private schools the focus was on coaching and not learning. But he added that such coaching existed even before Joint Entrance Examinations and NEET. The result of such coaching was visible in how private school students were able to garner seats in engineering and medical colleges in large numbers, he argued. According to him the committee had failed to highlight some of the issues NEET had addressed. The test paved way for students from the State to be admitted to central institutions and deemed universities and also enter colleges in other states under the 15% All India Quota seats. “If we do not participate in NEET, Tamil Nadu students will lose the opportunity to join these institutions,” he cautioned. Prof Balagurusamy also believed NEET eliminated capitation fee in deemed universities and private medical colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-eliminated-multiple-entrance-tests/article36622205.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State export promotion panel soon||The Tamil Nadu government will constitute a State export promotion committee, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced at the Tamil Nadu Exports’ Conclave, organised in Chennai on Wednesday. The committee will be headed by the Chief Secretary. The State will also set up an agriculture export service centre. The Chief Minister said the State was planning to set up two economic employment enclaves in Manellore and Thoothukudi. The campuses, spread across 6,000 acres in Manellore and 5,000 acres in Thoothukudi, will have state-of-the-art infrastructure, he said. The government has identified 10 export hubs, and will strengthen export-related infrastructure in the hubs, reimbursing 25% project cost, subject to a Rs. 10-crore ceiling per hub. The hubs are: Ambur, Chennai, Coimbatore, Hosur, Kancheepuram, Karur, Madurai, Pollachi, Thoothukudi and Tiruppur. Food parks will be set up in Theni, Manapparai and Tindivanam. An incentive package will be designed for exporters manufacturing value-added products. Mr. Stalin said that his government would stand by exporters and investors, and urged Ministers and officials to ensure that industrial growth is spread across the State and not concentrated in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-export-promotion-panel-soon/article36622144.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister draws flak for comment||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Tuesday faced flak on Twitter after he termed State BJP president K. Annamalai “schizophrenic” in a tweet. Mr. Rajan was responding to allegations made by Mr. Annamalai at a press conference. Mr. Rajan had tweeted, “So... the schizophrenic ‘Kannadiga till I die’, except when ‘100% Tamil’, or ‘IPS-version’ threat issuer, turns out to be the fake-news dolt-in-chief,” hinting at the State BJP chief’s comments when he was an IPS officer in Karnataka about him being a Kannadiga, and his subsequent comments about being a Tamil after taking over as State BJP president. Social and disability activist Deepaknathan termed Mr. Rajan’s use of the term “unfortunate”. He said using psychosocial disabilities like schizophrenia to label political opponents was not acceptable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-draws-flak-for-comment/article36622151.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||VCK to contest civic polls on independent symbol||VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Wednesday said the party will contest the upcoming rural local body polls in 9 newly carved-out districts on an independent symbol as part of the DMK alliance. Mr. Thirumavalavan announced 16 candidates for the local body seats in Villupuram (East) and Kancheepuram (South) districts. The VCK has been allotted ward 15 and ward 24 in Kandamangalam, wards 17 and 11 in Koliyanur, wards 26 and 2 in Vanur, ward 26 in Kanai and wards 10 and 12 in Vikkiravandi in Villupuram East. The party has also been allotted ward 21 in Madhurandhakam North Union, ward 26 (Vayalur) in Thirukazhukundram South Union, ward 5 (Kuvathur) in Ilathur Union, ward 6 (Inthalur), ward 8 (Nerkunam) and ward 12 (Vedal) in Siththamur North and South Union. NEET issue Speaking after meeting the parents of a medical aspirant who died by suicide, Mr. Thirumavalavan said, “Though we didn’t get the number of seats that we expected, we are glad that the negotiations were concluded in a cordial manner. We will contest on an independent symbol in the seats that we have been allotted.” Mr. Thirumavalavan also appealed to the medical aspirants writing NEET not to take any drastic decisions. “Whether you do well or not in NEET, and even if you don’t get a seat after doing well in NEET, I appeal to you that you must not take extreme decisions,” he said. “The President should give his consent to the Bill that seeks exemption from NEET for Tamil Nadu. On Tuesday, under the leadership of Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani, like-minded parties discussed the NEET issue. We decided to hold programmes in major cities in Tamil Nadu that would explain why NEET should not be held. At the end, we will also hold a protest. The document presented by Justice A.K. Rajan provides added impetus to why NEET should not be held,” he said.   (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-to-contest-civic-polls-on-independent-symbol-in-dmk-alliance/article36622152.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man stabs lender during spat, arrested||The police have detained A. Pandian, 62, of Ekkatuthangal on charges of attempt to murder after he assaulted Kannan of Pillayar Koil, Ekkatuthangal, in Guindy station limits on Monday. The accused was arrested and the weapon used in the assault was seized by the police. Pandian had borrowed Rs. 2 lakh from Kannan’s wife Devi two years ago. The accused did not heed Devi’s repeated demands to return the money. On Monday, Ms. Devi and Mr. Kannan went to Pandian’s house. During a heated argument, Pandian stabbed Mr. Kannan with a knife. Immediately, Ms. Devi and a few neighbours rushed Kannan to a hospital where he is undergoing treatment, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-stabs-lender-during-spat-arrested/article36622171.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rose Day observed at Apollo||World Rose Day was observed by Apollo Cancer Centre, Teynampet, to spread the message that cancer is conquerable. The celebrations are a time for the hospital to show appreciation to patients and their families. Actor Silambarasan T.R. participated in the celebrations. Cancer survivors at the Apollo Cancer Institute shared their experiences. Harshad Reddy, Director, Apollo Hospitals, said the group observed Rose Day to appreciate how valiant the patients have been as the mental impact of the disease was big.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rose-day-observed-at-apollo/article36622157.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work for new refinery begins||Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (CPCL) has kick-started project activities for construction of the 9 million metric tonne per annum (MMTPA) refinery in Nagapattinam at an estimated investment of Rs. 31,580 crore. The project, which would have a petrochemical complex, is planned to be completed in 45 months. Chief Minister M. K. Stalin recently handed over the government order (G.O.) for acquisition of 606 acres of land adjoining the existing refinery site at Nagapattinam to Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) Chairman S.M. Vaidya in the presence of CPCL Managing Director Arvind Kumar. Following this, CPCL has awarded contracts amounting to Rs. 1,538 crore to project management consultants Engineers India Limited (EIL), McDermott and Tata Consulting Engineers (TCE). This new refinery would produce petrol and diesel of Bharat Stage-VI specifications and polypropylene as a value-added product, at a cost of Rs. 31,580 crore. Additional investment of about Rs. 4,000 crore would flow into the project from other stake holders on the build-own-and- operate basis. The project would be implemented as a joint venture with IOCL, whose group company is CPCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpcl-kicks-starts-project-activities-for-new-refinery-at-nagapattinam/article36622553.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore airport to get advanced aircraft navigation system||Coimbatore International Airport is currently undergoing a technical revamp which will enable precise, safe and smooth navigation for aircraft. Airport authorities said that the flight procedures department of the Airports Authority of India (AAI), New Delhi, is in the process of designing and promulgating the ‘Required Navigation Performance’ (RNP) approaches for Coimbatore International Airport. The RNP approaches help aircraft operate along a precise flight path. This is in addition to the existing conventional instrument approaches. According to airport director S. Senthil Valavan, the conventional instrument approaches are a set of pre-determined manoeuvres which provide lateral and vertical guidance to an aircraft landing at an airport using ground based navigation aids such as Very high frequency Omni-directional Range (VOR), Non-Directional Beacon (NDB), Distance Measuring Equipment (DME), Instrument Landing System (ILS), etc. The RNP approaches, however, allows an aircraft to fly specified paths using only on board equipment with both accuracy and integrity, he said. The RNP approaches are being designed for runway 05 and 23 at Coimbatore International Airport. This will provide a smoother descent gradient, lower obstacle clearance altitudes and also reduce the minimum visibility requirement for the landing aircraft. Reduce track miles It will also reduce the track miles for an arriving aircraft thereby resulting in savings on fuel and reduction in carbon emissions, he said. A concept-level meeting involving stakeholders including representatives of different airlines and Air Force Station, Sulur, was held at Coimbatore airport on September 17. The RNP procedures are expected to undergo extensive simulator and flight trials before their promulgation, added Mr. Valavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-airport-to-get-advanced-aircraft-navigation-system/article36622209.ece
23 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Erode businessman gets 10-year jail term, Rs. 2.40-cr. fine in emu scam||The Special court for the trial of cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act in Coimbatore on Wednesday sentenced the proprietor of an emu farm to undergo 10 years of imprisonment for duping customers of Rs. 2.39 crore. Special Judge A.S. Ravi awarded the punishment to M.S. Guru alias Gurusamy (40), managing director of Susi Emu Farms India Private Limited based at Perundurai in Erode district. Gurusamy started the firm in 2010 with its office on Raja Street, Perundurai, and introduced two schemes to customers. Under the first scheme, the company promised to provide six emu chicks, feeds, erection of shed for their rearing, expense for veterinary care and insurance for an investment of Rs. 1.5 lakh. The company promised them of paying Rs. 6,000 per month for maintenance and an annual bonus of Rs. 20,000. The investors were also assured that they would get the initial deposit of Rs. 1.5 lakh after two years. Under the second scheme, investors were promised of getting monthly returns of Rs. 7,000 and annual bonus of Rs. 30,000 for investment of Rs. 1.5 lakh. The firm assured of rearing care of emu chicks and returning the initial deposit of Rs. 1.5 lakh after two years. A total of 96 customers invested Rs. 2,39,15,600 in the company which, however, failed to keep its promises. One of the investors M. Selvam from Senthamangalam in Namakkal lodged a complaint with the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), Namakkal, in August 2012. A case was registered against Gurusamy, the company and seven persons associated with them. The TNPID court, which acquitted the seven others, ordered Gurusamy to pay Rs. 2.35 crore out of the total fine of Rs. 2.40 crore to the investors who were defrauded. The court issued a non-bailable warrant against Gurusamy who did not appear before it on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-businessman-gets-10-years-jail-rs-240-crore-fine-in-emu-scam/article36622181.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Form committee to study problems of contract conservancy workers’||The State Government that had formed a committee to study the impact of NEET should form a committee to study the plight of contract conservancy workers, National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (NCSK) Chairman M. Venkatesan said here on Wednesday. “The Government which constituted the Justice (retd.) A.K. Rajan Committee to study the impact of NEET should form a similar committee to study the sufferings of conservancy workers engaged on contract to local bodies. The committee should be similarly headed by a retired judge,” he said after holding a review meeting with officials. He was sure that such a committee would strongly recommend ending the contract system, for the problems of contract conservancy workers were manifold. “It is one of the most corrupt systems that I’ve seen and there is a massive scam.” Mr. Venkatesan said the commission would also urge the Government to constitute a State commission on the lines of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis. It should also establish a conservancy workers’ development corporation like the one that exists at the national-level. Tamil Nadu had only a welfare board for conservancy workers, for which a Minister was chairperson. The welfare board did not have as much powers as a commission would have. It could neither inquire into complaints or forward recommendations to the Government. What the State needed was a commission, he said and pointed out that Karnataka had such a commission for conservancy workers, which was functioning with sufficient independence. The State Government had claimed that there was no manual scavenging in the State. The commission had not received any complaint, so far. If it were to receive complaints of manual scavenging, it would take a serious view. But, unfortunately, there were only verbal complaints. The fact that awareness that people or conservancy workers could approach the commission with such complaints was very poor in this part of the country. Since his assuming office about six months ago, he had not received any such complaint and was forced to go by media reports, he averred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-committee-to-study-problems-of-contract-conservancy-workers/article36622187.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 85% of industry workers vaccinated, says Collector||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in the organised sector in Coimbatore district have achieved average 87% coverage of one dose of COVID-19 vaccine for its workers, District Collector G.S. Sameeran said here on Tuesday. The Collector said that almost 3.3 lakh workers in the MSMEs have taken at least one dose of the vaccine. Large-scale units In the case of large-scale industries, the average vaccination coverage is 92% (one dose) with a little more than one lakh workers taking the jab. “We expect the MSME workers covered to stagnate at about 87%. This is because the attrition rate is high in these units and the workers keep switching jobs,” he said. Though there is no data available on workers in the unorganised sectors, several unorganised sector workers are expected to have taken the vaccination at the camps organised regularly in the district. Vaccine availability is not an issue and industries are persuading the workers to take the vaccine. Meeting held The Collector and Chairman and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation Hans Raj Verma conducted a meeting with start-ups and incubator representatives here on Monday. The Collector said that there was potential for several unicorns emerging from Coimbatore and one of the main demands of the start-ups was access to credit from financial institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-85-of-industry-workers-vaccinated-says-collector/article36622188.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 235 positive cases||Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported 235 new cases of COVID-19, registering an increase from Tuesday’s 218. As many as 237 persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday and the district had 2,165 active cases. The death toll of the district increased to 2,320 after a 88-year-old woman from Coimbatotre died of COVID-19 at a government hospital in Erode on Monday. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 2.0 % on Tuesday when 11,179 swab samples were collected and 218 persons tested positive for COVID-19. Tiruppur district reported 101 fresh cases, which took the tally to 92,307. The overall toll remained at 950 as no new deaths were reported by the Health Department. The district had 937 active cases and 71 patients from the district recovered on Wednesday. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district based on Tuesday’s data was 1.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-235-positive-cases/article36622195.ece
23 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Exporters welcome T.N. export policy||Garment exporters in the State have welcomed the Tamilnadu Export Promotion policy announced by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday. Chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council and Federation of Indian Exporters’ Association A. Sakthivel said that setting up of warehouses for cotton in the State and constituting an export development committee would benefit exporters in the State. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said that he was confident the policy would help the State achieve $ 100 billion by 2030 from the current $ 30.53 billion. Textile and related products currently contributed $ 7.38 billion to the total export earnings in the State. This included $ 4 billion from Tiruppur. The schemes announced by the State government on Wednesday would benefit the knitwear units in Tiruppur. Strengthening of export related common infrastructure projects in the export hubs and reimbursement of 25% of the project cost, subject to a ceiling of Rs. 10 crore for each hub would also be beneficial to Tiruppur cluster, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exporters-welcome-tn-export-policy/article36622178.ece
23 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||GPS rovers deployed for surveying temple lands||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department has deployed GPS-powered rovers to survey temple lands in both Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts in an accurate manner and to ascertain the extent of encroachments. Officials said that two GPS rovers were allocated for Coimbatore district. The two devices will be prioritised for those temples with large amounts of lands in the district in the initial phase and will later be expanded to all temples under the control of the HR&CE Joint Commissioner (Coimbatore Zone), they said. There will be five licensed surveyors who would be handling the two rovers. The HR&CE Department has hired them based on a one-year contract as it was estimated that the survey process would be completed by 2022. These devices will yield authentic data of the boundaries of the lands belonging to each temple, which would aid in determining the encroachments that have not been identified so far, according to the officials. As part of the first phase, the two GPS rovers were deployed for surveying the temple lands belonging to Patteeswarar Temple in Perur. The temple is estimated to have 367 acres of land, of which around 100 acres have been surveyed in the past one week using the rovers, officials said. After this, the rovers will be used to survey lands in Sulur such as that of Vaidyanatha Swamy Temple that is estimated to have nearly 400 acres of temple lands, the HR&CE Department officials added. In Tiruppur district, officials said that three GPS rovers and eight licensed surveyors were involved in the surveying of temple lands. The rovers were used in locations such as Nallur and Udumalpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gps-rovers-deployed-for-surveying-temple-lands/article36622189.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK interfering with appointment of animators’||National Commission for Safai Karamcharis Chairman M. Venkatesan has accused the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam of interfering with the dismissal and appointment of animators. In Coimbatore, 120 animators, appointed under the Swachh Bharat Mission, were dismissed. Like other frontline workers during the pandemic, they did exemplary work. A few of them even transported positive persons on their two-wheelers to hospitals. But after the change in government in the State, they were being dismissed. When the workers questioned their termination or sought reappointment, they were being told to get the nod from the local DMK leaders or office-bearers, he said and pointed out that a terminated animator in Kuthalam Municipality had given a dying declaration before ending her life. A few colleagues of the animator had also alleged interference by the DMK, he said and sought an end to termination of animators and their reappointment. Mr. Venkatesan also said that local bodies engaging conservancy workers on contract through contractors or manpower agencies was a huge scam. The contractors while deducting provident fund contribution or ESI contribution failed to credit those in workers’ names. And, the local bodies failed to monitor those for obvious reasons. This should stop. Following complaints, he had asked the Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner to constitute a committee to study the issue and help workers get provident fund, Mr. Venkatesan said. The Tamil Nadu Government should follow the Karnataka model, where the local bodies directly engaged workers on contract and paid each worker Rs. 18,000 a month as wages. This was higher than what most conservancy workers in Tamil Nadu were paid and the Karnataka workers also got to enjoy provident fund cover. During his interaction with conservancy workers and later while reviewing the workers’ issues with the officials, the Chairman said he also came across difference in wages in districts. Workers in Erode and Tiruppur were getting paid more than their Coimbatore counterparts. This should end. Following a State Government order all District Collectors should pay uniform wages, he said. The other issue that was brought to his notice was poor housing facilities for conservancy workers. He had asked the Collector to look into the issue, ensure proper housing facilities and also take up the task of providing houses under the Prime Minister’s Housing Scheme. In response to a question, Mr. Venkatesan said he had urged district administrations and the local bodies to ensure that safety gear was given to all the workers and that they were fined for not using those.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-interfering-with-appointment-of-animators/article36622198.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five get life term in murder case||The First Additional District Court on Wednesday sentenced five men to undergo life imprisonment for murdering a 45-year-old man in 2018. First Additional District Judge S. Nagarajan awarded the punishment to Manikandan (23) alias Poosari Mani of Sowripalayam, Anantharaj (27), Naveenkumar (24), and Sasimohan (28) of Uppilipalayam and Mohanbabu (33) of Lakshmipuram for murdering Babu, a daily wage worker from SIHS Colony, in August 2018. Though Babu was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, he died. Tense situation prevailed in front of the court as family members and friends of the five men gathered to hear the judgment. The court also slapped a fine of Rs. 1,000 each on the five persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-get-life-term-in-murder-case/article36622193.ece
23 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Form Farmer Assist Committee’||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, will appeal to the State government to constitute a Farmer Assist Committee for the benefit of farmers. This was one of the resolutions passed at the annual meeting of the Chamber held here recently. The Committee will give the farmers exposure to latest high yielding crop and seed varieties, help them plan crop methods, expose them to water conservation and management, explain the benefits of native live stock in agricultural lands, and share details on the benefits of cooperative marketing and cold storage. The Chamber members had recently interacted with the Joint Director of the Local Planning Authority, Coimbatore district. It will continue to pursue the need for speedy release of a Master Plan for Coimbatore. Formation of Greater Coimbatore Development Authority should be expedited. The Chamber will also interact regularly with the authorities concerned on the need to improve rail and air connectivity to Coimbatore, and improve the railway and airport infrastructure. The Coimbatore north junction should be developed into a hub station, it said. On the taxation front, there is a need to reduce the Goods and Services Tax on engineering job work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-farmer-assist-committee/article36622177.ece
23 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Admissions to ESIC colleges||The Sub-Regional Office of Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) announced that 382 MBBS and 28 BDS seats are reserved for the children of ESI insured persons in the various colleges. Applicants shall visitwww.esic.nic.into apply online for ‘Ward of IP’ certificate. The online link will be deactivated by 11.59 p.m. on September 27 and physical copies of the applications must be submitted to the concerned Branch Offices by September 28, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admissions-to-esic-colleges/article36622183.ece
23 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held with nitrazepam tablets||The Bazaar Street police on Tuesday arrested two youth on charges of possessing nitrazepam tablets for illegal sales. The police said that 50 tablets of the scheduled drug were seized from Kaja Hussain (20) of Pullukadadu and Sankar Ganeshan (22) of South Ukkadam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-with-nitrazepam-tablets/article36622185.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide amenities in Karumbukkadai’||Jammat e Islami Hind has written to the district administration and the Corporation seeking basic amenities in Karumbukkadai. In a petition, it wanted the Corporation to set right the problems in underground sewer system, repair damaged roads, develop a park and build a library. To the district administration, the organisation said it wanted the government school to be elevated to a higher secondary school. The other demands of the organisation included establishing a primary health centre, taking steps to remove encroachments and prevent pollution in River Noyyal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-amenities-in-karumbukkadai/article36622184.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on Friday||In view of the proposed maintenance works at Kaniyur sub-station on September 24, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m., in the following areas: Rasipalayam, Arugampalayam, Kaniyur, Sheeba Nagar, Kollupalayam, Subarayampalayam, one part of Thennampalayam and Uthupalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-friday/article36622192.ece
23 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||A 39-year-old man was arrested by the police on Tuesday on charges of sexually assaulting and impregnating a minor girl. The arrested has been identified as S. Godwin, who hails from Perumalpuram in Tirunelveli. He had been working in Coimbatore as a taxi driver. The police said he allegedly assaulted the house owner’s daughter sexually after giving her a soft drink mixed with a sedative. Godwin was arrested based on the girl’s complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article36622196.ece
23 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||District Collector stresses ‘accident-free Dharmapuri’||Following frequent accidents in some stretches of the national and state highways, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini urged officials officials concerned to visit the respective spots in their jurisdictions to take remedial action. Inter-departmental coordination between road transport department, revenue, police,highways was underlined by the Collector in order to create an “accident-free Dharmapuri”. A special district-level team shall act to give a report on the accident after examining the spot. Presiding over a meeting on law and order and road safety, the Collector called upon the officials to intervene with remedial action as and when accidents are reported on certain stretches of the national and state highways. Ms. Dhivyadarshini said it was incumbent upon officials to step up and consult with the local police to chalk out remedial measures to prevent accidents in frequent accident zones. At crowded junctions, the officials were asked to coordinate with the other departments to remove encroachments. ‘Act against speeding’ The Road Transport Department was asked to act against speeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-collector-stresses-accident-free-dharmapuri/article36622316.ece
23 September 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Woman murdered, head placed in front of Pasupathi Pandian’s house||In an apparent revenge attack for the 2012 murder of Devendrakula Vellalar Kootamaippu leader Pasupathi Pandian here, an unidentified gang beheaded a woman, P. Nirmala Devi, 59, near Chettinayakkanpatti on Wednesday. The assailants placed her head in front of the house of the slain leader at Nanthavanapatti, a couple of kilometres away from the scene of crime. Inspector General of Police (South Zone) T.S. Anbu, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul) B. Vijayakumari and Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan visited the spot. The police said the woman was involved in allocation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme works in the morning when the gang members attacked her with lethal weapons. She is the fifth accused in the murder of Pasupathi Pandian in his house in January 2012. Nirmala Devi had been charged with helping the assailants by finding them a house in Dindigul prior to the murder of Pasupathi Pandian. Pasupathi Pandian murder case is being heard in a local court, and so far five persons have been murdered in this connection in different districts on various occasions. The police have recovered a motorcycle suspected to have been used for the murder of the woman. Special teams have been formed to nab the assailants. Police pickets have been posted at vantage points. Thadikombu police are investigating. Another incident of beheading rocked Dindigul late on Wednesday night. The police found the severed head of one Stephen, 38, at Hanumantharayankottai around 9 p.m. that kept them on their toes again. Later, the body was found at Vattaparai some 1.5 km. The police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-murdered-head-placed-in-front-of-pasupathi-pandians-house/article36622204.ece
23 September 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Huge haul of liquor bottles||Dindigul District Police on Wednesday seized 11,136 Tasmac liquor bottles that were stealthily stocked in a farm in Hanumantharayankottai. Acting on a tip-off, a police team raided the farm and found the liquor bottles stocked without any licence. The bottles worth over Rs. 10 lakh were seized and six persons, including former president of Hanumantharayankottai panchayat, Inbaraj were arrested. “Investigation is under way to find out from where such a huge stock was procured,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police (Prohibition Enforcement Wing) P. Nagarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/huge-haul-of-liquor-bottles-in-dindigul/article36622306.ece
23 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to regularise contract workers in local bodies||Urging the State government to regularise the contract workers in local bodies, members of the Erode District Local Body Workers’ Association submitted a petition to the district administration here on Wednesday. Led by K. Subbarayan, Tiruppur MP and State president of AITUC, members urged the government to stop recruiting workers on contract basis or outsourcing agencies for the corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and other local bodies. “The government should directly recruit them on a permanent basis”, they said. They said that discrepancy prevails in wages among the workers in local bodies and wanted equal pay for equal work as ordered by the Supreme Court. “All the local bodies should ensure minimum wages,” the letter said and wanted the vacancies to be filled in all the local bodies. The letter said that Thuimai Kavalargal were paid a monthly salary of Rs. 3,600, while tank operators were given Rs. 4,000 a month. “Their jobs should be regularised and they should be given a minimum monthly wage of Rs. 15,000,” the letter said. Their other demands were scrapping of new pension scheme, disbursement of wages within the fifth of every month, providing necessary safety gadgets to workers, implementing all labour welfare laws and providing an incentive of Rs. 15,000 to all those who worked during COVID-19. The petition was handed over to District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan. Former MLAs P.L. Sundaram and N. Periyasamy, District AITUC president S. Chinnasamy, secretary, R. Maniyan, treasurer P. Ravi and over 750 workers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-regularise-contract-workers-in-local-bodies/article36622318.ece
23 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Integrated command and control centre works to be over by May next year||The work to establish a Rs. 4.75-crore Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) on the premises of Erode Corporation office is expected to be completed by May next year. Smart City Mission Under the Smart City Mission projects, the civic body is implementing the underground sewerage scheme, dedicated water supply scheme, solid waste management and other projects. The Centre will serve as an integrated point where all the real-time data related to water supply and disruptions, movement of garbage collection vehicles, faulty street lights, traffic congestion on roads, leakages in pipelines, pumping of raw water and distribution to all the reservoirs and 60 wards will be monitored. Officials said that the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition system would help technicians operate, monitor pumping of water to the tanks and distribution to public. The system would be integrated to the centre and officials would be able to switch off and on the motors and control the water distribution in all the wards. In solid waste management, the system would help monitor movement of lorries, diesel usage and disposal at the compost yard. A giant screen would be installed at the first floor of the centre, where data related to all these services will be monitored by officials. The civic body has asked the public to register their complaints/grievances related to its services through a Whatsapp number. The status of each complaint would be monitored at the centre and steps taken, they added. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu the project is expected to be completed by the end of May next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/integrated-command-and-control-centre-works-to-be-over-by-may-next-year/article36622322.ece
23 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 130 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district on Wednesday reported two COVID-19-related deaths and 130 new cases. The district’s overall tally rose to 1,01,046 cases. While 134 persons were discharged, 1,385 were under treatment. The district’s toll increased to 668. Salem district reported 98 fresh cases, which took the overall tally to 97,544. While 56 persons were discharged, 668 were active cases. Namakkal district reported 45 new cases, and the overall tally rose to 50,148. While 64 persons were discharged, 529 were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-130-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article36622323.ece
23 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Beware of job scams’||The District Police have asked unemployed youths to remain cautious while dealing with people who promise government jobs for a huge sum. A release said that in the past two years, 11 such cases were registered in the district. Only based on written test and interview, candidates were selected for government jobs. If people come across such persons, they can alert the District Police Office at 96552-20100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beware-of-job-scams/article36622325.ece
23 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||September 23 (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.)   Nadupalayam : Nadupalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Malayampalayam, Pasur, Kombanai Pudur, P.K. Mangalam, Injampalli, Kolanalli, Karumandampalayam, P.K. Palayam, Solangapalayam, Arampalayam, M.K. Pudur, Kalipalayam, Kolathupalayam, Semmandampalayam and Kuttapalayam.  Thanneerpandal and Avalpoondurai sub-stations : Avalpoondurai, Kanagapuram, Thuyyam Poondurai, Poondurai Semur, Palliyuthu, Pallapalayam, Thirumangalam, Sengattuvalasu, Velampalayam, Rattaisutri Palayam, Ashokapuram, Thanneerpandal, Nadupalayam, Gnanipalayam, Mayiladi, Ulagapuram, Anjurampalayam, Vellivalasu, Kudimiyampalayam, Mugasi Anumanpalli, Kulathur, Rayapalayam, Kotthumuttipalayam, Unjapalayam, Nanjampalayam, Sankarankadu, Vinayagapuram and Chennipaali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article36622326.ece
23 September 2021||Erode/ Salem,TAMIL NADU||Water level in dams||The water level at Bhavanisagar dam continued to beremain at 102 feet, against the full reservoir level of 105 feet on Wednesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow was 2,331 cusecs. The discharge was 1,800 cusecs in to Lower Bhavani Project canal, 470 cusecs in to Kalingarayan canal and 30 cusecs in to River Bhavani. The water level in Stanley Reservoir stood at 73.37 feet, against the full reservoir level of 120 feet. Public Works Department officals said that at 8 a.m. the inflow was 11,124 cusecs, while the discharge was 7,000 cusecs in to River Cauvery and 800 cusecs in to canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-in-dams/article36622324.ece
23 September 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert sounded along River Thenpennai||The Krishnagiri district administration has issued a flood alert in areas along Thenpennnai river with the increase in the water level in KRP reservoir here on Wednesday. The KRP dam crossed 50.90 ft of its total 52 ft. The water level at the dam is 1540.71mcft of the total capacity of 1666.29 mcft. Rainfall In its wake, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy has issued a flood alert with the entire outflow proposed in the river. As of Wednesday morning, the inflow into the reservoir was 711 cusecs and the outflow was 248 cusecs. This entails outflow of 177 cusecs in the canal and 71 cusecs in the river. The average rainfall received was 77.4mm. With the outflow in the river, the Collector has issued a warning to public and those living along the low lying areas of the river to keep away from the river, whose level is expected to swell. Kelavarapalli dam in Hosur had reached 39.03ft of the total capacity of 44.28 ft. The inflow and outflow is 408 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-sounded-along-river-thenpennai/article36622315.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A fleet of boats passing under Pamban rail bridge attracts tourists||The sight of sea would always fascinate the young and the old alike. And when a fleet of boats passes under the Scherzer’s span of Pamban rail bridge, it becomes a rare sight for tourists. This is exactly what scores of tourists and pilgrims who were crossing Pamban road bridge were lucky enough to witness on Wednesday afternoon. 60 boats A fleet of around 60 boats from Nagapattinam that had trickled in and anchored in Pamban since Tuesday morning started to cross from the Palk Bay towards Kochi through the Gulf of Mannar. “Since, the northeast monsoon is all set to begin, fishermen from Tamil Nadu coast would go to Kerala coast where they would take up deep-sea fishing for the next three months,” an official said. The tourists vehicles that were going on the road bridge came to a halt when the tourists saw the two wings in the middle of the bridge opening to allow the boats cross under it around noon. Even the sight of the boats queuing up on the dark blue sea attracted the pilgrims from the mainland. While many were awestruck, some took photographs and selfies to freeze the moment for cherishing them all their lifetime. The tourists lingered around the spot though the police asked them not to crowd on the busy bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-fleet-of-boats-passing-under-pamban-rail-bridge-attracts-tourists/article36622548.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes final report against two protesters||Bringing relief to two Madurai men who had distributed pamphlets against Sterlite Copper to passengers at the Madurai railway station, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the final report filed against them. The court was hearing the petition filed by Sivakumar and Murali. They sought quashing of the final report filed against them pending before the Judicial Magistrate VI, Madurai. They distributed the pamphlets to passengers in 2018. The case of the prosecution was that the activities created enmity among society and incited violence against the State. It was said they also indulged in nuisance. They were booked by the Railway Police. Following the investigation, the final report was filed. The petitioners were booked under the Sections 153 (B) (Imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 505 (1)(b) and 505 (1)(c) (Statements conducting to public mischief) of IPC and Section 137 (1)(a) of Railways Act (attempting to travel without proper ticket). Justice G. Ilangovan observed that the campaign or propaganda against the Sterlite Copper plant in Thoothukudi was not an offence. Right to protest, propaganda and campaign was well recognised under the Constitution. The court said that no doubt the protesters have the freedom of expression to protest and campaign, but they cannot enter any place at any time and issue pamphlets and indulge in protest and campaign. However, the offences were not attracted. How the issuance of pamphlets, protesting and campaigning against Sterlite Copper would result in disruption of national integration is not known. Issuing pamphlets and protesting by no stretch of imagination can be considered to incite lawlessness in society, the court said. The judge said that it was only advocacy. The Supreme Court had clearly made a distinction between advocacy and incitement. The major offences were not attracted and, therefore, the final report was liable to be quashed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-final-report-against-two-protesters/article36622303.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court grants bail in financial fraud case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday granted bail to an accused in the financial fraud case involving ‘Helicopter Brothers’ M.R. Ganesh and M.R. Swaminathan of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted bail to S. Venkatesan of Kumbakonam, a priest who was said to have been involved in canvassing for investments in the company owned by the brothers. Earlier, the court had granted him bail in a connected case. The court was told that the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) would probe the financial fraud case. There were more than 41 complaints against the main accused who had invested the money abroad, particularly in Malaysia. The ‘Helicopter Brothers’ were accused of cheating the residents of Kumbakonam to the tune of several crores of rupees. They had claimed that they were into diversified businesses that included helicopter service, dairy farms, gold investments and financial companies. They were arrested based on a complaint lodged by the investors and remanded in judicial custody. The investigation in the case was transferred to the Economic Offences Wing in order to ascertain the total extent of the financial fraud committed by them. Earlier, the High Court denied bail to Akilandam, another accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-grants-bail-in-financial-fraud-case/article36622278.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Keep Gandhi in conscience, says granddaughter Tara||Overwhelmed by the outpouring of affection for Mahatma Gandhi in Madurai on a day that marked the centenary year of Gandhi’s dress revolution, his granddaughter Tara Gandhi Bhattacharjee urged people to read his writings to understand him the best. In the city to take part at a series of events organised by the Gandhi Memorial Museum to commemorate the day when Gandhi shed his western attire and adopted the iconic shawl and a half-dhoti, she said the world should know more about Madurai and its importance. It was at a house on West Masi Street where Gandhi saw a poor peasant in humble clothing and decided to embrace the loincloth and made his first public appearance immediately thereafter at the Gandhi Pottal on Kamarajar Salai. The statues of the Mahatma installed at both places were garlanded by Ms. Tara, who was accompanied by her grandson Vithur Bharath Ram, along with A. Annamalai, chairman of Tamil Nadu Gandhi Smarak Nidhi and director, National Gandhi Museum, Delhi, and M. Manickam, chairman of the Gandhi Memorial Museum. “My grandfather was a karmayogi, who believed in minimalism, and that is what the COVID-19 pandemic is also teaching us,” Ms. Tara told journalists. She added that today’s youth is in search of Gandhian thoughts, which adults have not been able to convey to them. “And for that, each of us needs to listen to our conscience and guide our children and youth properly by what we do and not merely say.” Unwilling to answer questions on any political party or agenda, she said, “Gandhiji was a nagrik [a citizen]. I like individuals and believe in democracy and people’s power, not governments.” She called upon like-minded citizens to reach out to the masses with Gandhi’s messages that would never go obsolete.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keep-gandhi-in-conscience-says-granddaughter-tara/article36622148.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL petition for amendments to qualification rules for PG Assistants in private schools||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday sought response from the State on a public interest litigation petition seeking amendments to the Tamil Nadu Recognised Private Schools Regulation Rules with regard to qualification for the post of Postgraduate Assistants in academic subjects. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response to the petition filed by the petitioner, R. Suresh Kumar of Paramakudi, Ramanathapuram district. He said amendments should be made to bring it in tune with the qualification prescribed for the post of PG Assistant in academic subjects in Higher Secondary Schools by insisting Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in the same subject or equivalent for appointment to the post. He said competent teachers were required to impart education to students and the competence of a teacher in a subject depended upon the continuous education the teacher received in that subject. A candidate with a Master’s and a Bachelor’s degree in the same subject would be more equipped to handle the subject. The government, realising the importance of the same, had rightly amended the Tamil Nadu Higher Secondary Education Rules. However, amendments were not carried in the Tamil Nadu Recognised Private Schools Regulation Rules. When the post was the same, prescribing two different qualifications for government and private schools was discriminatory and amendments had to be made to Tamil Nadu Recognised Private Schools Regulation Rules, according to the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-amend-rules-on-qualification-for-pg-assistants-in-private-schools/article36622550.ece
23 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||10-member gang arrested with four bags of fake currency notes in Madurai||Timely intervention by Madurai Rural District Police on Wednesday thwarted a cheating attempt by a gang in Karur district with fake currency notes under the pretext of providing Rs. 2-crore loan. Police seized four bags full of fake notes in the denominations of Rs. 2,000, Rs. 500 and Rs. 100, a set of police uniform and two cars and arrested 10 persons. “Following a tip-off, a special police team intercepted a vehicle to nab two persons, T. Anbarasan, 31, of Madurai and A. Humayun, 42, of Dindigul, who are accused in a 2020 cheating case in Kalligudi. However, during the vehicle check, we found that 10 persons travelling in two vehicles were in possession of fake notes and a set of police uniform,” Madurai Superintendent of Police V. Basakaran said. In the earlier case, police had arrested some of the accused and were on the lookout for Anbarasan and Humayun, who were caught on Wednesday. Police found that the inter-State gang, including Tommy Thomas, 50, from Kozhikode in Kerala, and others from various districts such as Chennai, Coimbatore, Karur, Dindigul, Madurai, Erode, Namakkal and Vellore, conspired to cheat a man in Karur on the promise of Rs. 2-crore loan for a commission of Rs. 10 lakh. Their modus operandi was to display the bag full of currency notes from a distance to the victim and takethe Rs. 10-lakh commission. Even as the transaction was on, a gang member would suddenly appear on the scene sporting the police uniform and posing as a Sub-Inspector. The gangsters would press a fake alarm of police presence and flee with Rs. 10 lakh and make the victim run with the fake currency notes. All accused were sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-with-fake-currency-notes-held/article36622299.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Floral tributes paid||Gandhi Corner in Madurai railway junction was decorated and floral tributes were paid to a photograph of the Father of the Nation on Wednesday to mark the centenary year of his Loin Cloth Revolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/floral-tributes-paid/article36622549.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||240 kg of banned tobacco products seized||Madurai Rural District police seized 240 kg of banned tobacco products and arrested three persons near Alanganallur on Tuesday night. During routine patrolling, a team of police led by Alanganallur Inspector Sankar Kannan intercepted a car and found the banned consignment. The team arrested C. Nesamani of Sivagnaga district, M. Veerappan, 43, of Kathaikinaru and A. Periyathambi, 37, of Alanganallur and seized Rs. 1.07 lakh cash, the car and a two-wheeler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/240-kg-tobacco-products-seized/article36622308.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Trickster nabbed in Madurai||Madurai Rural District Police have nabbed a trickster involved in swindling money from the accounts of gullible people by swapping debit cards at ATMs in different districts. Police identified him as M. Dilliganesh, 28, of Kanchipuram district. He is involved in at least 18 cases, where he withdrew money ranging from Rs. 13,000 to Rs. 60,000 from ATMs using swapped debit cards. He was caught when he made a similar attempt with an aged person at an ATM in Tirumangalam on Wednesday. However, when he tried to withdraw money from another ATM, the victim who accidentally noticed him raised an alarm and he was caught. “He ran out of luck when the alert victim raised an alarm,” Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran said. Dilliganesh would stand in front of an ATM and wait for a prey, mostly aged people. He would enter the ATM along with them and peep into the keyboard as they entered their secret PIN. “Suddenly, he would create a confusion in the ATM kiosk and pull out the debit card of the victim and swap it with another and disappear,” the SP said. Since he would be aware of the PIN, he would use the same debit card and withdraw money at another ATM. The SP said the trickster lavishly spent the money and always moved from one district to another to escape from the police. He was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trickster-nabbed/article36622546.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Floral tributes paid at Gandhi Corner in railway station||Gandhi Corner in Madurai railway junction was decorated and floral tributes were paid to a photograph of the Father of the Nation on Wednesday to mark the centenary year of his Loin Cloth Revolution. Gandhi Corner in the main concourse hall at the railway station has a plaque in Tamil that recalls when Gandhiji made the nation know that he was among the poor citizens of the country by giving up his western attire and choosing to dress in half dhoti. Flower petals were sprayed on Gandhi Corner, which showcases several photographs of the Mahatma’s train journey to Madurai. Divisional Railway Manager P. Ananth paid floral tributes to a portrait at the station. A video on Gandhiji with a background song of Raghupathi Raghava Rajaram was played on a mega screen at the location.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/floral-tributes-paid-at-gandhi-corner-in-railway-station/article36622579.ece
23 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||2,500 kg of ration rice seized in Madurai||Civil Supplies–Criminal Investigation Department sleuths seized 2,500 kg of ration rice and arrested two persons in this connection here on Tuesday. The department sleuths are also on the look out for the salesman of a ration shop, R. Krishnan, of Kondayampatti in Vadipatti taluk. During a routine vehicle check on Alanganallur Main Road in the early hours, the team intercepted a cargo vehicle and found in it 50 bags (50 kg each) of ration rice with Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies tags. P. Mariyappan, 35, owner of vehicle, and driver N. Balamurugan, 33, both from of Kamaraj salai were arrested. All the three have been booked under the provisions of Tamil Nadu Scheduled Commodities (Regulation of Distribution by Card System) Order 1982 and Essential Commodities Act, 1955.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2500-kg-of-ration-rice-seized-in-madurai/article36622580.ece
23 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Eden becomes first beach in U.T. to get coveted Blue Flag tag||Eden beach in Chinna Veerampattinam near Puducherry has become the first beach in the Union Territory to get the coveted ‘Blue Flag’ certification from the Denmark-based Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). Kovalam beach in Tamil Nadu is the other beach to get the certification this year, taking the number of Blue Flag beaches in the country to 10. Official sources said a communication had been received from the Society for Integrated Coastal Management (Sicom) under the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change that the international jury of the Denmark agency had selected Eden beach for the certification. The tag is given to environment-friendly and clean beaches, equipped with amenities of international standards for tourists. A Blue Flag beach is an eco-tourism model to provide tourists with clean and hygienic bathing water, facilities/amenities, a safe and healthy environment and sustainable development of the area. “The Blue Flag beaches are considered the cleanest beaches in the world. The certification is awarded based on 33 stringent criteria relating to environmental education and information, bathing water quality, environment management and conservation, services and accessibility standards and safety,” Secretary to Government (Public Works and Tourism) A. Vikranth Raja told The Hindu . Mr. Raja said Sicom was given the task of identifying 10 beaches in India to get the certification. “The process began in 2018-19 and infrastructural facilities in the beach were shared by both the Centre and Puducherry governments. While the territorial administration took care of water, road and power facilities, Sicom was in charge of parking, toilet and treatment plant, drinking water and bathing amenities. The government, in association with Sicom, also constituted a beach management committee. The management of the beach will be slowly transferred to the committee for asset management and cleanliness,” Mr. Raja said. The certification would also draw more international tourists, he said and added, “We will also be allowed to hoist the Blue Flag, a symbol that the beach is very clean.” An 800-m safe swimming zone has been created in Eden. The beach has a greywater treatment plant, solid waste management plant, seating arrangements, clean drinking water, washroom, changing room, bathing room, toilets for tourists, including those with disabilities, and parking facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eden-becomes-first-puducherry-beach-to-get-coveted-blue-flag-tag/article36622508.ece
23 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||NDA candidate for Rajya Sabha polls files nomination papers||S. Selvganabathy, the candidate of the National Democratic Alliance for the lone Rajya Sabha seat from the Union Territory, on Wednesday filed nomination papers for the polls scheduled on October 4. Accompanied by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy, Home Minister A. Namassivayam, BJP president V. Saminathan and Union Territory in-charge for BJP, Nirmal Kumar Surana, Mr Selvaganbathy filed the papers before the Assembly Secretary R. Mounissamy. Three sets of nominations were filed for the candidate. Mr Selvaganabathy’s candidature was announced by the BJP central leadership on Tuesday after hectic parleys with its ally in the government, All India N R Congress. A source in the AINRC said Union Home Minister Amit Shah made a telephone call to the Chief Minister on Tuesday night to express gratitude for AINRC’s support for the BJP candidate. Before filing the nomination papers, a BJP delegation led by Mr. Namassivayam and Mr Surana met the Chief Minister at his home and thanked him personally for the support. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Mr Surana said the alliance would continue for the next five years. “We thank the Chief Minister for his support,” he said. Asked about the Chief Minister’s demand for Statehood, Mr Surana said, “We will stand with the Chief Minister though we [BJP] may have a different opinion on the demand for Statehood.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nda-candidate-for-rajya-sabha-polls-files-nomination-papers/article36622503.ece
23 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records two deaths, 117 new cases||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths alongside an increase in new cases to 117 on Wednesday. Both the COVID-19 deaths were reported in Karaikal, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,834. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,440), Karaikal (245), Yanam (105) and Mahe (43). Puducherry accounted for 73 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,097 tests, followed by Karaikal (29), Yanam (1) and Mahe (14). The test positivity rate was 2.3%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.79%. 945 active cases With 92 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 945. Of this, 142 patients were in hospitals and 803 cases in home isolation. The Union Territory has to date recorded an aggregate of 1,25,735 cases against 1,22,956 recovered patients. Of an estimated 17.51 lakh tests administered so far, about 14.85 lakh samples returned negative. Meanwhile, 8,931 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Health Administration has so far administered 9,32,694 vaccines, including second doses, in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-two-deaths-117-new-cases/article36622506.ece
23 September 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Teacher booked under POCSO Act||The Pudukottai All Women Police have registered a case under the POCSO Act against a private school teacher for alleged sexual harassment of a plus one girl student recently. Police said D. Shanmuganathan (48) teaching commerce and maths in the school where the girl was studying sexually harassed the girl over phone a few days ago following which the parents raised the issue. The teacher was placed under suspension by the school management after the issue came to light. Acting on a complaint from an official of the District Child Protection Unit, the Pudukottai All Women Police registered a case. Police are on the look out for Shanmuganathan who is absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teacher-booked-under-pocso-act/article36622552.ece
23 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Stir against proposed acquisition of land for road widening||Scores of villagers from Pamban village panchayat staged a demonstration at Pamban on Wednesday protesting against the proposed acquisition of land in their village for widening the Ramanathapuram-Rameswaram highway. The villagers said that acquiring their houses and land for the proposed four-way project would badly hit their livelihood. “We have submitted our objections to the first notice for acquisition issued to the landowners. However, again a second notice has been served to the people. The officials are not bothered about the livelihood of people,” said former president of Pamban panchayat, Patrick. He said that the land along the existing highway was the small holdings of the people which they had got through their sweat over the years. The people said that they had given alternative routes for the fourway road so that it did not affect their dwellings. They said they would intensify their protest if the officials went ahead with their proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stir-against-proposed-acquisition-of-land-for-road-widening/article36622310.ece
23 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Villagers stage protest over delay in issuance of community certificates||Residents of four panchayats in Panamarathupatti staged a protest at the Salem Collectorate here on Wednesday over the alleged delay by officials in processing their applications seeking Scheduled Tribes (ST) community certificates. The villagers from Jarugumalai, Kuralnatham, Thumbalpatti and Kammalapatti panchayats said that they belonged to the Hindu Malayalee community and were residing in the hill areas for many generations. Their children required community certificates for admission to schools and higher studies and hence they submitted applications to the Revenue officials concerned. Officials from the Office of Revenue Inspector have to visit our villages and submit a report recommending the certificate to the Office of the Zonal Deputy Tahsildar, they said. “The officials take six months to two years to conduct enquiries,” they alleged and pointed out that their applications should be accepted or rejected within seven days as per the norms. Protestors said that the delay in issuance of community certificate was causing immense hardship to them. Revenue officials held talks with the protesters and asked them to apply online. But the villagers said that their applications were continuously rejected citing insufficient documents. Later, the officials pacified them and the protest was withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-stage-protest-over-delay-in-issuance-of-community-certificates/article36622320.ece
23 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||One lakh tonnes of paddy wasted due to government’s negligence: Edappadi||Former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Wednesday that one lakh tonnes of paddy were wasted in rain due to negligence on the part of the DMK government. Addressing the media at the party office in Omalur here, after holding discussions with AIADMK functionaries over the local body elections, he said the paddy was lying idle in the delta districts without being procured. “The DMK fails to pay attention to the problems of the people and, instead, slanders the AIADMK”, he alleged. Mr. Palaniswami said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had promised that his first signature after assuming office would be to cancel NEET. “But, instead, they have passed a resolution which the AIADMK government did while in power”, he said, adding that there was no history of the DMK fulfilling the promises it made in the election manifesto. Mr. Palaniswami said 43 lakh people were eagerly awaiting the waiver of jewellery loans in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-lakh-tonnes-of-paddy-wasted-due-to-governments-negligence-edappadi/article36622338.ece
23 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,000 kg banned gutkha products seized||Officials from the Tamil Nadu Food Safety and Drug Administration Department seized 2,050 kg banned gutkha products worth Rs. 67.50 lakh that were being transported in a lorry from Bengaluru to Dindigul here on Wednesday. Based on a tip-off, a team led by Designated Officer R. Kathiravan intercepted a lorry at Thevattipatti near Omalur, and they found gutkha products in 53 bags. Lorry driver P. Periyasamy (38) of Mecheri was taken to the office. Officials said that the seized items and the lorry would be handed over to the court on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2000-kg-banned-gutkha-products-seized/article36622313.ece
23 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Ex-servicemen upset over cancellation of services||Ex-servicemen engaged for manning the level crossing gates in the Southern Railway, Tiruchi Division, find themselves in a piquant situation after being shown the doors in the midst of their contract period. Around 40 ex-servicemen aged between 35 to 55 years were first engaged for manning the level-crossing gates in Tiruchi Division on a 12-month contract from February/March 2020 to February/March 2021. The placements though offered purely on a contract basis was viewed as a blessing in disguise by the ex-servicemen families since such employment was offered during the COVID-19 pandemic situation. The contract was extended for another 12-months period from March 2021. However, in May this year the Southern Railway authorities informed the ex-servicemen engaged for level crossing operation duty in the Tiruchi Division that their services were no longer required and they need not have to report for duty from June, sources said. Baffled by the unexpected development, a group of ex-servicemen tried to elicit the reason for the abrupt cancellation of their contract service from the concerned officials, but in vain. Subsequently, a group of dejected ex-servicemen contract workers sought the support of train passengers associations in the delta districts, particularly in Tiruvarur-Karaikudi section, as the deployment of ex-servicemen on a contract basis at a few level crossings on this section was viewed as a positive step towards eradicating the ‘on board (train)’ gatekeepers system adopted by the Southern Railway for operating the lone DEMU passenger service between Tiruvarur and Karaikudi. With the help of the train passengers associations they had presented a memorandum to the Tiruchi Division senior officials recenlty seeking re-employment at least for the left out contract period, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-servicemen-upset-over-cancellation-of-services/article36622296.ece
23 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Cane cultivators stage demonstration||A group of cane cultivators staged a demonstration at Sarukkai hamlet in Papanasam taluk in protest against the inordinate delay in payment for the cane supplied by farmers to a private sugar mill in Thirumandankudi and transport charges for the same for six years from 2013. Alleging that the private sugar mill had cheated the cane farmers by obtaining bank loan in the name of the farmers registered as suppliers of canes to the mill, the demonstrators attempted to take over 100 acres of dry land belonging to private sugar mill at Sarukkai. However, they were pacified by the revenue and police officials with an assurance that the issue would be sorted out through a tripartite meeting within 15 days. Meanwhile, a seminar on emerging technologies in sugarcane cultivation was held at Echankottai on September 22 as part of the Cane Expo 2021 organised by the Agriculture College and Research Institute and the Arignar Anna Sugar Mill, Kurungulam. More than 400 cane cultivators in Thanjavur district participated in the Cane Expo. The expo was inaugurated by the ACRI Dean, A.Velayutham and the cane growers who have achieved higher cane yield per acre and supplied higher quantity of canes to the mill were presented with awards and prizes by the Chief Executive, AASM, S.Selvasurabi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cane-cultivators-stage-demonstration/article36622289.ece
23 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Open the new bus stand in Thanjavur’||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Employees Union (CRC labour union) affiliated to All India Trade Union Congress has urged the corporation officials to operate the old bus stand. Operate old bus stand  A resolution to this effect was adopted at a meeting held here recently under the chairmanship of G.Shanmugam, union president. It emphasised that the old bus stand should be brought into use well before the commencement of Deepavali season as the passenger movement would peak during that time. Pointing out that people were finding it difficult to reach and leave the busy commercial area situated in the old bus stand area in view of the shifting of the bus stand to the temporary land near the STC Depot on Kumbakonam Road, the union urged the civic body to open the new bus stand facility created under the Smart City Project as early as possible since almost all the works had been completed. The union demanded immediate repair of damaged roads and wanted necessary steps to clear waterlogging at the low-bridge area near the Marris Corner to ensure smooth flow of vehicles during the forthcoming monsoon. Other demands Disbursement of collection bata on the same day, declaring the STC employees as frontline workers, special assistance for the STC employees who had expired due to COVID-19 infection and reimbursement of revenue loss incurred by the STCs due to implementation of ‘free ride’ for women in select services were the other demands of the union at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-the-new-bus-stand-in-thanjavur/article36622288.ece
23 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held with ganja||A police special team has nabbed a youth from Madurai who allegedly smuggled 11 kg of ganja. The police said a special team was patrolling along Thoothukudi–Tiruchendur Highway on Wednesday following information about smuggling of ganja on a two-wheeler. When they intercepted a bike and checked the bag carried by the rider, they found that he was smuggling 11 kg of ganja from Madurai. The police seized the narcotic substance and the two-wheeler and arrested the youth who was identified as M. Manimaran, 21, of Perumal Kovil Street in Madurai. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-with-ganja/article36622287.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drive to desilt drainage canals begins||The Tiruchi Corporation has launched a synchronised desilting drive in all drainage canals to prevent flooding in low-lying areas of the city ahead of the northeast monsoon,. It was a second drive within three months. In the first drive done in June, silt had been cleared for about 10,083 metres of drainage canals in various parts of the city. To ensure smooth flow of rainwater during the northeast monsoon next month, the civic body has taken up the task of desilting all drainage canals and stormwater drains in Srirangam, K. Abhisekapuram, Golden Rock and Ariyamangalam zones. P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, said that a two-pronged strategy was in force to desilt all drainage canals, stormwater drains and irrigation canals flowing across the city. While a private contractor, who was awarded a project to clear drainage canals at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore, had been asked to carry out the works in the designated areas, the Corporation had employed its men and materials to clear silt in the remaining canals. He said that 22 earth-movers and 800 contract labourers had been involved in the massive exercise that had begun on Monday. On the first day of the drive, the silt and blockages accumulated along about 20 km stretch of canals had been desilted. The drive was being taken up simultaneously in all four zones. Mr. Rahuman said that there were some irrigation channels flowing across the city. Instructions had been given to clear the blockages, silt, accumulation of plastics, bottles and carry bags along irrigation channels too. ‘We have identified at least 40 to 50 low-lying areas in the city, which are known for waterlogging in the rainy season. The aim of the ongoing drive is to prevent water stagnation in low-lying areas too during the northeast monsoon season,” Mr. Rahuman said. He said that special teams led by assistant commissioners had been formed to supervise desilting operations streetwise in the city. The officers were reviewing the works on a daily basis. The drive would conclude on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-to-desilt-drainage-canals-begins/article36622279.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Payment eludes guest lecturers in arts and science colleges||Principals of government arts and science colleges find themselves in a piquant situation since guest lecturers who constitute a chunk of the faculty strength have not been paid by the government since April. There are numerous instances of guest lecturers approaching the college heads in a state of helplessness since they had no money for paying house rent and groceries, according to senior professors on time scale who help guest lecturers monetarily at personal level. The grouse of the nearly 4,500 guest lecturers in over 100 government arts and science colleges, accounting for close to 45 % of the faculty strength, is that though their services had become indispensable, their salaries have still not been brought under the head of planned expenditure by the Higher Education Department. ‘Our salary continues to be sanctioned under the head of miscellaneous. We are completely stranded and unable to eke out our daily existence,’ State president, All Government College UGC Qualified Guest Lecturers Association V. Thangaraj said. Had the salary been brought under the planned expenditure, the ignominy of teachers struggling for months without salary would not have arisen, he said. College heads have apprehensions that the low motivation level will leave behind a debilitating impact on the teaching-learning process. ‘The situation of guest lecturers is really pathetic,’ a principal of a government arts and science college said, requesting anonymity. ‘The guest lecturers are as much efficient in rendering their professional duties so that the government has to step in to address their plight,’ P. David Livingstone, zonal secretary of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association said. The State government had indeed taken a positive step last year by increasing the monthly salary of guest lecturers to Rs. 20,000 per month from Rs. 15,000. Ideally, the guest lecturers must be paid Rs. 40,000 per month as advocated by University Grants Commission. The request of the guest lecturers for inclusion of their salary outgo under planned expenditure has to be duly addressed by the government,’ Prof. David Livingstone emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/payment-eludes-guest-lecturers-in-arts-and-science-colleges/article36622294.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Highway patrol units augmented||The Tiruchi Rural Police authorities have augmented manpower strength in the 11 highway patrol units deployed on different stretches on the national and state highways. In addition to the existing two police personnel including the driver of the patrol vehicle, two more police constables have been posted to each of the patrol units now. The move was put in place after the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi Pa. Moorthy reviewed the functioning of the highway patrol units recently. The authorities have equipped the highway patrol units with necessary equipment including those required for personal safety of the police personnel deployed in the vehicles such as reflective jacket and reflective baton. Extra strength has been provided to check vehicles, attend to emergencies and deal with crimes such as highway robberies. A field-level police officer from the respective jurisdictional police station would join the highway patrol unit while conducting vehicle checks. The units have been told to ensure that no vehicle was stationed on the roadside on the highways especially during night hours except at the permitted locations to prevent accidents and make sure hassle free movement of vehicles. The move comes amid recurring instances of accidents. The police have identified 20 hotspots on different stretches. Some of the ‘hotspots’ identified includes Irungalur near Samayapuram on the Tiruchi - Chennai national highway; Nagamangalam along the Tiruchi - Madurai national highway; Nochimedu near Manapparai along the Tiruchi - Dindigul national highway; Mela Valadi and Mandurai along the Tiruchi - Chidambaram national highway; near Bharathidasan University along the Tiruchi- Pudukottai national highway and Vannankoil near Ramji Nagar along the Tiruchi - Dindigul national highway. These hotspots are those where five or more accidents have been reported in the last three years in each one of them. Every patrol unit has been entrusted with the task of covering the hotspots. The number of fatal accident cases reported from January to August this year was 188. The Tiruchi Rural Police have created a separate Whatsapp group of highway patrol units in which the police personnel attached to the units would share their locations while discharging their duty. This was yet another platform to monitor the location of the patrol vehicles apart from the GPS device fitted in each vehicle. The 11 highway patrol units cover the stretches from Kollidam to Chokkalingapuram; Ramji Nagar to Maravanur; Maravanur to Vaiyampatti; Manikandam to Kovilpatti; Kovilpatti to Puzhuthipatti; Kattur to Pudhukudi; Kudamurutti to Pettavaithalai; Kollidam Tollgate to Kallagam; Kollidam Tollgate to Musiri; Musiri to M.N. Patti and Nochiyam to Mangapatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/highway-patrol-units-augmented/article36622291.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||HC order on withdrawal of insurance cover brings relief: automobile dealers||Dealers of two-wheelers and four-wheelers in the region have heaved a sigh of relief over the latest High Court order on withdrawal of the five-year ‘bumper-to-bumper’ insurance that was earlier made mandatory for vehicle registrations with effect from the start of this month. Till last month, the one-year policy had meant payment of premium of around three % of the car value. There were concerns among the dealers that the new insurance plan would impact the sales figures during the festival season. Price may go up  The dealers were worried about the increase in upfront cost on account of coverage of the driver, passengers and owner of the vehicle, besides the third-party cover for five-years. Now that the High Court has ruled that ‘the order dated August 4, 2021, mandating the coverage of bumper to bumper policy may not be logistically and economically feasible for effective implementation in the present legal dispensation,” the automobile dealers are a relieved lot, a senior Transport department official said. Public uinterest The latest order said that the earlier directive would have caused unintended impact resulting in severe repurcussions on the society, and it may be withdrawn in the interests of policy holders, automobile industry and public at large. The anxiety of the court to protect interest of innocent victims must be duly taken care of in consultation with Insurance Regulatory Development Authority of India, it said. The main reasoning of dealers was that selling of new vehicles by bundling it with five-year insurance will not augur well for the industry that was just coming out of the pandemic.  Effect For, the upfront cost for customers could have increased in the range of Rs. 5000 to 6000 for two-wheelers, Rs. 50,000 for entry level compact cars, and by more than Rs. 2 lakh for SUVs. But some opine that the pandemic has helped in scaling up vehicle sales. According to a dealer in Tiruchi, normal sales was not affected due to pandemic-infused reasons. ‘Actually, people have become more health and safety-conscious during the pandemic period. Those who could afford but did not find car necessary hitherto were now more inclined to own cars to move about safely,’ he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/automobile-dealers-relieved/article36622276.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Hybrid coronary surgery performed||Hybrid coronary revascularization (HCR) as an alternative to traditional coronary artery bypass surgery was conducted at the Apollo Hospitals here. The minimally invasive surgery is combined with an angioplasty to achieve better outcomes, the doctors here said. Two surgeries - one on a 40-year-old man from Pudukottai and another on a 75-year-old man from Musiri - were performed and the patients were discharged in four days after recovery. Kader Sahib, interventional cardiologist at the hospital along with his team of doctors including cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon, Srikanth Bhumana, cardiac anaesthetists Rohini Mayur Balaji and S. Saravanan conducted the surgeries. Describing the procedure, Dr. Sahib said that a HCR is performed through a small incision in the left side of the chest, wherein the left internal mammary artery is used to clear the block. The doctors also conduct a coronary angioplasty a day or two later to treat the remaining blocks in the heart. Dr. Bhumana said that traditionally coronary artery bypass grafting requires cutting through the rib cage and operating on the heart. This leads to a longer recovery period, of up to six to eight weeks, and the patient would suffer from some pain while breathing, coughing etc, he said. The patient is also not advised to undertake heavy work post-operation, which would affect the livelihood of young people suffering from cardiac ailments. Doctors, however, must decide on conducting the HCR on a case-by-case basis. ‘This can only be performed on patients who are young or those without other risks.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hybrid-coronary-surgery-performed/article36622280.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||2,476 nominations received in Tirunelveli district on last day||The last day for filing of nominations witnessed brisk activities as candidates affiliated to political parties submitted their nominations after coming to the offices with their supporters in large numbers in an attempt to showcase their political might on Wednesday. Accompanied by bands, which triggered instant enthusiasm among the supporters of candidates, and crackers, the candidates filed their nominations. Those who had brought incomplete nomination papers were seen hastily filling up papers on the premises of the panchayat union offices. Candidates of political parties garlanded the statues of all leaders in the city before filing their nominations. Though the police allowed only two persons to accompany the candidates while they filed their nomination, the crowd that accompanied the aspirants up to the offices disrupted vehicular traffic. AMMK candidate Karthik, who filed his nomination for a ward in Palayamkottai panchayat union, came to Palayamkottai panchayat union office in a bullock cart to submit his papers. “Since farming should be protected in the rapidly changing mechanised world, I came to the office in a bullock cart,” he said. Since DMK’s Radhapuram union secretary V.S.R. Jegadeesh is tipped to be fielded as the ruling party’s candidate for the post of District Panchayat Chairman, he filed the nomination in Radhapuram union office. Accompanied by a huge number of supporters and firecrackers, Mr. Jagadeesh filed his nomination in the afternoon after garlanding the statues of late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi’s parents Muthuvel and Anjugam near Radhapuram bus-stand. Meanwhile, the ballot boxes to be used in the civic polls on October 6 (for Ambasamudram, Manur, Cheranmahadevi, Palayamkottai and Paapaakudi panchayat unions) and 9 (Nanguneri, Kalakkad, Valliyoor and Radhapuram panchayat unions) are being given a fresh coat of ‘bus green’ paint as the metal boxes have been stored in the panchayat union offices. In Tirunelveli district, 2,476 nominations – 57 for district panchayat councilors, 516 for panchayat union councilors, 350 village panchayat presidents and 1,553 for village panchayat ward members - were submitted on Wednesday. In all, 6,871 nominations have been received for 2,069 positions. The public may contact Election Observer P. Shankar at 72005 87897 for any local body election-related complaints relating to Tenkasi district. In Kanniyakumari district, 5 nominations have been filed for the Muttom village panchayat president post and 31 nominations including the 8 nominations filed on Wednesday, have been submitted for the 10 village panchayat ward members. After the scrutiny of nominations on Thursday (September 23) and withdrawal of nominations on Friday (September 24), the final list of candidates in fray will be known on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2476-nominations-received-in-tirunelveli-district-on-last-day/article36622545.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Three-year-old boy killed in roof collapse||A 3-year-old boy was killed when a portion of the roof of his house collapsed on Wednesday allegedly due to shock waves triggered by explosions in nearby stone quarries. Police said M. Akash of Seelathikulam near Radhapuram, who was sleeping in his house when his mother had gone out for fetching drinking water, was killed on the spot when a portion of the concrete roof of his house collapsed. The villagers, who rushed to the spot to rescue the boy from the debris, alleged that the explosives being used in the nearby stone quarries in an uncontrolled manner to blast rocks were the reason for the mishap. They also said more than 10 houses in Seelathikulam had developed cracks on walls and the roofs due to the shock waves. “The powerful explosives used in more than 20 unauthorised stone quarries functioning in Radhapuram taluk were the reason for the dangerous cracks in houses. Despite repeated complaints from the people of various villages, the quarries have been allowed to function,” Murugan, father of the deceased, said. When Radhapuram Tahsildar Yesudhasan arrived at the spot along with police, the villagers picked a heated argument over the continued functioning of the quarries. However, the police pacified the villagers and sent the body for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-killed-in-roof-collapse/article36622295.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Indefinite strike by fuel tanker drivers||Protesting the time restriction imposed on fuel tankers entering the city, the drivers of the vehicles commenced an indefinite strike on Wednesday. As Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited’s depot at Thatchanallur in the city is supplying the fuel to Tirunelvlei, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Virudhunagar and Kanniyakumari districts through tankers, the police ordered that the tankers should take the fuel only after 12 noon considering the traffic jam being caused by them. They staged a demonstration for a while near the Collectorate on Wednesday before starting their indefinite strike. They also submitted a petition in the Collectorate. “Fuel tanker drivers who violate the time restriction are being fined,” they said. As around 150 fuel tankers have participated in the agitation, fuel supply to these five districts from the BPCL depot remains hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strike-by-fuel-tanker-drivers/article36622307.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Corneal surgeon wins prize at conference||Corneal surgeon and Regional Medical Director of Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospitals D. Lional Raj has bagged the first prize at the annual meeting of American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery (ASCRS) held at Las Vegas recently. The ASCRS empowers Anterior Segment Surgeons to improve the vision, outcomes and quality of life for their patients through innovative approaches to education, advocacy and philanthropy. More than 400 scientific papers were presented during over 100 sessions at the ASCRS event held in Las Vegas, Nevada, from July 23 to 27. Dr. Lional Raj was awarded first prize for his research paper ‘Novel drug repository contact lens study: Prolongation of corneal antimicrobial contact in bacterial keratitis in cornea category’. This research project intended to assess the potential benefit of ‘Drug Repository Contact Lens’ for the treatment of bacterial keratitis. Dr. Lional Raj also won third prize in Keratorefractive category for his research paper titled ‘A comparative trial on corneal ring segments with and without sequential crosslinking in moderate keratoconus: A better together concept’. This scientific research compared the clinical efficacy and optical quality of corneal ring segments alone and corneal ring segments with sequential crosslinking in moderate keratoconus. This combined procedure could help in moderate keratoconus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corneal-surgeon-wins-prize-at-conference/article36622285.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman missing||A fisherman went missing off Koodankulam coast on Wednesday when the mechanised boat in which he, along with 12 other fishermen, was returning to the base sank due to rough weather in the high seas. Police said 13 fishermen – 10 from Kanniyakumari district and three from West Bengal – had ventured into the sea from Kollam Fishing Harbour for deep-sea fishing in the boat owned by Binu of Kollam on September 17. When they cut short their fishing trip and were returning to their base due to heavy wind in the high seas, the boat suffered damage at the bottom. As the boat began to sink 20 nautical miles off Koodankulam coast, the fishermen jumped into the sea after informing the boats fishing in the vicinity about the serious problem they were facing. While 12 fishermen were rescued by the fishermen in other boats, C. John, 57, of Vaniyakudi in Kanniyakumari district went missing. General secretary of South Asian Fishermen Fraternity Rev. Fr. Churchill has sent an appeal to the Indian Coast Guard urging it to launch search operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fisherman-missing/article36622286.ece
23 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 79.90 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 445.83 cusecs and a discharge of 704.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 62.85 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 15 cusecs and nil discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36622551.ece
23 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Event to mark 100 years of Gandhi changing his attire to dhoti held||Mahatma Gandhi transformed dhoti as a weapon of the freedom struggle, said Managing Director of Ramraj Cotton K.R. Nagarajan on Wednesday. He was speaking at ‘Gandhiya Dhoti Centennial Celebrations,’ an event held in Tiruppur to mark the 100th year of Mahatma Gandhi switching to wearing only dhoti and shunning other form of attire. Mr. Nagarajan recalled Gandhi’s visit to Madurai on September 22, 1921, where he saw people with no access to basic clothing and decided that he too would remain half-attired by wearing only a dhoti and not any upper garment. Ramraj Cotton has reinvented the dhoti for the younger generation and has supported 40,000 weavers in the past four decades, he said. The event saw the felicitation of 100 persons who participated in the freedom struggle and 100 weavers and the planting of 100 saplings, according to a press release. Chairman of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan – Coimbatore Kendra B.K. Krishnaraj Vanavarayar, who was the chief guest of the event, released a book titled Mahatmavai Kondaduvom (Let us celebrate the Mahatma). Chairman of Roots Group of Companies K. Ramasamy received the first copy, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/event-to-mark-100-years-of-gandhi-changing-his-attire-to-dhoti-held/article36622180.ece
23 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Allegations against municipal commissioner to be probed||The district administration will form an inquiry committee to probe into the allegations of sexual misconduct and caste-based discrimination levelled by three women conservancy workers against Kangeyam municipal commissioner on Wednesday. Complaint received Sources said that District Collector S. Vineeth received the complaint and that a committee will be constituted soon. Temporary DBC According to the petition submitted by one of the three women, she was working as a temporary domestic breeding checker (DBC) under municipal commissioner M. Muthukumar. The woman claimed in the petition that the Commissioner allegedly harassed her sexually at his residence and used casteist slurs. The petition further claimed that two other DBCs in the municipality were also sexually harassed by the official. The petition was also addressed to Minister for Information and Publicity and Kangeyam MLA M.P. Saminathan, Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy, and the Chief Minister’s Special Cell. ‘Motivated’ When contacted, Mr. Muthukumar denied the allegations and termed it as “motivated.” He said about 40 temporary DBCs, including the three women, who were working in the municipality, were asked not to come for work as they had been “wrongly appointed” and that the allegations had been made following the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allegations-against-municipal-commissioner-to-be-probed/article36622190.ece
23 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Banned tobacco products seized in Tiruppur||Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) officials seized 4.3 kg banned tobacco products during inspection of shops in Tiruppur district on Monday. A release said that FSSAI Designated Officer (Tiruppur) B. Vijayalalithambigai and food safety officers S. Vijayaraja and R. Balamurugan conducted the inspection at Kundadam and Pongalur. The products were destroyed and the shop’s owner was imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000. The team also seized six kg of banned single-use plastic items from seven outlets during the inspection and imposed a total fine of Rs. 14,000, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banned-tobacco-products-seized-in-tiruppur/article36622182.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||L-G nod for grants-in aid to transport corporation||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has accorded approval for release of third instalment of grants-in-aid of Rs. 9.85 crore to Puducherry Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) towards payment of salaries/EPF, etc., for the year 2021-22. Also among the important files cleared by the Lt. Governor was the nod for issue of notification for re-constitution of Advisory Board for Puducherry and Karaikal regions under Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 with a term of five years, a press note from the Raj Nivas said. The Advisory Board shall advise the Dowry Prohibition Officer and the Superintendent of Police in respect of matters relating to the implementation of the Act with constructive suggestions and assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-nod-for-grants-in-aid-to-transport-corporation/article36622505.ece
23 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT trains students, farmers to spray bio-pesticide using drones||The VIT School of Agricultural Innovations and Advanced Learning (VAIAL) is training its students as part of a hands-on training programme for final-year pupils and farmers to spray bio-pesticides on farmlands using drones. According to a press release, the training programme aims to create awareness about the application of drones in organic paddy cultivation among farmers in Vellore. A section of farmers in Vellore and final year students of the B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture course of VAIAL participated in the field demonstration, conducted in association with Chennai-based Garuda Aerospace Private Limited, on using drones for spraying of bio-pesticides, such as neem- seed kernel extract, for controlling sucking pests (stem borer, gall midge and earhead bug) and storage pests (grain moth, rice weevil and grain borer) in paddy, the release added. Drones are now becoming a potential tool in providing real-time and high-resolution aerial imageries of agricultural fields with minimal influence on the growing crop. These systems can be used throughout the crop growing season to identify problems in the field precisely and make management decisions. On the occasion, S. Babu, Dean, VAIAL, explained the application of drones in organic farming, whereas R. Thirumalaikumar, Assistant Professor (Agronomy), VAIAL, spoke about the organic practices in paddy cultivation. Technical booklets published by VAIAL were distributed to farmers during the training programme, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-trains-students-farmers-to-spray-bio-pesticide-using-drones/article36622511.ece
23 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Teen who killed father set free on grounds of self-defence||A 17-year-old girl, who killed her father for attempting to rape her, walked free after being released by the Villupuram district police on grounds of self-defence. Police sources said the incident took place at Avalurpettai near Gingee on Monday night. The girl, second of two daughters of victim Venkatesan, 40, a farmer was staying in her grandmother’s house for the past few years. She returned to her father’s house recently after schools reopened for Classes IX to XII. Inebriated state On Monday night, Venkatesan returned home in an inebriated state and attempted to rape his daughter. The girl pushed him down and stabbed him on the chest with a kitchen knife. Venkatesan died on the spot. According to a police officer, preliminary investigation revealed that the girl had acted in self-defence. She was released under Section 100 (3) of the Indian Penal Code, he said, adding that similar cases were also reported in Madurai and Tiruvannamalai districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teen-who-killed-father-set-free-on-grounds-of-self-defence/article36622509.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. govt. signs MoUs for Rs. 2,120-crore investment||Mr. Stalin released the Tamil Nadu Exports Promotion Strategy and the MSME Exporters Handbook. He also handed over the first two allotment orders to companies that have proposed to open units at a polymer park in the State. An exclusive park to cater to the needs of the polymer industry has been established on 240 acres at Voyalur near Ponneri. Speaking to The Hindu after the event, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said, “The MoUs would help us realise our target to become a $1-trillion economy by 2030. Even during the pandemic, the export-oriented units operated. But we need to give an impetus to exports.” The investments are aimed at equitable growth as they are not concentrated in one area. No strategy was in place earlier to boost exports, he said. The MSME Trade and Investment Promotion Bureau (M-TIPB) has entered into an MoU with Flipkart for promotion of e-commerce among MSMEs through a supplier development programme. “It will equip the MSMEs to scale up their business and make them become part of domestic and global supply chains,” a release said. The Indo-German Chamber of Commerce and M-TIPB entered into an MoU for collaboration between the MSMEs in Tamil Nadu and German businesses. The MoU will facilitate linkages, technology collaboration and export opportunities for the MSMEs. Of the 24 MoUs, 14 were signed with the 100% export-oriented units, accounting for a cumulative investment of Rs. 1,880.54 crore, with a potential to create jobs for 39,150 people. The rest were signed on behalf of the MSME Department, with a cumulative investment of Rs. 240 crore and a potential to create 2,545 jobs, the release said. Rural Industries Minister T. M. Anbarasan; Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu; Additional Secretary, Union Ministry of Commerce, Sanjay Chadha; and Tamil Nadu Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam were among the officials present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-signs-mous-worth-rs-2120-cr-to-create-41000-jobs/article36622156.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Mission accomplished||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mission-accomplished/article36622042.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Karpagam Academy of Higher Education: Conference on ‘Utilisation of Smart Nanomaterials in Healthcare and Environment’, 10 a.m.  POLLACHI   Sree Saraswathi Thyagaraja College: Faculty development programme - valedictory function, 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36622191.ece
23 September 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Congress is not trying to woo BJP legislators in reverse operation’||Salim Ahmed, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president, has termed media reports of the Congress trying to woo BJP legislators in a “reverse operation” as false and baseless. “All such reports are false. We are not trying anything like that. We are not even thinking about destabilising the government. We are only trying to build our party,” he said in Belagavi on Wednesday. However, he told journalists that the Congress would not refuse entry to any leader who wanted to join the party after accepting its ideology, policies, and programmes. “But primarily, our focus is to strengthen our party at the grassroots level,” he said. Mr. Ahmed complained that the Basavaraj Bommai government was not taking any pro-people decisions. The government is yet to prepare to function properly. There are too many internal problems in the party, he said. “Mr. Bommai is caught in a maze. He does not know from whom he has to take instructions. He is confused about instructions coming from the RSS headquarters, the residence of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, and his party’s central leadership,” Mr. Ahmed said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-is-not-trying-to-woo-bjp-legislators-in-reverse-operation/article36622349.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No clarity yet on cause of fire, but probe rules out explosion||Contrary to initial reports, a preliminary investigation into the cause of the fire in a flat at Devarachikkanahalli on Tuesday, in which two women were killed , indicates there was no explosion. “The damage in the flat seems to indicate there was no explosion. If it had occurred, a blast would have left more physical damage,” a senior official said. Fire and Emergency Services personnel recovered two undamaged LPG cylinders from the kitchen, one empty and the other full. This ruled out a blast triggered by leaking LPG as well. Senior Fire Services officials said a thorough technical investigation of the flat would be conducted on Thursday and there was no clarity yet on the cause of the fire. One of the victims, Bhagyarekha, 59, had returned from the U.S. with her husband after a six-month stay there. According to a senior official, an electrical short-circuit, gas leak, or malfunctioning of electrical appliances, such the fridge or geyser, could not be ruled out as they had not been in use for many months. Multiple agencies, including the Forensic Science Laboratory, Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), Electrical Inspectorate, and Indane Gas Agency, inspected the flat on Wednesday. Agencies now suspect the fire started somewhere in the hall and later spread to other parts. Bhagyarekha had called her daughter, who lives next door, asking her to rescue her as “fire had broken out in the hall”, the police said. Sunanda, a software engineer who lives in the flat below in Ashrith Aspire apartment complex, told The Hindu that she did not hear the sound of any explosion when the fire broke out. “We first saw smoke, then we were alerted of the fire, and we ran out of the house. We heard sounds like someone moving around furniture in the flat above, but no explosion,” she said. As she ran out of the apartment and saw the fire in the flat above, she and her husband rushed back in to try to save Bhagyarekha and her mother, Lakshmidevi, 82, but in vain. Naveen Kishor, who lives in the complex, said he was working at home when the fire broke out. “After a few moments, the window panes shattered with a huge sound. Many confused the sound with a blast,” he said. After an inspection, Bescom cleared all, but eight flats, in the complex for reoccupation. Bescom had cut power supply to the entire complex and the BBMP had evacuated all residents of the 72 flats as the fire broke out. “We have started moving back in. In the eight flats around flat no. 210 where the fire broke out, the wiring needs to be checked for safety, the agency has informed us,” said a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-clarity-yet-on-cause-of-fire-but-probe-rules-out-explosion/article36622131.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Urja’ emerges at Shivajinagar||The tunnel boring machine (TBM) Urja emerged at Shivajinagar on Wednesday morning after covering a distance of 855 metres. Jubilant metro workers who have been part of the tunnel work for over a year cheered loudlyas the head of the TBM emerged at the under-construction Shivajinagar underground station on the Pink Line from Kalenga Agrahara to Nagawara. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and his Cabinet colleagues were present to witness the achievement. Urja, which was imported from China and costs around Rs. 70 crore, started its underground journey at Cantonment metro station site in July 2020. It spent more than a year digging a tunnel below one of the oldest settlements of Bengaluru. Of the nine TBMs deployed for the underground section of the Pink Line, it is the first to achieve a breakthrough. Now that the TBM has completed this stretch, it will be disassembled and transported by road to the launching shaft at north end of Cantonment station where it will be reassembled and commissioned to dig a tunnel between Cantonment and Pottery Town stations. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) managing director Anjum Parwez told mediapersons that Vindhya, another TBM working on a parallel tunnel, would emerge at Shivajinagar in 20 days. Vindhya has already drilled a distance of 693 metres. In August, the BMRCL had to evacuate residents after slurry had gushed inside houses opposite the Government V.K.O. School. Rohith Supali, assistant safety manager of tunnel work, said, “The machine faced many challenges due to rough geological conditions. It encountered hard rock as well as loose soil. The overburden (the distance between tunnel and the surface) ranged from nine to 11 metres. By following all safety measures, Urja successfully completed the task.” The TBM was on the job round the clock along with 120 workers assigned on site every day on a shift basis. All the nine TBMs deployed by the BMRCL have together completed tunnelling of 3.842 km. Mr. Parwez said that every day up to 40 metres of tunnels were being built by the TBMs. The MD said the contract for the airport metro line from K.R. Puram to KIA would be awarded by October-end. “An NOC has been received to construct a metro near Government Flying Training School at Jakkur,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/urja-emerges-at-shivajinagar/article36622111.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Home Minister promises to seek fast-track trial in gang rape case||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Wednesday assured the Legislative Assembly that he would seek trial of the Mysuru gang rape case in a fast-track court, while Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would push for capital punishment for the crime. Mr. Bommai told the House that the victim had given her statement before a court in Mysuru on Wednesday and he expressed confidence that it would be possible to expedite the investigation. The victim, who had been admitted to a hospital in Mysuru after the incident, had subsequently left the city without giving a statement to the police. Replying to a debate on the incident that happened on August 24, the Home Minister and the Chief Minister defended the police response so far and denied the charges of the Opposition that there was a delay in filing of FIR. The Congress had earlier said that FIR was filed after 15 hours, following protest by party workers. Mr. Bommai said the FIR had been filed by noon the next day, soon after getting the medico legal report, and asked the members of the House not to demoralise the police. He assured the Opposition that investigation was going as per the rule book. Mr. Jnanendra insisted that the police have taken incidents of violence against women seriously. “This is not the time to indulge in mud-slinging,” he told the Opposition parties. Earlier, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah alleged that there was delay in filing an FIR and suspected that there could be efforts to hush up the case. Accusing the police of being lethargic and irresponsible, he sought to know why the victim was admitted to a private hospital first and why there was poor policing in the area though crimes were reported earlier. He demanded that the police conduct the probe effectively and ensure that the culprits get capital punishment. He urged the police to file chargesheet within 60 days and ensure that guilty are punished within six months.  JD(S) member G.T. Deve Gowda alleged that the police inspector at the station did not co-operate with the boy’s father, who went to the station to register a complaint. Instead of registering the complaint, he bullied him for allowing his son to go out with a girl, he said. Former Home Minister K.J. George said society should socially boycott perpetrators of crime and not rape victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-minister-promises-to-seek-fast-track-trial-in-gang-rape-case/article36622118.ece
23 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minister promises honest efforts to revive Mysugar factory||Sugar Minister Shankar Patil Munenakoppa on Wednesday assured the Legislative Assembly of making honest efforts to revive the sick Mysugar (Mysore Sugar Company Ltd) factory in Mandya. Replying to a debate in which JD(S) members and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiiah demanded that the historical Mysugar factory, which is the only government-owned sugar mill in the State, should not be privatised, the Minister said he had already discussed the revival plan with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other senior leaders. “I have even met the Union Sugar Minister twice in this regard. I will make honest efforts to protect the interests of farmers of Mandya district,” he said. He pointed out that the sugar mill had suffered losses despite having distillery, co-generation facility and a bottling unit. Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah warned that there could be law and order problems if the government went ahead with its plans to privatise the sugar mill as people of Mandya district had an emotional bonding with it. Pointing out that the sugar mill had one acre and 16 guntas of land in prime location opposite Ravindra Kalakshetra in Bengaluru, he suggested that the full potential of land should be exploited by constructing a mall so that the factory gets rental revenues. He also suggested measures like revamping co-generation facilities and setting up a modern distillery to help the factory earn additional income. JD(S) member Annadani, who commenced the debate, said the factory had 235 acres of land worth nearly Rs. 2,000 crore. “The Mysugar factory is a symbol of self-esteem of Mandya district,” he said, while appealing against privatising it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-promises-honest-efforts-to-revive-mysugar-factory/article36622458.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Steps already taken to capture leopard in Hubballi: Minister||With a leopard being sighted in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills and surrounding localities in Hubballi, 13 schools have been closed and people in many localities are in a state of panic as the Forest Department has failed to capture the wild animal, Abbayya Prasad of the Congress told the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday. Mr. Prasad raised the issue during Zero Hour and said that people in seven or eight villages have been in a state of panic fearing that the leopard may attack them during the night. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar said that people sighted the leopard on September 15 and still, the Forest Department officials have failed to trap it. Public Works Minister Govind M. Karjol, who replied on behalf of Forest Minister Umesh Katti, said that various teams of the Forest Department have already taken steps to trace the wild animal that has strayed into a residential area. The forest personnel have been keeping vigil and traps have been set up at Nrupatunga Hills where the animal is said to have been sighted, he said. Member M.P. Renukacharya, among others, too spoke about the menace of wild animals in their constituencies and urged the department to take swift action to allay fears among people about elephants and leopards straying into localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steps-already-taken-to-capture-leopard-in-hubballi-minister/article36622351.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gun licence: HC upholds constitutional validity of exemption to Kodavas||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday upheld that constitutional validity of the 2019 notification of the Union government granting exemption to Kodavas and Jamma land holders in Kodagu district from obtaining a licence to possess and carry firearms as required under provisions of the Indian Arms Act, 1959. Exemption provided to persons of Coorg race and Jamma tenure holder under Section 41 of the Arms Act, satisfies the test of reasonable classification under Article 14 of the Constitution of India and the question of quashing the notification dated October 29, 2019, does not arise, the court said. A Division Bench passed the order while dismissing a PIL petition filed by Capt. Chethan Y.K., who retired from short service commission of Indian Army. The petitioner had questioned the constitutional validity of the notification issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs extending the exemption for “every person of Coorg race and every Jamma tenure land holder in Coorg” from gun licence till October 31, 2029. It was also claimed in the petition that the classification and use of term ‘Coorg race’ promotes discrimination between the citizens of Coorg region on the ground of caste, violating Article 15 of the Constitution, the petitioner contended. “In the instant case, the documents on record reflect that Kodavas have been considered to be a martial race from as early as 1890, and they are enjoying exemption since then,” the Bench observed while noticing that the Kodava community and Jamma tenure holders are enjoying such exemption since pre-Independence period. “They have rightly been granted exemption for a period of 10 years, it is not the case that they have been granted exemption indefinitely. Exemption granted is subject to certain terms and conditions. Therefore, the constitutional validity of the notification is upheld.” the Bench said. The latest notification of 2019, limiting the period of exemption for a further period of 10 years, was issued after the High Court, in an earlier round of litigation had asked the Centre to review its 1966 notification of indefinite grant of exemption from securing licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gun-licence-validity-of-exemption-to-kodavas-upheld/article36622105.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Don’t drop vigil during festive season: TAC||With the festival season approaching and at least 11 festivals falling in October–November when the third wave is predicted, the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended that the State should not permit any relaxations in the next two months to prevent any surge. Strict curbs in shopping and market areas should be put in place even during the days preceding the festivals, the TAC has recommended. The TAC, which met on Sunday, has said that the State should closely monitor the case trajectories in all districts on a daily basis to identify early warning signals and ensure imposition of restrictions. ‘Avoid mass gatherings’ In a recent videoconference with States, the Centre issued an advisory asking States to avoid mass gatherings and effectively enforce existing guidelines regarding festivities. “It was presented that 70 districts in 15 States have a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of more than 5%. In view of multiple major festivals approaching, it is feared that these may lead to a surge in cases. Accordingly, the Centre has directed States to ensure effective enforcement of existing guidelines in malls, local markets, and places of worship,” the TAC report stated. In Karnataka, currently none of the districts has a TPR of more than 2%, and only five districts have a TPR of more than 1% — Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, and Hassan. “As TAC has forecast the possible third wave in October–November, it would be safe in Karnataka to keep the TPR in all districts under 2% by effectively and suitably implementing the existing protocols. No relaxations shall be made till then,” said the report that also listed five festivals in October and six in November. The TAC has also recommended that watersports/water-related adventure activities such as river rafting in Kodagu should be postponed till the end of November. “This is more pertinent as Kodagu borders Kerala where the COVID-19 situation is yet to be brought under control and travellers from Kerala visit Kodagu for various purposes,” the TAC report stated. Sanitisation of hostels Following a proposal by the Social Welfare Department regarding procurement of certain products to sanitise hostels run by it, the TAC has given its nod after thoroughly examining the safety and efficacy of the products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-drop-vigil-during-festive-season-tac/article36622113.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chanakya University Bill passed amidst protests over land allotment||Raising a storm over the allotment of land to set up the proposed Chanakya University near Devanahalli, the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) members in the Legislative Council accused the government of causing losses to the exchequer. The Bill was passed after they staged a walkout. The combined Opposition took objection to the introduction of the Chanakya University Bill, 2021, without adequate discussion, leading to logjam for nearly an hour. Heated exchange Congress Chief Whip M. Narayanaswamy accused the government of handing over 116.16 acres worth nearly Rs. 300 crore to Centre for Education for Social Studies (CESS) to start the university at a cheap price, leading to heated exchange. ‘RSS-backed initiative’ Earlier in the day, addressing a press conference, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had urged the government not to “divert” hundreds of acres of industrial land at a very low rate to drive an “RSS agenda”. He alleged that everyone who was behind the university initiative is close to the RSS, and the university is aimed at driving a “Manuvadi agenda”. He claimed that those who are part of the organisation have not run any educational institute, nor do they have the infrastructure to start a university. In April this year, the Karnataka government allotted land to CESS at a cost of Rs. 50 crore to establish a university. Mr. Siddaramaiah said it was acquired by Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board by paying compensation of Rs. 175 crore to farmers. The land was acquired for aerospace and defence industries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chanakya-university-bill-passed-amidst-protests-over-land-allotment/article36622124.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CAG flags financial lapses in Bangalore University||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has highlighted several lapses in Bangalore University’s management and said improper financial management, misappropriation of records and funds in the university resulted in loss of Rs. 87.87 lakh. The CAG’s compliance audit report, which was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, said there was misappropriation of fees by the staff of Canara Bank School of Management Studies of the university. It said that the admission register did not contain the details of 10 students for 2016-17 and one student in 2017-18. The audit attempted to verify the remittances of fees collected from students admitted to the MBA evening course and observed that the copies of challan/fee receipt amounting Rs. 12.97 lakh were neither on record nor could be traced to bank statements/university accounts resulting in short remittance of fees. The CAG found lapses in operation and management of bank accounts by the varsity and said action of the BU to open a current account with a private bank and to incorporate terms and conditions unfavourable to the university resulted in loss of interest revenue of Rs. 55.22 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cag-flags-financial-lapses-in-bangalore-university/article36622125.ece
23 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Congress women members speak out||Women members from the Opposition Congress on Wednesday came to the well of the House demanding that they be given an opportunity to speak on the Mysuru gang rape. Several members, including Anjali Nimbalkar and Sowmya Reddy, took the government to task over the incident and stressed the need to ensure perpetrators get serious punishment to send a strong message about security of women. After getting permission from the Speaker, Congress member M. Roop Kala expressed concern over rapid increase in rape and assault cases against women. Anglo Indian member Vinisha Nero stressed the need for sensitising boys about respecting the rights of women. She said that behaviour that reflects anti-women mindset, such as street harassment, should be nipped in the bud. Ms. Nimbalkar stressed the need for the House to come out with policy measures to ensure security of women and prevent incidents like rape. She suggested measures like community policing to encourage people to complain if there were incidents of crime against women. Laxmi Hebbalkar called for setting up women’s police stations in all the taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-women-members-speak-out/article36622120.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SC/ST students from 15 districts did not get scholarships in 2 years||While more than 50% of the students belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes from Bengaluru Urban district received scholarships from the State government for pursuing higher studies abroad, none from 15 districts were selected in the last two years (2019-20 and 2020-21). A total of 94 students belonging to SC and 12 to ST communities were selected for the government’s scholarships for pursuing higher studies in U.S., U.K., and other locations abroad, Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Kota Srinivas Poojary told N.A. Harris during Question Hour in the Legislative Assembly. A total of 49 and 45 SC students were selected for scholarships during 2019-20 and 2020-21, respectively. Out of 94 SC students during the last two years, 53 were from Bengaluru Urban district.  No student from the category was selected from 15 districts: Ballari, Bidar, Vijayapura, Chamarajanagar, Chitradurga, Dakshina Kannada, Gadag, Haveri, Kodagu, Koppal, Mandya, Hubballi, Vijayanagar, Ramanagaram, and Kolar. In the ST category, out of 13 students who bagged scholarships, eight were from Bengaluru Urban in the last two years. Mr. Harris of the Congress said a large number of students from Bengaluru had ended up cornering scholarships owing to lack of awareness among students. The Minister said students from families having annual income of less than Rs. 25 lakh and 55% marks in PG courses are eligible. Students who have already received admission in PG or research courses in universities are eligible for receiving scholarships if they joined universities listed by the Social Welfare Department. He said two students had joined the London School of Economics by obtaining scholarships from the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scst-students-from-15-districts-did-not-get-scholarships-in-2-years/article36622126.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to write to Centre on reducing gap between doses of Covishield||The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has asked the State government to write to the Centre seeking a reduction in the gap between two doses of Covishield. Following its meeting on September 19, the TAC has recommended that the gap betweenfirst and second doses of Covishield should be reduced from the existing 84 days to four to eight weeks that was the norm earlier. “As the vaccine supplies have improved and in the context of a possible third wave in October–November, the gap should be reduced. This will help in rapidly increasing the coverage of the second dose and prevent the third wave,” the TAC report stated. Arundathi Chandrashekar, State Mission Director, National Health Mission, said discussions in this regard were on. “We will write to the Centre in a day or two seeking a reduction in gap between two doses of Covishield,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-write-to-centre-on-reducing-gap-between-doses-of-covishield/article36622112.ece
23 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bill on teacher transfers adopted||The Legislative Assembly on Wednesday adopted the Karnataka Civil Services (Regulation of Teachers’ Transfers) (Amendment) Bill. The Bill that seeks to replace an ordinance in this regard was piloted by Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh. The Assembly also adopted Karnataka Khadi and Village Industries (Amendment) Bill and Karnataka Municipalities and Certain Other Acts (Second Amendment) Bill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-on-teacher-transfers-adopted/article36622119.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 10 lakh doses administered on Lasika Utsava day||On the fourth ‘Lasika Utsava’ Wednesday, Karnataka administered 10,06,767 doses till 9 p.m. With this, the State has administered 5,36,80,401 doses so far, of which 1,55,24,759 are second doses. The State had set a target of administering 15,10,000 doses. On September 17, during the mega vaccination mela, the State was able to administer 31,43,598 doses as against a target of 31,75,000 doses. According to data from the CoWIN portal, the highest number of doses (1,45,477) were administered in the BBMP limits on Wednesday. Belagavi and Ballari followed with 71,147 and 55,191 doses, respectively. The lowest achievement for the day was recorded in Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, and Ramanagaram where 6,025 doses, 9,252 doses, and 10,3756 doses were administered, respectively. New cases Meanwhile, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 847 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,70,208. Bengaluru Urban reported 312 and six deaths. With 20 deaths, the toll rose to 37,668. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 946 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,18,890. The State now has 13,621 active patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-10-lakh-doses-administered-on-lasika-utsava-day/article36622114.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teacher suspended on charge of dereliction of duty||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has suspended a teacher, who was an in-charge headmaster at Kodandaramapura High School which the civic body runs, for allegedly getting a massage from a parent on the school premises. A departmental inquiry has been instituted against him. The woman came to the school seeking admission for her child. Lokeshappa, in-charge headmaster, on learning that the woman worked at a beauty parlour, reportedly pressured her to give him a massage. The incident came to light after visuals were leaked to the media, causing a furore. “Lokeshappa has admitted to having accepted the massage upon being questioned,” said the BBMP in a press release. It added that he has been suspended on charge of dereliction of duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teacher-suspended-on-charge-of-dereliction-of-duty/article36622128.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah and his dhoti||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday offered some humorous moments in the Assembly as he struggled to tighten his dhoti in the midst of a heated debate. Noticing the dhoti slipping, senior member and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar walked up to him and whispered in his ear. While Mr. Shivakumar tried to be discreet, Mr. Siddaramaiah announced loudly to the members that he needed a moment to secure his dhoti, while the House erupted into laughter. The former Chief Minister went on to explain that he had trouble with his dhoti of late as he had put on 4-5 kg after he recovered from COVID-19. The Congress leader said he was on a diet and had undergone naturopathy treatment recently for weight loss. After the session was adjourned for lunch, Mr. Siddaramaiah was again found tightening his dhoti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-and-his-dhoti/article36622116.ece
23 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Leopards sighted in Kavalageri village||Even as the Forest Department is busy trying to capture the leopard sighted in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi, residents of Kavalageri village in Dharwad taluk have alerted the authorities about leopard sighting. While youths raised an alarm after they sighted a leopard in a sugarcane field in Kavalageri village in Dharwad taluk on Tuesday, a pair of leopards was sighted in the same village on Wednesday. The two leopards were seen in the sugarcane field of Shivappa Uppar. Shivappa Uppar said that he saw a leopard approaching an ox and a goat in the field and after he raised an alarm and threw stones at it, another leopard appeared close behind it. However, they ran deep into the sugarcane field with standing crop and disappeared, he said. Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Ksheersagar said that a team of 15 forest guards has been sent to carry out combing operation. The residents of the village have also been warned against venturing out unnecessarily, especially during sunset and sunrise, till the wild cats are caught, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopards-sighted-in-kavalageri-village/article36622346.ece
23 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bharat Bandh: Street meetings conducted in Dharwad||The call by Samyukta Kisan Morcha for the Bharat Bandh on September 27 seeking repeal of the new farm laws has received support from various organisations. On Wednesday, members of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) visited various localities to sensitise the general public on farmers agitation. Members of SUCI (C), during their visit to various residential localities in Dharwad, held street meetings, distributed pamphlets and highlighted why it was important to oppose the farm laws for the withdrawal of which farmers have been agitating for nine months now. Members of the district committee of SUCI(C), including Deepa V., Sharanu Gonawar, Hanumesh Huded, Ganga and Shashikala, and others addressed the meetings and educated the public about the dangers of the new farm laws. They said that as a precursor to Bharat Bandh, a protest will be held at 11 a.m. on Friday at Swami Vivekananda Circle in Dharwad. They also said that apart from the farm laws, the citizens should strongly oppose the Electricity Act 2020, the monetisation scheme of the Union government and condemn the soaring prices of essential commodities. The Union government was bent on further burdening the common people at the behest of its corporate friends. The SUCI(C) district committee members condemned what they termed as irresponsible a statement of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who said that the farmers movement was a sponsored protest. “If at all the agitation was a sponsored one, why would over 600 such hired protestors will sacrifice their lives. As the BJP is the richest party, let it hold a sponsored protest supporting the farm laws at least for a month,” they said, asking the Chief Minister to take it up as a challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bharat-bandh-street-meetings-conducted-in-dharwad/article36622359.ece
23 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bhim Palas, music festival, from Friday||As part of the birth centenary celebrations of the doyen of Hindustani Music Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, a two-day music festival, Bhim Palas, will be held in Dharwad on Friday and Saturday. And, young musicians are expected to participate in the music festival being held at Srujana Rangamandir on Karnatak College campus. The music festival is part of the year-long birth centenary celebrations organised by G.B. Memorial Trust of Dharwad and Kshamatha Samsthe of Hubballi with assistance from the Union Ministry of Culture, Infosys Foundation, LIC and LIC Housing Finance. Flautist Aditya Joshi, sitar exponent Mohasin Khan, vocalists Arjun Vathar and Rakshit Kulkarni will pay musical tributes to the legendary musician. On Friday, the concerts will begin at 5.30 p.m. with flautist Aditya Joshi and vocalist Rakshit Kulkarni giving a performance. Sitarist Mohasin Khan and vocalist Arjun Vathar will perform on Saturday. They will be accompanied by Allamaprabhu Kadkol, Nissar Ahmed, Srivatsa Koulagi and Jayteerth Panchamukhi on the tabla and Satish Bhat Heggaru and Parashuram Kattisangavi on the harmonium. Vividlipi will webcast the concerts on YouTube Live: https://www.youtube.com/vividlipi/live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhim-palas-music-festival-from-friday/article36622347.ece
23 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Fern Hotels and Resorts sets up hotel in Hubballi||The Fern Hotels and Resorts has set up its seventh hotel in the State at Hubballi and announced its launch on Wednesday. It is the group’s 83rd hotel in the country. Chief Executive Officer of Concept Hospitality-The Fern Hotels and Resorts Suhail Kannampilly said that with the launch of its seventh hotel in the State, the group has brought its eco-friendly Fern brand to Hubballi. “Already, we have Fern Hotels in Belagavi, Bengaluru, Shivamogga, Udupi and Vijayapura. We will be offering the best hospitality services for which the group has won over 200 national and international awards,” he said. Mr. Kannampilly said that the group has plans to increase the number of hotels in the country to 100 by 2022. And, by the end of the year, the group will have 88 hotels. For its Hubballi hotel, the group has entered into a tie-up with Vinayak Hotels which owns the property. Managing Partners of Vinayak Hotels Ashok Koti and Vinay Koti said that after their previous agreement with another hotel group ended, they decided to bring in a world class hotel group into Hubballi that will give a new hospitality experience to people. General Manager Afrozhusain Shaikh briefed about the amenities and services of the new hotel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fern-hotels-and-resorts-sets-up-hotel-in-hubballi/article36622356.ece
23 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||People urged to extend support to Bharat Bandh||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene State president Kodihalli Chandrashekar has urged people from all sections of society to support the ‘Bharat Bandh’ on September 27 called in protest against the new farm laws brought by the Centre. Addressing presspersons here on Wednesday, Mr. Chandrashekar said that with the enactment of the three farm laws — Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and facilitation) Act 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — farmers fear that they will lead to the abolishment of minimum support price. These laws will push the agriculture sector from being government-run to a private-run sector, he added. He accused the Centre of not responding to the farmers protest that has been going on for the last 10 months near Delhi. Condemning Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s statement that farmers protesting on the borders of Delhi and other places are being sponsored by the Congress or foreign agents, he said that Mr. Bommai has insulted farmers. If the government has any proof, it should take action against those sponsoring the protest. Mr. Chandrashekar said that the Modi government is adopting policies that were affecting the livelihood of the working class. He charged the government with planning to privatise various State-owned infrastructure and public sector units, including airports, railways, roads and electricity supply. Mr. Chandrashekar also participated in a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office organised by various Left parties. He said that the government has failed to take action against Hindu Mahasabha leaders for issuing a life threat to Mr. Bommai over the recent demolition of an ancient temple in Mysuru. Mr. Chandrasekhar said that Mr. Bommai instead of insulting farmers should take action against those evil elements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-urged-to-extend-support-to-bharat-bandh/article36622353.ece
23 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Temple entry: 5 held||Five people, including the priest of a local temple at Miyapur village in Kushtagi taluk of Koppal district, have been arrested after a Dalit family was fined Rs. 25,000 when their three-year-old child entered the temple. Following a complaint by Balachandra Sanganal, Assistant Director of Social Welfare Department, Kushtagi, the police registered a First Information Report (FIR) under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of. Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015, and Sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code at Kushtagi police station late on Tuesday. The police have arrested all the five people named in the complaint: Karakappa Pujari, Hanumagouda, Gavisiddappa Myageri, Virupakshagouda Myageri, and Sharanagouda, all residents of Miyapur village. Later on Wednesday, T. Sridhar, Superintendent of Police, Koppal, issued a media note confirming the registration of the FIR and the subsequent arrests. Appeals in vain Mr. Sanganal made it clear that he, as a government servant, had to lodge the complaint as appeals to Chandrashekhar, father of the three-year-old who had entered the temple, to file a police complaint went in vain. Puja offering As per the complaint, Mr. Chandrashekhar, 27, from the Chennadasa community which is classified under the list of Scheduled Castes, took his three-year-old son to a Maruteshwar temple in the village on September 4 to offer puja on the latter’s birthday. The child entered the temple as it began to rain. Mr. Chandrashekhar also entered the temple to bring the child out, as members of the Chennadasa community were prohibited from entering the temple. Karakappa Pujari, the priest of the temple, and Hanumagouda and Gavisiddappa Myageri, villagers, took objection to the entry of Mr. Chandrashekhar and his son into the temple. They, along with Virupakshagouda Myageri and Sharanagouda, held a meeting of villagers on September 11 and concluded that the temple had become polluted because of the entry of the father and the son. They imposed the fine on Mr. Chandrashekhar and his wife, Lalitha. Mr. Chandrashekhar did not file a complaint despite appeals from officials of the Revenue and Social Welfare Departments, and the police. Government servants, including police officers, then held an awareness meeting in the village on September 18 and warned the people against the practice of untouchability.  A government official had to lodge a police complaint as appeals to Chandrashekhar, father of the three-year-old who had entered the temple, to file a police complaint went in vain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-entry-five-arrested-after-dalit-family-is-fined-in-koppal/article36622362.ece
23 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Ministry chooses Mangaluru Central again for development||It is back to the beginning for the railway station development project for Mangaluru as the Railway Ministry has decided to develop Mangaluru Central instead of Mangaluru Junction. The Ministry asked the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) in 2019 to develop Mangaluru Junction. Before that the Ministry had announced developing Mangaluru Central Station into a “world-class” station. In a letter to RLDA on September 15, the Ministry said that it has decided to entrust Mangaluru Central to the authority for development, instead of Mangaluru Junction as communicated in August 2019. Mangaluru Central was one of the 50 stations chosen for development as announced by then Railway Minister Mamta Banerjee in 2009. Subsequently, the Dakshina Kannada district administration in 2014 recommended to develop Mangaluru Junction as Mangaluru Central was located in a congested area. In the last 12 years however, no development took place in either of the stations. Some of the stations mentioned in the 2009 Budget in Karnataka, including Yeshwanthpur and Baiyappanahalli in Bengaluru have already been developed. Divisional Railway Manager of Palakkad Division Trilok Kothari told The Hindu he has just received the Ministry’s communication. Basically the development would involve private participation: either public-private partnership wherein the private partner would make complete investment or partial PPP where the Railways too bears a portion of the project cost. The modalities, however, would be decided once the RLDA comes to conclusion about the commercial potential of the project, he said. Mr. Kothari said the Division in the next three-four months will have to collate all the data regarding Mangaluru Central and submit the same to RLDA. The Division would also have to make projection for future years, up to 20 or more years indicating the expected increase in passenger footfall and increase in train operations. A comprehensive report would have to be submitted to RLDA, which then would act upon the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministry-chooses-mangaluru-central-again-for-development/article36622594.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mangalore University to fill backlog posts soon||Vice-Chancellor of Mangalore University P.S. Yadapadithaya said on Wednesday that the university will initiate the process of filling the backlog reserved category teaching and non-teaching posts within a month from now. Speaking at the 42nd Foundation Day celebration of the university at Mangalagangotri, he said that the government has permitted the university to fill backlog posts of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Other Backward Classes categories. He said that the government is in the process of permitting the university to recruit general category teaching and non-teaching staff. The university is hopeful that this process will be completed by January next. The Vice-Chancellor said that a portion of the international hostel building on campus is being converted as Pareeksha Bhavan. It will be inaugurated in January next by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The university will construct a hostel for men belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes at a cost of Rs. 4.25 crore. It will also build an Ambedkar Bhavan on campus. He said that the university is planning to build a swimming pool and construct a synthetic track on campus under public-private-partnership model. He reiterated that the university is committed to opening the Dr. V.S. Acharya Centre for Coastal Development Studies at Belapu in Udupi district. He said that the university will also develop a model of “Tulu grama” on campus and will bring out a cultural policy. Stating that the National Education Policy-2020 to be implemented by the university in the academic year 2021-22 might have challenges during the implementation process, he said that the challenges should be taken as an opportunity and addressed. Teachers and students of the Physical Education Department, which was conferred with the Kreeda Poshak Award by the State government for 2019-20, were felicitated. A team of 12 students from MGM College Udupi was honoured with an award, trophy and cash prize for winning the championship at a university-level competition held at Noida.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mangalore-university-to-fill-backlog-posts-soon/article36622598.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Alva’s engineering college ties up with BETA CAE Systems||Alva’s Institute of Engineering and Technology, Moodbidri, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with BETA CAE Systems India Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, for the benefit of mechanical and agricultural engineering students. The MoU was signed recently in the presence of Stavros Kleidarias, CEO, BETA CAE Systems India Pvt. Ltd., and Vivek Alva, Management Trustee, Alva’s Education Foundation. The main objectives of the MOU is to reduce the gap between industry expectations and academic offerings by the direct involvement of industry to attain a symbiosis. Under this agreement, licensed software is used to train students in CAE simulation field, a release said. Training will begin in the third year and end in the final year for BE students. The course comprises pre-processor and post-processor software tool which is relevant to current syllabi. A total of 180 hours of syllabi is planned for this programme. It is a long-term training programme to augment practical knowledge and enable exposure to recent developments in aerospace, defence, automotive, motorsports, trucks and buses, maritime offshore, rail vehicles, heavy machinery, biomechanics, electronics industrial equipment, robotics, power tools, energy, and construction sectors. Training is aimed at creating knowledgeable and skilled personnel, especially among mechanical engineers and agricultural engineering students, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alvas-engineering-college-ties-up-with-beta-cae-systems/article36622592.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MIT students secure jobs||In all, 35 students from Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Manipal, have secured placements with a pay package of Rs. 44 lakh per annum from Microsoft. This is the highest number of offers made by Microsoft at MIT, Manipal. In addition to Microsoft, reputed companies, including Adobe, Amazon, Bajaj Finserv, BlackRock, Chargebee, Cisco Systems, Citrix R&D, Cloudera, Cohesity, Commvault, Deutsche India Pvt. Ltd., Fidelity Investment, Flipkart, Goldman Sachs, Hevodata, HPE, JP Morgan, Komprise, Nvidia, Oracle, Sabre Travels, SAP Labs, Tejas Networks, UBS Business, VM Ware, Wells Fargo and Western Digital, participated virtually in campus placements during the first phase of the academic year 2021-22. The placement process is still continuing. A MAHE release said that 292 students have secured placements and internship offers with an average package of Rs. 18.2 lakh per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mit-students-secure-jobs/article36622591.ece
23 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||37-year-old fisherman drowns in sea||A 37-year-old fisherman drowned in the sea in Thottam, near Udupi, on Tuesday. The Malpe police said that Rajesh Shriyan was among those, who had proceeded for fishing in the boat of Shiva Kunder. While fishing at Thottam, Rajesh lost balance and fell off the boat. Fellow fisherman Umesh jumped in the water and brought Rajesh to the shore. He was taken to a hospital nearby where Rajesh was declared dead.  In another case, the body of Mahendra, 24, who went missing on Sunday after he went to swim in the Sauparnika near Movady, was found near Senapura in Kundapur taluk on Tuesday. According to the police, Mahendra had a session of angling with his friends, Ashiq and Sharat, and then jumped in the water to swim on Sunday. He was caught in the rip current and taken away. A team of personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services worked alongside divers to fish out the body on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/37-year-old-fisherman-drowns-in-sea/article36622600.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Train schedule revised||The Southern Railway has revised the departure schedule of Kannur-Bengaluru overnight express at Mangaluru with effect from Thursday. A communique here from South Western Railway quoting Southern Railway as saying said that Train No 06516 will leave Mangaluru Central at 8.10 p.m. instead of 8 p.m. It will leave Mangaluru Junction at 8.22 p.m. instead of 8.20 p.m., the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-schedule-revised/article36622593.ece
23 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Students saved||Three students from Shivamogga were rescued from drowning off Malpe beach, on Wednesday. The police said Kiran, Nitin, and Manjunath, all 19, were among 35 students on a trip. When the sudents came to the beach, the three were caught in the rip current. Life guards saved them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-saved/article36622599.ece
23 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man booked for illegal possession of gun||The Brahmavar police have booked Jaya Naik, 46, for the alleged illegal possession of a SBML gun. The police said following a tip off, a team searched the house of Naik and found two SBML guns with the same licence numbers. The police found that Naik had a licence for one gun and not for the other. The police seized the additional gun and other related articles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-booked-for-illegal-possession-of-gun/article36622601.ece
23 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra felicitated Ruth Clare D’Silva who scored first rank in the all-India CA final examination on Wednesday. Her parents Rufert D’Silva and Rosy Maria D’Silva were also present.     Sri Krishna Mutt/Temple in Udupi has extended the darshan hours from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. In addition, the noon and night food service at the mutt has been restored.    MESCOM will hold its consumers’ meeting in Kota, Udupi district on September 24 from 10.30 a.m. to noon. The link to attend is https://meet.google.com /zux-pmgm-evi. Phone 0820-2565386.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36622595.ece
23 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bombe Mane is back in Mysuru||Bombe Mane, a journey into the world of dolls, is back in Mysuru and the 17th edition of the annual exhibition showcases exclusive pieces representative of the quaint rituals of Dasara festivities. Exquisitely hand-crafted dolls by master artisans are on display atNazarabad. The collection is a reflection of the city’s cultural, social and religious heritage. Bombe Mane has a huge collection of nearly 5,000 dolls representing different facets of the country’s cultural heritage. Ramsons Kala Pratishtana (RKP), which has organised the exhibition, has commissioned Channapatna dolls by giving its special designs of peg dolls which depict the Kodanda Rama set, the divine pairs of Radha Krishna, Brahma Saraswati, Shiva Parvati and Lakshmi Narayana. The dioramas of Rama and his entourage flying in the Pushpaka Vimana, Kumbhakarna fighting in the battle, Navarasa, Surya Namaskara, and Shravana Kumara taking his parents on a pilgrimage are among the creations at this year’s expo. The dolls of Mysore Chamundeshwari, Dharmasthala Manjunatha, Horanadu Annapoorneshwari, Kolluru Mookambika, Tulaja Bhavani and many more are new additions this year. This edition of Bombe Mane is featuring the Varkari tradition in which devotees walk from their hometowns to Pandharpur twice a year - once on Ashadha Ekadashi and once again on Kartika Ekadashi - carrying saffron flags, tulasi pots, tiny cymbals and mridanga and singing bhajans in praise of Lord Vittala. A major milestone this year is the 75th anniversary of Independence. Colourful heritage prints and calendar prints depicting various important events leading up to the occasion along with the stalwarts of that time have been displayed in the second special section. The third special display features a miniature model of Mysore City Corporation building which is celebrating its 100th anniversary, and of the DC Office building at Gordon Park, which is observing its 125th anniversary. A model of St. Philomena’s Cathedral is also displayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bombe-mane-is-back-in-mysuru/article36622461.ece
23 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||This year, Chamarajanagar to host four-day Dasara fete||This year’s Dasara in Chamarajanagar will be held for four days and the district officials have been asked to make arrangements keeping in view the pandemic situation. Minister in charge of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar S.T. Somashekar said the festivities will begin on October 7 and officials have been told to make all preparations for ensuring smooth conduct of the events. The Minister, who held a meeting with the district administration in Bengaluru on Wednesday, said the artists who were deprived of opportunities to perform in Dasara events in view of the pandemic situation, will be invited. Officials have been asked to conduct the cultural events taking all necessary precautions. The illumination expenditure has to be borne by the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC), and the arrangements have to be done taking the local MLAs and the MP and other elected representatives into confidence. Mr. Somashekar said the festival has to be inaugurated at the designated time on October 7 and added that no lapses should occur with all events centred at the district headquarters. Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi said an estimate of Rs. 50 lakh will be prepared for the events and added that there won’t be any financial hurdles in the conduct of the festivities if CESC takes care of the illumination expenditure. Besides illumination in the district headquarters, illumination will also be done in the taluk centres with the support of sponsors, he added.  Minister S.T. Somashekar said the festivities will begin on October 7  Officials have been asked to conduct the cultural events taking all necessary precautions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/this-year-chamarajanagar-to-host-four-day-dasara-fete/article36622459.ece
23 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||World Car Free Day in Mysuru||A small, but meaningful effort appears to have been made by Trin Trin, the public bicycle sharing system in Mysuru, to promote World Car Free Day, which is observed in many cities across the globe on September 22. “Let us drop our car keys for a day”, tweeted @MyTrinTrin with a poster of World Care Free Day. “Most of the Trin Trin staff, who used cars for commuting, did not drive to office today”, said Asha K. from Green Wheel Ride, which operates Trin Trin in Mysuru. “We had told the staff to drop car keys and cycle, walk or take public transport to office. I came on a cycle to office”, she added. The World Car Free Day seeks to promote not only a reduction in pollution, traffic congestion and demand for fuel, but also emphasises the need to switch to a sustainable means of transport like cycling. Trin Trin offers the commuting public the facility of renting a bicycle from any of the 48 stations across the city. Launched in June 2017, it has more than 15,000 registered users and the daily ridership ranges between 750 to 800.Patrons include school and college-going youth and office-goers, besides cycling enthusiasts. Trin Trin’s daily ridership had crossed 1,500 prior to COVID-19. Ever since the lockdown imposed this year was lifted, the number of people renting bicycles has been gradually increasing. Ms. Asha hopes the numbers will increase further in the coming days with the reopening of schools and colleges. During the lockdown, the operations of Trin Trin too were suspended, much to the disappointment of many of its patrons particularly the fitness enthusiasts looking forward to cycling at a time when other avenues for exercise and keeping fit like gyms, parks and swimming pools were closed. Even though most of the cycles are more than four years old, Ms. Asha said they were in a pretty good condition. The cycles have been maintained well with parts such as mud guards and seats replaced whenever it has been felt necessary. Plans are afoot to increase the number of bicycles from 450 to about 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/world-car-free-day-in-mysuru/article36622465.ece
23 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Theerthodbhava at Talacauvery on Oct. 17||The Cauvery Theerthodbhava will occur at Talacauvery in Kodagu on October 17. A decision on whether to allow devotees to witness the occasion will be taken soon after the meeting to be chaired by the Minister in charge of Kodagu, said Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal. Last year, devotees were not allowed to witness the occasion in view of the pandemic. In view of COVID-19, the Deputy Commissioner has asked the Health Department to deploy an adequate number of health teams at Talacauvery for ensuring SOPs. At a meeting in Madikeri on Wednesday, she told the officials to make all necessary arrangements for the event. All cleanliness drives must take place before the event at Bhagamandala and Talacauvery through the Bhagamandala GP. Drinking water, toilets and parking arrangements must be done at the site ahead of the event. The filling-up of potholes on the Madikeri-Talacauvery road must be taken up immediately. The KSRTC will be asked to run more buses to Talacauvery if the public are allowed to participate. Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra said adequate police and home guards will be deployed at Talacauvery and Bhagamandala for security. DHO Venkatesh said RT-PCR test camp will be conducted on October 13 and 14 if the test is made mandatory for visitors. Last year, a small number of people witnessed the evnt amidst strict enforcement of safety precautions over COVID-19 scare. No special buses ran to Talacauvery from Madikeri and other places, and the movement of private vehicles had also been restricted.  Meeting chaired by Minister in charge of Kodagu to decide on whether to allow devotees to witness the event Health Dept. to conduct RT-PCR test on October 13, 14 if made mandatory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/theerthodbhava-at-talacauvery-on-oct-17/article36622463.ece
23 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Stolen property returned||Yadgir Police handed over articles, movable property and sheep that were recovered in theft cases to their owners at a property return parade here on Thursday. Addressing the event, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy said that stolen articles valued at Rs. 35.96 lakh, in all, were handed over to those who had lost them. Of them, gold ornaments were worth Rs. 7.72 lakh followed by silver articles worth Rs. 83,500, a car valued at Rs. 1 lakh, an autorickshaw valued at Rs. 85,000, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stolen-property-returned/article36622354.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||VTU for BSc course in engineering colleges||Prof. Karisiddappa added that the first priority will be given to students who have written the CET. “If after this allotment, any seats are unfilled, we will allow other students to take part in the counselling process,” he said. Flexibility Expanding on the merits of studying BSc in engineering colleges, he said that students will be able to pick subjects such as computer science and artificial intelligence as the National Education Policy allows flexibility in choosing subjects. While the decision has been welcomed by education experts and the teaching faculty, students said that they should have been informed earlier. Suma S., a II PU student who enrolled in a BSc programme at a government first-grade degree college, said, “If I knew there was an option to pursue a BSc programme in an engineering college, I would have applied for the CET and written it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vtu-for-bsc-course-in-engineering-colleges/article36622134.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP says no safety grilles on balconies||A resident of Ashrith Aspire — the complex where the fire broke out — said the builder had not put safety grilles for the balconies. “There was a spate of burglaries in the area a few years ago and many took to installing grilles. A few flats have put up grilles with an option for an emergency exit. But the flat damaged by fire was completely enclosed. We will bring this up in our association meeting,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-says-no-safety-grilles-on-balconies/article36622132.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Marking the occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marking-the-occasion/article36622603.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Validity of exemption upheld||“They have rightly been granted exemption for a period of 10 years, it is not the case that they have been granted exemption indefinitely. Exemption granted is subject to certain terms and conditions. Therefore, the constitutional validity of the notification is upheld.” the Bench said.The 2019 notification was issued after the High Court had asked the Centre to review its 1966 notification of indefinite grant of exemption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/validity-of-exemption-upheld/article36622133.ece
23 September 2021||A Correspondent,KERALA||Several booked in child marriage case in Idukki||The Rajakkad police have filed a case of child marriage between a minor girl and a 24-year-old man at Bison Valley in Idukki district. The case was registered against the parents of the girl, her husband, the temple priest who officiated the wedding, among others. The wedding took place on September 9. The girl is a Plus Two student from Devikulam and the groom is from Bison Valley. District child protection officer Geetha M.G. said that when the police team reached the venue, the ceremony had already been officiated. The girl was then shifted to a child protection unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/several-booked-in-child-marriage-case-in-idukki/article36622424.ece
23 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ex-range officer is first accused in tree-felling case||Former forest range officer Joji John has been named the first accused in the Mankuva tree-felling case under the Adimali forest station limits. A Konnathadi village field staff and the Mukkudam forest section officer are the second and third accused respectively in the case. Earlier, a case was registered against Mr. John and it was moved for further inquiry to the Vellathooval police station. The FIR stated that the tree-felling was done in February first week at Mankuva under Konnthadi village. The accused illegally felled eight teak trees from the area and moved it from the spot, the police said. He then forged the documents, according to the police. Under the cover of a controversial order by the Revenue Department in October 2020, the accused had felled and smuggled teak and rose wood from the Adimali range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ex-range-officer-is-first-accused-in-tree-felling-case/article36622423.ece
23 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tribal families get flood-resilient houses||Flash floods during monsoon have been a nightmare for tribal families living on the banks of the Panamaram river, a major tributary of the Kabani, in Wayanad. With the District Nirmithi Kendra completing construction of flood-resilient buildings, they are looking forward to better times ahead. When heavy rain and floods battered the hill district two years ago, it seriously hit the tribal people of Kolathara, a remote settlement in Panamaram grama panchayat. The proposal for elevated houses was put forward by experts from NIT-Calicut (NITC) after the flash floods in 2018 and 2019. “We have constructed 14 houses in the Kolathara tribal settlement, including seven flood-resilient ones in low-lying areas, said O.K. Sajeeth, project manager, Nirmithi Kendra, Wayanad. Each house with an area of 420 square feet has been constructed on nine concrete pillars, raised nearly two metres from the ground level. Nirmithi Kendra has spent Rs. 6 lakh to construct each house utilising flood relief funds from the State government and a financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh from the Tribal Development Department, Mr. Sajeeth said. The houses will be handed over to beneficiaries by O.R. Kelu, MLA, at 12.30 p.m. on Thursday, he added. Each house has two bedrooms, a hall, kitchen, toilet, and a veranda. While vitrified tiles have been used for flooring, false ceiling is made of PVC. Besides, each house has two steel staircases with hand rails. Incidentally, a similar structure has been constructed for a tribal family on a marshy land at Muttil. Nirmithi Kendra constructed 240 houses in 25 tribal hamlets in 15 grama panchayats in one-and-a-half years. Work on 60 more houses are under way, Mr. Sajeeth added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-families-of-wayanad-get-modern-flood-resilient-houses/article36622398.ece
23 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Mobile veterinary clinic to be rolled out||J. Chinchu Rani, Minister for Dairy Development and Animal Husbandry, will inaugurate the mobile veterinary clinic of the Mananthavady block panchayat at 9.30 a.m. on Friday through videoconferencing. O.R. Kelu, MLA, will flag off the mobile unit on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-veterinary-clinic-to-be-rolled-out/article36622400.ece
23 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Injured elephant found dead||The wild elephant, which was found with serious injuries in Cheenkannipuzha area at Aralam farm on Monday, died on Tuesday night. Assistant Forest Veterinary Surgeon Ajesh Mohandhas carried out the postmortem of the adult elephant. The carcass of the elephant was later buried inside the Aralam wildlife sanctuary. Mr. Ajesh said that the animal died from injuries suffered in fighting with another elephant as the lungs were found punctured. There were injuries caused by tusks on the head and on the back of the elephant. He said samples had been collected for further examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/injured-elephant-found-dead/article36622394.ece
23 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||IUML takes action against party workers||The District Committee of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has decided to take disciplinary action against party workers and leaders, who allegedly formed a parallel committee against Taliparamba municipal Muslim League committee and misbehaved with league leaders. Action will be initiated against Muslim League and Youth League leaders for acting contrary to party discipline and creating sectarianism, leading protests and going to the district Muslim League office and behaving rudely to party office-bearers. The committee also recommended the State Muslim League Committee to suspend P.A. Siddiqui, K. Muhammed Basheer, P.M. Mustafa, P.P. Ismail, and C. Muhammed Raj from the party. Action will also be taken against Abdur Rahman, N.U. Shafique, Oliyan Jaffer, K.P. Noushad, and Bapu Ashraf who created ruckus and behaved rudely with IUML leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-takes-action-against-party-workers/article36622404.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi metro to reduce fares||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to bring down the fares after 77% of the people who participated in a survey conducted by the metro agency felt that the fares should be reduced to attract more commuters. The fares are being reduced to attract more people, said KMRL managing director Loknath Behera at a press conference here on Wednesday. KMRL has not decided on the rates or the time when the new fares will come into effect. KMRL conducted the survey among 11,191 people of whom 79% were in the age group between 20 and 60 years. There were 50.78% in the 20 to 40 category and 27.86% in the 40 to 60 years category. Sixty-three per cent of the people who participated in the survey were not metro riders and only 37% were metro users. Those who participated in the survey were interested in knowing more about Kochi metro’s operations. The survey also revealed that there were many people who did not know that the metro rail services were still on. Some participants complained about difficulties in reaching metro rail stations as well as reaching their destinations after getting out of the stations. An opinion that came out of the survey was that people from low-income groups, students, senior citizens, and those facing physical or mental challenges should be offered concession. Another demand among those surveyed was that passes should be issued for days, weeks, and months. There was a suggestion to improve services under the Kochi One card. More discounts could be offered during the period between 11 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. as this is the lean period of metro riders, the survey results showed. Opinion from Kochi metro rail officials was also sought during the survey. They suggested that concessions be extended during festivals and holidays. There could also be special packages for corporate workers and students, they said. Loyalty payments to regular riders, which could be added to health insurance schemes, could attract more riders, it was suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-to-reduce-fares/article36622572.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||PWD faces flak for shoddy condition of roads||Protest is brewing against the Public Works Department (NH wing) for the shoddy condition of Kundannoor Junction and inordinate delay by the agency in pruning the extent of medians that it built beneath the flyovers at Kundannoor and Vyttila, despite repeated assurances. Traffic police personnel had filled gaping potholes at Kundannoor Junction a year ago, after the PWD — to which the National Highways Authority of India handed over a kilometre of the NH bypass passing through the junction for flyover construction work — failed to comply with repeated requests. Over nine months since the flyover was commissioned, roads at the junction remain severely undulated, posing danger to road users. With repeated pleas falling on deaf ears, Maradu-based social activist Shamier Abdulla registered his protest by uploading a video of the deplorable condition of the junction on social media. “Members of the public are shell-shocked by the apathy of agencies concerned that ought to ensure that the NH bypass and junctions on the corridor are safe for motorists. They expressed outrage at the undulations and a few parts of the road on the eastern side of the junction protruding above the level of the adjacent road,” Mr. Abdulla said. The PWD and Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala Limited, who jointly executed the flyover construction, have also not readied a smooth entry from the carriageway of the NH bypass to the service road that motorists proceeding to Maradu and Willingdon Island have to take. There is no warning board either, despite media reports on the same. The PWD is under fire for the delay in pruning the extent of the roundabout and medians beneath the Vyttila flyover too, where traffic hold-ups are the norm, despite repeated demands from the traffic police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-faces-flak-for-shoddy-condition-of-roads/article36622563.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Panel to probe archdiocesan land deal||The State government has constituted a committee, headed by Land Revenue Assistant Commissioner Beena P. Anand and comprising District Registrar Eby George, Kochi city Assistant Police Commissioner Vinod Pillai, revenue officials S. Jaya Kumaran, G. Balachandran Pillai, Shibu M.V. and M. Manoj, to investigate a land deal by the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church in September 2007. The primary task of the team is reportedly to look into whether the land sale in Kakkanad involved government or revenue land. Revenue Department sources did not confirm the details but said the full scope of the inquiry was being discussed by the team. The inquiry is being instituted on the basis of an order of the High Court. The land deal had come into media attention in 2008 after it was alleged that the archdiocese lost a substantial sum in the deal for which there was no accountability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-to-probe-archdiocesan-land-deal/article36622450.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Regional Chemical Examiner’s Lab hit by manpower shortage, equipment||The Excise Department continues to await the chemical analysis report of more than 1 kg of MDMA, which it seized from an apartment at Thrikkakara a month ago. The report is integral to scientifically and chemically confirming the drug and determine its purity, while also being critical for the prosecution to fight the case legally. The Regional Chemical Examiner’s Laboratory, Kakkanad, has just started the chemical analysis of the samples after many of its officials either reported COVID-19 positive or had to undergo an extensive period of quarantine after family members of colleagues got infected, disrupting the functioning of the lab. While the delay can be attributed to the pandemic in this instance, the laboratory’s work remains largely derailed owing to woeful shortage of manpower and instruments. “We have only 16 technical assistants and scientific officers combined for hands-on work while we should ideally have around 30. Also, the workload has increased manifold over the years. While we received around 50 narcotics samples in a month in the past, now the number touches 350-400,” said laboratory sources. It does not help either that the four districts – Ernakulam, Idukki, Palakkad, and Thrissur – over which the Ernakulam Regional Chemical Examiner’s Laboratory has jurisdiction, account for a high crime rate. Redeployment of officials from the Chief Chemical Examiner’s Laboratory in Thiruvananthapuram, which has a surplus workforce, is a possible solution, sources said. The absence of enough modern equipment and their timely maintenance also disrupt the functioning of the lab. For instance, the regional lab in Ernakulam has just one instrument for conducting Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry, which is critical in the chemical analysis of drugs like MDMA and LSD. “There is no standby instrument and the sole one available was imported nearly a decade back. Neither the spares nor the service engineers for its maintenance are available locally. This means that it will takes months before the instrument is revived,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/regional-chemical-examiners-lab-hit-by-manpower-shortage-equipment/article36622574.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Concern over flight of fishing boats unfounded’||Concern over the possible flight of fishing boats from the Thoppumpady fisheries harbour, mostly manned by fishers from Tamil Nadu from centres like Thengapattanam, Thuthoor, Nagapattanam and Rameshwaram, is unfounded, say All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators' Association. Joseph Xavier Kalapurackal of the Association said that there had been a temporary disruption in operations as many of the fishers from Tamil Nadu had gone back to their homes to celebrate occasions like August 15, which is considered a major holiday for fishers from the coastal area. He also said that the Tamil Nadu government offered substantial subsidy on diesel price, which had attracted fishers to harbours like Thengapattanam. However, most of the fishing operations took place off the coast of Kerala and Karnataka, which would continue to attract fishing boats to Kochi. However, he felt that the impersonalisation of harbours like Thengapattanam, about 10 km away from the Kerala border into Tamil Nadu, could draw fishing boats to that harbour in the long run. M. Majeed of All Indian Deep Sea Fishers’ Association also said that there was no flight of fishing vessels from Kochi. He said COVID-19 restrictions and weather warnings had kept some of the boats away from the Kochi harbour. This, however, was not a permanent feature as the rainy season is ending and fishing operations are expected to get into full swing. There are around 700 longline boats operating out of the Kochi harbour, while there are around 120 trawl boats and about 75 purse seine boats based at the harbour. Most of these boats are operated by fishers from the neighbouring States. A fishing boat operator based in Kochi said that there was a fall in the number of fishing boats calling at the Kochi harbour, but that was a temporary phenomenon and the situation would be normalised soon. But he pointed out that the strict COVID-19 curbs as well as high labour cost were factors that could dissuade the boats operated by fishers from outside Kerala calling at the harbour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-flight-of-fishing-boats-unfounded/article36622568.ece
23 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,792 more test positive||As many as 2,792 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. A total of 2,741 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 47 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 18.4%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 50 included Thrikkakara (145), Kottuvally (97), and Pallipuram (76). As many as 16,916 persons are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2792-more-test-positive/article36622569.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ambergris worth Rs. 50 lakh seized||The Forest Department on Wednesday seized about 1.4 kg of ambergris worth Rs. 50 lakh in the market from a room at Vyttila in Ernakulam. Ambergris is a waxy substance secreted by sperm whales which has a high demand in the perfume market. Three natives of Lakshadweep were also taken into custody in a joint operation led by the Forest Vigilance DFO and comprising members of the flying squads in Perumbavoor, Thrissur and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau. Social media ad Those in custody were handed over to the Mekkapala station under Kodanad range. Officers said that it was an advertisement on social media targeted at prospective buyers of the substance that attracted their attention following which they laid a trap for the sellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ambergris-worth-rs-50-lakh-seized/article36622566.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||‘Green’ aircraft hangar at NAY(K)||The foundation stone for a new, state-of-the-art aircraft hangar was laid by Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, at the Naval Aircraft Yard, Kochi. The new hangar would be constructed as a green hangar with minimum ‘carbon footprint’ by 2023. Towards this, in-built solar power generation facility, rainwater harvesting and maximum use of natural light/ventilation have been factored in the design. The hangar would replace the 1946-vintage structure and would facilitate deep-level repairs of new aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-aircraft-hangar-at-nayk/article36622567.ece
23 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Suresh Gopi calls on Prof. Joseph at residence||Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Gopi met T. J. Joseph, former Professor of Newman College in Thodupuzha, whose right hand was chopped off by fundamentalists for alleged religious blasphemy, at his residence in Muvattupuzha on Wednesday. The meeting gained attention amidst rumours that the Bharatiya Janata Party was considering him for appointment as member of the National Commission for Minorities. However, Mr. Joseph clarified that he had not yet received any such offer. “It was a courtesy visit by Mr. Suresh Gopi, who said that he wanted to meet me for long,” he said. Asked whether he would be open to being considered as member of the commission, Prof. Joseph said that he would consider it if there was an invitation from the people concerned. “Till then, this will remain a a hypothetical query,” he said. Mr. Joseph was attacked by members of the Popular Front of India when he was returning home from a church with his family members on July 4, 2010. The organisation had alleged that he had ridiculed Prophet Mohammed by including a question in an internal examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/suresh-gopi-calls-on-tj-joseph/article36622396.ece
23 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ashtamudi clean-up drive soon||Data collection trips conducted by various local bodies in the district have found that Ashtamudi Lake is facing massive degradation due to a range of issues, including pollution. While it has been found that several parts of the waterbody have been encroached, rampant waste dumping is another concern. “We will be launching a project to clear the encroachments in coordination with the Revenue Department. Steps will be taken for setting up proper toilet facilities in the same parts since we have found many families are diverting septage waste into the lake. Enforcement measures will be intensified,” said Deputy Mayor Kollam Madhu here on Wednesday. Protecting the aquatic ecosystem and piscean wealth is another goal and surveillance will be beefed up to identify illegal fishing practices. Rs. 50-lakh project The Kollam Corporation has decided to spend Rs. 50 lakh for cleaning the lake while an equal amount will be used for the renovation of Link Road. A floating garden and music fountain will also come up in the area. The clean-up drive is expected to take off by early October and measures will be taken to stop drainage water reaching the lake. Apart from rejuvenating the waterbodies, the Corporation is planning to conduct anti-plastic campaigns in all 55 divisions and panchayat boundaries. Kollam Corporation and 12 panchayats share the shoreline of Ashtamudi and all the local bodies had scoured various parts of the waterbody to assess its current condition. Ramsar site Based on the reports, a series of programmes will be implemented to clean the lake and conserve its biodiversity. In order to conserve the Ramsar site, the Kollam Corporation is planning to launch a comprehensive strategy and a special committee will be handling the issues related to pollution and encroachment. The local body has conducted a technical workshop as part of preparing an action plan to rejuvenate the lake. “The lake cleaning will start on October 2 and a string of long and short-term programmes will follow," said Mr. Madhu. The authorities are also exploring the possibilities to promote backwater tourism while sticking to scientific and environment-friendly practices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ashtamudi-clean-up-drive-soon/article36622425.ece
23 September 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Grievance redressal of EPFO on October 11||Nidhi Apke Nikat, the monthly grievance redressal programme of the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), will be held on October 11. The online session will be from 12 noon and the offline session starts at 3 p.m. For details, contact 0472767645, 04742764980.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/grievance-redressal-of-epfo-on-october-11/article36622427.ece
23 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Job openings for hospital staff||The Neendakara taluk hospital has invited applications for the posts (daily wages) of pharmacist (one), lab technician (two), radiographer (two), ECG technician (two), dialysis technician (three), staff nurse (four), driver (one), electrician-cum-plumber (one), data entry operator (two), security (two) and cleaning staff (hospital grade - four). Two years of experience is required for all posts except driver and the applications should reach hospital superintend by September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-openings-for-hospital-staff/article36622426.ece
23 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Retender afoot, track doubling works set to be expedited||In view of the delay in completing the track doubling along the 17-km Chingavanam-Ettumanur stretch, a high-level meeting convened by Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, on Wednesday decided to complete the works by December 31. “With the Public Works Department (PWD) directing to retender the construction work of the approach road to the Caritas and Mulanthuruthy railway overbridges, a new proposal for revised administrative approval at the rates approved in 2018 has been submitted to the government. Tender procedures for both the overbridges will be taken up as soon as the approval for renewed administrative sanction is received,” said Mr. Chazhikadan. Pointing out that the girders of the Poovanthuruthu overbridge had already been installed, he said the works would be expedited after resolving the issues related to acquisition of land at different locations, including Nagampadam and Muttambalam. Value of 52 out of 54 properties to be taken over as part of the land acquisition of the Kuruppanthara flyover has been fixed. A decision on the remaining two properties will be taken immediately by the PWD Buildings Division. A detailed project report of Rs. 36.8 crore for the Mulanthuruthy Kurikkad overbridge has been approved. Upon receiving approval from the Railway Engineering Department, the Revenue Department will start the land acquisition process. The general agreement drawing of the Kaduthuruthy overbridge is also expected to get approval soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/retender-afoot-track-doubling-works-set-to-be-expedited/article36622430.ece
23 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||This grama panchayat to play cupid for single youths||For those who are single and looking to couple up, a local body in Kottayam is ready to play cupid. Taking note of a gradual rise in the number of single youths in its limits, the Thidanadu grama panchayat has taken it upon itself to help them find suitable life partners. A ‘marriage diary’ opened by the local body has received over 700 registrations since its launch four days ago. According to the panchayat authorities, the matchmaking service will be handled directly by ward members in the first phase. As the number of registrations rises, the process will gradually shift to an online platform. The scheme intends to find suitable matches for the registered members in coordination with local bodies across the State. Free service “The popularity of matrimonial apps and websites may make it seem a bit old-fashioned, but it stands out from the rest. The service is totally free of cost,” explains Viji George, president, Thidanadu panchayat. Sherin Perumakunnel, president of the panchayat’s health and education standing committees, is coordinating the service. The registration of profiles can be done by filling an online application form, which is being circulated through social media. “We have received registrations from locations as far as Malappuram. After verification, these profiles will be forwarded to the presidents of different local bodies who have agreed to cooperate with us in this initiative. To address privacy concerns, all communications will be carried out through the official e-mail IDs of the persons involved,” explains Mr. Perumakunnel. Sample survey The initiative follows an online sample survey carried out among the youths in the panchayat, says Mr. Perumakunnel. “The survey revealed that there are many young men and women looking for life partners but have their marriages delayed or broken up due to various factors. This was when we decided to step in,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/this-grama-panchayat-to-play-cupid-for-single-youths/article36622439.ece
23 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,682 cases in Kottayam||The number of new COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam, with 1,682 persons testing positive for the disease on Wednesday. Of the fresh cases, 1,663 persons, including two health-care workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. As many as 1,236 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,011 in the district. Meanwhile, 50,822 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Kollam district reported 1,225 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,572 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,215 patients contracted the virus through direct contact, the others include 10 health-care workers. At present, the district has 26,094 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,05,036. While 2,169 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 3,57,089 primary and 19,926 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) in Kollam is 15.2%. 1,011 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 1,011 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 1,005 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of eight cases were yet to be ascertained. The decease claimed eight more lives in the district. With 1,215 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases in the district stood at 7,624.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1682-cases-in-kottayam/article36622429.ece
23 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Doctor suspended, audio clips go viral on social media||A senior doctor at the Institute for Maternal and Child Health (IMCH) at the Government Medical College, Kozhikode, was suspended recently on bribery charges. But what went viral on social media was a recorded conversation between the doctor and the person who complained against him. Saravana Kumar, head of one of the units dealing with obstetrics and gynaecology at the IMCH, was taken to task by the Director of Medical Education (DME) for accepting bribe from a patient’s husband, a daily-wage labourer. It was alleged that the doctor sought bribe after performing a surgery on the woman. Her husband, a resident of Kozhikode city, subsequently filed a complaint with C. Sreekumar, Superintendent, IMCH. The recorded conversation occurred when Dr. Saravana Kumar called the complainant, urging him to take back the complaint. The doctor begs him to withdraw the charges and says he is ready to fall at his feet. He goes to the extent of urging the complainant to consider him as a “brother” and do the favour. The complainant, however, is defiant throughout the conversation. “You don’t have any right to fall at my feet,” he says. At a point, he even reminds the doctor about an infamous incident that happened at the medical college hospital in the 80s when a corrupt doctor was garlanded with chappals by activists. A preliminary inquiry was conducted by Dr. Sreekumar, K.S. Prabhavathy (Head of the Department of Psychiatry), and Sreedevi Menon (Head of the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation). An audio clip of the conversation was attached to the preliminary inquiry report forwarded to the DME. It was reported that Dr. Saravana Kumar gave back the bribe after details of the complaint came to light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctor-suspended-audio-clips-go-viral-on-social-media/article36622391.ece
23 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Articles at Mahila Mall taken away, say entrepreneurs||As many as nine entrepreneurs at the now closed down Mahila Mall in Kozhikode on Wednesday claimed that the articles they had stored in their shops were taken away without their knowledge. The husband of one of the entrepreneurs noticed on Tuesday evening that all the gift articles at their shop had been removed. Similar incidents happened at 10 other shops as well. There were 78 shops in the building, and 30 of them had occupants. Ten of them were under the custody of the group which ran the mall. Some others settled for compensation after the venture run into losses. The nine entrepreneurs who have now come with the complaint have losses up to Rs. 30 lakh. They pointed out that the front portion of the building had been locked, and that they could not get inside to assess the losses. The mall was closed down in 2020 March during the first lockdown. Though the entrepreneurs managed to get a court order to reopen the building, no steps were taken in that direction. Later, they approached the district administration, talks were held, and the mall was opened. But it ran only for four days. It was closed down again after pending power bills were not cleared. The Kozhikode Corporation claimed that the issue was between the operator of the mall and the entrepreneurs, and that the civic body was not involved in the row. The entrepreneurs said they would file a complaint with the Nadakkavu police station. UDF holds protest Meanwhile, United Democratic Front (UDF) workers staged a demonstration outside the building in support of the entrepreneurs. Kozhikode District Congress Committee (DCC) president K. Praveenkumar and UDF councillors were present.  Front portion of the building has been locked, and one cannot get inside to assess the losses Mahila Mall entrepreneurs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/articles-at-mahila-mall-taken-away-say-entrepreneurs/article36622393.ece
23 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Zambian held with 5 kg of heroin||Sleuths attached to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized about 5 kg of heroin from a Zambian woman who arrived from Qatar at the Calicut international airport on Wednesday. Officials said that Bishala Soko, 31, was intercepted by officials after she reached the airport by a Qatar Airways flight. She had hidden the heroin valued at Rs. 30 crore in her check-in baggage. Soko, who has a valid Indian visa, had reached Doha from Cape Town, South Africa. She informed the investigators that she had received the package from a person in Cape Town to be delivered to an agent in Kozhikode. She was intercepted based on an intelligence input, DRI sources said. Remanded Soko was charged under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. She was produced in court and remanded in judicial custody. Further investigations were on, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/zambian-held-with-5-kg-of-heroin/article36622440.ece
23 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Ombudsman orders demolition of ropeway||P.S. Gopinathan, Ombudsman for Local Self-Government Institutions, has ordered the demolition of a ropeway being constructed by Nilambur MLA P.V. Anvar’s father-in-law across a controversial check-dam at Cheenkannippali in Urngattiri panchayat in the district. It was found that the ropeway was being constructed under the guise of a restaurant for which the permission had been granted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ombudsman-orders-demolition-of-ropeway/article36622401.ece
23 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Children’s Science Congress: KSCSTE webinar on Friday||The Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) will organise a webinar for students aged between 10 and 17 years, their parents, and teachers ahead of the 29th National Children’s Science Congress. The webinar will be at 7 p.m. on Friday. The science congress will provide a chance for the students to present their studies and innovations in biology, maths, social science and environmental science. Projects can be prepared either alone or by a team of two. There will be competitions at junior and senior levels. There will be special consideration for differently abled students. Main theme Organisers said the event would be held online this year too. The main theme of this year’s National Children’s Science Congress is ‘science for sustainable living’. Students can present papers on sub themes such as ‘ecosystem for sustainable living’, ‘appropriate technology for sustainable living’, ‘social innovation for sustainable living’, ‘design, development and modelling for sustainable living’, and ‘traditional knowledge system for sustainable living’. National Children’s Science Congress district coordinator S. Guruvayurappan said here on Wednesday that the district-level competition would take place in November and that the State-level in December first week. The national-level event would be held in the last week of December. For details, respective educational district coordinators can be contacted. Palakkad educational district coordinator can be reached at 9446961852, Ottapalam educational district coordinator at 9746472004, and Mannarkkad educational district coordinator at 9497351020. Mr. Guruvayurappan can be contacted at 9447700321.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/childrens-science-congress-kscste-webinar-on-friday/article36622493.ece
23 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||CPI(M) secretary dismisses Cong., BJP charges||Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary C.K. Rajendran said here on Wednesday that the attempts of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to give political colour to all development activities would not succeed. He said the PAPCOS rice mill at Kannambra in the Tarur Assembly constituency was functioning under the government. It was being supervised by a governing body selected from a consortium of 30-odd cooperative societies in the district. He said the rice mill was given all help by the Cooperation Department, and former Minister for the Welfare of Backward Communities A.K. Balan had lent his support to the mill whenever he could. The Congress and the BJP had raised allegations of corruption against several CPI(M) leaders in connection with the procurement of land for the PAPCOS rice mill. The CPI(M) reportedly acted against C.K. Chamunni by removing him from the party district secretariat. A few others too are reportedly facing action within the CPI(M) for allegations of corruption. Mr. Rajendran said here that Tarur was a constituency that witnessed frenzied development in the State, and Mr. Balan had taken the initiative to bring development to all panchayats without considering any political colour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-secretary-dismisses-cong-bjp-charges/article36622494.ece
23 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||CRPF soldier slips off moving train, injured||A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) soldier was grievously injured when he fell off a moving train at Ottappalam railway station on Wednesday. Sreekumaran Pillai, 45, from Kochi was trying to board a moving train when the accident occurred at 2.40 p.m. He was travelling on Sabari Express to Hyderabad. He got off a coach and tried to board another while the train was moving. But he slipped and was caught between the train and the platform. Leg injury His leg was crushed badly. His life could be saved as two people on the train grabbed his hands and hung on to him. Passengers stopped the train by pulling the alarm chain. Mr. Pillai was rushed to a private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crpf-soldier-slips-off-moving-train-injured/article36622495.ece
23 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Laha Gopalan no more||Laha Gopalan, former leader of the Chengara land struggle in Pathanamthitta, passed away here on Wednesday. He was 71. Mr. Gopalan had been ailing for a while. He tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this month and was admitted to the General Hospital in Pathanamthitta on September 21. KSEB employee Born on April 10, 1950 in Mavelikkara, Mr. Gopalan was employed with the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and retired from service as an overseer in 2005. Having been at the forefront of several Dalit agitations since 1986 , he led the Chengara land struggle during its initial phase and went on to spearhead several land struggles by Dalits across the State. He had left Laha about five years ago and was staying in Pathanamathitta with his family. Mr. Gopalan is survived by his wife, Sarada, daughter Girijamol and sons, G. Gireesh Kumar and G. Giridev. As many as 300 landless families, under the aegis of the Sadhu Jana Vimochana Samyukta Vedi led by Mr. Gopalan, encroached on nearly 145 ha of the HML rubber plantation at Chengara under the cover of night on August 4, 2007, demanding five acres for farming and Rs. 50,000 in cash towards initial farming expenses to each of the families. They pitched tents on the occupied land, tapped latex from the rubber trees on the estate and later turned to agriculture to eke out a living. Attempts by the government to clear the protesters from the site were met with suicide threats, which brought the struggle to national attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/laha-gopalan-no-more/article36622436.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Uproar marks special Corpn. council meet||A special council meeting of the city Corporation on Wednesday witnessed a major uproar with councillors of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) involved in a tense stand-off at the well for sometime. The meeting, convened to discuss the civic body’s assets and revenue, was wound up in less than an hour without discussing the items in the agenda. The special council meeting was convened based on a notice given by the BJP, the fifth such special meeting convened on the party’s demand in the past four months. As per the rules, if one-third of the councillors issue a notice for a special council, it has to be convened. BJP councillor M.R. Gopan questioned whether the Corporation had a record of all its assets and properties. He also demanded details about the legal cases. But, when he began speaking on the revenue-related issues, the LDF councillors said speaking on issues outside the scope of the special council’s agenda could not be allowed. LDF councillor Palayam Rajan said the BJP had made a mistake in preparing the agenda. Letter Mayor Arya Rajendran read out the letter submitted by the BJP councillors demanding a special council meeting, in which the agenda was mentioned as ‘Protection of the Corporation’s assets and revenue decision’. The LDF councillors argued that the discussions should thus stick to the Corporation’s assets alone. Mr. Gopan accused the Corporation of not taking any steps to increase revenue and also raised the issue of the State Audit Department finding fund misappropriation in zonal offices. The Mayor said no one could be allowed to mislead the council, as the audit was conducted at the request of the administration. “Inspections were carried out in all the zonal offices based on our request. I came to this meeting after signing the suspension orders of some officials allegedly involved in corruption,” said Ms. Rajendran. This was followed by a shouting match between councillors. UDF walk-out The UDF councillors then walked out. When the next councillor from the LDF began to speak, the BJP councillors trooped into the well. As the din continued, the Mayor declared that the meeting had ended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uproar-marks-special-corpn-council-meet/article36622606.ece
23 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Clamour for protocol to ease back-to-school transition||As the State gears up for school reopening, academics and teachers are calling for a protocol that will ease the transition of students to the school environment after such a long gap caused by COVID-19. Besides health standard operating procedures, they stress effective planning so that students’ emotional and sociological well-being is assured. Amruth G. Kumar, head, School of Education, Central University of Kerala, says this ‘education’ protocol needs to be given serious attention so that whatever students have been deprived of during the period away from school — be it peer skills, communication skills, how to handle ribbing from friends, communicating with the opposite sex, their sense of identity and so on — can be compensated. Pre-primary and primary students for whom this time forms the foundations of their schooling and adolescents who may be facing psychological turbulence need special attention. While some kind of educational experience should be there, it should not be a continuation of the online classes that focus on completion of the syllabus, but rather a kind of bridging that will address each child’s emotional and psychological needs and slowly orient them towards the learning process. Even if this stretches the academic year, it should not matter. Doing otherwise will create a generation with serious adjustment problems, he says. Equip them mentally All Kerala School Teachers Union State president N. Sreekumar says students will need to be mentally equipped to resume studies. Their physical abilities need to be enhanced to ensure their wellness before regular classes begin. Students in Classes 1 and 2, who might not have seen schools at all, should be introduced to the school environment only gradually. The number of hours they spend in school should be limited initially to enable this adjustment. The school environment should be conducive to their mental recreation. More than academic activities, art and physical education will have an enhanced role in easing this transition. Even older students need to be brought back to some kind of routine and schedule that was missing during online classes. Train teachers Teachers will have to be trained to meet these challenges, says Mr. Sreekumar. Another area that needs attention is the curriculum. As concepts are learnt in a hierarchical structure, portions that students have not been taught much will need to be reinforced before the full curriculum is taught. The syllabus this year may be reorganised in the light of what they have learnt earlier, Mr. Amrut points out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/clamour-for-protocol-to-ease-back-to-school-transition/article36622443.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State reports drop of 13% in fresh cases this week||The State reported 19,675 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday when 1,19,594 samples were tested in 24 hours. The active case pool stood at 1,61,026. In all, 1,701 people were hospitalised, but on the bright side, the State also reported 19,702 recoveries. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the State now had better control over the pandemic, with a 13% drop in new cases this week over the previous week. He cautioned citizens, especially the elderly and those with comorbidities, to remain careful and take necessary precautions. Stern action would be taken against those not wearing masks in public places. Suppliers and cooks working without masks in restaurants could transmit the disease to a large number of people, he said. The cumulative COVID-19 death tally has risen to 24,039 with 142 more deaths added to the list. Only 13% of the active cases are in hospitals. On an average, 1,78,363 people were provided treatment for COVID-19 between September 15 and 21. Of this, only 2% required medical oxygen-equipped beds, while only 1% required ICU admission. On Wednesday, the Health Department listed 841 wards in 422 local bodies with a weekly infection population ratio (WIPR) above 10. These regions will be placed under stringent COVID-management measures, the department said. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 2,792, followed by Thiruvananthapuram at 2,313, Thrissur 2,266, Kozhikode 1,753, Kottayam 1,672, Malappuram 1,298, Alappuzha 1,256, Kollam 1,225, Palakkad 1,135, Pathanamthitta 1,011, Kannur 967, Idukki 927, Wayanad 738, and Kasaragod 312. State gets more vaccine The State has received 4,91,180 more doses of the COVID-19 vaccine, Health Minister Veena George said. These include 4,61,180 doses of Covishield and 30,000 doses of Covaxin. Thiruvananthapuram received a consignment of 1,56,150 doses, Ernakulam 1,81,550 and Kozhikode 1,23,480.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-drop-of-13-in-fresh-cases-this-week/article36622447.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A keepsake as tribute to an alumnus||When Thanu Padmanabhan, theoretical physicist and cosmologist who made significant contributions to expanding knowledge of the universe, passed away last week, several people recalled that he had published his first technical paper at a young age. Now, the Department of Physics at University College has managed to dig up that paper written more than four decades ago. The department, where a young Padmanabhan pursued his BSc and MSc degrees with great success in the 1970s, was planning to keep the paper framed, Madhu G., current Head of the Department, said. “That was his first paper. We are also planning to build a collection of the scientific papers written by him over the years,” Prof. Madhu said. It was as a 20-year-old BSc student of the department that the young Padmanabhan had written his paper titled ‘Solutions of scalar and electromagnetic wave equations in the metric of gravitational and electromagnetic waves’. It was published in the 1977 edition of Pramana , a journal brought out by the Indian Academy of Sciences. Solutions, discussions In the introduction to his paper, Prof. Padmanabhan wrote: “In this paper, the scalar and the electromagnetic wave equations, in a space-time curved by the presence of a gravitational or an electromagnetic wave, are solved. From the solution, one can discuss possible interactions between them.” During his days at the University College, Prof. Padmanabhan was part of a science group that strove to promote the scientific temper, remember former classmates. “They would hold classes in schools and colleges, organise exhibitions,” recalled David George, a former classmate. “He may no longer be with us physically, but he will be with us in our scientific achievements,” K. Krishnakumar, another of his MSc classmates, said.  As a BSc student, Mr Padmanabhan had written his paper that was published in the 1977 edition of Pramana , a journal by the Indian Academy of Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-keepsake-as-tribute-to-an-alumnus/article36622610.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KLDB, IISER plan tie-up for genomic research on cattle||The Kerala Livestock Development Board (KLDB) is joining hands with the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Thiruvananthapuram, for genomic research on cattle. The application of ‘CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology’ for advancing livestock production in the State formed a thrust area of the collaboration, the institutions said. MoU to be signed The institutions would formally sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in the presence of Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchurani on Friday. Overall, the collaboration would cover livestock breeding, genomic selection, and research and educational exchange, IISER Thiruvananthapuram director J.N. Moorthy and KLDB managing director Jose James said in a joint statement. The collaborative efforts would focus on the application of CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology for advancing livestock production. “The technology has not been exploited as yet for the betterment of livestock sector specifically in the State. If the genes associated with the production/performance traits in cattle or goats are identified, the same could be modified using CRISPR-Cas9 technology and incorporated into embryos for the betterment of the traits,” the statement said. The partnership envisaged research and technology collaboration for developing strategies for utilising cutting-edge research tools for livestock breeding and production in Kerala. Modern tools The KLDB had always attempted to deploy modern tools in research and technology for achieving objectives, Dr. James said. Collection of samples, processing and isolation of DNA would be carried out by KLDB. IISER would arrange the genome sequencing and associated works and also provide expertise in processing the data and analysis.  Application of CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing technology for advancing livestock production forms the focus of the collaboration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kldb-iiser-plan-tie-up-for-genomic-research-on-cattle/article36622611.ece
23 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Narcotic jihad’: Kanam rejects call for all-party meeting||Communist Party of India State secretary Kanam Rajendran has rejected the Opposition demand for an all-party meeting on the “narcotic jihad” controversy. Mr. Rajendran said in Kannur on Wednesday that political parties had not precipitated the dispute over the narcotic jihad statement. The controversy was the creation of religious leaders. At the current stage, an all-party meet would achieve nothing. He urged Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt to introspect about his controversial sermon. Ideally, the prelate should withdraw or rectify the polarising statement. Mr. Rajendran decried the use of religion to divide society. He said Pope Francis had cautioned against the trend recently. Govt. inaction Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said wilful inaction on the part of the government to mitigate tension between two communities served the divisive agenda of the Sangh Parivar. Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan had met the Pala bishop and later declared the “chapter closed.” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan revisited the closed chapter by raising the issue again on Tuesday. Mr. Satheesan urged Mr. Vijayan to at least call a conference of religious leaders to settle the issue. The Chief Minister had done little to mitigate communal tensions in Kerala, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/narcotic-jihad-kanam-rejects-call-for-all-party-meeting/article36622575.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SAAC peer team on accreditation visit||Ending years of uncertainty, the State Assessment and Accreditation Centre (SAAC) is set to be mobilised for peer team visits to higher education institutions for the first cycle of accreditation. A team led by former Director of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) Renganath H. Anne Gouda will visit Bishop Moore College, Mavelikara, the first institution to apply for the State-level accreditation, on September 23 and 24. The inspection will mark a milestone in the State’s education sector that has made abortive attempts to grade institutions in the past. Fails to take off The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC), which has been spearheading the activities of the SAAC, had initially envisaged its creation in the KSHEC Act of 2007. Later, the council had constituted an expert committee chaired by former NAAC Director A. Gnanam in 2012. The then Oommen Chandy government subsequently approved its recommendation to launch the Kerala State Assessment and Accreditation Council (KSAAC) in 2015. However, the project failed to take off. The KSHEC floated yet another proposal to establish the SAAC in late 2018 in line with the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations on assessment and accreditation that were notified in 2012 and 2018. Following lengthy discussions, the SAAC was finally operationalised on August 1, 2019. “Accreditation is an opportunity for the institution to self-consciously recognise its limitations through an external peer team assessment and strive forward towards the nationally or globally benchmarked standards. It will mark an all-out effort by authorities and the academic community to ascertain their collective strengths against weaknesses,” KSHEC Vice-Chairman Rajan Gurukkal said. The SAAC peer team scheduled to visit Bishop Moore College includes Sabu Thomas, Vice-Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University; Michael Tharakan, Chairman, Kerala Council for Historical Research; and Fathimathu Zuhara, former professor, Calicut University. The visit will be coordinated by KSHEC research officer Shafeeque V. State parameters While assigning accreditation and grade to universities and colleges, the SAAC will incorporate State-specific parameters along with globally and nationally accepted criteria. The exercise is aimed at flagging deficiencies in institutions to ensure readiness for NAAC accreditation. The institutions will also be ranked in accordance with the metrics of the Kerala Institutional Ranking Framework. KSHEC member secretary Rajan Varughese said nearly 15 institutions are in various stages of application for SAAC accreditation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saac-peer-team-on-accreditation-visit/article36622434.ece
23 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,18,418 students get Plus One allotment||As many as 2,18,418 students have received allotment after the first allotment list for admission to Plus One higher secondary course under the single window system was published on Wednesday. Allotment was held to 2,71,136 seats in government and aided schools. The number of vacant merit seats that remains is 52,718. A total of 4,65,219 students had applied for Plus One admission. Admission to the allotted seats will get under way at 9 a.m. on Thursday. It will go on till October 1. In Malappuram which had the most number of applicants, allotment was held to 30,882 of the 41,470 seats. In Kozhikode, 22,027 of the 27,927 seats were allotted, in Palakkad, 20,096 of the 24,345 seats, and in Thrissur, 18,037 of the 21,367 seats to which allotments were held. All 1,31,782 general category seats have been filled. Forty-nine seats remain in the Ezhava category across four districts, while 147 seats are left in the Muslim category. In this category, no seats are vacant in Palakkad, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod, and only two in Thrissur. The maximum number of vacant seats is in Idukki – 64. In the Latin Catholic category, 3,076 seats are vacant, the most in Malappuram – 833. The least was in Ernakulam – two, followed by Thiruvananthapuram – eight. While 9,419 Scheduled Caste seats are vacant, 23,656 Scheduled Tribe seats are also unfilled. In the economically weaker section category, 5,303 seats are vacant. Vacant seats All these vacant seats will be considered under the general category in the next allotment. This will leave nearly 2.47 lakh students competing for the 52,718 vacant seats, plus the seats in the community and management quota seats in aided schools. This has exacerbated the fears of students who have not received allotment that they will not get to pursue the courses they want in schools they want.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/218418-students-get-plus-one-allotment/article36622444.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||High-level meet to draft proposal||Elaborate arrangements are being made for reopening of schools on November 1, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. In his COVID-19 briefing on Wednesday, he said a high-level meeting led by the Ministers for General Education and Health would be held on Thursday. A draft proposal would be prepared at the meeting and discussion held with other departments. Talks would also be held at the State and district level with parents-teacher committees and other organisations and arrangements made in a manner that apprehensions of students and parents would be removed. Students’ safety and security would be ensured. School vehicles Meanwhile, the Motor Vehicle Department (MVD) came out with a protocol for students’ transportation to ensure the fitness and safety of vehicles ferrying students. Transport Minister Antony Raju told a press conference here that MVD officials would visit all schools before October 20 and carry out checks to ensure the fitness of vehicles. The vehicles can be deployed for transporting students only after the fitness check and trial run. The MVD will provide a Students Transportation Protocol Fitness Certificate to the vehicles after testing. All vehicles used for transporting students, including private vehicles hired by schools, will have to get this certificate. Mr. Raju handed the first copy of the student transportation protocol to M. Leena, Principal of the Government Higher Secondary School for Girls at Coton Hill here. All drivers and attenders in such vehicles should have completed two doses of vaccination. Their body temperature has to be checked every dayStudents having symptoms of fever or cough should not be allowed to travel in the school buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-level-meet-to-draft-proposal/article36622445.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Food kits ‘not stopped’||The State government has not decided to stop the distribution of food kits, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has said. A decision will be taken on the matter taking into account the financial situation, the Minister told reporters here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-kits-not-stopped/article36622448.ece
23 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC seeks report on possible disruption of heart surgeries||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Wednesday sought a report from the Director of Medical Education (DME) on a complaint that heart surgeries at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here may be disrupted in the wake of distribution of equipment, including stents, coming to a halt. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic was acting on a complaint that mounting arrears had led to a stop in distribution of equipment such as stent, balloon, and guide wire that were required for heart procedures. As much as Rs. 15 crore was due. Arrears Though the arrears till January this year had been received by the hospital from the State health agency, distributors were yet to be paid. Only the MCH was yet to pay the dues. Money diverted It was alleged that the arrears had been diverted for other purposes by the hospital. A number of financially backward patients are awaiting surgeries at the hospital. The complaint was given by human rights activist Ragam Rahim on the basis of a news report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-seeks-report-on-possible-disruption-of-heart-surgeries/article36622605.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation suspends two officials||The city Corporation has suspended pending investigation two officials at its Nemom office over alleged irregularities in fund management. The Superintendent and the cashier at the office were suspended. The State Audit Department’s inspection at the civic body’s zonal offices, as per the Mayor’s request, is going on. Checks are to be held at the Ulloor and Attipra zonal offices where irregularities were found. Explanations will be sought from the officials, the Mayor says. The Corporation has also registered a complaint with regard to forged documents, conspiracy and fund misappropriation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-suspends-two-officials/article36622607.ece
23 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,313 cases in capital district||The district logged 2,313 COVID-19 cases and 1,911 recoveries on Wednesday. The number of active cases stood at 15,891, while the test positivity rate stood at 17.25%. In all, 2,861 people were quarantined on Wednesday, taking the number of people in quarantine in the district to 43,336.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2313-cases-in-capital-district/article36622612.ece
23 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||C-DAC announces admissions to MTech courses||The ER & DCI Institute of Technology, the academic wing of the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Thiruvananthapuram, (affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, Kerala), has announced admissions for the year 2021 for its two full-time MTech programmes—MTech in VLSI & Embedded Systems, and MTech in Cyber Forensics & Information Security. There are 18 seats in each programme, which is open for students and working professionals (two sponsored seats each). The last date for applying is September 30, 2021. For details, log on towww.erdciit.ac.in. For admisions, call 8547897106 , 0471 2723333, extensio 250, 318, 324, 430, 317, 295. For details on the courses, VLSI & ES: 8138897025, C F & IS: 9446103993.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cdac-announces-admissions-for-mtech-courses/article36622422.ece
23 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Notice to Viyyur jail official||The Viyyur Central Jail Superintendent has been issued a showcause notice in connection with illegal phone calls by the inmates. The Jail DGP has asked Superintendent A.G. Suresh to give a reply in seven days. The notice was issued on a report of the DIG (North). Phones and SIM cards were seized in a recent raid conducted by the DIG following allegations about frequent phone calls and drug abuse by inmates of the Viyyur jail. There were allegations that the inmates were getting support from the Superintendent for the illegal activities. There are reports that Jail DIG M.K. Vinod Kumar has recommended action against Mr. Suresh in his report to Jail DGP Shaik Darvesh Saheb. The Jail Department had earlier demanded an investigation by the Crime Branch into the issue of drug abuse and phone calls by the inmates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/notice-to-viyyur-jail-official/article36622499.ece
23 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Hoteliers seek lifting of curbs in sector||The Kerala Hotel/Restaurant Association staged a dharna in front of the Thrissur Collectorate on Wednesday demanding that the government withdraw lockdown restrictions in the hotel sector. The government, which has given conditional permission for the other trade sectors to function, has imposed unscientific and unnecessary restrictions in the hotel sector, it alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hoteliers-seek-lifting-of-curbs-in-sector/article36622498.ece
23 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Yogendra Yadav to visit State||Yogendra Yadav, founder of the Jai Kisan Andolan and front-line leader of the farmers’ agitation in Delhi, will visit the the State on September 24. He is coming to seek support for the farmers agitation. He will inaugurate a farmers meet at Moti Mahal Auditorium here. He will also inaugurate the Kerala unit of the National Farmers’ Commission formed by the Rashtreeya Kisan Manch to study problems faced by farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yogendra-yadav-to-visit-state/article36622500.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cool but cautious||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cool-but-cautious/article36622403.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nature’s tales||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natures-tales/article36622565.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a generous ration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-a-generous-ration/article36622614.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-drive/article36622432.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Up and running||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/up-and-running/article36622501.ece
23 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. opposes land allotment to varsity||A day after the Karnataka Legislative Assembly adopted the Chanakya University Bill, 2021, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged the government not to ‘divert’ hundreds of acres of industrial land at a very low rate for the establishment of a private university to drive the ‘RSS agenda’. Addressing mediapersons along with KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, he expressed outrage at the government’s decision and warned of legal action. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the BJP government had hastily passed the Bill on establishment of Chanakya University despite opposition. He alleged that everyone who was part of the university was close to the RSS, and the university was aimed at driving the ‘Manuvadi agenda’. He claimed that those who were part of this organisation had not run any educational institute, nor did they have the infrastructure to start a university. Low price In April this year, the Karnataka government allotted 116 acres in Devanahalli taluk to the Centre for Educational and Social Studies at a cost of Rs. 50 crore to establish a university. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the value of this industrial land (acquired by the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board) was at least Rs. 300 crore. He termed providing the KIADB land ‘at such a low price’ a big scam. The government had paid a compensation of Rs. 175 crore to farmers to acquire the land, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-opposes-land-allotment-to-varsity/article36622032.ece
23 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher dies of suspected COVID-19||Though the daily COVID-19 positivity rate continued to remain below 1% in the district, a few sporadic cases of COVID-19 were reported from three State-run schools in the district in the last three days. A 55-year-old female teacher of the Zilla Parishad High School at Padamati Narasapuram in Julurupadu mandal died of suspected COVID-19 complications on Monday night. School education officials concerned attributed her death to comorbidities. A COVID-19 testing camp was conducted on the school premises on Tuesday. All students and staff members of the school have tested negative for the virus. As many as four students of the Zilla Parishad High School at Penagadapa in Chunchupalli mandal, hailing from same locality, contracted coronavirus infection after reportedly attending a function in their village three days ago. As the news spread, the school authorities organised a COVID-19 screening camp on the premises of the school on Tuesday. All those who had undergone tests at the camp tested negative for coronavirus, sources added. Sources said a class VI student of a State-run school in Aswapuram mandal was diagnosed with COVID on Wednesday. Meanwhile, several localities in Khammam Municipal Corporation limits and various parts of Khammam district continue to witness a spike in dengue cases prompting the authorities to step up sanitation drive and anti-larval operations in dengue-prone areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teacher-dies-of-suspected-covid/article36622038.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||T.N. govt. signs MoUs for Rs. 2,120-crore investment||As many as 24 memoranda of understanding were signed on Wednesday between the Tamil Nadu government and industries that will bring in Rs. 2,120.54 crore in investments and create jobs for over 41,000 people. The MoUs were signed, in the presence of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, at the Tamil Nadu Exports Conclave organised here as part of ‘Trade and Commerce Week’ (September 20-26) celebrated nationwide to commemorate the 75th Independence Day. These investments are made in textiles, chemicals, IT/ITES, steel, leather, apparels and general manufacturing. The units are likely to come up in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tirupattur, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Salem, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Thoothukudi, Dindigul and Tirunelveli districts. Mr. Stalin released the Tamil Nadu Exports Promotion Strategy and the MSME Exporters Handbook. He also handed over the first two allotment orders to companies that have proposed to open units at a polymer park in the State. An exclusive park to cater to the needs of the polymer industry has been established on 240 acres at Voyalur near Ponneri. The investments are aimed at equitable growth as they are not concentrated in one area, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-signs-mous-worth-rs-2120-cr-to-create-41000-jobs/article36622142.ece
23 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team tells PHCs to improve lab facilities||A team of the National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS), which is on an inspection of the primary health centres (PHCs) in Chittoor district, has asked the medical officers to focus on improving the medical and laboratory facilities for the benefit of the poor. The team led by Dr. Preeti Madan from New Delhi and Dr. Rajeswar Debadwar from Madhya Pradesh visited the PHCs in the Chittoor division during the last one week. Speaking to the media after inspecting the PHC at Narayanavanam, the team members said that 49 PHCs in Chittoor district had been inspected by the NQAS teams this year. “During our visits to the PHCs all over India, we found for the first time the advanced equipment such as CBC (complete blood count) and auto-analyser machines in Narayanavanam PHC. The equipments were procured with the help of donors,” said Dr. Preeti Madan. The team members said that the Narayanavanam PHC was regularly organising the Diabetes Day every week, besides public awareness camps and door-to-door survey on communicable and non-communicable diseases. “With the NQAS certification, the PHCs can get special funds and incentives to the tune of Rs. 4 lakh annually. We have sought the medical officers to adhere to all the public health indicators and bridge the gaps, if any, to access the NQAS certification,” said Dr. Rajeswar Debadwar. COVID management Deputy District Medical and Health Officer P. Ravi Raju informed the NQAS team that during the coronavirus pandemic, several PHCs in the rural areas were provided with oxygen cylinders and concentrators through donations to attend to the patients before triaging. He said more donors would be roped in to provide advanced laboratory equipment to the PHCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/central-team-tells-phcs-to-improve-lab-facilities/article36622089.ece
23 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gram volunteer held for ‘swindling’ pensions||The police on Wednesday arrested Nava Kumar, a gram volunteer at Nagaripalle Cross near Kalikiri, on charges of collecting money from public on the pretext of getting them benefits of welfare schemes and misappropriating the amount meant for distributing old-age pensions, besides luring gullible youth with government jobs. The police seized Rs. 44,900, scanning and printing material from him. According to the Valmikipuram police, the volunteer attached to the Kokkaloddu and Pallelavari Palle villages was found to have allegedly cheated people for the last few months. His modus operandi was to gain confidence of the people by collecting their fingerprints and scanning them in the name of getting them benefits of welfare schemes; manipulating the social pension beneficiaries for online transfer of amount to his bank account; and cheating youth with a promise to get them jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gram-volunteer-held-for-swindling-pensions/article36622090.ece
23 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on litigation over house sites: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to focus on cases pertaining to house sites distribution pending in courts. At a review meeting on Spandana on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the cases reduced from 834 to 758 since the last review and that 76 cases were resolved benefiting over 8,000 people. “Focus more on 395 cases of the 758 pending as they have been granted temporary stay,” he told the officials. Issues pertaining to housing, MGNREGS works, YSR Urban Clinics, inspections in village / ward secretariats, COVID-19, seasonal diseases, Disha App, agriculture, and schemes to be implemented in October came up for discussion during the meeting with the District Collectors and Superintendents of Police. Stating that layout and plot wise mapping was being done, he directed the Collectors to complete the pending 12.6% mapping work. Verification of pending applications for house sites should be completed immediately and house sites should be allotted to 45,600 beneficiaries in existing layouts and to 10,851 in government layouts in December, he said. Land should be acquired to give house sites to 1,48,398 people. He said the government named one-time settlement scheme as ‘Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku’ and distribution of registered pattas should start in December. He said 10.31 lakh houses were grounded under housing-for-poor scheme, and directed the officials to bring below basement level houses to above basement level by October 25. The Chief Minister instructed the Collectors to take measures to start construction of houses opted under Option 3 on October 25 and create groups with beneficiaries by the end of this month. Focus on providing water in housing layouts. He said construction of houses under Option 3 could be completed within a budget of Rs. 1.75 lakh and the eligible beneficiaries could avail a loan of Rs. 35,000. He directed the officials to conduct meetings with the bankers to provide loans to them. He said the District Collectors should review construction of houses once a week. Warehouses should be constructed under MGNREGS works near big layouts for site offices and storing construction material. He instructed the officials to create awareness among people on Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku scheme, which would benefit 67 lakh people. He said the amount fixed for one-time settlement in the rural areas was Rs. 10,000, Rs. 15,000 in municipalities and Rs. 20,000 in corporations. He said the point of implementation for Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku scheme is village / ward secretariats, and instructed the officials to complete all related works within 90 days and added that the scheme would be launched on December 21. He said selection of new beneficiaries for TIDCO houses should be done soon. Focus on MIG flats in Jagananna Smart townships, he told officials, adding that 3.79 lakh people were interested in it and 1,001 acres were identified so far. He asked officials to complete verification for another 812 acres immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-litigation-over-house-sites-cm/article36622484.ece
23 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCV tobacco auctions conclude||Auctions for FCV Tobacco ended for the 2021 season on a satisfactory note. A quantity of 113 million kg was marketed against 115 million kg crop size fixed by the Tobacco Board for 2020-21 Andhra Pradesh crop season. The average price during the current season was higher by Rs. 23.35 per kg over the last year’s price of Rs. 123.95 per kg. Board Chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu said they focussed on implementation of various extension activities with focus on decreasing the application of chemical usage and thereby enhance the soil health. “Most of the farmers lost interest in tobacco cultivation due to the looming threat of climate change, increasing cost of production, labour shortage and market uncertainties. As per the directions of the Central Government, the board has to enhance exports by 30% to reach the target fixed. The board is on the way to meet exports, identifying progressive farmers and encouraging them to produce quality tobacco for more exports,” said Mr. Raghunadha Babu. Stating that there was shortage of labour and also they were demanding more charges from the farmers, Mr. Babu said a solution had come in the way of educating farmers to go for mechanisation. The board already extended finance for installation of four Loose Leaf Barn structures and this year it plans to install 25 such facilities. Executive Director A. Sridhar Babu said India was the second largest tobacco producing country and also third largest producer FCV tobacco.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fcv-tobacco-auctions-conclude/article36622625.ece
23 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan thanks officials||Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has thanked District Collectors, secretariat staff and volunteers for carrying out the welfare activities in the true letter and spirit which reflected in the landslide victory to YSRCP in local body elections. The results are the reflection of the good governance, Nadu Nedu, Women empowerment programmes and farmer welfare schemes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-thanks-officials/article36622485.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccinate all above 18 in 3 months: HC||Telangana High Court on Tuesday instructed the State government to ensure that all persons above the age of 18 years got inoculated with two doses of COVID vaccine within three months. A bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar passed this direction while hearing a batch of petitions connected to COVID-19. The bench also directed the government to administer vaccination to all members of the teaching and non-teaching staff of schools within two months. The bench took serious exception to the Central government’s response to comply with the HC direction to include life saving drugs meant for treating COVID-19 in the National List of Essential Medicines. Instructing the Union Ministry of Health to include such life-saving drugs in the national list of essential medicines by this October-end, the bench said officials of the Ministry would have to face consequences if the order was not complied with. “The Union Health Ministry is working in slow motion...it should better speed up things,” the Acting CJ said. The bench wondered how would the producers step up the production of life-saving drugs and how would stocks of medicines reach market unless the life-saving drugs were included in the list of essential medicines. “Two waves of COVID-19 already hit us...there were huge fatalities...will the Central government include life-saving medicines in essential medicines list after the third wave engulfs us?” the bench observed. It sought to know specifically from the Assistant Solicitor General of India Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao as to why there was inordinate delay on such an important matter. Public Health and Family Welfare Director G. Srinivasa Rao said that the government would scrupulously adhere to the timeframe fixed by the HC for vaccination of all. DPH shares stats Nearly 60% of the population in the State was administered with the first dose of coronavirus vaccine. Around 38% of the population got second dose of vaccination. In the next three to four weeks, the remaining people would get the second dose of vaccination, he assured the court. He informed the HC that 97% vaccination was completed in GHMC areas. “It is said that unless both doses of the vaccine were administered, the human body does not get the immunity it requires to face coronavirus,” the bench observed. From the first of this month, government schools in the State commenced classes. However, the government could administer vaccine to only 1,49,671 members of the teaching and the non-teaching staff out of the total of 4.93 lakh members, the bench said. There is a likelihood of children contracting the virus due to interaction with the teaching and non-teaching staff. When they return home, they would pass on the virus to other elder members of the family triggering a possible community spread, the bench observed. The bench also wanted the government to step up the RT-PCR tests vis-a-vis Rapid Antigen tests. The latter type of tests were 10 times high than the RT-PCR tests. It was essential to step up RT-PCR tests to secure accurate details and evolve a strategy to tackle coronavirus during the ensuing festival season, the bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccinate-all-above-18-in-3-months-hc/article36622029.ece
23 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revanth calls for ‘Aakhri Poratam’||The Maha Dharna of the Congress-led Opposition parties at Indira Park on Wednesday against the State and Central governments called for ousting them in the next elections to put an end to corrupt and anti-people governments. ‘Save Telangana’ Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president Revanth Reddy called people for ‘Aakhri Poratam’ (final struggle) to ensure Telangana was saved from the clutches of the KCR family and ensure a State that guaranteed transparency, social justice and self rule. He said although geographical Telangana had been achieved, people of Telangana did not get social justice and self rule. He reminded how the Congress-led UPA government introduced the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, to grant cultivation rights to tribals. However, the TRS government was cancelling those pattas and such lands were illegally being acquired in the name of Haritha Haram or projects like Mallannasagar or Pharma City. Mr. Revanth Reddy slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, saying they had remained mute spectators to the irregularities, corruption, scams and misrule of the KCR government. By being silent, they had become equal partners in the crime. The Congress chief said that agitation programmes would be held on October 5 with regard to podu lands in the 400 km connecting corridor. A ‘Podu Rasta Roko’ from Adilabad to Aswaraopet would be organised and he would participate in the protest in Bhadradri. Yechury targets Modi CPI (M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the country was living in fear with Modi destroying all the institutions and Opposition parties were coming together to save the country. He said the selling spree of this government should be stopped with opposition unity. The foreign visits of Modi had some hidden agenda and every time he went out there was a fear of something in India being sold off. Narayana of CPI alleged that CM KCR and PM Narendra Modi were on the same page and they had to be defeated. Tammineni Veerabhadram of CPI(M) asked people to ensure that the Bharat Bandh on September 27 was a success to send a strong message to the governments. Accusing KCR of destroying Telangana, M. Kodandaram of TJS said that the Dharani portal was a big scam and the government had not included lakhs of acres in it to snatch the lands of the poor. He demanded the tribals be given pattas over podu lands. Madhu Yaskhi Goud, Ravula Chandrashekhar Reddy (TTDP), Julakanti Ranga Reddy and Nagam Janardhan Reddy also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revanth-calls-for-aakhri-poratam/article36622519.ece
23 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ADCET cancelled||The Andhra Pradesh Art and Design Common Entrance Test (ADCET-2021) to be conducted by Dr. YSR Architecture and Fine Arts University, Kadapa, has been cancelled due to technical reasons, said E.C. Surendranath Reddy, convener of the test and university Registrar. The entrance test is meant to admit students into the Bachelor of Design and Fine Arts course offered by the university. Seat allocation will be done soon based on Intermediate / diploma marks of candidates and by following the rule of reservations as per the directions of AP State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE). Every applicant will get admission into the course, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adcet-cancelled/article36622486.ece
23 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mayor alleges threats from MLA||Kakinada Mayor Sunkara Pavani on Wednesday lodged a complaint with East Godavari Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, alleging threats by Kakinada City MLA Dwarampudi Chandrasekhar Reddy. Ms. Pavani, a TDP leader who completed four years as Kakinada Mayor last week, is facing a no-confidence motion against her by the council members. Speaking to the media, Ms. Pavani alleged that some supporters of Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy had been creating nuisance in front of her house. “Some people have installed CCTV cameras near my house to record my movements round the clock. Some strangers have been roaming near my house since last week. My family members are worried with such activities. It is a threat to my privacy and my life. These are tactics by my rivals to force me to resign as the Mayor. It will not happen. I am prepared to face such challenges,” Ms. Pavani told the media. On Wednesday, the SP sent some police personnel to the house of Ms. Pavani. The Mayor showed them the CCTV cameras.  No-confidence motion Meanwhile, District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran is yet to announce the date for a special meeting of the Municipal Council to move the no-confidence motion against the Mayor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mayor-alleges-threats-from-mla/article36622515.ece
23 September 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Second jab before 84 days not advisable’||The Centre on Wednesday filed an appeal before a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court against a single judge’s verdict allowing willing persons to take a second paid dose of the Covishield vaccine four weeks after the first jab. The single judge had directed the Centre to make necessary provisions on the CoWIN portal to enable those who want to take the second jab after four weeks, in terms of the initial protocol to schedule the second dose on the portal. Kitex plea The single judge directive came on a writ petition filed by Kitex Garments Limited and Kitex Childrenswear Limited, Kochi. In its appeal, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said the approach of the single judge in trying to adopt a comparison between an unrealistic notion of earlier protection and the realistic element of better protection was faulty and would lead to serious adverse consequences. The 12-week interval, based on a scientific study, meant that better immunity would be provided only 12 weeks after the first jab and not before. Hence, taking the second dose prior to 12 weeks would actually impede the development of immunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-jab-before-84-days-not-advisable/article36622033.ece
23 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wide-bodied jets to resume service at Kozhikode airport||Efforts are on to resume operation of wide-body aircraft at the Calicut Airport, with a nine-member committee chaired by Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola positively indicating its resumption in two months. The operation of wide-body aircraft has remained suspended after an Air India Express flight crash in August last year. Sources said a report had suggested that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) install a Runway Visual Range (RVR) system for better landing and take off. The installation of RVR system that measures visibility, background luminance, and light intensity to help the pilot navigate the runway during dense foggy conditions has been given high priority by the AAI at many airports. Calicut Airport director R. Mahalingam said the AAI was committed to implementing the recommendations of the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) that went into the Air India Express accident. “The authorities will be executing the projects in a time-bound manner,” he told The Hindu on Wednesday. The AAI was permitted to resume operation of wide-bodied aircraft in 2018 after it committed to installing a transmissometer for the RVR system. However, at the time of the accident, RVR instruments had not been installed at the airport. Now, the AAIB has recommended that the Automated Weather Observing System (AWOS) also be installed. However, the installation of Runway Centre Line Lights (RCLL), another recommendation, could be taken up only during the next re-carpeting due in 2023- 24. “Immediately taking up this work that involved digging the runway was infeasible, as such a massive exercise would disturb the existing operations at the airport,” Mr. Mahalingam pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wide-bodied-jets-to-resume-service-at-kozhikode-airport/article36622037.ece
23 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Withdraw statement’||A meeting of Muslim religious organisations here on Wednesday demanded that Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt withdraw his controversial statement on ‘narcotics jihad’. Briefing the media after the meeting, IUML high-power committee member Panakkad Syed Sadiqali Shihab Thangal and organising secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer said any statement that undermined the religious harmony of the State was improper. Also, the government should not remain idle when such incidents occur and that it should intervene and take strong action as well, they said. (The statement of Mar Kallarangatt of the Syro-Malabar Church that narcotic jihad was targeting young people belonging to non-Muslim faiths had triggered a controversy.) The leaders welcomed the stand of the government to convene a meeting on the issue. Muslim organisations had responded to the issue in a very mature manner. However, they protest against the indifference on the part of the government, Mr. Basheer said. Representatives of 13 Muslim organisations, including the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama, Kerala Naduvathul Mujahideen, Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, Muslim Service Society and Muslim Educational Society, took part in the meeting. However, the Kerala Muslim Jamaath led by Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliyar stayed away from the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-statement/article36622028.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC rejects Sree Padmanabha Trust plea||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected a plea by Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple Trust (SPSTT) to exempt it from a special audit of accounts spanning 25 years. In a judgment in July last year, the court ordered that the trust’s finances be audited along with those of the temple for 25 years. The SPSTT wanted the court to modify its direction and confine such an audit to the temple and not include it. On Wednesday, the court refused the plea. A Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, S. Ravindra Bhat and Bela M. Trivedi held that the July 2020 order did not intend to confine the audit to the temple alone. It said the SPSTT had agreed to cooperate with the audit in its submissions to the court. “In the light of developments leading to the passing of the judgment dated July 13, 2020, it is quite clear that the audit contemplated was not intended to be confined to the temple but was also with respect to SPSTT... We are certain that SPSTT will render complete cooperation in the conduct of special audit,” the court noted. It stated that the financial crisis mentioned by the temple’s administrative and advisory committees due to the pandemic lockdown in their report called for “immediate action”. “We, therefore, direct that the special audit, as referred to herein above, with respect to Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple and SPSTT be completed as early as possible and preferably within three months from the date of this order,” it ordered. The court, however, refrained from passing orders on the trust’s plea to declare it as an “independent and distinct entity” from the temple. The trust wanted to be outside the administrative control of the temple committees formed under the Travancore Cochin Hindu Religious Endowments Act of 1950. ‘Very difficult times’ The trust was formed by the erstwhile Travancore ruler in 1965 for “the perpetual continuation of the devotional offerings to the temple, other specified religious rites and certain functions integral to the royal family traditions.” On September 13, in the last hearing before the court reserved the judgment, the administrative committee of the Sree Padmanabha Swamy temple informed the Bench that the temple was passing through “very difficult times” financially. The panel, led by the Thiruvananthapuram District Judge, had said it was necessary to know how much of the temple’s property was with the trust. “My properties are also with the trust... In April 2014, the Supreme Court’s amicus curiae had recommended that 25 years of accounts of both the temple and the trust should be audited... The trust used to care for the day-to-day expenses of the temple,” senior advocate R. Basant, representing the committee, had submitted. The committee had explained that the court, in its July 2020 judgment upholding the Travancore royals’ right of shebaitship over the temple, had ordered an audit “as suggested by the amicus curiae ”. Mr. Basant had argued that the judgment referred to an April 15, 2014 report filed by senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, who was then amicus curiae . In his report, the amicus had recommended a “special audit” by former Comptroller and Auditor-General Vinod Rai of the 25 years of accounts of both the temple and the SPSTT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-rejects-sree-padmanabha-trust-plea/article36622044.ece
23 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI calls for fight against ‘anti-people policies of Centre’||Communist Party of India (CPI) Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam on Wednesday called for a united struggle by the secular, democratic and Left forces to fight against the ‘anti-people’s policies’ of the BJP-led Central government. Inaugurating a State-level workshop for the activists of the All India Youth Federation (AIYF) and All India Students Federation (AISF) at Kothapatnam in Prakasam district, Mr. Viswam described the NDA’sa tenure as ‘fascist rule’ and exhorted the youth to take part in the fight against it. “The Bharat Bandh slated for September 27 will be a turning point in charting out the future course of action,” he said while referring to the major opposition parties coming together for a protracted struggle over a host of issues including the three controversial farm laws.   CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna called for a protracted struggle against the Narendra Modi government. “The NDA has failed in fulfilling most of its poll promises including the creation of 2 crore jobs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-calls-for-fight-against-anti-people-policies-of-centre/article36622092.ece
23 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rectify remark, Pinarayi asks Bishop||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday urged Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt to rectify his ‘incorrect and polarising’ sermon on a covert ‘narcotic jihad’ campaign by radical Islamists to entrap Catholic and non-Muslim youth with addictive mind-altering drugs. Mr. Vijayan said the government would be unsparing against those who propagated such false theories. He said Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan had demanded the same. The government would not remain a mute witness to divisive speech. It would crack the whip on inflammatory rhetoric irrespective of the commentator’s social stature. “If society does not agree with a person’s view, then civic behaviour and propriety demanded that the individual correct it,” he said. Blames bishop Mr. Vijayan squarely blamed the bishop's remark for the current social tensions. “The wrongful statement has precipitated the controversy,” he said. Mr. Vijayan denied the Opposition demand for an all-party meeting. But he left the door open for a conference of religious leaders. The Chief Minister reeled off the latest crime statistics to invalidate the bishop’s theory that Islamists plotted to ply Catholic and non-Muslim youth with narcotic drugs to corrupt or convert them. He said Hindus comprised 49% of those arrested on drug charges in 2020 and Muslims and Christians accounted for 34% and 15.73% respectively. There was no case of forced drug abuse. Mr. Vijayan debunked the love jihad theory. Most Keralites who joined the Islamic State (IS) in 2018-19 were Muslims living in foreign countries. Christians and Hindus who converted to Islam and joined the IS from Kerala were few and far between. They included a Christian couple from Ernakulam, a Hindu from Kozhikode, a Hindu woman from Thiruvananthapuram and a Christian youth hailing from Palakkad. The Supreme Court, Kerala High Court and the National Investigation Agency had debunked the love jihad theory in the Hadiya inter-faith marriage case, he added. He said the ‘narcotic jihad’ statement had advantaged those seeking to divide society into religious lines for political gain. Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan had called on the Pala bishop at the latter’s request. It was not to express solidarity with the ‘narcotic jihad’ statement as alleged, he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rectify-remark-pinarayi-asks-bishop/article36622027.ece
23 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sarva darshan’ tokens raised to 8,000 per day||In a major relief to the common pilgrims, the Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams (TTD) on Wednesday decided to provide 8,000 Slotted Sarva Darshan (SSD) tokens per day on a par with the Special Entry Darshan (SED) tokens from September 26. The SSD tokens will be made available from September 26 till October 31. The online tokens for the period will be released at 9 a.m. on September 25 on TTD’s website. At present, about 2,000 SSD tokens are provided offline at the TTD counters in Tirupati on a daily basis. The counters have been witnessing heavy crowds despite the TTD stating that people hailing from the district alone will be allowed darshan for the time being. The advent of Tamil ‘Puratassi’ month compounded the TTD’s difficulties as devotees from Tamil Nadu began thronging the town for darshan. In this backdrop, the TTD decided to enhance the SSD tokens to 8,000 and provide them online. It also decided to stop issuing the tokens offline at its counters in Tirupati from September 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-increases-sarva-darshan-tokens-to-8000-per-day/article36622035.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A victory for the devout: BJP||Several political parties lauded the A.P. High Court’s decision to suspend the order on appointment of special invitees to the TTD trust board. BJP State spokesperson G. Bhanuprakash Reddy, called the court verdict a “victory for the crores of devotees of Lord Venkateswara.” He appealed to the State government to take decisions going by the set norms and not to cross the line of morality. “The rulers should view the reality that people are not happy with its unilateral decisions. They should assure the devout that they will not behave in an arbitrary manner,” Mr. Reddy observed. Referring to the alleged criminal background of 28 board members, Mr. Bhanuprakash Reddy said the counsel had also brought to the court’s notice that the members suffered from “moral turpitude”. Hailing the decision, Congress leader P. Naveen Reddy demanded that the Chief Minister’s Office reveal the names of the “influential persons” who had recommended the names of the 52 special invitees and the eligibility criteria chosen to select them. TDP youth wing leader A. Ravi Naiduhailed the verdict and hoped that it would augur well in curtailing future deviations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-victory-for-the-devout-bjp/article36622488.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Srinivasa Sethu’ to be partially opened by Oct. 7||The Srinivasa Sethu, the elevated corridor project that provides a direct access to Tirumala-bound pilgrims by obviating the traffic congestion, will be partially opened by October 7. Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan, who inspected the progress of the project along with MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha on Wednesday, expressed satisfaction at the pace of work. He instructed the executing firm AFCONS to ensure that the first phase of the project be completed for inauguration by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his visit on October 7. The project, earlier known as ‘Garuda Varadhi’ and renamed recently amid controversy, will be motorable from the Srinivasam Complex (RTC junction) to Nandi Circle, ahead of the Alipiri Junction. Mr. Narayanan inspected the steel bridge being erected at the Leela Mahal Junction to facilitate inward traffic on to the flyover from the Karakambadi road. He told the engineers to consider lower speed limit and higher safety wall at this junction, in view of the steep curve taken by the perpendicular bridge while joining the arterial corridor. Municipal Engineer Chandra Sekhar and AFCON representatives were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srinivasa-sethu-to-be-partially-opened-by-oct-7/article36622097.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to inaugurate ‘Go Mandiram’||Ahead of its formal inauguration by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his visit for the Srivari Brahmotsavam, the ‘Go Mandiram’ at Alipiri was inspected by TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Wednesday. The facility, coming up at a cost of Rs. 15 crore , will have a ‘Go Tulabharam’. Mr. Jawahar Reddy inspected the paediatric hospital coming up at the BIRRD complex and the ‘Panchagavya’ product centre at DPW stores complex . “The TTD has initiated the process of recruiting doctors ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-inaugurate-go-mandiram/article36622095.ece
23 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||12,854 take LAWCET across State||As many as 12,854 out of the 15,261 registered candidates attended the Andhra Pradesh Law Common Entrance Test (APLAWCET & PGLCET 2021) conducted by Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) on Wednesday. The test was held at 66 regional centres in all 13 districts of the State, with 84.23% attendance being recorded, announced CET Chairperson and SPMVV Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru. She, along with the Registrar D.M. Mamatha, Rector D. Sarada and CET convener N.B. Chandrakala visited a test centre in Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12854-take-lawcet-across-state/article36622096.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four arrested in CMRF scam, 88 suspicious claims identified||Officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested four persons, including two government employees, in the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) scam. The accused allegedly swindled more than Rs. 60 lakh in about 70 cases since 2014-15, the ACB sleuths said on Wednesday. The arrested were Ch. Subrahmanyam, office subordinate in CMRF wing at the State Secretariat; K. Jagadish alias Dhanaraju alias Nani, who claimed to have worked as PA to some MLAs in East Godavari district; and Ch. Murali Krishna and S. Ramesh, office subordinates in the revenue section at the Secretariat. Following a complaint lodged by CMRF officials, the ACB officials registered a case and took up investigation. Investigating officers seized records from different hospitals and the Secretariat, verified the bank accounts and arrested the accused. A total of Rs. 1,81,78,000 was sanctioned in respect of 88 suspicious medical claims, of which Rs. 61,68,000 was credited in 35 claims. Officials stopped transactions for Rs. 1.20 crore of CMRF for 53 claims, the investigation officers said. “We verified the accounts in the banks in which the cheques were cashed. The modus operandi of the gang is to steal the login ID and password and claim money from CMRF by using fictitious names, case sheets and other documents,” an ACB officer said. Investigating officers found that amlunts were given in excess than the sums specified in the medical packages, similar phone numbers and same diagnoses were detected in multiple applications and other discrepancies were noticed. “More persons are likely to be arrested in the case,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/4-held-in-ap-cmrf-scam-88-suspicious-claims-identified/article36622030.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC suspends G.O.s nominating special invitees to TTD Board||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya, in an interim order on Wednesday, suspended the operation of G.O. numbers 568 and 569 through which the State government nominated 52 special invitees to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Trust Board. The court held that the appointments were contrary to Section 96 of the AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act of 1987 and issued notices to the State and the TTD returnable in four weeks. During the hearing on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) which was filed by M. Uma Maheshwara Naidu, a TDP leader from Kalyandurg in Anantapur district, the court directed the government to keep the G.O.s under suspension until further orders after observing that the nomination (of 52 individuals as special invitees) was in violation of the above Act and the matter warranted a detailed enquiry. Appearing for the State government, Advocate-General S. Sriram argued that the special invitees would neither be a part of the TTD’s decision-making process nor invited to its functions. So, it was not proper to construe them as members of the TTD Board. He said these invitees were only given the protocol of a Board member for darshan and therefore it was not bad in law, Mr. Sriram said. Petitioner’s counsel Y. Balaji pleaded with the court to call upon the TTD to explain the criteria adopted by it for nominating the special invitees and how they would contribute to the preservation of its character. Senior counsel S.S. Prasad made a submission on the TTD’s behalf that the PIL was filed without making any representations and hence it was liable to be dismissed. The government had constituted the TTD Board with 24 members and three ex-officio members with TTD executive officer as its member-secretary and nominated 52 special invitees vide G.O. RT.No.s 568 and 569 issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue-Endowments) G. Vani Mohan on September 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-on-ttd-special-invitees-suspended/article36622031.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, partner held for cheating people of Rs. 8 crore||A woman and her live-in partner allegedly duped about 57 persons promising to provide gold at lesser cost than the market price, and collected about Rs. 8 crore from their victims. The accused, Pakkurthi Simhadri Nagamani alias Mounika and Sandrana Venkateswara Rao, allegedly cheated railway employees, private staff of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devastanam and other general public, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Babu Rao. Disclosing this to the newsmen here on Wednesday, the DCP said Nagamani, native of Tuni in East Godavari district, deserted her husband due to family disputes. She reportedly met Venkateswara Rao while coming to Vijayawada in 2006. They were maintaining live-in relationship since then, and were staying in a flat under Suryaraopet police station limits in the city. To make easy money, the couple allegedly collected money from the victims promising them to sell gold at lesser price. Nagamani said that Venkateswara Rao was an officer in Customs department. She also collected money and gold jewellery from the victims promising them to offer high interest rates. The accused collected about Rs. 8 crore and were absconding for the last few days. Venkateswara Rao duped many railway employees and collected money from them, said South Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) M. Venkateswarlu. During investigation, it was revealed that Rs. 14.22 crore worth transactions had been made in six bank accounts, belonging to the accused. They lost Rs. 1.43 crore in online gambling and betting, the ACP said. Police registered seven cases against the couple in Satyanarayanapuram, One Town, Two Town and Suryaraopet police stations. Meanwhile, police arrested three persons and victims of the couple – Vinay, Raghavendra and Subba Rao – who allegdly kidnapped Nagamani, to get their money back. Following a complaint, police registered a case and arrested Nagamani and the kidnappers. Nageswara Rao was undergoing treatment in Railway Hospital, and he would be arrested after discharging from the hospital, the ACP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-partner-held-for-cheating-people-of-rs-8-crore/article36622621.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees eight more deaths||The State reported eight more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,365 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,097 and 20,42,073 respectively. The number of active cases further dipped to 13,796 as 1,466 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,14,180 and 98.63% respectively. The daily test positivity rate of 56,720 tests conducted in the past day was 2.41%, the highest in the past 17 days. The overall test positivity rate of the 2.78 crore samples tested remain 7.33%. Chittoor and Krishna reported two deaths each in the past day while East Godavari, Guntur, Nellore and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Seven districts reported no death. More than 85% of the cases in the past day were reported in only seven districts, while six districts including all three north Andhra districts reported only 199 infections. Chittoor and East Godavari reported 212 and 210 cases respectively, followed by Prakasam (166), West Godavari (157), Kadapa (153), Nellore (137), Guntur (131), Krishna (104), Visakhapatnam (49), Srikakulam (22), Vizianagaram (19), Anantapur (4) and Kurnool (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-eight-more-deaths/article36622479.ece
23 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will set up irradiation plants: Agriculture Minister||Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said that the government will set up irradiation plants wherever needed to make agricultural products exported from the State gain greater acceptance in the global markets where the quality norms are stringent. “One such facility is in the process of being established in the Mallavalli industrial park in Krishna district,” Mr. Kannababu has said. The Minister was participating in the ‘Vanijya Utsavam’, the Trade & Exports Carnival of Andhra Pradesh, being jointly organised by the Department of Industries & Commerce, the AP Economic Development Board, the Plastics Export Promotion Council of India (PLEXCONCIL) and the Confederation of Indian Industry here on Wednesday. “Agriculture is grappling with challenges like a shrinking land base, dwindling water resources, shortage of labour, increasing costs and uncertainties associated with volatility in the international markets. This called for close cooperation among the farmers, farmer producers, fishermen, and the apex bodies such as APEDA, MPEDA and EXIM Bank to overcome the problems that stifled growth to some extent,” he said, adding that agriculture and Food Processing Industries (FPI) played a vital role in the economy as over 70% of the rural households depended on them for their livelihood. He said the number of registered FPIs in the State accounted for 15% share in the country, and efforts were being made to promote them. Emphasis was laid on reducing post-harvest losses and developing cold chain infrastructure. Mr. Kannababu further said the government identified lead crops in 25 parliamentary constituencies for the sake of establishing 42 commodity-specific secondary processing centres. Different modes of logistics were being integrated to bring down the Cost of Doing Business. Eight fishing harbours and four fish landing centres were being set up at a cost of Rs. 3,000 crore to improve the lives of the fisher folks, he added. Later, Special Chief Secretaries R. Karikal Valaven (industries) and Poonam Malakondaiah (agriculture, horticulture and fisheries), Visakhapatnam SEZ Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy and PLEXCONCIL Executive Director Sribash Dashmahopatra gave presentations on various topics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-set-up-irradiation-plants-agriculture-minister/article36622483.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR GM discusses railway projects with CS||South Central Railway (SCR) General Manager Gajanan Mallya met Chief Secretary C.S. Adityanath Das at the Secretariat on Wednesday. Mr. Mallya along with Vijayawada Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Shivendra Mohan, discussed various railway projects taken up by SCR in the State with Mr. Das. Mr. Mallya inspected the Electric Traction Training Centre (ETTC), and interacted with the trainee loco pilots and staff. He inspected the functioning of three phase In-Motion Loco Simulator at the ETTC. He inspected of Multi-Disciplinary Divisional Training Institute (MDDTI), at Krishna Canal Junction, and enquired about the ongoing construction works for new trainees hostel at the training institute. The General Manager stressed on safety and punctuality and directed the branch officers to expedite the pending passenger and staff amenities taken up in various station in a stipulated time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-gm-discusses-railway-projects-with-cs/article36622620.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 2 crore doses given to women across State||The State has administered at least one dose of vaccine against COVID to over two crore women as of Wednesday evening. According to the Health Department and Cowin portal, as of 8 pm on Tuesday, 3.85 crore vaccine doses were administered, and 2.07 crore were administered to women. In other words, 53.7% of the total doses administered were given to women while 46.2% (1.78 crore) were given to men. About 6,700 doses were administered to others. The Health Department said that Andhra Pradesh stood top in the country in vaccinating more women compared to men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-2-crore-doses-given-to-women-across-state/article36622623.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Old GGH inspected||A Central Government team inspected the Old Government General Hospital on Wednesday. The team, led by Sushma Nagya, inspected the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) and made suggestions to the staff on Kangaroo Mother Care, Inborn and Outborn care and other key issues. GGH Superintendent Jagan Mohan Rao, District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/old-ggh-inspected/article36622624.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. has big plans for Tourism Day||Special Chief Secretary, Department of Youth Advancement, Tourism and Culture Rajat Bhargav on Wednesday said the new investor-friendly tourism policy would attract investors to set up tourism projects in the State. Addressing a review meeting on mega tourism projects that are under way across the State, Mr. Bhargav said the State would celebrate World Tourism Day in a big way on September 27. He directed the Tourism officials to expedite works at the pending projects and said the proposals for 7-Star and 5-Star hotels would be put forth before the State Investment Promotion Committee (SIPC) and the State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB) by next week. He said the proposed beach development plan should be expedited, and works at Lambasingi, a small village in the Eastern Ghats of Chintapalli mandal of Visakhapatnam district, and at Gandikota, a historical fort on the right bank of the Pennar River near Jammalamadugu in Kadapa district, should also be speeded up. Referring to the proposed new resort at Araku, he said the idea should be to maximise returns for properties developed in PPP mode. He directed the officials to ensure that projects involved in legal tangles should be disposed at the earliest and new proposals should be submitted to the Union Government for Centrally-sponsored schemes like Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual Augmentation Drive (PRASAD) Mr. Bhargav said to develop theme-based tourism like eco tourism, beach tourism temple tourism and village tourism, officials should collaborate with allied departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-has-big-plans-for-tourism-day/article36622626.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahila Commission chief bats for tougher laws||Expressing grave concern over atrocities against women, Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma on Wednesday said laws with stricter provisions than the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, were being mulled to deal with heinous crimes such as sexual abuse of girls by their fathers. Speaking to the media after visiting the district jail to examine the food being served to women prisoners, as part of the Nutrition Week, Ms. Padma said the fact that girls and women had no protection in their own homes could not be overlooked, and said the Commission would view such cases very seriously. Taking strong exception to what she called “politicisation” of women’s issues by “certain forces” in the State, she said these were sensitive issues and everybody, regardless of their party affiliations, should come together to find solutions. She said conduct of e-Nari webinars in universities was among a series of measures initiated by the Commission towards women empowerment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahila-commission-chief-bats-for-tougher-laws/article36622628.ece
23 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Asian Paints discusses expansion project with Mekapati||Asian Paints Associate Vice-President (Corporate Affairs) Amit Kumar Singh met Industries and Commerce Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy at the latter’s camp office here and discussed the company’s expansion project in Visakhapatnam. The company is increasing its capacity from three lakh to five lakh kilolitres, which makes it one of the world’s largest paint factories. Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government would extend all support to the project and wanted it to be completed at the earliest. Mr. Singh told the Minister that Asian Paints had started the first phase of commercial production in January 2019 with an investment of Rs. 1,350 crore. He said, approximately, 750 persons had been provided employment in the initial phase. The factory had the Indian Green Building Council’s platinum certification, he said. The company was meeting nearly 75% of its water requirement through rainwater harvesting structures, and a 5.20 MW hybrid (solar and wind) power plant supplies a major portion of the electricity needed. Besides, it was spending Rs. 3 crore per annum on CSR activities. A sum of Rs. 3 crore had been contributed to the CM Relief Fund towards containment of COVID-19, he said. Mr. Singh said the company was training up to 17,000 painters through its mobile colour academy in Vizag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asian-paints-discusses-expansion-project-with-mekapati/article36622480.ece
23 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAS officers appear in court in NREGS case||Principal Secretaries S.S. Rawat (Finance) and Gopal Krishna Dwivedi (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) and Commissioner of PR&RD M. Girija Shankar appeared in person in the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday in the case related to the outstanding bills payable by the State government under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGS). A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya, heard the matter and posted it to October 7. Mr. Dwivedi and other officials informed the court that bills for 60% of the works had been cleared and proposals for a sum of Rs. 400 crore were sent to the Central government and that the money was likely to be released by the end of September. Former Advocate-General Dammalapati Srinivas and advocates N. Srinivasa Rao and Veera Reddy appeared for the petitioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ias-officers-appear-in-court-in-nregs-case/article36622481.ece
23 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard facts expose State’s export claims, says Yanamala||The TDP has made light of the State government’s claims on growth in exports and industrial development. Referring to the socio-economic survey and the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) reports, the TDP has asserted that the State has been showing signs of regression ever since the YSRCP came to power. TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Wednesday alleged the State government hoodwinked industrialists and entrepreneurs with false claims of growth. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should check “hard facts” before making statements on the economic, trade and financial performance of Andhra Pradesh in his two-year rule. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had claimed big victories in industrial and trade sectors when the actual figures exposed a deepening crisis, Mr. Ramakrishndu said. When compared to the TDP term, the performance of the YSRCP was dismal, he alleged. The State had a growth rate of 12.2% in trade and allied sectors during 2017-19 against 1.1% during 2019-21.  “The overall loans availed of by the State crossed Rs. 5 lakh crore. A financial emergency is impending, given the mounting debts and financial mismanagement,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hard-facts-expose-states-export-claims-says-yanamala/article36622490.ece
23 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time extended for degree admissions||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has extended the last date for registration of candidates for online admissions into undergraduate programmes for 2021-22, till September 25. According to the revised schedule, the exercise of web options could be done from September 26 to October 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-extended-for-degree-admissions/article36622627.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||King George Hospital sweeper held||The city police arrested six persons for allegedly involved in four cases, here on Wednesday. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that in one case, the police teams have arrested M. Rajesh(26), who allegedly gained entry into a house near Kotha Agraharam under One Town police station limits on September 15 and made good with Rs. 2.50 lakh cash and two tolas of gold ornaments, all worth Rs. 3 lakh. Mr. Sinha said that the incident allegedly occurred when the inmates were sleeping outside the house. During the investigation, the police found that the accused was none other than the brother of the complainant. All the lost property was recovered. In another case, the crime wing police arrested a sweeper of King George Hospital (KGH) named R. Srinivas of Vizianagaram for allegedly being involved in two offences in the hospital. According to the Police Commissioner, on July 15, the One Town police received a complaint from a woman that her father died while undergoing treatment at CSR Block KGH for COVID-19. She informed that wallet containing Rs. 5,000 cash and mobile phone were missing from her father’s belongings. Meanwhile, after the recent audit, KGH officials also lodged complaint with One Town police on August 23 that a number of properties from the CSR block were missing. Based on the two complaints, police conducted a investigation and zeroed in on the accused. Apart from Rs. 5,000 cash and mobile phone, the police teams have recovered one ECG machine, seven nebulisers, one hot water geyser, seven digital BP apparatus, 15 pulse oximeters, two infrared thermometers, one walkie-talkie set and two wheel chairs from him, which were stolen from CSR block. The Police Commissioner said that Srinivas has been working as the sweeper since the last two years. In the third case, the Malkapuram police arrested P. Bhaskara Rao (28) for allegedly snatching away gold ornaments worth Rs. 67,500 from a woman at Jai Andhra Colony on September 20. The stolen property was recovered. In the fourth case, the police arrested B. Mahesh (23), P. Naresh (26) and N. Ramana (23), all hailing from Anakapalle, for allegedly committing theft of seven motorcycles under the Malkapuram police station limit between September 6 to 21. Police said that Ramana was the receiver of the stolen vehicles. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sweeper-in-king-george-hospital-arrested/article36622518.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police caution people on land grabbing in city||With the increase in land grabbing cases in the city, the city police haves cautioned people to take some extra care in dealing with landed properties. Issuing a set of guidelines, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha has said creation of fake documents is a criminal offence and urged people coming across such documents to immediately report to the nearest police station. As land grabbing issues need a report from the revenue authorities, the city police has asked the victims to approach the local tehsildar immediately for a survey and report. The police authorities have clearly stated that the police will not interfere in title issues, division of land within family members and issues with boundaries of land or any dispute with civil in nature. Police will interfere in other land issues concerning occupation of the government lands by public. The city police is also actively considering the opening of PLCF (Public Litigation Counselling Forum) in the Zone- II area. Police will prepare a comprehensive list of persons who are habitually involved in land issues such as land grabbing or double selling, by exploiting the loopholes in the system. The police team will also take up a research to understand their modus operandi by coordinating with other departments and keep a regular watch over their activities, the Police Commissioner said. As an advisory, the city police have urged people who own landed property to visit the property at least once a month, put up a board in the site in their name, fence the property and keep a trusted watchman, if the land has considerable value. It is also advisable to get a GPS survey done and ensure that records are updated with the Revenue Department. The police advised the prospective buyers to go for an advertisement in a leading newspaper, verify the encumbrance certificate for the last 30 years and verify the VUDA approval.  Link documents The purchasers should also check all link documents right from the name in SFA (Survey Fair Adangal) and check if it is an assigned land or listed the in 22A prohibited property list, the police said. The EC and prohibited properties list can be accessed throughhttp://www.registration.ap. gov.in/and for details on 1B, Adangal and FMB one can visithttp://meebhoomi.ap.g ov.in/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-caution-people-on-land-grabbing-in-city/article36622629.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CB-CID takes up doctor’s death case||The Crime Branch-Crime Investigation Department (CB-CID) has taken up the investigation concerning the death of Dr. Shyamala (32), whose body was found in a canal at Tallapalem in Kasimkota mandal of Visakhapatnam district on August 4, 2020. “After waiting for almost 14 months and not getting any positive response from the local police, we approached the Additional Director General of CB-CID P.V. Sunil Kumar, at Amaravati last week,” said Mr. Swami Naidu, husband of the deceased. As part of the investigation, it is learnt that the sleuths of the department had visited the spot where the body was found, the Kasimkota Police Station, where the case was registered and also met the family members to ascertain more details and have collected the relevant data, over the last two days. Since beginning, the family members of Dr. Shyamala have been hinting at foul play and they allege that the local police was not cooperative. Pointing a finger towards departmental issues, Mr. Swami Naidu said, “The case was concluded as suicide, when there was no reason or motive for such an act. My wife in her personal diary had mentioned of harassment in the department and we have handed over the diary to the police. But no action was taken, now we are banking on the CB-CID investigation.” He said that circumstantial evidences were misrepresented in the case file.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cb-cid-takes-up-doctors-death-case/article36622630.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BCCI yet to inform format of India-WI T20’||Officials of the Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) have said the proposed T20 match between India and West Indies on February 18, 2022, is on, but they are yet to get confirmation from the BCCI on whether it will be played under bio-bubble conditions or will be open to spectators. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, former India player and ACA Director (cricket operations) Y. Venugopala Rao said the association was prepared for both the formats. “The ACA was the first to host a bio-bubble coaching camp in the country. Our ground staff and administration are aware of the protocols and standard operating procedures. So it will not be an issue either way,” Mr. Venugopala Rao said. U-19 matches Earlier, ACA treasurer S.R. Gopinath Reddy said that the BCCI had allotted three under-19 women group matches to the city, and they would be played in three grounds from September 29. One match would be played at the Dr. YSR ACA-VDCA stadium and the other two at the railway stadium and ACA North Zone Academy grounds in Vizianagaram. Mr. Gopinath Reddy said six teams – Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Baroda, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Haryana – would be participating in the tournament. The Andhra Team had gone to Surat to participate in the group matches, he added. Mr. Gopinath Reddy said the matches would be played under bio-bubble conditions and that the ACA had made all arrangements for the same. As per the ACA officials, the BCCI had allotted six tournaments to Andhra Pradesh – women U-19, senior women ODIs and U-19 Cooch Behar Trophy to Visakhapatnam and Col. C.K. Nayudu league matches, Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament and Col. C.K. Nayudu Knock Out matches to Vijayawada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bcci-yet-to-inform-format-of-india-wi-t20/article36622491.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records one death and 49 new cases||The district recorded 49 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,810. For the third day in a row, the day-tally was fewer than 50 cases. The death toll also rose to 1,084 after one more person succumbed to the infection during the same time period. This is the tenth death reported in the month. During the last 24 hours, as many as 66 persons undergoing treatment have completely recovered from the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-one-death-and-49-new-cases/article36622637.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exchange of fire between police, Maoists||A brief exchange of fire took place between the banned CPI (Maoist) and the security forces of Odisha in Tulasipadu area in Malkangiri area of neighbouring Odisha, on Wednesday. The exchange of fire took place on the second day of the CPI (Maoist) formation week that began on Tuesday. According to the police, there were no casualties or injuries on either side. Following the incident, both the Andhra and Odisha police have intensified the combing operations in the AOB region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/exchange-of-fire-between-police-maoists/article36622492.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One drowns and another goes missing in Yeleru canal||A 30-year-old man reportedly drowned while another person has gone missing after they fell into the flowing Yeleru canal with the motorcycle on which they travelling near A.Sarabhavaram village under Nathavaram Police Station limits. Though the incident occurred on Tuesday afternoon, it came to light after police registered a case late in the night. The deceased was identified as K. Satyanarayana (30). Another person Ch Chittibabu (35) is still missing. According to reports, on Tuesday, Satyanarayana and Chittibabu, both hailing from M.B. Patnam village in Nathavaram mandal, went to a temple near A Sarabhavaram and did not return home. Sub-Inspector of Nathavaram police station Sekharam said that as per the preliminary inquiry, the motorcycle appears to have skidded off the road and fell into the canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-drowns-and-another-goes-missing-in-yeleru-canal/article36622634.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman allegedly raped by YSRCP worker||A 33-year-old woman with speech impairment was allegedly raped by a 38-year-old man at Sileru in the Visakhapatnam district. The accused who happens to be her neighbour, is also reportedly a YSR Congress Party worker, according to the police. Though the incident allegedly occurred in the early hours of Tuesday, it came to light after the family members of the woman lodged a complaint with the local police on Wednesday morning. According to the complaint, the accused had gained entry into the house when the woman was alone and committed the crime. Sub Inspector of Sileru police station Ranjith said that they have registered a case under various sections of rape and other relevant IPC sections. The police have launched a manhunt for the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-allegedly-raped-by-ysrcp-worker/article36622636.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Magisterial probe on Oct. 15||A magisterial inquiry will be conducted into thedeath of undertrial prisoner S. Shiva (34) at the Government Hospital at Yelamanchali on August 10. The inquiry will be conducted on October 15 at the RDO’s Office at Anakapalle at 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/magisterial-probe-on-oct-15/article36622639.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU seeks probe into accident at ferro alloys unit||The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) district committee has demanded a detailed probe into the cause of the blast, which occurred at Abhijeet Ferro Alloys at Atchutapuram SEZ, in the district. Lalam Shekar (24) was severely injured in the blast at the unit on Tuesday. In a statement on Wednesday, CITU general secretary G. Koteswara Rao and treasurer V.V. Srinivasa Rao demanded that Shekar, be given proper treatment and financial support be given to his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-seeks-probe-into-accident-at-ferro-alloys-unit/article36622632.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to restart CGHS facility at VIMS||Representatives of the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) Beneficiaries Welfare Association appealed to K. Rambabu, Director of the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), to restart the CGHS facility at VIMS. Association honorary president Rupakula Ravi Kumar and members met Dr. Rambabu on Wednesday and submitted a memorandum in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-restart-cghs-facility-at-vims/article36622631.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-Media Cricket Tourney gets underway||MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana has said that the State government is initiating all measures for developing Visakhapatnam into a mega city. He participated as chief guest at the ‘Inter-Media Cricket Tourney’, being organised jointly by the Vizag Journalists’ Forum (VJF), CMR and Visakha Sports Journalists’ Association (VISJA) at the Port Stadium here on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-media-cricket-tourney-gets-underway/article36622633.ece
23 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Job mela on September 30||Project Officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency R. Gopala Krishna instructed the officials of the Skill Development Centre and Youth Training Centres (YTCs) to organise a job mela in YTC at Kummariputtu of Paderu mandal in the Agency area of the district on September 30. He said that the job mela, being conducted by Hetero Drugs, should be utilised by students who completed B.Sc Chemistry, M.Sc Chemistry, Mechanical Diploma and ITI Fitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/job-mela-on-september-30/article36622638.ece
23 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DBSU seeks political justice to SCs||Dalit Bahujan Sharmik Union State general secretary and senior advocate P. Chittibabu on Wednesday urged the State government to issue orders to ensure at least one of the two vice-chairpersons posts in the Zilla Parishads for Scheduled Caste (SC) communities. Highlighting that the SCs have not get either the ZP chairperson or vice-chairperson posts for the last 45 years, Chittibabu told the media that the social justice and equal opportunities were necessary to protect the political interests of the downtrodden sections. “A few dominant castes and influential persons are getting all the coveted posts. There has been no discussion on the protection of the interests of SC leaders. The YSRCP can do justice by ensuring one vice-chairperson post to an SC candidate as it has already selected a leader for the ZP chief post,”he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dbsu-seeks-political-justice-to-scs/article36622513.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Keep the five alive’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keep-the-five-alive/article36622641.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Consider giving up VAT on fuel: Bandi||The government should consider giving up the Rs. 40 it makes in the form of Value Added Tax (VAT) for every litre of petrol and diesel purchased instead of resorting to proposed hike in the TSRTC and power charges, advised Telangana BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday. Strongly demanding to drop the proposal, he said since Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao claims to be running a rich State and Telangana to be on the top in terms of GDP so he should not be thinking of burdening people further with enhanced ticket fares or electricity bills. The boast of supplying free power to the farmers also will become hollow if there is any rise in the power tariff, he observed. Addressing public meetings during the course of ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ which entered the 26th day in Kamareddy at Machareddy crossroads, he said it is the poor and the downtrodden who make use of the public transport facility and they will be hit the most. If the government goes ahead with fare and tariff hikes, the party will strongly protest and force it to backtrack, he vowed. He said the government gets Rs. 26 tax for every litre of fuel purchased and another Rs. 14 is given by the Centre, this amount can be sacrificed instead of shifting the blame onto the Centre for fuel price hikes, he maintained and accused the “first family” of having conspired to sell of the TSRTC assets and it was one of the main reasons behind cutting the unions down to size. Majority of TSRTC employees hail from poor backgrounds and were suffering due to lack of loans facility. He also criticised the Opposition parties for holding a united protest meeting at the Indira Park against the Centre and State governments policies and accused them of being brought over by TRS at a “hefty discount”. “While I am raising people’s problems everyday and putting the State Government on notice, the Congress is criticising the BJP-led Government at the Centre totally diverting the issue,” claimed the BJP president. National vice president Rekha Verma also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/consider-giving-up-vat-on-fuel-sanjay/article36622531.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Constable’s organ donation sets transplant arena abuzz||Organ donation by the family of a brain-dead constable last week has motivated several people to come forward and do the same. The heart harvested from 34-year-old constable N. Veerababu, who was grievously injured in an accident, was transplanted in a young painter at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Panjagutta, on September 15. The patient is currently under observation. Since heart transplantation at private hospitals costs upwards of Rs. 25 lakh, the kin of patients in distress have been contacting doctors to find out the procedure for registering and undergoing transplantation at NIMS or any government hospital. A few others, on the other hand, have expressed interest in donating their organs, informed in-charge of Jeevandan cadaver transplantation programme, G. Swarnalatha. The donors have registered with Jeevandan programme, and interested recipients directed to the cardiology department of the hospital. Unit head at NIMS cardiothoracic surgery department, Amaresh Rao Malempati said they select recipients who have less than six months to live and meet other criteria like no serious infection or disease. Each case is individually assessed to know if heart transplantation is required, and if there are other methods to address the issue. The doctor stressed that patients should not lose hope as life can be prolonged even without heart transplantation. Better medication and evolved medical procedures can often help. With a surge in organ demand, however, it is expected that the number of donations this year will exceed 2019’s figures. Donations dropped after the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in March last year. The subsequent lockdowns restricted movement of people on roads, bringing down road accident rate and a corresponding drop in number of brain-dead patients from whom organs are harvested. After the Jeevandan programme was inaugurated in 2013, the highest of 573 organs were donated in 2018, followed by 469 in 2019. Last year, the number fell by almost half, to 257. This year, between January 1 and September 15, a total of 379 organs have been harvested. The numbers are expected to improve by the year-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constables-organ-donation-sets-transplant-arena-abuzz/article36622373.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH gets state-of-art 2D Echo machine||An advanced 2D Echo machine worth Rs. 1 crore was inaugurated at the cardiology department of Osmania General Hospital on Wednesday. It is a first-of-its-kind equipment in any State-run hospital here, and only the second facility among all Telangana hospitals, including corporate ones, to house it. OGH Superintendent B. Nagender, who inaugurated the machine along with other doctors, said it is equipped with the latest technology. Head of the Cardiology department Syed Imamudin said even minute differences in heart anatomy can be observed through this advanced equipment. Diagnosis at private health facilities costs anywhere between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,200. Around 200 patients consult OGH cardiologists on out-patient basis every day, and 120-130 patients undergo 2D Echo diagnosis, which is performed free of cost. In a month, the number of diagnostic tests roughly come to 3,500. The hospital has three 2D Echo machines. OGH cardiology department was sanctioned around Rs. 8.4 crore in beginning of the month. A high-end Cath Lab, portable ECHO machine, and other infrastructure are expected to arrive at the hospital in the coming weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ogh-gets-state-of-art-2d-echo-machine/article36622374.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS, Wingsure ink MoU to help small farmers||Telangana government and Insurtech firm Wingsure on Wednesday entered into an MoU to provide deep-tech-based personalised crop insurance products and advisory services to small, underserved farmers. While the State IT Department will guide and facilitate implementation of the solution, the Agriculture Department will offer on-ground implementation through its existing network and assist in prioritising and disseminating critical training and advisory services for farmers, including data acquisition. Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University will offer domain expertise through its research centres across the State. It will provide advice and expertise on risk mitigation specific to crop, climate, and a few other critical areas through Wingsure’s platform, the firm said in a release. The firm said it will collaborate with government agencies to develop a ground distribution strategy by leveraging its deep-tech platform, including AR (Augmented Reality), AI (Artificial Intelligence), ML (Machine Learning)-based personalised solutions, along with voice bots and natural language processing, to allow farmers to communicate in their native language. Their alliance will support the government’s objectives to promote economic empowerment and offer opportunities for collaboration, innovation of value chains, growth and job creation, said Wingsure, which is an Insurtech venture spin-out of SRI International (formerly Stanford Research Institute). IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the government has identified agriculture as a priority sector and recognises the importance of AI and other emerging technologies in enhancing agricultural productivity and improving livelihood of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-wingsure-ink-mou-to-help-small-farmers/article36622529.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Online ‘Open Day’ with CCMB scientists from today||CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB)’s ‘Open Day’ will be an online affair this year too due to the pandemic and there is an an interesting mix of webinars being made available to students, researchers and science aficionados for the next four days starting Thursday. Top scientists will discuss the work they do in life sciences like studying cells, molecules in those cells and how they function, besides answering questions posed by participants. There will also be discussions on ‘how to be a scientist’ and ‘how to find the right information’ and a host of competitions for schoolchildren. The line-up Director Vinay Nandicoor will formally begin the proceedings on the first day (September 23) and it will be followed by talks on model organisms by former director Rakesh Mishra and Sonal Jaiswal, about Zebrafish facility by Megha Kumar, DNA - the thread of life again, by Dr. Mishra, genetics and diagnostics by Chandok. Second day will have cell biology by V. Radha, Chandrasekhar on embryos, Jyotsna Dhawan on muscle stem cells, Amitabha Chattopadhyay on novel drug targets, Rajan Sankaranarayanan on structural view of life in 3D etc. The third day will see talks on human diseases - neurology by Anant Patel, heart by Regalla and Malarias by Puran S Sijwali, helping rice farmers by Hiten Patel and Atal Incubation Centre by N Madhusudan Rao. Last day will have talks on ecology by Jahnvi Joshi and Meghna Krishnadas while Karthikeyan Vasudevan will talk on human-snake conflict and G. Umapathy on bio-tools in conservation. Live streaming will be made available on YouTube, people can also follow Instagram@csirccb, twitter @ccmb-csir and facebook /ccmbcisr. Details are available at ‘https://www.ccmb.res.in/Outreach/Programs’. Workshops for teachers The institute is ready to host workshops for teachers and is currently working with the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutes Society (TSWREIS) to reach out to students across its 260 plus institutes on fighting the genetic disease burden, said an officials spokesperson on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-open-day-with-ccmb-scientists-from-today/article36622378.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IAF senior officer, NPA director visit AFA||Indian Air Force Senior Air Staff Officer, Training Command, Air Marshal B. Chandra Sekhar visited Air Force Academy (AFA), Dundigal, where he was received by Commandant Air Marshal Sanjeev Kapoor on Tuesday. He visited all training facilities at the academy where he interacted with the staff and instructors, and witnessed outdoor activities that are conducted for trainee officers. He also addressed the flight cadets and instructors. Director of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy-Hyderabad  Atul Karwal, along with his team, also visited AFA where he was shown various training faculties for trainee officers. He interacted with staff and flight cadets during his visit and gave a guest lecture to the trainees, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iaf-senior-officer-npa-director-visit-afa/article36622380.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Effort to wean farmers away from paddy sowing||As the Centre has expressed its intention not to procure boiled rice from Telangana in the coming rabi, the State government is focussed on weaning farmers away from paddy cultivation in the season. The government has instead drawn up plans to motivate farmers to go for pulse, oilseeds and millet crops by irrigation under borewells. In rabi last year, paddy was cultivated over 46 lakh acres by 26 lakh borewells. Overall paddy cultivation, both by borewells and other irrigation sources, was over 53 lakh acres. In the ongoing kharif, rice production was expected to cross nine lakh tonnes according to the first advance estimates of agricultural production by the Directorate of Economics and Statistics. This was much higher than the expectations of the government. On the other hand, cotton cultivation had upset the expectations of the government. The cropped area was expected to be 70 lakh acres but it shrunk to 51.04 lakh acres. Therefore, the advance estimate targeted production at 69.46 lakh bales which was 30% less than the target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/effort-to-wean-farmers-away-from-paddy-cultivation/article36622533.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Phone camera kept in ladies toilet||A woman lodged a complaint with the Jubilee Hills police saying she noticed a camera phone concealed in the women’s washroom of an eatery. According to police, the camera phone was kept in the toilet of the drive-in restaurant located at Road Number 10. The camera phone was allegedly turned on and was recording. While police were largely tight-lipped, they said that the phone belongs to an 18-year-old sweeper who works at the drive-in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/phone-camera-kept-in-ladies-toilet-of-restaurant/article36622542.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Technology centre inaugurated at LVPEI||Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Wednesday inaugurated the Poornima and Ramam Atmakuri Technology Centre at L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI)’s Gullapalli Pratibha Rao International Centre for Advancement of Rural Eye Care, Kismatpur. All technology and innovation work done at LVPEI will now fall under the umbrella of this tech centre, which includes product development, re-engineered medical eye care products, scleral lens manufacturing (speciality contact lenses), Electronic Medical Record systems and Data Science and Healthcare Incubator. Equipped with a state-of-the-art facility, the centre has a multi-disciplinary team of engineers, ophthalmologists, optometrists, technologists and public health specialists. In recognition of contributions made by LVPEI executive vice-chair Ramam Atmakuri, it has been named after him and his wife.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tech-centre-at-lvpei-inaugurated/article36622376.ece
23 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||200 kg ganja seized, 2 held||The SOT of the Rachakonda police on Wednesday apprehended two persons accused of illegally transporting ganja, and seized 200 kg of the narcotic, and other articles worth over Rs. 21 lakh. Shingarapu Saidulu, 34, is a farmer and resident of Aitipamula village in Nalgonda district, and Chiluka Saidi Reddy, 28, is a car driver and resident of Poreddygudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/200-kg-ganja-seized-2-held/article36622557.ece
23 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minor raped by father||In a shocking incident, a 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her own father, police said on Wednesday. According to Rajendranagar police, the accused, Satyanarayana, is a daily wage earner, and resident of Shivrampally. “The incident came to light after the victim went to her neighbour and told her what happened. The victim’s mother died a few years ago. The girl has been sent to a rescue home. We have booked a rape case,” Rajendranagar Inspector K Kanakaiah said, adding that the POCSO Act has also been invoked. Police have arrested the accused, and an investigation is underway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minor-raped-by-father/article36622558.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State adds 258 cases to virus tally||Telangana logged 258 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to 6,64,164. While 55,419 samples were put to test, results of 1,681 were awaited. The new cases included 69 from Greater Hyderabad region, 25 from Karimnagar and 21 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in Vikarabad, Narayanpet, and Jayashankar-Bhupalapally. One more COVID patient died. With this, the death toll has reached 3,908. Of the total cases, 4,946 were active as of Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-adds-258-cases-to-virus-tally/article36622375.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS among top 15 Asian ecosystems for hiring talent||Telangana is among the top 15 Asian ecosystems in terms of affordable talent, top 30 Asian ecosystems in performance, knowledge and talent and experience in the Global Startup Ecosystems Report (GSER) 2021. T-Hub had collaborated with Startup Genome to underscore the ecosystem in Telangana and Hyderabad GSER 2021. “Entrepreneurs, policymakers, and community leaders are working hard all over the world to build productive and inclusive technology ecosystems that are engines of economic growth and job creation for all,” J.F. Gauthier, founder and CEO of Startup Genome was quoted as saying. “The GSER is the foundation of knowledge where we, as a global network, come together to identify what policies actually produce economic impact and in what context,” Mr Gauthier added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-among-top-15-asian-ecosystems-for-hiring-talent/article36622384.ece
23 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Transplant milestone for doctor||A senior heart and lung transplantation surgeon at Yashoda Hospitals has achieved the milestone of performing more than 500 transplants across the world. Cardiothoracic surgeon Jnanesh Thacker went to USA for training and subsequently, practised at the top centres in the world, stated a press release. He was the first to perform a successful lung transplantation for an Indian patient in India. Dr Thacker aims to increase awareness of heart and lung transplants in India which he feels is still at a nascent stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transplant-milestone-for-doctor/article36622371.ece
23 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Channel to focus on farmers’ issues||Aiming to leverage social media’s potential to amplify voices of marginalised people and take up social issues, the town-based Rayala Subash Chandra Bose (Ravanna) Memorial Trust is all set to launch a new YouTube channel named “Mitti9TV” in the first week of October. The upcoming YouTube channel’s promo video with tagline “Cheekati Pai Poratam Velugu Kai Prayanam” has already been shared on social media. It is expected to serve as an online platform for the CPI (ML-New Democracy) and its frontal organisations, including the POW, the PDSU and the PYL besides a host of mass organisations, to mobilise public support for mass movements on pressing issues of public concern, sources said. Live debates The video-streaming platform will feature live debates on contemporary issues concerning farmers, labourers and other toiling masses, students, unemployed youth, poor and underprivileged sections of the society, said sources in Ravanna memorial trust’s office located at Ramnarsaiah Vignana Kendram in the town. It will strive to provide informative content on a broad spectrum of topics highlighting the need for women’s empowerment, equitable access to quality education and health to all and social justice for creating an egalitarian society, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/channel-to-focus-on-farmers-issues/article36622541.ece
23 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Woman raped and murdered in Nalgonda||A woman in her 50s was allegedly raped and murdered at Mushampally village, on the outskirts of Nalgonda town, on Wednesday. According to information, two suspects from the same village -- Lingaiah and Pullaiah, who were reportedly were under the influence of alcohol, allegedly forced themselves on her and later murdered her. The incident, reportedly took place around noon, when the woman was heading home after shutting her small store. The suspects, in mid-30s, took her to one of their houses and committed the offence. Locals who later witnessed the crime scene said she was found in a naked state and a few ornaments on her were also missing. It was also learnt that the suspects attempted to destroy the evidence before evading the scene. As the weather condition was rainy, it is said that no locals witnessed the woman being taken away. Nalgonda rural police launched an investigation and initiated a search to find the absconding suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-raped-murdered/article36622385.ece
23 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sugarcane farmers stage dharna||Demanding that Trident Sugars Limited, located on the outskirts of Zaheerabad, take up milling, a large number of sugarcane farmers held a dharna in Zaheerabad town on Wednesday. All shops and establishments remained closed and many political parties supported the bandh call. For the past two years, Trident Sugars did not take up milling, thus forcing farmers to sell sugarcane at other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sugarcane-farmers-stage-dharna/article36622536.ece
23 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Oustees submit memo to NGT||A three-member committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) visited Gouravelli reservoir on Wednesday and examined the issues that were brought to its notice. The members are P.S. Kautilya, member, Godavari River Management Board, M. Ramesh Kumar, Director, M&A, and Dr. E. Arockia Lenin, Scientist C. The visit continued from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. during which they interacted with officials and representatives of oustees. The oustees of Gouravelli had approached the NGT in July, 2021, seeking justice alleging that the project was being implemented without seeking required permissions and not offering Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package to them. Responding to their complaint, the NGT had constituted the three-member committee and directed it to look into issues raised by the oustees. The Gouravelli project was initially designed for 1.41 tmc ft but during redesign, the capacity was increased to 8.23 tmc ft. Gudatipally in Akkannapet mandal is one of the villages that would be submerged in the reservoir. “In order to ascertain the genuineness of the allegations made and also to find out whether there is any violation, we think it is appropriate to appoint a joint committee to inspect the area in question and also to examine the project and submit a factual as well as action-taken report if there is any violation,” read the order issued by NGT. The panel was directed to ascertain the impact on environment. The committee was instructed to submit its report before September 30. The oustees submitted a memorandum to the visiting team of NGT, urging it to render them justice. “We are the oustees of Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal under Gouravelli reservoir. About 2,200 acres was acquired in 2009 for the reservoir for 1.4 tmc ft capacity. In 2017, the capacity was increased to 8.23 tmc ft and notification was issued for 1967.18 acres without obtaining permissions from Central Water Commission, Tribal and Forest departments. This notification will not stand good in the court of law. We request you to present facts before the NGT and do us justice,” the memorandum said.  We are the oustees of Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal under Gouravelli reservoir. About 2,200 acres was acquired in 2009 for the reservoir for 1.4 tmc ft capacity. In 2017, the capacity was increased to 8.23 tmc ft. We request you to present facts before the NGT and do us justice. Memorandum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oustees-submit-memo-to-green-tribunal/article36622538.ece
23 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||RWS office restored at Cheriyal||The Rural Water Supply (RWS) sub-division engineering office was restored at Cheriyal, one of the promises made by Finance Minister Harish Rao on August 9 at Cheriyal Government Degree College. Efforts are also on to establish the Assistant Director Agriculture (ADA) office in the next one week. During the meeting, MLAM. Yadagiri Reddy brought the issues to the notice of the Minister and urged him to sanction these offices as it was pending for a long time. Besides, Rs. 1 crore was sanctioned for road works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rws-office-restored-at-cheriyal/article36622540.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Come rain or shine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/come-rain-or-shine/article36622528.ece
23 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Discontent brewing over pay hike in Maruti plant||Resentment seems to be brewing among the casual workers at the plants of Maruti Suzuki, the largest carmaker in the country, in Gurugram over the past few days over nominal increase in their wages. The former general-secretary of the company’s workers’ union, Kuldeep Janghu, has written a letter to the Labour Department referring to the discontentment and seeking their intervention. In a letter to Deputy Labour Commissioner, Mr. Janghu said the company’s management had announced an increase in the wages of the casual employees on September 18, but the hike had been nominal causing resentment among them. He made an appeal to the department officials to intervene and ask the management for the reconsideration of their decision. “While the regular employees are getting paid in the range of Rs. 70,000-Rs. 80,000, the casual skilled employees are getting around Rs. 25,000 for the same work,” Mr. Janghu said. Deputy Labour Commissioner Ajay Pal told The Hindu that the department had received the complaint and was looking into the matter. “We will speak to the casual workers and the management if required,” Mr. Pal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/discontent-brewing-over-pay-hike-in-maruti-plant/article36622242.ece
23 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Three organs retrieved from brain-dead woman||Doctors at Fortis Memorial Research Institute enabled retrieval and donation of three organs from a 44-year-old woman following brain death at the hospital on Wednesday. The feat became possible after the patient’s family consented to donate her organs. National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation allocated the organs to three separate recipients — two wait-listed recipients at Fortis Gurugram received the liver and one kidney, and a recipient at private hospital in Delhi received the second kidney. Both corneas were sent to an eye bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-organs-retrieved-from-brain-dead-woman/article36622243.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Yogesh Singh appointed new DU V-C||Professor Yogesh Singh, currently Vice-Chancellor of Delhi Technological University, has been appointed as the new Vice-Chancellor of the University of Delhi. The university has not had a permanent V-C since Yogesh Tyagi was suspended in October last year. In a phone interview with The Hindu soon after the announcement, Mr. Singh emphasised that he was a team player and would take all viewpoints on board. He acknowledged the challenge that almost half of DU’s faculty positions are vacant, and expressed hope of bringing in hybrid learning innovations that he has experimented with at DTU. The appointment was made by the university’s Visitor, President Ram Nath Kovind, the Education Ministry said on Wednesday. He also appointed professor Neelima Gupta as the new Vice-Chancellor of Hari Singh Gour University at Sagar in Madhya Pradesh. Leadership background DU’s new V-C comes with a background of leadership at three educational institutions already. Apart from his current position as DTU V-C, Mr. Singh has previously been director of Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology and V-C of Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda, and is also a member of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. He, himself, is an alumnus of National Institute of Technology at Kurukshetra, with a PhD in computer engineering. Apart from his academic credentials, Mr. Singh was appointed as an independent director of Gujarat government public sector firm Gujarat State Petro Net in May 2013 and Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation in March 2015. This August, he was also appointed as an additional director on the board of Gujarat Gas. RSS link Asked about the perception that he is ideologically aligned with the RSS and its education wing, Mr. Singh did not deny it but insisted that he would represent all interests. “A Vice-Chancellor has to take everyone together. After joining Delhi University, I will be a Vice-Chancellor for everyone and we will take everyone together. For a V-C, the interests of the university should be protected,” he said. “DU is one of the oldest seats of learning in our country. We will take all necessary steps which are essential for the growth and development of the university. I’m a team player,” he said. The new V-C acknowledged that DU currently has the highest level of faculty vacancies among Central universities in the country, with 846 of its 1,706 sanctioned posts lying vacant. “We will start the process. Recruitment is a very important activity and is the prime responsibility of any V-C to do it. We will do it on a regular basis, not as a one-time affair,” Mr. Singh said. Hybrid learning is among the innovations, he hopes to introduce. “Right now, many students feel that classrooms are very boring. So the teaching pedagogy needs to be improved... Online education has become a reality now. It has helped us so we could say this has been a year of students. But now the time has come, we have to think about new pedagogy and teaching-learning processes,” he said. He said it was too early to comment about other initiatives or priorities, including the National Education Policy’s proposed reforms, but promised that changes were in the pipeline. “Leadership is very important for any institution. Wherever I have worked, I have worked with positivity and enthusiasm. Here too, I will take all steps. You will see the difference very soon,” Mr. Singh added.  I will be a Vice-Chancellor for everyone and we will take everyone together. For a V-C, the interests of the university should be protected Professor Yogesh Singh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/yogesh-singh-appointed-new-du-v-c/article36622233.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||ED summons to Gupta politically motivated: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday said that party national secretary Pankaj Gupta appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) after being summoned and termed it as a “politically motivated and fabricated case” at the behest of the BJP. AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that the party is unfazed by the “vendetta politics” of the Modi government and will fully cooperate in the process. Image tarnishing Earlier this month, the ED had summoned Mr. Gupta in connection with an alleged money laundering case involving Sukhpal Singh Khaira, former Leader of the Opposition in Punjab Assembly, and a former AAP member who is being probed for his alleged links with some suspects in a drug smuggling case. “Panicked by the AAP’s rising graph and Arvind Kejriwal’s growing popularity across the country, the BJP is attempting to tarnish our image by sending us notices. This notice is part of the BJP’s conspiracy to harass the AAP to break down our spirits before the Assembly elections in Uttarakhand, Punjab, Gujarat and Goa. We are undeterred and people are with us,” Mr. Chadha said. The AAP leader claimed that in the last seven years, not a single BJP leader has received notices from the ED, but the AAP gets notices from almost every investigative agency every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ed-summons-to-gupta-politically-motivated-aap/article36622249.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU to reopen for third-year scholars||Jawaharlal Nehru University will start with its third phase of reopening from September 23 in which all third-year PhD research scholars, both hostellers and day scholars, will be allowed to enter the campus. The university said that it had taken this decision keeping with the guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority regarding reopening of educational institutions with maximum of 50% of seating capacity and strict compliance with the standard operating procedures. It added that phase IV of the reopening will commence on September 27 in which all final-year MSc, BTech fourth-year and MBA final-year students will be allowed to enter and reside on the campus. The university said that in order to avoid overcrowding, it has been decided to decentralise the process of issuance of ID cards from the security office. The ID cards will be issued at the school/special centre level. It also said that buses will be allowed to enter the campus following COVID-19 protocol. JNU students who have been demanding the reopening of the campus called the circular a farce and an attempt to mislead students. “The notice is a farce since no MSc final-year students have been allotted hostel yet and they are being called back to the campus. The administration must explain where the students will stay,” the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad said. Students said that they will continue to protest until all students return to the campus and hostels are allotted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-to-reopen-for-third-year-scholars/article36622234.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Experts welcome stricter air quality norms||The stricter air quality standards issued by the World Health Organization (WHO) on Wednesday are a welcome move but it will be challenging for Delhi to achieve the new limits, experts and officials said. “The new norms will put more pressure on the government to form policies to achieve stricter standards of air pollution. But achieving the new standards is going to be challenging,” said an official of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee.  The WHO, in the first update of its air quality guidelines in 15 years, has tightened global air pollution standards in recognition of emerging science that the impact of air pollution on health is much more serious than earlier envisaged.  Anumita Roychowdhury, head of Clean Air Programme at the Centre for Science and Environment, said the WHO’s air quality norms are not legally binding on countries, but rather a general guide for what nations should set as goals. “The Central Pollution Control Board is expected to revise the national ambient air quality standards soon and the new WHO guidelines need to be the reference point for developing appropriate intermediate targets for India,” she said. For Delhi and large parts of north India, it will be difficult to achieve these new guidelines, but the WHO has proposed a step-by-step approach through progressive tightening of intermediate standards, she added. “During the lockdown, air pollution halved in Delhi when local pollution and regional influence could be minimised. Even then we were not near the WHO guidelines. In 2020, the annual average level of PM2.5 in Delhi was 98 micrograms per cubic metre, against the national standard of 40. The WHO is asking for annual average of 5 micrograms per cubic metre. This bears out the scale and speed with which we need to push action in Delhi and across the regions to meet our own standards first,” the expert said.  The Central Pollution Control Board is expected to revise the national air quality standards soon... the new WHO norms need to be the reference point Anumita Roychowdhury Head of Clean Air Programme, Centre for Science and Environment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/experts-welcome-stricter-air-quality-norms/article36622237.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘BJP-ruled North body has floated tenders to lease school buildings’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday alleged that the BJP-governed North Delhi municipal corporation has floated tenders to lease buildings of 14 municipal corporation-run schools to private coaching centres. “Corporations do not have enough students left to run schools so they have merged 36 schools to empty the buildings. Out of these 36 schools, the BJP-ruled corporation has released tenders for 14 schools. For many years this will be leased out as prime land and the BJP will benefit from it. This is so shameful and disturbingly contrary to the civic body claims that they don’t have enough land to give out to mohalla clinics, as they keep selling the land to private institutes,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. The AAP leader said that these plots are located in Narela Zone, City Zone, Sadar Paharganj Zone, Civil Lines Zone, and Karol Bagh Zone. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that the North body was not leasing or selling any of its schools to private coaching centres and Mr. Bharadwaj, in his “fervour to defame the municipal corporations”, had not verified the facts before speaking. “The North body has several school buildings lying empty as certain areas, especially in City Zone, have gone commercial with very little population left, thus rendering schools useless,” Mr. Kapoor said. He alleged that AAP leaders keep levelling “baseless charges” against the corporations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-ruled-north-body-has-floated-tenders-to-lease-school-buildings/article36622251.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: court drops arson charges against 10||A Delhi court on Wednesday dropped charges of arson against 10 people accused of allegedly looting shops during the February 2020 riots, saying the police were trying to cover up a flaw and clubbing incidents of two different dates. The case was registered on the basis of three complaints — one Birjpal stated that his rented shop was looted by a riotous mob at Brijpuri road on February 25, while Diwan Singh claimed that two of his shops were looted on February 24. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said the complainants did not state a single word regarding the riotous mob committing “mischief by fire or explosive substance” in their initial statements. Diwan Singh, in his supplementary statement, however, said that the riotous mob put his shop on fire, to which the court said that the investigating agency cannot “cover up the flaw” by recording the supplementary statements. ASJ Yadav said that he is unable to comprehend how an incident that occurred on February 24 could be clubbed with the incident which occurred on February 25 unless and until there was clear evidence that the same rioters were operating on both dates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-riots-court-drops-arson-charges-against-10/article36622230.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Centre’s stand sought on rules for pvt. detectives||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to respond to a petition seeking to frame guidelines to regulate the work and domain of private detectives till the codified Act comes into existence. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a plea by a woman aggrieved by an allegedly illegal investigation carried out by a private investigator, asked the Centre to submit its response within six weeks. “You [Centre] have to take a balanced view. You have to take care,” the High Court said. Free to act The Central government’s counsel said that the petitioner was free to take action under the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act which were applicable to any offence committed by private detectives. “These are professionals. We can’t have a guideline for everything... All [professionals] have to follow the law. There is IPC, IT Act. FIR or complaint can be filed,” the counsel said. The High Court also clarified that it was not going to examine any other issues raised by the woman in her plea and that she was free to seek appropriate remedy in accordance with the law. Illegal investigation The woman, in her plea, claimed that a private detective shared certain personal information about her with a foreign national after conducting an illegal investigation. She claimed that there were several private detectives in the country operating without being subjected to any oversight. The plea said that although a Bill was introduced in the Rajya Sabha in 2007 on this aspect, no progress was made ultimately. The HC will hear the case on January 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centres-stand-sought-on-rules-for-pvt-detectives/article36622228.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Paddy crop destroyed in 70 villages: Bidhuri||After surveying them in a boat since they were flooded, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Wednesday alleged thousands of hectares of cultivable land had been rendered useless in the Capital. Neither had the Flood and Irrigation Department nor other departments concerned cleaned drains on time nor had arrangements been made for the drainage of water, Mr. Bidhuri alleged. As a result, he said, paddy crop had been destroyed on 50,000 bighas of land in 70 villages falling in the constituencies of Bawana, Narela, Mundka, and Matiala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/paddy-crop-destroyed-in-70-villages-bidhuri/article36622247.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||L-G reviews progress of e-waste park||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday chaired a meeting to review the setting up of e-Waste Management Eco-Park in the Capital. The facility will seek to ensure the scientific and environmentally safe dismantling, refurbishing, recycling and disposal of e-waste. According to government sources, the meeting was attended by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, Satyendar Jain and Gopal Rai, in addition to senior government officials.  2 lakh tonnes of waste It is estimated that Delhi generates about two lakh tonnes of e-waste that emanates from electrical appliances, electronic items, computers and accessories and mobile phones, among others, sources said. “The L-G pointed out that this waste was potentially very hazardous to not only the environment but had serious implications on human health, and its sustainable disposal was required to be done at the earliest,” a source said. “The setting up of the park, which will be first-of-its-kind in the country, will serve the purpose and also provide an example for the rest of the country,” the source added. After detailed discussions on Wednesday, it was decided that the park be set up in a time-bound manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/l-g-reviews-progress-of-e-waste-park/article36622235.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Remove provisions from statute: plea||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to consider as representation a petition seeking to remove provisions from the statute such as Section 66A of the Information and Technology Act, which have already been declared unconstitutional. The plea filed by advocate Anshul Bajaj said there are several criminal law sections that were struck down by the Supreme Court but continue to be used by police officers. The petition referred to a news article which stated that the Supreme Court was informed that people were being prosecuted under the scrapped Section 66A of the IT Act and the police as well as trial court across India continue to use it. In some cases, trial courts went ahead with framing charges under the defunct IT Act provision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/remove-provisions-from-statute-plea/article36622229.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||DSEU course in hygiene management||Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) on Wednesday said that it will be offering a BBA in Facilities and Hygiene Management, a first-of-its-kind course in India for which it has partnered with JLL India. JLL is a professional services firm that specialises in real estate and investment management and will be designing the curriculum for the course. The course shall include components of on-the-job training which shall be supported by JLL, along with placements for the graduates. DSEU V-C Neharika Vohra said that the entire course strength of 60 students on completion of their degree may be absorbed by JLL. She said the university was set up with the aim to make students job-ready which the new course would ensure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dseu-course-in-hygiene-management/article36622231.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||AAP and BJP enmeshed in graft: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday alleged that the AAP and the BJP have been caught in a “deep embrace of corruption” as a sitting municipal councillor, who was expelled by the BJP for corruption on Sunday, was welcomed with open arms by the Aam Aadmi Party two days later. Responding to the allegations, an AAP leader said, “Pooja Madan wanted to join the AAP and when the BJP came to know about it, they called her corrupt.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-and-bjp-enmeshed-in-graft-cong/article36622246.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Unemployment aid by Kejriwal a poll stunt: BJP||The State BJP on Wednesday staged a demonstration outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence demanding compensation for the unemployed in the Capital. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta termed Mr. Kejriwal’s promises to provide unemployment allowance during his tours of Uttarakhand, Punjab and Goa “just election stunts.” “He should first tell people how much allowance he has given in the last seven years to 14 lakh unemployed registered on the government portal,” Mr. Gupta said. Responding to the allegations, the AAP said, “The Delhi government has done more than any other State to help the unemployed deal with the impact of the pandemic. Under our Rojar Bazaar platform, 17,000 employers have posted more than 10 lakh jobs in the last one year itself. Over 13,000 youths have been deployed under the bus marshalls programme, and thousands additionally through the civil defence and doorstep delivery initiative. In all, over 1.5 million jobs have been provided.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/unemployment-aid-by-kejriwal-a-poll-stunt-bjp/article36622244.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||30 fresh COVID cases reported in Capital||The city reported no new COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours for the fifth consecutive day and the total number of deaths stood at 25,085, as per a bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Thirty new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,38,586. A total of 70,651 tests were conducted in a day and the TPR was 0.04%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/30-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-capital/article36622250.ece
23 September 2021||Kolkata,||‘Ghare Baire’, celebrating 200 years of Bengal art, reopens again||A popular museum-exhibition showcasing 200 years of art, housed in a building that is nearly as old and that nearly got demolished, last weekend reopened again to the public, adding to the list of places one can visit in Kolkata following the easing of the COVID-19 pandemic-forced restrictions. Named Ghare Baire (after a novel by Rabindranath Tagore, based on which Satyajit Ray later made a movie), it highlights art in Bengal from the 18th to the 20th Centuries and is being organised by the Ministry of Culture with the help of DAG Museums, a private entity. Treasure hunt Last Saturday saw the introduction of a host of new features — for children and adults alike — such as a treasure hunt exploring the hidden nooks of the historic building, quiz on art, launch of a set of 15 art activity kits and of an audio guide (in English and Bengali), and a weekend calendar of museum programmes. The reopening also includes five new artworks on display, including paintings by Jamini Roy, Bikash Bhattacharjee, and Nikhil Biswas. “While Bengal’s contribution to the visual history of South Asia is well recognised, before Ghare Baire , we didn’t have a museum-exhibition that explored this rich history. An art museum is also necessary for a city like ours as it fosters free expression and critical thinking while nurturing a creative community. We missed this especially during the pandemic — so it is heartening to be able to restart our efforts to create this open space,” Sumona Chakravarty, deputy director of DAG Museums, told The Hindu . “We started with a lot of plans for creating a museum experience that would offer the very best and create intimate, thought-provoking encounters between viewers and the art. We wanted each visit to the museum to reveal a new perspective, a new insight. The pandemic delayed many of these plans but now we have a range of experiences, like the audio guide or the children’s activities, that can make each visit to the museum unique,” Ms. Chakravarty said. The exhibition-museum is housed in what is popularly known as the Old Currency Building, located in BBD Bagh in the heart of Kolkata. It came into existence in 1833 as the Agra Bank and in 1868, a decade after India formally came under the British rule, was converted into the all-important office where currency was issued and exchanged. It remained in use until 1994, when it was abandoned; and in 1996 the Central Public Works Department initiated its demolition. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and INTACH intervened — by then its domes were gone — and subsequently the Archaeological Survey of India was entrusted with its conservation. In January 2020, the renovated building was dedicated to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, its reopening marked with the launch of ‘Ghare Baire’. But it had to close in two months due to the first wave of COVID-19, and reopened towards the end of that year, before shutting down again in March 2021 due to the second wave. Entry to ‘Ghare Baire’ is free and its USP is making art as accessible as possible, with accompanying captions explaining every work in a manner easy to understand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ghare-baire-celebrating-200-years-of-bengal-art-reopens-again/article36622415.ece
23 September 2021||Mumbai,||Will not appoint new prosecutor in custodial death case: govt. to HC||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that it will not appoint a new prosecutor till the plea seeking to bring back the old prosecutor is heard in the custodial death of 27-year-old Khwaja Yunus in 2009. The case dates back to 2008, when Yunus, who worked in Dubai as a software engineer, was visiting his family in India in December 2002. He was in Parbhani when a bomb ripped through a BEST bus in Ghatkopar, killing two persons and injuring over 50. He was picked up by the Ghatkopar police in connection with the blast and was remanded in police custody. Eye-witnesses had said Yunus vomited blood for three days and then died in custody. After continuous efforts made by Yunus’s mother,Dhiraj Mirajkar, the third prosecutor, was appointed in November 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-not-appoint-new-prosecutor-in-custodial-death-case-govt-to-hc/article36622417.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||In U.S., Gotabaya promises to engage Tamil diaspora||Sri Lankan  President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s recent statement in New York that he would invite the Tamil diaspora for discussions on resolving pending questions of war-time accountability and justice in the island nation has sparked more scepticism than hope among Tamils. In a meeting on Sunday with the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres at the UN Headquarters, President Rajapaksa — who is attending the 76th session of the UN General Assembly — said “internal issues” of Sri Lanka should be resolved through “an internal mechanism” of the country. The Tamil diaspora would be invited for discussions in this regard, he said, according to a media release his office. The announcement is significant, coming from President Rajapaksa, whose government proscribed several Tamil diaspora organisations six months ago, branding their members “terrorists”. The Rajapaksa administration has repeatedly referred to diaspora groups as “pro-LTTE” outfits, often accusing them of attempting to revive the Tigers’ separatist struggle.  ‘Welcome gesture’ “President Gotabaya Rajapaksa wanting to engage with the Tamil diaspora is certainly a progressive move and we welcome it,” said Suren Surendiran, spokesman of the Global Tamil Forum (GTF), a diaspora group with members across North America, Europe, the U.K., Australia, and South Africa. “When requests are made by democratically elected representatives of Tamil people in Sri Lanka to meet with the President, they are “deferred with flimsy excuses”, [and] now from New York, he has declared that he wants to engage with us, Tamil diaspora,” Mr. Surendiran said in a statement, questioning President Rajapaksa’s “sudden change of mind”, months after his government proscribed organisations including the GTF. In June, Mr. Rajapaksa was scheduled to meet a delegation of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA), the largest parliamentary grouping representing Tamils of the war-affected north and east. The announcement of the meeting drew much attention, for it was the first time that the President was going to meet the TNA, led by the 88-year-old veteran leader and Trincomalee district parliamentarian R. Sampanthan, who has been demanding a political solution to the Tamil question through substantive constitutional reform. But the meeting was postponed with no announcement yet on a likely new date for talks. Meanwhile, political observers see little reason for optimism in the President’s possible discussion with Tamil diaspora. Describing Mr. Rajapaksa’s recent remark in New York “a diversionary tactic”, senior journalist and political commentator V. Thanabalasingham said although Tamil diaspora groups have been backing the call for a political solution to Sri Lanka’s Tamil national question, they are no cohesive political force. “You cannot consider them to be representatives of Sri Lankan Tamils, either. They left Sri Lanka and have obtained citizenship elsewhere,” he told The Hindu.  Tamils in Sri Lanka rely on diaspora groups to exert pressure on the international community, but many groups espouse “extremist positions”, he observed. “When the President seems reluctant to fulfil the demands put forward by moderate Tamil voices within the country, what is it that he [President] can talk with diaspora elements?” asked Mr. Thanabalasingham, suggesting that the diaspora be engaged on matters such as foreign investment. While the diaspora could try garnering international support for reconciliation efforts undertaken in Sri Lanka, “they can never be the prime force in achieving a political solution”. “It is ironic that the President who underscores the need for a domestic solution wants to engage the diaspora,” he said. “When it comes to the ethnic question, the President must first speak to elected representatives of the Tamils,” he said, adding that even elected Tamil representatives — with known disagreements over many issues — are not in a position to approach the government with a coherent view or demand. “That is our Tamil people’s misfortune.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-us-gotabaya-promises-to-engage-tamil-diaspora/article36621968.ece
23 September 2021||Washington,||Biden speaks to Macron to smooth tensions||France’s Ambassador to the U.S., Philippe Etienne, will return to Washington next week. This was announced after U.S. President Joe Biden spoke to his French counterpart, Emmanuel Macron, on Wednesday. This was the first call between the two leaders after a falling out over the September 15 announcement of a trilateral security partnership (AUKUS) between Australia, the U.K. and the U.S., which led France to recall its envoys to the U.S. and Australia. The call was initiated at Mr. Biden’s request, a joint statement said. It is quite rare for statements to specify who initiated the call and suggests the Biden administration is engaged in significant damage control with the U.S.’s oldest ally. The AUKUS pact was worked out behind closed doors and came as a surprise to other nations, enraging Mr. Macron. The French said the establishment of AUKUS had significantly disrupted their plans in the Indo-Pacific and also had come at a hefty price tag. France and Australia signed a $66 billion deal in 2016 under which Australia got diesel electric submarines. Australia is now exiting that deal as a result of AUKUS, whose main deliverable, for now, is providing Australia with a fleet of superior submarines that run on nuclear fuel. Open consultation “The two leaders agreed that the situation would have benefitted from open consultations among allies on matters of strategic interest to France and our European partners. President Biden conveyed his ongoing commitment in that regard,” the statement said. Mr. Etienne will begin “intensive work” with U.S. officials when he gets back next week, the White House said, to build confidence between the two countries, whose leaders will next meet in Glasgow at the UN Conference on climate. “President Biden reaffirms the strategic importance of French and European engagement in the Indo-Pacific region, including in the framework of the European Union’s recently published strategy for the Indo-Pacific,” the joint statement said, presumably responding to a statement from French officials calling for greater strategic autonomy for Europe following the AUKUS announcement. Wednesday’s statement also said that Mr. Biden recognised the importance of a more capable and strong European defence contributing to transatlantic and global security and complimenting NATO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-speaks-to-macron-to-smooth-tensions/article36622069.ece
23 September 2021||Washington,||U.S. to donate 500 million Pfizer doses to poor countries||The U.S. is going to buy another half a billion doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine for distribution to low and lower-middle-income countries, President Joe Biden said on Wednesday. Half a billion Pfizer doses were already promised in the summer and at least 80 million, mostly AstraZeneca doses, were committed to other countries in June . “For every one shot we’ve administered to date in America, we have now committed to do three shots to the rest of the world,” Mr. Biden said while inaugurating a virtual global COVID-19 summit, convened to end the current pandemic and prepare for the next one. The summit will involve the participation of various government leaders and heads of international organisations, NGOs and philanthropic organisation. The 500 million Pfizer doses will be made in the U.S. and start being distributed in January; the U.S. will ship out 800 million vaccines between January and September next year, a senior administration official told reporters on Tuesday night. ‘All hands on deck’ Mr. Biden called on other high-income countries to deliver on their own vaccine donation pledges during his remarks on Wednesday. “We’re not going to solve this crisis with half measures, or middle of the road ambitions,” Mr. Biden said. “We need to go big. And we need to do our part — governments, the private sector, civil society leaders, philanthropists. This is an all hands on deck crisis.” Mr. Biden also announced an EU-U.S. partnership to expand vaccines across the world (but did not provide details of this during his remarks). He said countries should donate — not sell — vaccines to poorer countries and with “no strings attached”. Senior administration officials said the summit would involve getting measurable commitments from countries in three areas: first, vaccinations, their equitable distribution and administra- tion; second, access to oxygen supplies, PPE and tests and therapeutics; third, establishing health security financing mechanisms. The officials said they had sent a list of targets across these areas to summit participants and a set of tasks. One of the targets involves countries committing to vaccinate 70% of their respective populations within a year from now. Mr. Biden suggested leaders come together in the first quarter next year to review progress, with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken convening his Foreign Minister counterparts later this year to check on the collective progress towards the indicators. Vaccine production “Another goal is dramatically boosting global and regional vaccine manufacturing capacity, enhancing transparency so that vaccine production and distribution is predictable and coordinated,” Mr. Biden said, citing the successful vaccine manufacturing process within the U.S. While the U.S. produced more than enough vaccines for itself, this came at a cost to the manufacturing processes in other countries. The Trump administration had invoked the Defense Production Act (DPA), under which the U.S. government orders get priority. While the Biden administration denied that global manufacturing was being held hostage to the DPA, in April this year it diverted its orders for vaccine filters (an input in the process) to India, which was experiencing a raging second wave of COVID-19. Mr. Biden said work was now on to scale up manufacturing capacity in other countries as well. Quad initiative In this context, he said the Quad Vaccine Initiative was “on track” to help produce at least 1 billion vaccine doses in India for distribution by the end of 2022. The U.S. was also providing money and manufacturing assistance to South Africa to produce more than 500 million Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccines for Africa, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-offer-500-mn-pfizer-vaccine-donations/article36621971.ece
23 September 2021||Sydney,||Australia sets conditions for China to join trade pact||China must end a freeze on contacts with senior Australian politicians if it hopes to join a trans-Pacific trade pact, Canberra’s Trade Minister said on Wednesday, setting de facto preconditions for accession. Dan Tehan linked China’s bid to join an 11-nation trading alliance with steps to improve bilateral relations that are at their lowest ebb in decades. China formally applied to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) last week, and is lobbying to gain the consensus support of members, including Australia. This comes after a war of words between the two countries, a string of sanctions on Australian goods and a months-long freeze on senior-level government contacts. “When I became Trade Minister, I wrote to my Chinese counterpart in January setting out how we can work more closely together. I am still waiting for a reply,” Mr. Tehan said in a Monday speech. “One of the most important things about negotiating the accession process of any country into the CPTPP is that you have to be able to sit down at ministerial level, look your economic partner in the eye, and talk about that accession process.” Mr. Tehan also indicated China would have to resolve disputes at the World Trade Organization stemming from a slew of politically driven sanctions on Australian imports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/australia-sets-conditions-for-china-to-join-trade-pact/article36621958.ece
23 September 2021||Dubai,||Don’t boycott them: Qatar||The ruling emir of Qatar urged world leaders gathered at the United Nations on Tuesday against turning their backs on the country’s Taliban rulers. Speaking from the podium of the UN General Assembly, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani stressed “the necessity of continuing dialogue with Taliban because boycott only leads to polarization and reactions, whereas dialogue could bring in positive results”.  He urged world leaders against repeating past mistakes in Afghanistan “to impose a political system from outside”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dont-boycott-them-qatar/article36621966.ece
23 September 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka seeks World Bank COVID-19 loan||Sri Lanka will seek an emergency loan of $100 million from the World Bank for a coronavirus vaccination drive, officials said on Wednesday, as the country struggles with an acute currency crisis.  The government said in a statement that the Cabinet had “granted approval to the resolution furnished by the Minister of Health for obtaining the relevant supplementary financing facility” from the international lender. The statement said the World Bank had indicated willingness to provide the money to buy 14 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine and finance “other costs pertaining to vaccination”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-seeks-world-bank-covid-19-loan/article36621959.ece
23 September 2021||yangon,||Thousands flee Myanmar town after clashes||Thousands have fled a town in west Myanmar after days of fighting between anti-junta dissidents and the military, during which soldiers bombed civilian homes, residents and local media said on Wednesday.  Attacks on junta troops and assets have increased after lawmakers ousted by the generals called for a “people’s defensive war” earlier this month. Soldiers fought a gun battle with around 100 members of a local defence group after being “ambushed” in Thantlang in remote Chin state near the India border on September 18, junta spokesman Zaw Min Thun said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thousands-flee-myanmar-town-after-clashes/article36621961.ece
23 September 2021||United Nations,||No new coal projects abroad: Xi||China will stop funding coal projects overseas, President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday, ending a major source of support for a dirty energy contributing to climate change. Addressing the UN General Assembly, Mr. Xi made the promise as he vowed to accelerate efforts to help the world battle the climate crisis. “China will step up support for other developing countries in developing green and low carbon energy and will not build new coal-fired power projects abroad,” Mr. Xi said in a pre-recorded address. “We should foster new growth drivers in the post-COVID era and jointly achieve leapfrog development, staying committed to harmony between man and nature,” he said. China has gone on an infrastructure-building blitz around the world as part of its Belt and Road Initiative, and until now has been open to coal projects. In a letter earlier this year, a coalition of non-governmental groups said that the state-run Bank of China was the largest single financier of coal projects, pumping $35 billion since the Paris climate agreement was signed in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-will-stop-funding-coal-projects-overseas-xi-tells-un/article36621963.ece
23 September 2021||Washington,||Fed foresees potential rate hike next year||The Federal Reserve signalled on Wednesday that it may start raising its benchmark interest rate sometime next year, earlier than it envisioned three months ago and a sign that it is concerned about high inflation pressures. In a statement, the Fed said it will likely begin slowing the pace of monthly bond purchases “soon” if the economy keeps improving. The bond purchases have been intended to lower longer-term loan rates to encourage borrowing and spending. Chair Jerome Powell said the Fed could announce a pullback in bond buying as soon as its next meeting in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fed-foresees-potential-rate-hike-next-year/article36622070.ece
23 September 2021||Melbourne,||Rare Australia earthquake triggers panic in Melbourne||A rare quake rattled south- eastern Australia on Wednes- day, shaking buildings, knocking down walls and sending panicked Melbourne residents running into the streets. The 5.9 magnitude was one of the largest to hit the country in decades.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rare-australia-earthquake-triggers-panic-in-melbourne/article36621960.ece
23 September 2021||New York,||Trump sues niece, New York Times over Pulitzer-winning tax story||Former U.S. president Donald Trump on Tuesday filed a $100 million lawsuit against his estranged niece Mary Trump and The New York Times , alleging they engaged in “an insidious plot” to obtain his tax returns for the story on his finances.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-sues-niece-new-york-times-over-pulitzer-winning-tax-story/article36621965.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||This judicial selection needs more than a tweak||In recent weeks, the Supreme Court of India’s collegium has been busy. New judges have been appointed to the Court on its advice and long overdue vacancies have been filled up. Now, after a meeting held on September 16, the body has made proposals to alter the existing composition of various High Courts. When these recommendations are notified, new Chief Justices will be appointed to as many as eight different courts, five existing Chief Justices will swap positions with others, and a slew of puisne judges will be moved to new courts. A need for transparency These recommendations are seen as reflective of a new and proactive collegium. A resolve for swiftness is fine as far as it goes; clearing up vacancies is a minimal requirement of a functioning system. What ought to concern us, though, is that long-standing apprehensions about the collegium’s operation remain unaddressed: specifically, its opacity and a lack of independent scrutiny of its decisions. These misgivings are usually seen in the context of a battle between the executive and the judiciary. Less evident is the effect that the failings have on the status of the High Courts. Today, even without express constitutional sanction, the collegium effectively exercises a power of supervision over each of the High Courts. For nearly two years, despite vacancies on the Bench, the collegium made no recommendations for appointments to the Supreme Court. The conjecture in the press was that this logjam owed to a reluctance amongst some of its members to elevate Justice Akil Kureshi to the Court. Indeed, it was only after a change in its composition that the panel recommended on August 17 a list of names for elevation. This list did not contain Justice Kureshi’s name. The perfunctory nature of the collegium’s resolutions means that we do not know the reasons for his exclusion. We also do not know why five Chief Justices, including Justice Kureshi, and several other puisne judges are now being transferred to different courts. This is not to suggest that these decisions are unfounded. It is possible that each of the choices made is predicated on administrative needs. But whatever the rationale, surely the public has a right to know. The middle course Separation of powers is a bedrock principle of Indian constitutionalism. Inherent in that idea is the guarantee of an autonomous judiciary. To that end, the process of appointing and transferring judges assumes salience. But the question of how to strike a balance between the sovereign function of making appointments and the need to ensure an independent judiciary has long plagued the republic. The Constitution’s framers wrestled over the question for many days. Ultimately, they adopted what Dr. B.R. Ambedkar described as a “middle course”. That path stipulates the following: Judges to the Supreme Court are to be appointed by the President of India in consultation with the Chief Justice of India (CJI) and such other judges that he deems fit. Judges to the High Courts are to be appointed by the President in consultation with the CJI, the Governor of the State and the Chief Justice of that court. In the case of transfers, the President may move a judge from one High Court to another, after consulting the CJI. Where primacy rests In this design, there is no mention of a “collegium”. But since 1993, when the Supreme Court rendered a ruling in the Second Judges Case, the word consultation has been interpreted to mean “concurrence”. What is more, that concurrence, the Court held there, ought to be secured not from the CJI alone, but from a body of judges that the judgment described as a “collegium”. Thus, the Court wound up creating a whole new process for making appointments and transfers and carved out a system where notional primacy came to rest in the top echelons of the judiciary. This procedure has since been clarified. The collegium for appointments to the Supreme Court and for transfers between High Courts now comprises the CJI and his four senior-most colleagues, and for appointments to the High Courts comprises the CJI and his two senior-most colleagues. When appointing judges to the High Courts, the collegium must also consult other senior judges on the Supreme Court who had previously served as judges of the High Court under consideration. All of this is contained in a “Memorandum of Procedure” (MoP). But there is, in fact, no actual guidance on how judges are to be selected. The NJAC and after In 2015, Parliament sought to undo the labyrinthine procedures put in place by the Court through the 99th Constitutional Amendment. The National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC), that the law created, comprised members from the judiciary, the executive, and the lay-public. But the Court scuppered the efforts to replace the collegium and it held in the Fourth Judges Case that judicial primacy in making appointments and transfers was an essential feature of the Constitution. In other words, the Court held that a body that found no mention in the actual text of the Constitution had assumed a position so sacrosanct that it could not be touched even by a constitutional amendment. To be sure, the NJAC was far from perfect. There were legitimate fears that the commission might have resulted in the appointment of malleable judges. Therefore, it is plausible to argue that until a proper alternative is framed, the collegium represents the best solution; that allowing senior judges of the Supreme Court primacy in matters of appointments and transfers is the only practical way to guarantee the independence of the judiciary. But when the Court struck down the NJAC, it also promised to reform the existing system. Six years down the line those promises have been all but forgotten. A new MoP, for instance, is nowhere in sight. The considerations that must go into the procedure for selecting judges is left unexplained. The words “merit” and “diversity” are thrown around without any corresponding debates on what they, in fact, mean. Somehow, amidst all of this, we have arrived at a consensus that enveloping a veil over the process of selection is essential to judicial autonomy, and that there is no legitimate reason why the public ought to know how judges are chosen and transferred. In the case of the latest set of recommendations, five Chief Justices of High Courts have been reshuffled. Our constitutional scheme envisages no power of administrative superintendence in the Supreme Court over the High Courts. But when transfers are made routine, when the process of appointing Chief Justices to High Courts is shrouded in secrecy, a de facto system of oversight is put in place. Getting back the shine It is clear that we have come a long way from a time when Chief Justices of High Courts declined invitations to the Supreme Court, because they valued the work that they were already entrusted with. Restoring High Courts to that position of prestige must be seen as essential to the process of building trust in our Constitution. Achieving this will no doubt require more than just a tweak in the process of appointments. But what is clear is that the present system and the mysteries underlining the decision-making only further dilute the High Courts’ prominence. When Chief Justices are moved around with alacrity, and when they are accorded tenures lasting a matter of months, at best, it is impossible for them to make any lasting changes. At some point we must take seriously the task of reforming the existing scheme, because the status quo is ultimately corrosive of the very institutions that it seeks to protect. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/this-judicial-selection-needs-more-than-a-tweak/article36621944.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A flawed calculation of inflation||Inflation for the last four months has been worryingly high — wholesale price index (WPI) has been above 10% and consumer price index (CPI) crossed the 6% mark in June, which was above the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s tolerance band. This is happening at a time when demand has been down, unemployment has been high, many have lost incomes and poverty has aggravated. So, why is there high inflation and does the official data capture the real picture? Data issues In April and May 2020, data on production and prices could not be collected due to the strict lockdown. Unlock had gradually started in June and July 2020 but normalcy had not returned. So, the current data on prices for April to July 2021 are not comparable with the same months of 2020. As such, the official inflation figures for these months in 2021 do not reflect the true picture. Anyway, a single number for inflation is an aggregate across different commodities and services — the price rise differs for different items of consumption. So, the single number is arrived at by assigning weights to different commodities and services. For WPI, the weights in production are used; for CPI, the consumption basket is used. But people are not homogenous. The consumption basket is vastly different for the poor, the middle classes, and the rich. Hence, the CPI is different for each of these classes and a composite index requires averaging the baskets. So, in a sense, it represents none of the categories. During lockdown and unlock in 2020, people largely consumed essentials. RBI data show that consumer confidence fell drastically from 105 in January 2020 to 55.5 by January 2021. That means, even when the economy started to grow officially, consumer confidence had not recovered. Employment and incomes were still down and according to one report, 230 million slipped below the poverty line. All this implies that the consumption basket for different sections of the population had changed. While the consumption pattern of the well-off sections may have changed little, the poor and middle classes, especially those who lost jobs and incomes, would have had to cut back on their consumption. Thus, the weights in the CPI would have changed and inflation required recalculation, but this has not been done. Consumer confidence was down to 48.6 in July 2021 due to the impact of the second wave of COVID-19. Additionally, inflation data under-represents services in the consumption basket. In production, services are about 55% of the GDP but have no representation in WPI and about 40% in CPI. We know that health costs shot up during the pandemic, but is this captured in inflation figures? Similarly, education costs soared with the requirement of mobile phones, laptops and Wi-Fi. Many services were not used. Eating out and travel, for instance, should have been factored out. In brief, the shock of lockdowns not only made data collection difficult but the consumption basket for calculating CPI should have been changed.  Inflation pinches the pockets of the consumer. If the rate of inflation is 10%, then compared to the previous year a person has to spend 10% more to buy the same amount of things. If the person’s income also rises by 10%, inflation does not matter. But if the person’s income rises by less than 10%, their budget gets impacted adversely. For the middle classes, both consumption of less essential items and savings get reduced. But the poor, who hardly save, have to curtail essential consumption. In India, 94% work in the unorganised sector and mostly earn low incomes and have little savings. By definition, they cannot bargain for higher incomes as prices rise, and get hit by inflation. Further, due to lockdowns, the wages of many declined, both in the unorganised and organised sectors. This has impacted their family budgets. Consequently, demand has declined not only for non-essentials but even for essentials. In a vicious cycle, this is slowing down economic recovery and employment generation. Further, this impacts the government’s revenues and tends to increase the budgetary deficit. This puts pressure on the government to cut back budgetary expenditures, especially on the social sector. That aggravates poverty and reduces demand further. Thus, inflation in times of low demand and reduced incomes leads to a vicious cycle of slowing the economy and a growing crisis in the lives of the poor and unemployed, most of whom belong to the unorganised sector and some to the organised sector. Factors underlying inflation The government has increased taxation of energy to raise resources. Since energy is used for all production, prices of all goods and services tend to rise and push up the rate of inflation. Further, this is an indirect tax, it is regressive and impacts the poor disproportionately more. It also makes the RBI’s task of controlling inflation difficult. The lockdowns disrupted supplies and that added to shortages and price rise. Prices of medicines and medical equipment rose dramatically. Prices of items of day-to-day consumption also rose. Fruits and vegetable prices rose since these items could not reach the urban markets. Their prices collapsed in rural areas but rose sharply in urban areas. Big business raised prices since competition from the unorganised sector decreased. And in spite of a lower wage bill, they raised prices as reflected in a sharp rise in the profits of the corporate sector. International factors have impacted prices. Most major economies have recovered and demand for inputs has increased while supplies have remained disrupted (like chips for automobiles). So, commodity and input prices have risen (like in the case of metals). Businesses claim increase in input costs underlies price rise. The weakening of the rupee also added to inflation. In brief, the current official inflation rate does not correctly measure price rise since the lockdown administered a shock to the economy. The method of calculating it needed modification. Many of the non-rich have suffered a double blow due to loss of income and rise in prices. This is slowing down the pickup in growth by curtailing demand. Arun Kumar is Malcolm Adiseshiah Chair Professor, Institute of Social Sciences, and author of ‘Indian Economy’s Greatest Crisis: Impact of the Coronavirus and the Road Ahead’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-flawed-calculation-of-inflation/article36621952.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Sea level rise is certain||The recently published Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Assessment Report from Working Group I — ‘Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis’ — is a clarion call for climate action. It provides one of the most expansive scientific reviews on the science and impacts of climate change. The report discusses five different shared socio-economic pathways for the future with varying levels of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The scenarios illustrated are the following: very low and low GHG emissions, where emissions decline to net zero around or after the middle of the century, beyond which emissions are net negative; intermediate GHG emissions; high and very high emissions where they are double the current levels by 2100 and 2050, respectively. Even in the intermediate scenario, it is extremely likely that average warming will exceed 2°C near mid-century. The average global temperature is already 1.09°C higher than pre-industrial levels and CO2 concentration in the atmosphere is currently 410 ppm compared to 285 ppm in 1850. Over 200 experts working in several domains of climate have put the report together by assessing the evidence and the uncertainties. They express their level of confidence (a qualitative measure of the validity of the findings) ranging from very low to very high. They also assess likelihood (a quantitative measure of uncertainty in a finding) which is expressed probabilistically based on observations or modelling results. Come hell or high water Close to 700 million people worldwide live along the coast and there continue to be plans to expand coastal cities. Therefore, understanding the risks involved from climate change and sea level rise in the 21st and 22nd centuries is crucial. Sea level rise will continue after emissions no longer increase, because oceans respond slowly to warming. The centennial-scale irreversibility of sea level rise has implications for the future even under the low emissions scenarios. Sea level rise occurs mainly due to the expansion of warm ocean waters, melting of glaciers on land, and the melting of ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica. Global mean sea level (GMSL) rose by 0.2m between 1901 and 2018. The average rate of sea level rise was 1.3 mm/year (1901-1971) and rose to 3.7 mm/year (2006-2018). While sea level rise in the last century was mainly due to thermal expansion, glacier and ice sheet melt are now big contributors. In the low emissions scenario, GMSL is expected to be 0.19m in 2050 and 0.44m by 2100. In the very high emissions scenario, GMSL is expected to be about 0.23m in 2050 and 0.77m in 2100. These increases are relative to 1995-2014 and do not include uncertainties in ice sheet processes. Scientists rely on ice sheet models to estimate future glacier melt. While these models have improved over the years, there are shortcomings in the knowledge and representation of the physical processes. Uncertainties Ice sheets can destabilise rapidly as the water gets warm (marine ice sheet instability or MISI). Ice cliffs can collapse swiftly in a related process, leading to rapid sea level rise; this is marine ice cliff instability (MICI). Such changes are difficult to model and MICI events are not included in the sea level projections mentioned above. As Siegert et al. indicate, changes in ice-ocean interactions can cause extensive and rapid sea level rise. This happens from mass loss of ice shelves (ice that flows into cold oceans while attached to the land), which may disintegrate suddenly. Under strong warming scenarios, ice shelves become vulnerable and lead to MISI. In the very high emissions scenario, with low confidence (and in the 17th-83rd percentile range), sea level rise can be as high as 1.61m by 2100. Using ice sheet models coupled with ocean models to create probabilistic scenarios for the future is therefore tricky. The models do not capture the abrupt and non-linear dynamics of changes that take place. The report has a high-end storyline that includes processes where there is uncertainty. The main uncertainty lies in ‘when’ rather than ‘if’ the high-end scenario occurs. Projections based on ‘structured expert judgments’ indicate that sea level rise as high as 2.3m by 2100 cannot be ruled out. According to the UN Environment Programme Emissions Gap Report, the world is heading for a temperature rise above 3°C this century, which is double the Paris Agreement aspiration. And there is deep uncertainty in sea level projections for warming above 3°C. Vulnerability in India Communities along the coast in India are vulnerable to sea level rise and storms, which will become more intense and frequent. They will be accompanied by storm surges, heavy rain and flooding. Even the 0.1m to 0.2m rise expected along India in the next few decades can cause frequent coastal flooding. A speculator might think that if less than a metre sea level rise by 2100 is the likely scenario, they have another 60-80 years to continue developing infrastructure along the coast. That would not, however, be the right way to interpret the IPCC data. The uncertainty regarding a metre or more of sea level rise before 2100 is related to a lack of knowledge and inability to run models with the accuracy needed. Low confidence does not mean higher sea level rise findings are not to be trusted. In this case, the low confidence is from unknowns — poor data and difficulty representing these processes well in models. Ignoring the unknowns can prove dangerous. Adaptation to sea level rise must include a range of measures, along with coastal regulation, which should be stricter, not laxer, as it has become with each update of the Coastal Regulation Zone. The government should not insure or bail out speculators, coastal communities should be alerted in advance and protected during severe weather events, natural and other barriers should be considered in a limited manner to protect certain vulnerable areas, and retreat should be part of the adaptation strategies for some very low-lying areas. Sujatha Byravan is a scientist who studies science, technology and policy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/sea-level-rise-is-certain/article36621956.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Rulings that impact a State’s medical infrastructure||Tamil Nadu has been in the middle of a journey for some time to set up a medical college in every district. The aim is to ensure efficient delivery of advanced medical care to residents. This has required having specialist and super-specialist doctors to staff various departments in the medical colleges and the hospitals in the State. Policies by the State To ensure full value to its investment and maintain institutional continuity, the State brought in three policies. A quota was created wherein 50% of the seats in government medical colleges was earmarked for doctors working in government institutions (in-service candidates) with the stipulation that they needed to work in the Tamil Nadu Medical Services until superannuation. To absorb trained super-specialists who are not associated with Tamil Nadu Medical Services (non-service candidates), it created a bond for them to serve in government hospitals (after the completion of their training) for not less than two years; it also created a domicile requirement for them to appear for the super-specialty entrance examination. Until 2015-16, admission to Tamil Nadu super-specialty medical seats was on the basis of a State entrance exam, with domicile requirement and in-service quota. The domicile requirement for the admissions to super-specialty courses required by the States of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana was dismantled in 2016 following a judgment by a Supreme Court Bench comprising Justices Dipak Mishra and Prafulla C. Pant. They indirectly invoked the nine-judge Bench judgment in Indra Sawhney etc. vs Union Of India (1992) which requires super-specialty seats in medicine to be outside the ambit of reservation, with expression of no plausible reasons associated with domicile or reservation or ‘efficiency of administration’. With the introduction of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test-Super Specialty (NEET-SS) conducted by the National Board of Examinations from 2017-18, State governments were robbed of their ability to conduct entrance examinations and counselling for super-specialty seats created in their medical colleges as the States were required to surrender 100% of their seats to the all-India quota. As an extension, the in-service quota stood null and void. In-service quota, directive A writ petition (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 196 of 2018; https://bit.ly/2XHFagc) was filed by the Tamilnadu Medical Officers Association (TNMOA) on behalf of in-service doctors in Tamil Nadu to contest the removal of 50% in-service quota for post-graduate medical courses. The Constitution Bench disposed of this case on in-service quota with an order on August 31, 2020, stating that except for the determination of minimum standards and coordination, t he State’s power in regulating medical education is preserved. They stated that the State authorities may provide quota for in-service doctors from within the State’s own merit list, also adding that aspiring in-service doctors must clear the NEET examination with the minimum prescribed marks. The Tamil Nadu G.O. Extrapolating the directions of the Constitution Bench, the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu on November 7, 2020, issued G.O. (Ms) No. 462. Through this G.O., the Government of Tamil Nadu sought to implement a 50% quota in super-specialty seats in the State for in-service candidates. As the admission process was in the final stages, the Supreme Court Bench, on November 27, 2020, decided not to permit a quota for in-service doctors for the year 2020-21 alone. With doubts around the line of the judgment in TNMOA vs Union of India and the validity of the G.O. (Ms) No. 462 by the Government of Tamil Nadu, it remains to be seen what trajectory the Supreme Court’s decisions will take. Administration and inclusion Maintenance of the efficiency of administration is an argument which is consistently invoked by the Supreme Court through Article  335 of the Constitution, to negate demands for reservations/quotas. It is here that one is motivated to question the working definition of “efficiency”, “merit” and “efficiency of administration” in government that the courts abide by. A welcome move in this regard is the judgment by the two-judge Supreme Court Bench (Justices Uday Umesh Lalit and D.Y. Chandrachud) in B.K. Pavitra vs Union of India (2019) which nudges the courts to define the multidimensional term of “efficiency of administration” that is grounded in inclusion. This definition should have a systems-view of the cascading impact that the removal of domicile requirement and in-service quota can have on the integrity of the State medical infrastructure. On August 25, 2021, the Director of Medical Education issued a letter to the deans of medical colleges requesting them to obtain an undertaking from the non-service super-specialty doctors of 2020-21 who have not opted or are not willing to take up posting even when vacancies are available in their specialty departments. It is understood that nearly 80% of the other State super-specialty candidates, who constitute more than 50% in government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu did not attend counselling held for posting. In Tamil Nadu, with domicile and in-service quota, the percentage of in-service candidates in super-specialty seats used to hover around 40%. But with removal of domicile and in-service quota, in the post-NEET-SS scenario, the percentage of in-service candidates has come down to as low as 6%. It is here that the point raised by Advocate Wilson in Dr. Prerit Sharma vs Dr. Bilu B.S. (2020), invoking the Supreme Court judgments permitting in-service quota in super-specialty medical courses as seen in K. Duraisamy and Ors. vs State of T.N. (2001) 2 SCC 538 and Modern Dental College and Research Centre and Ors. vs State of Madhya Pradesh and Ors. (2016) 7 SCC353, assumes greater importance. With the sustenance of the medical infrastructure intimately linked to the delivery of public health which the States are responsible for through the Constitution, one is left to wonder why the higher judiciary consistently rules against the interventions by the State to maximise the outcomes through domicile, quota for in-service candidates and bond requirements. Dr. Yazhini P.M. is a general practitioner based in Chennai. Jeyannathann Karunanithi is an independent policy analyst and a water professional, also based in Chennai. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rulings-that-impact-a-states-medical-infrastructure/article36621948.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Improving the economic game||The Quad (Australia, Japan, India and the U.S.) meets in a landmark physical summit this week. The agenda for the Quad has widened — till now, it was largely focused on strengthening strategic and defence pillars. This should now bring industry into the dialogue process to advance the desired outcomes. The four nations are vibrant democracies and open economies. Three are developed countries and one is an emerging market. The Quad leaders met formally but virtually for the first time in March this year, and the joint statement captured the “spirit of the Quad”, stressing democratic values, while pledging to strengthen cooperation on the “defining challenges” of the times. On the economic side, challenges were identified as the economic and health impacts of COVID-19, cyberspace, critical technologies, and quality infrastructure investment. Working groups were set up on vaccines, critical and emerging technologies, and climate action. For India, each of the other three countries is a strategic partner, and bilateral and multilateral initiatives have been taken across multiple areas in different fora with each. The Quad syncs with India’s other regional programmes such as the Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative and the Supply Chain Resilience Initiative. India’s total trade with the three Quad partners was over $108 billion in 2020-21, accounting for almost 16% of its total merchandise exports and imports. On the investment side, the U.S. is India’s second largest source of foreign direct investments, while Japan has a notable footprint in India’s major infrastructure projects. Inflows from Australia amount to less than a billion dollars, but the country has outlined a long-term strategy for economic engagement with India. Business partnerships To advance their goals for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, the four participants of Quad must activate business partnerships meaningfully with definitive measures to align economic and strategic objectives. The first piece of the economic pillar is trade and investment. Joint efforts by all Quad countries can help to establish alternative manufacturing hubs and make regional supply chains more diversified. The SCRI with India, Australia and Japan aims to address vulnerabilities in existing supply chains that were exposed during the COVID-19 pandemic. Similarly, the Quad could consider adding a trade ministers’ interaction to its agenda which may engage in lowering trade barriers and boosting trade linkages among the partner countries as well as in the Indo-Pacific region. With India as a natural option for a China-Plus strategy, domestic policies to promote manufacturing and ease of doing business would help in the long-term success of trade cooperation. Quality infrastructure investment is another challenge highlighted in the statement. Innovative financing and public-private partnership models can enlarge the space for private industry and support public funds in the endeavour. Green infrastructure creation must be built into the template. A working group on this area could look into specific projects for the region that would best feed into trade objectives. As in the vaccine cooperation proposal, different partner countries could focus on various aspects of construction, drawing on their respective strengths. The third priority area for the Quad is climate change for which a working group has been set up. Cooperation on multiple dimensions of the climate challenge is proposed, including finance, emissions reduction, technology and capacity-building. With mitigation and adaptation as key aims, the involvement of industry to support governmental efforts would be critical. As a grouping of like-minded nations working on shared objectives in the Indo-Pacific region, the Quad is a formidable economic force that can deliver many gains on the identified pillars for the participating nations as well as the region. By adding businesses into its strategy mix, its initiatives would be further fortified and expanded. We hope that the governments would consider a forum for such private sector engagement. Chandrajit Banerjee is Director General, Confederation of Indian Industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/improving-the-economic-game/article36621957.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||A time to introspect||At its first physical meeting during the pandemic, the GST Tax Council approved a flurry of changes. Concessional tax rates on vital COVID-19 equipment such as oxygen concentrators will lapse on September 30, while the lower rates on medicines were extended till December. Whatever the pace of vaccination, there are no signs the virus and its variants would be extinct on New Year’s Day, so the Council could have taken a more considerate view on pandemic essentials. Tax rate tweaks were okayed for an eclectic range of sectors with long-pending course correction on inverted duty structures plaguing several items, including footwear and textiles. The semblance of clarity brought in on a much-disputed issue — the definition of an intermediary — is welcome, for it was hurting several sectors, including IT services exports. Double taxation on the import of leased aircraft goes. Food delivery services players shall be made liable to collect and remit taxes instead of the restaurants. One awaits the fine print to assess the impact on consumers and smaller outlets. The plan to tax coconut oil as a personal care item at 18% for pack sizes below one litre and retain the 5% rate on edible oils for larger packs, has been held back for study, and will hopefully be shelved for good. These pluses and minuses aside, two things stand out for Indian consumers — the Council’s firm dismissal of any shift of petroleum products to GST to lower the tax burden and the fact that GST cess on automobiles, tobacco and aerated drinks will now be levied till April 2026, not June 2022 as originally envisaged. While the Council may have discussed petro products only briefly to comply with a Kerala High Court order, consumers who need some relief on fuel prices — irrespective of who cuts taxes — may have held misplaced hopes. If the Government really wants a consumption rebound that may reignite private investments, the Centre and States must begin talks on rationalising fuel taxes. The Finance Minister has often expressed the worry: ‘What if we cut taxes and States do not’. Perhaps, a compact could be arrived at, so both give up a little revenue to spur spending. A similar dialogue is needed for an honest review of the GST regime’s progress and the way ahead. With just nine more months of assured compensation for States, they are worried about revenue streams falling off the cliff thereafter. Their pleas for an extension in the compensation period have met with stern diffidence and the argument that GST revenues are below expectations. Two ministerial groups have been tasked to augment revenues using technology and rate rationalisations. The Centre need not wait for their reports to hold a special Council meeting to discuss States’ compensation concerns, as had been promised. At this juncture, the Council should be a forum for empathetic contemplation, not fractious friction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-time-to-introspect/article36621938.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Status quo ante||Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had framed the September 20 Parliamentary election as Canada’s “pivotal moment”. Two years into the four-year term of his minority government, he dissolved Parliament and called the snap election hoping that Canadians would give him an absolute majority. However, Mr. Trudeau must be both relieved and disappointed with the preliminary results. His Liberal Party got the most seats in Parliament, at 158, just one more than what they won in the 2019 vote, but well short of a majority of 170 seats. To continue to stay in power, the Liberals will have to depend on smaller parties. The Conservatives, who under the leadership of Erin O’Toole took a moderate position on contentious issues from carbon tax to a ban on assault rifles, failed to make any gain. His plan was to reach out to the voters beyond the Conservative base and take on the liberals on policy specifics rather than on ideology. They secured 119 seats, down from 121 in 2019. While the centre-left New Democrats, led by Jagmeet Singh, won 25 seats, one more than in the last vote, the Bloc Québécois, which backs Quebec independence, took 34 seats, a gain of two. Mr. Singh, whose party backed Mr. Trudeau’s minority government after the 2019 election, has hinted that he would continue to support the Liberals. Mr. Trudeau, son of the former Liberal Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau, took over the party’s reins in 2013 at a time when the liberal prospects were dim. But a young Mr. Trudeau not only revived the Liberal Party but also led it to a surprise election victory in 2015. He has remained the most influential voice in Canada’s political landscape. In 2019, he secured victory but without an absolute majority, which forced him to seek the support of the New Democrats. Poll numbers for the Liberals soared after the government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. By calling the snap election, Mr. Trudeau’s plan was to turn those numbers into actual votes and win a fresh four-year term with a clear majority. But the decision to call a mid-term election was controversial. His rivals called him a political opportunist who had pushed the country into an expensive election — at C$600 million, it is the most expensive in its history — in the midst of the COVID scare. Voter turnout, at 58.44%, was the lowest ever. In the end, the voters backed Mr. Trudeau’s government but stopped short of endorsing his political gamble. Having led the party to three back-to-back victories, he is the undisputed leader of the Liberals. He should focus on the art of coalition politics, finding common ground with the New Democrats for his progressive legislative agenda and providing stable governance to tackle Canada’s myriad problems, from the COVID challenge to the climate crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/status-quo-ante/article36621939.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||21 dead in Madras after taking varnish||Twenty persons including two women died to-day after consuming varnish in Tiruvottiyur in North Madras [Madras, Sept. 22]. Of them eleven died at the Stanley Hospital. The others died in their houses before they could be taken to hospital. Yesterday a middle-aged man of Perambur Barracks who consumed varnish later died in the Government Hospital. Forty-eight persons were admitted to the Stanley Hospital since mid-night of Tuesday. More than hundred persons mostly slum-dwellers had taken what was described as ‘kalakkal’ (varnish) since Monday. Patients with symptoms of blurred eye sight, nausea, and respiratory trouble came streaming in after 9 this morning to the hospital. The poisonous element in the drink is suspected to be methyl alcohol. A hospital spokesman said that the patients were administered orally ethyl alcohol to neutralise the methyl alcohol. Sodium bicarbonate solution and glucose was also given intravenously. For those who experienced breathing trouble, oxygen was administered. According to a Tiruvottiyur Councillor, the victims had bought the varnish from a shop on Tiruvottiyur High Road as there was no toddy or arrack shop in that locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/21-dead-in-madras-after-taking-varnish/article36621949.ece
23 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Greater automation may lead to slack in the labour market: Das||A major challenge to inclusiveness post pandemic would come from the fillip to automation provided by the pandemic, Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das noted on Wednesday. “Greater automation would lead to overall productivity gain, but it may also lead to slack in the labour market. [This] calls for significant skilling of our workforce,” Mr. Das said, speaking virtually at an annual convention of the All India Manufacturers Association. “We also need to guard against any emergence of ‘digital divide’ as digitisation gains speed after the pandemic,” he added. He pointed out that the need for professionals trained in science, technology, engineering and mathematics had been rising briskly. “In the short-term, the supply of such a workforce cannot be increased by the traditional educational system; there is a need for close involvement of corporates in the design and implementation of [suitable] courses,” he said. On economic recovery, he said: “Restoring durability of private consumption, which has remained historically the mainstay of aggregate demand, will be crucial going forward.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/greater-automation-may-lead-to-slack-in-the-labour-market-das/article36621926.ece
23 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Sony unit in talks to acquire Zee||Sony Pictures Networks India (SPNI) and Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (ZEEL) said they had initiated talks for a merger, sending Zee shares soaring 32%. The companies have entered into an exclusive, non-binding term sheet to combine networks, digital assets, production operations and programme libraries. The deal provides an exclusive negotiation period of 90 days during which ZEEL and SPNI would conduct mutual diligence and negotiate definitive, binding agreements. The combined entity would be publicly-listed in India and better positioned to lead consumer transition from traditional pay TV into the digital future. “The merger of ZEEL and SPNI would benefit consumers across content genres,” Sony Pictures said. “The combined company is expected to benefit all stakeholders given the strong synergies between ZEEL and SPNI,” it added. SPNI’s parent Sony Pictures Entertainment would invest growth capital so that SPNI had a cash balance of about $1.575 billion to enhance the combined entity’s digital platforms across technology and content, ability to bid for broadcasting rights in the fast-growing sports segment and pursue other growth opportunities. SPE would hold majority stake in the merged entity with Sony having the right to nominate the majority of board members. ZEEL MD and CEO Punit Goenka would lead the new firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sony-unit-in-talks-to-acquire-zee/article36621927.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Semiconductor market may see glut in 2023: IDC||The global semiconductor industry is expected to reach a state of balance by the middle of 2022 with the chip shortage easing and supply normalising, IDC said on Wednesday. The research firm in fact sees potential for overcapacity in 2023 as larger scale capacity expansions begin to come online towards the end of 2022. IDC forecast worldwide semiconductor market growth will accelerate to 17.3% in 2021, from 10.8% in 2020. Growth would be driven by mobiles, notebooks, servers, automotives, smart homes, gaming and wearables, with increased memory pricing. IC shortages are expected to continue easing through Q4 of 2021 as capacity additions quicken. “The semiconductor content story is intact,” said Mario Morales, IDC’s Group VP, Enabling Technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/semiconductor-market-may-see-glut-in-2023-idc/article36621933.ece
23 September 2021||COIMBATORe,||Combine investments in textiles under PLI: official||Textile entrepreneurs can consider undertaking joint investments to meet the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme’s minimum investment criteria, said V. K. Singh, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Textiles, at an Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC) meeting. Noting that the minimum investment criterion of Rs. 100 crore under the PLI to make apparels and the condition that the products should have 85% manmade fibre content may be unviable for garment units, Sanjay Jain, chairman of the ICC expert committee on textiles and jute, earlier urged a reduction in the minimum investment criterion. Mr. Jain also pointed out that raising GST rates for garments priced lower than Rs. 1,000 to 12% from 5% would lead to higher inflation. He appealed to the Ministry to recommend to the Finance Ministry to not raise the rates, for the benefit of MSMEs.  Mr. Singh said there were requests for a reduction in the investment criteria. However, two or three industries could collaborate to invest in a company to meet the criteria and achieve higher scales of production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/combine-investments-in-textiles-under-pli-official/article36621935.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘EV import duty cut may spur domestic demand’||Reducing import duty on electric vehicles (EVs) will help boost domestic demand by enabling automobile manufacturers to bring in more models, thus paving the way for local manufacturing, said Balbir Singh Dhillon, head of Audi India. “The local manufacturing of electric vehicles (EVs) can start only once we have a certain threshold volume is reached,” he said, adding, “Till that time, we will be importing the car.” “I am 100% sure that if the government reduces the import duties, we will be able to not just bring in more models, but also sell more and that will make us reach the threshold volumes faster,” he said. The German luxury car maker, which expects electric vehicles to account for 15% of its sales in India by 2025, on Wednesday unveiled two more EVs — Audi e-tron GT at Rs. 1.79 crore, and the Audi RS e-tron GT at Rs. 2.04 crore — taking the total number of such vehicles in its India portfolio to five.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ev-import-duty-cut-may-spur-domestic-demand/article36621930.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Vodafone Idea to seek board nod for funds||Vodafone Idea will seek board approval afresh to raise funds after the government issues detailed guidelines on telecom reform measures, and its promoters will get a chance to participate in the fundraising round, MD and CEO Ravinder Takker said on Wednesday. Mr. Takker told PTI the company was gearing up to invest in the business and compete in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vodafone-idea-to-seek-board-nod-for-funds/article36621920.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘FDI more than doubles to $20.42 billion’||Foreign direct investments (FDI) into the country more than doubled to $20.42 billion during the April-July period of the current fiscal, the commerce and industry ministry said on Wednesday. Total FDI inflow rose to $27.37 billion during the first four months of 2021-22. In the year-earlier period, this was at $16.92 billion. Automobile industry emerged top, accounting for 23% share of the total FDI equity inflows, followed by computer software and hardware (18%) and services sector (10%). Karnataka was the top recipient with 45% share of the total FDI equity inflows followed by Maharashtra (23%) and Delhi (12%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fdi-more-than-doubles-to-2042-billion/article36621921.ece
23 September 2021||MUMBAI,||DICGC to pay depositors of 21 co-op banks||In a positive development for lakhs of depositors of 21 urban cooperative banks, including the scam-hit PMC Bank, the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC) has announced it would pay them up to Rs. 5 lakh within 90 days. The banks have been directed to submit the claims within 45 days after obtaining willingness of the depositors, the DICGC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dicgc-to-pay-depositors-of-21-co-op-banks/article36621923.ece
23 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Most industry chiefs keen to try start-ups||About 90% of C-Suite professionals from industry are willing to explore solutions from Indian start-ups to address boardroom challenges, the CII Institute of Logistics said in a recent white paper. Based on primary research interviewing 50 Indian start-ups and 50 C-Suite professionals, the challenges from the boardroom were mapped with solutions being offered by the start-ups. Cost optimisation, process streamlining and automation were found to be top priorities for business, with deep learning, machine learning, predictive analytics, cloud computing and IOT seen as technology levers to address them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/most-industry-chiefs-keen-to-try-start-ups/article36621928.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Fossil brings Gen 6 smartwatch to India||U.S. watchmaker Fossil has introduced its newest generation of wearable — the Gen 6 Touchscreen Smartwatch — in India. The watch is priced between Rs. 23,995 and Rs. 24,995 and can be bought September 27 onwards, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fossil-brings-gen-6-smartwatch-to-india/article36621932.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Goyal launches National Single Window System for investors, businesses||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal soft- launched the National Single Window System (NSWS) for businesses and said the portal will usher in freedom from the legacy of running to government offices for approvals and registrations.  "This is freedom from bureaucracy,” he said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/goyal-launches-national-single-window-system-for-investors-businesses/article36621919.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||India, UAE to start talks for trade pact on Thursday: Goyal||India and the UAE have formally started negotiations for a free trade agreement and the first round of talks will begin from Thursday with an aim to conclude it by end-December, a move aimed at boosting trade and investments between the countries, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-uae-to-start-talks-for-trade-pact-on-thursday-goyal/article36621922.ece
23 September 2021||Mumbai,||Centre extends Uday Kotak’s term at IL&FS||The Centre has extended the term of banker Uday Kotak as non-executive board member and chairman of debt-ridden IL&FS by six months till April 2, 2022. His current term was set to expire on October 2. “I am confident that under Mr. Kotak’s guidance,we would accomplish the resolution targets,” said C.S. Rajan, MD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-extends-uday-kotaks-term-at-ilfs/article36621924.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Capitals punish a listless Sunrisers, climb to the top of the table||After its fearsome attack kept Sunrisers Hyderabad on a leash, the Delhi Capitals’ top-order cut out the flamboyance for a business-like eight-wicket triumph in Dubai. Capitals’ seventh victory, with 13 deliveries to spare, resulted in Sunrisers’ seventh loss in IPL 2021. Back on top of the points table, Capitals are now a victory away from the playoffs. Sunrisers stayed at the bottom of the table and moved closer to finishing among the also-rans.  After Kane Williamson opted to bat, wickets fell at regular intervals beginning with the third-ball duck for former skipper David Warner. Sunrisers struggled to stitch partnerships. The addition of 56 runs off the six overs, thanks to Abdul Samad and Rashid Khan, brought some dignity to the innings. Customary flourish Delhi’s chase started with the customary flourish with Prithvi Shaw finding a few boundaries before perishing. Thereafter, Shreyas Iyer, making a comeback after an injury layoff, took his time to settle down while Shikhar Dhawan (32-ball 43) continued with the form he displayed in the first half of the league. Milestone Dhawan went on to cross 400 runs for the sixth IPL season in succession and looked good for another half-century before Rashid got his revenge. Pant replaced the left-hander and Shreyas’ continued presence ensured Sunrisers could never get back into the match. Fittingly, Shreyas finished the chase with a six. The only worry for Capitals was the hamstring injury to Marcus Stoinis. At the toss, Williamson’s decision to bat suited Rishabh Pant who wanted to chase a target — something Capitals had not done at Dubai. Disciplined bowling Facing some disciplined bowling from Nortje, Kagiso Rabada, Avesh Khan and Axar Patel, the duo of Williamson and Manish Pandey looked to rebuild the innings, but that was not to be. Dropped twice in the space of four deliveries — by Pant off R. Ashwin and by Prithvi off Axar — Williamson holed out off the next ball, with Shimron Hetmyer accepting the offering wide of long-off. When Rabada took an easy return catch to send back Pandey to make it 61/4 in 11 overs, Sunrisers never looked like setting a challenging target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sunrisers-batsmen-fail-to-get-going-post-a-modest-1349/article36622052.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Focus on direct qualification for 2024 Olympics: Hardik||Eager to change the shade of the Tokyo bronze, the Indian men’s hockey team is now focussing on directly qualifying for the Paris Olympics by winning next year’s Asian Games, says young midfielder Hardik Singh. With the all-important Asian Games scheduled to be held in Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China from September 10 to 25 next year, the team’s top priority will be to qualify for the Paris Olympics by winning the gold at the continental tournament. “We are eager to begin our quest for gold at the Paris Olympics. We will have to approach step-by-step, and our first step will be to qualify directly for the Olympic Games 2024 by winning Gold at the 2022 Asian Games,” Hardik said in a Hockey India media release. “Then in 2023, we have another marquee event- Hockey World Cup, which will be played in Odisha, so there are challenging and exciting times ahead, and we are looking forward to it,” he added. The 22-year-old, who was one of the key figures in the Indian midfield, scored two crucial goals in his debut Olympic Games in Tokyo. Special bond When asked about the reason behind India’s success at the Tokyo Olympics, Hardik said, “We are a tight-knit team, and I think that was our biggest strength at the Olympics. We have formed a special bond, and we were able to master the best out of each other skills. “After the disappointing result against Australia, we sat together and openly spoke to each other about what went wrong and what we needed to do in the upcoming matches to put up a much better performance. That really helped us a lot to bounce back and eventually win the medal for the country.” He scored a memorable field goal in the quarterfinal match against England, which helped the team enter the medal rounds at the Olympics after more than four decades. While recalling the iconic goal, the young gun said, “It was a team goal, our defence line stuck together to hold the 2-1 lead at a very crucial phase of the game as we were down to 10 men. Lucky rebound “Harmanpreet tackled the ball really well, he then passed it to me, and I had open space to penetrate into the striking circle, although my shot bounced off the goalkeeper’s pad, luckily I received the rebound, and found the back of the net. “Nilakanta also played a crucial role here as he blind spotted the goalkeeper, which helped me find the gap during that rebound,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/focus-on-direct-qualification-for-2024-olympics-hardik/article36622254.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vishal Grewal wins 100m freestyle||Vishal Grewal and Prachi Tokas won the men’s and women’s 100-metre freestyle gold in the 56th Delhi State Swimming Championship at the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Swimming Pool here on Wednesday.  The results: Men: 100m freestyle: 1. Vishal Grewal 52.14; 2. Anurag Dagar 53.80; 3. Kushagra Rawat 54.30. 800m freestyle: 1. Kushagra Rawat 8:24.41; 2. Sanskar Tokas 9:08.65; 3. Parth Lakhina 10:13.97. 100m backstroke: 1. Siddhant Sejwal 59.25; 2. Tanmay Das 59.88; 3. Anurag Dagar 1:00.60. 200m breaststroke: 1. Aditya Dubey 2:29.44; 2. Kartik sharma 2:49.65; 3. Gurpreet Singh 2:51.81. 50m butterfly: 1. Sameer Sejwal 25.22; 2. Vinayak Parihaar 26.30; 3. Achintya Ghosal 26.61. 400m individual medley: 1. Sanskaar Tokas 5:00.04; 2. Nishay Malik 5:37.35; 3. Yash Vardhan Bishnoi 6:01.82.   Women: 100m freestyle: 1. Prachi Tokas 1:02.97; 2. Rinki Bardoloi 1:06.74; 3. Pallavi Sejwal 1:07.33. 800m freestyle: 1. Prachi Tokas 9:27.39; 2. Surbhi Sharma 11:48.14; 3. Pragya Shokeen 14:56.97. 100m backstroke: 1. Yashwani Suhag 1:12.20; 2. Rinki Bardoloi 1:14.51; 3. Simran Badhwar 1:18.12. 200m breaststroke: 1. Yashwani Suhag 3:05.69; 2. Vaishali Grewal 3:29.22; 3. Chandani Arya 3:43.90. 50m butterfly: 1. Pallavi Sejwal 32.31; 2. Vanshika Sharma 34.56; 3. Moneesha 45.46. 400m individual medley: 1. Yashwani Suhag 6:00.75.   Boys: Group-1: 100m freestyle: 1. Madhur Aggarwal 54.74; 2. Pratham Sharma 55.11; 3. Rakshit Chitkara 56.11. 800m freestyle: 1. Mayank Solanki 9:32.50; 2. Tejasvi Arora 9:36.19; 3. Divyansh Arora 9:47.21. 100m backstroke: 1. Madhur Aggarwal 1:01.39; 2. Aryaman Jain 1:07.91; 3. Ishaan Rathi 1:11.21. 200m breaststroke: 1. Utkarsh Sarkar 2:53.17; 2. Gaurav Chauhan 2:53.18; 3. Karan Rana 3:10.20. 50m butterfly: 1. Pratham Sharma 25.32; 2. Mayank Solanki 27.93; 3. Dhruv Bajaj 28.50. 400m individual medley: 1. Neerav Kumar 5:16.70; 2. Tejasvi Arora 5:19.14; 3. Ishaan Rathi 5:40.30.   Group-2: 100m freestyle: 1. Bhhagya Gehlot 59.49; 2. Prateek Singh 1:01.30; 3. Yuvraj Singh 1:04.87. 800m freestyle: 1. Yuvraj Singh 9:49.61; 2. Dhruv Sejwal 9:57.26; 3. Ravit Kharb 11:21.75. 100m backstroke: 1. Pranav Singh 1:11.87; 2. Robin Sen 1:17.06; 3. Prakhyat Mohan 1:21.50. 200m breaststroke: 1. Dhruv Sejwal 2:49.09; 2. Akshat Kumar 2:55.35; 3. Shubham Chaudhary 3:17.90. 50m butterfly: 1. Robin Sen 29.60; 2. Prakhyat Mohan 30.60; 3. Prateek Singh 31.25. 400m individual medley: 1. Dhruv Sejwal 5:26.30; 2. Akshat Kumar 5:48.90; 3. Ravit Kharb 6:23.19.   Girls: Group-1: 100m freestyle: 1. Bhavya Sachdeva 1:02.84; 2. Muskaan Kaur 1:07.00; 3. Sanjana Mehlawat 1:08.16. 800m freestyle: 1. Bhavya Sachdeva 10:00.44; 2. Simran 12:19.42; 3. Vanshikaa Chowdhary 13:07.46. 100m backstroke: 1. Saanvi Sood 1:12.88; 2. Utsav 1:15.32; 3. Ananya Bisht 1:16.60. 200m breaststroke: 1. Saisha Sehrawat 3:14.22; 2. Koushiki Singh 3:15.72; 3. Pranja Jadhav 3:36.12. 50m butterfly: 1. Hema 30.69; 2. Muskan Kaur 33.02; 3. Khawish Dabas 34.00. 400m individual medley: 1. Saanvi Sood 5:39.20; 2. Hema 5:55.96; 3. Nandani Sharma 7:12.59.   Group-2: 100m freestyle: 1. Ananya Rawat 1:05.84; 2. Titiksha Rawat 1:08.13; 3. Yajusha Dahiya 1:11.77. 800m freestyle: 1. Ananya Rawat 10:24.66; 2. Sanya Zutshi 11:21.58; 3. Unnati Garg 12:40.05. 100m backstroke: 1. Ananya Chauhan 1:18.78; 2. Manya Bisht 1:20.92; 3. Titiksha Rawat 1:22.22. 200m breaststroke: 1. Suhani Sharma 3:09.61; 2. Unnati Garg 3:47.66; 3. Ebha Dudi 4:03.09. 50m butterfly: 1. Nitika Saini 34.11; 2. Yajusha Dahiya 35.26; 3. Garishma Kataria 39.23. 400m individual medley: 1. Suhani Sharma 6:23.94; 2. Harshita Lakhina 7:10.34 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vishal-grewal-wins-100m-freestyle/article36622213.ece
23 September 2021||Madrid,||Suarez fires Atletico to the top||Luis Suarez scored two late goals to give Atletico Madrid a 2-1 win at Getafe in the Spanish league on Tuesday, ending the team’s two-match winless streak and extending a decade-long unbeaten run against its Madrid rival and taking it to the top with 14 points. After scoring only once in his first six matches this season, Suarez got the equaliser in the 78th minute and the winner in the 90th to boost Atletico after two 0-0 draws. In Serie A Inter Milan recovered from a goal down for a 3-1 away win on Tuesday over a Fiorentina side that had won three straight.  The results:   LaLiga: Getafe 1 (Mitrovic 45) lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Suarez 78, 90+1); Athletic Bilbao 1 (Ciss 33-og) lost to Rayo Vallecano 2 (Garcia Rivera 5, Falcao 90+6).   Levante 0 lost to Celta Vigo 2 (Aspas 66, Mendez 85).   Serie A: Atalanta 2 (Gosens 3, Zappacosta 37) bt Sassuolo 1 (Berardi 44).   Fiorentina 1 (Sottil 23) lost to Inter Milan 3 (Darmian 52, Dzeko 55, Perisic 87); Bologna 2 (Hickey 49, Arnautovic 85-pen) drew with Genoa 2 (Destro 55, Criscito 89-pen).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suarez-fires-atletico-to-the-top/article36621973.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Approach was to finish in 19 overs: Kumble||Snatching defeat from the jaws of victory is not an alien experience for Punjab Kings. Yet, the two-run loss to Rajasthan Royals at Dubai on Tuesday must have hurt. Coach Anil Kumble admitted it was a bitter pill to swallow. “It’s sort of become a pattern for us, especially as soon as we get to Dubai, it seems,” Kumble told reporters. “The approach was to finish the game in 19 overs. But unfortunately we (left) it till the end. (When you leave it to the last two balls), it becomes a lottery. But credit to (Kartik) Tyagi for the way he bowled the last over.” Messing it up Kumble felt the Punjab batsmen didn’t handle the final over properly. “It was pretty obvious he was going to bowl wide outside the off-stump,” said Kumble. “We have five more games. We don’t want to be bogged down by this defeat.” Rajasthan Royals’ Riyan Parag conceded the game was slipping away. “In the 19th over, while I was at mid-off, I asked Mustafizur (Rahman) not to let the game finish in that over and that we had a chance with Kartik bowling the 20th,” he said. “Those boys were insane; defending eight runs off the last two overs is just incredible.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/approach-was-to-finish-in-19-overs-kumble/article36622048.ece
23 September 2021||London,||It will be ‘batters’ and it is official||The language of cricket is changing in an attempt to make the sport more inclusive. The gender-neutral term ‘batter’ will be used instead of ‘batsman’, cricket’s lawmaker said on Wednesday, to reflect the growth of the women’s game. “MCC believes in cricket being a game for all and this move recognises the changing landscape of the game in modern times,” said Jamie Cox of Marylebone Cricket Club, the Lord’s-based organisation regarded as the guardian of the laws of the game. Amendment needed The last redraft of the laws, in 2017, kept the terminology “batsman” and “batsmen” after consultation with key figures in women’s cricket. The MCC said an amendment, effective immediately, was now needed as it “helps reinforce cricket’s status as an inclusive game for all.” “The changes announced today reflect the wider usage of the terms ‘batter’ and ‘batters' which has occurred in cricketing circles in the intervening period,” the club said. “The move to ‘batter’ is a natural progression, aligning with the terms of bowlers and fielders that already sit within the laws.” The MCC pointed to the women’s World Cup final between England and India in 2017 taking place in front of a capacity crowd at Lord’s and a record international crowd for a women's game — 86,174 — seeing Australia beat India in the T20 World Cup Final in Melbourne in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-will-be-batters-and-it-is-official/article36622061.ece
23 September 2021||JALANDHAR,||Nishit stuns Ajeet||Nishit Pandey knocked out the top seed Ajeet Bhardwaj 7-6(7), 6-1 in the pre-quarterfinals of the over-55 event in the ITF seniors tennis tournament at the Singha Sports Academy, here. In another match in the same event, Lakpa Sherpa beat the second seed Dilip Singh Nongmaithem 6-3, 6-1 to set up a quarterfinal against Bhushan Akut.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Over-35: Vipin Sirpaul bt Harvinder Singh 6-0, 6-0; Dinesh Chandra Suyal bt Rupjit Bharali 7-5, 7-5; Arjun Uppal bt Harinder Sharma 6-2, 6-0; Rajesh Jain bt Parag Chutia 6-0, 6-0.   Over-45: Monty Roy bt Ulhal Mohile 6-0,6-0; Sunil Lulla bt Shahnawaz Zaffar 6-2, 6-0; Dinesh Laungani bt Ashish Pant 6-3, 4-6, 7-5.   Himanshu Bhatia bt Ashwini Kumar Purohit 6-0, 6-1; Sheetal Sharma bt Pavan Gaikwad 6-0, 6-0; Akhil Mathur bt AVnish Chandra Rastogi 6-1, 6-2; Gopal Soni bt Diganta KOnwar 6-1, 3-6, 6-4.   Over-55: Nishit Pandey bt Ajeet Bhardwaj 7-6(7), 6-1; Sanjiv Mehra bt Rajendra Menon 6-0, 6-0; Sanjai Kumar bt Bharat Phukan 6-2, 6-1; Ashish Sen bt Dipankar Chakravarti 2-6, 6-3, 2-0 (retd.); Lakpa Sherpa bt Dilip Singh Nongmaithem 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nishit-stuns-ajeet/article36622216.ece
23 September 2021||Islamabad,||British govt. did not advise ECB to cancel tour||The British government did not advise the England and Wales Cricket Board to cancel its men’s and women’s teams’ tour of Pakistan on security grounds, the UK’s High Commissioner here has said and promised to “redouble” efforts to make the T20 series happen in 2022. Christian Turner, the British High Commissioner to Pakistan, said the ECB decided on its own to cancel the T20 tour next month and he shared the “deep sadness” of Pakistani fans. “This was a decision made by the ECB, which is independent of the British government, based on concerns for player welfare,” Turner said in a video on his Twitter handle. “The British High Commission supported the tour, did not advise against it on security grounds, and our travel advice for Pakistan has not changed.” The ECB on Monday withdrew its men’s and women’s teams from the tour of Pakistan, citing increased concerns about travelling to the region. It also cited player fatigue ahead of the T20 World Cup in the UAE as one of the reasons for the decision. Redouble efforts Turner said he intends to make sure England tour Pakistan in the later part of next year. “I have been a champion of international cricket’s return to Pakistan and will redouble my efforts in advance of England’s Autumn 2022 tour. “My thanks to all at the PCB (Pakistan Cricket Board) who have worked so hard in support of that. I hope that we’ll soon hear the roar of full cricket stadiums again. In the end, cricket will be victorious.” The tour, which would have been the first by an England women’s team and the first by their male counterparts since 2005, was in doubt after New Zealand pulled out of their limited-overs series in Pakistan on Friday citing a security threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/british-govt-did-not-advise-ecb-to-cancel-tour/article36622252.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Paralympic medal winners felicitated||Some of India’s Tokyo Paralympic medal winners, including javelin throw gold-winner Sumit Antil, were on Wednesday felicitated by their sponsor as part of the company’s CSR initiative. Antil, discus throw silver-medallist Yogesh Kathuniya and javelin throw bronze-winner Sundar Singh Gurjar were among the 10 para athletes sponsored by Johnson Controls-Hitachi Air Conditioning India Ltd, in partnership with Shirdi Sai Baba Foundation, under its ‘Radiant in Quest of Gold initiative. “The company is really proud of these para-athletes who brought home victory from the Tokyo Paralympics 2020 and is giving its high-end premium 5-Star room air conditioners and monetary gift to these winners as a token of appreciation,” stated a press release. Altogether, the 10 para-athletes sponsored under this campaign secured a total of 19 medals in the last three years for India at various international platforms like Asian Para Games, World Para Grand Prix, Tokyo Paralympics etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/paralympic-medal-winners-felicitated/article36622255.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sania-Shuai duo enters last eight||Sania Mirza, seeded second with Shuai Zhang of China, overcame Emina Bektas and Tara Moore 6-7(3), 7-5, [10-7] in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €535,530 WTA tennis tournament in Ostrava (Czech Republic).  Other results:   €565,530 WTA, Ostrava, Czech Republic: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Kaitlyn Christian (US) & Erin Routliffe (NZ) bt Emily Webley-Smith (GBR) & Rutuja Bhosale 6-3, 6-4; Shuai Zhang (Chn) & Sania Mirza bt Emina Bektas (US) & Tara Moore (GBR) 6-7(3), 7-5, [10-7].   €481,270 ATP, Metz, France: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Hunter Reese (US) & Sem Verbeek (Ned) bt Jonny O’Mara (GBR) & Divij Shaan 6-3, 3-6, [10-8].   $52,080 Challenger, Columbus, US: Singles (first round): J.J. Wolf (US) bt Sasikumar Mukund 6-3, 6-2; Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Aleksandar Kovacevic (US) 3-6, 6-3, 7-5.   $52,080 Challenger, Biel, Switzerland: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Maxime Janvier (Fra) & Arjun Kadhe bt Toshihide Matsui & Kaito Uesugi 7-6(4), 7-6(3).   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Ryotaro Matsumura (Jpn) bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-3, 7-6(1); Ajeet Rai (NZ) bt Niki Poonacha 7-6(1), 7-6(5).   15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Singles (first round): Rishab Agarwal bt Faris Zakaryia (Egy) 7-6(6), 6-3; Zachary Eisinga (Ned) bt Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 5-7, 6-3, 6-1.   $25,000 ITF women, Santarem, Portugal: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Alicia Barnett & Olivia Nicholls (GBR) bt Ana Filipa Santos (Por) & Sathwika Sama 6-0, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Eszter Meri (Svk) bt Jennifer Luikham 6-3, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo, Egypt: Singles (first round): Anastasia Zolotareva (Rus) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-3, 6-0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-shuai-duo-enters-last-eight/article36622217.ece
23 September 2021||Yankton (USA),||Surekha and Abhishek advance to the third round||Jyothi Surekha Vennam and Abhishek Verma reached the women’s and men’s third round of the Archery World Championships after finishing sixth and seventh in the compound qualification rounds here. Surekha shot 684 while Abhishek scored 695 and then got byes in the first two elimination rounds. Muskan Kirar also earned a first round bye in women’s compound event after finishing 29th in the qualification. The third Indian in the women’s compound event, Priya Gurjar will face Isabelle Carpenter of Great Britain in the first round after finishing 51st in the qualification. Abhishek’s compatriots Sangampreet Singh and Rishab Yadav will feature in the first round of the eliminations after finishing 26th and 49th respectively. In men’s recurve section, Salunkhe Parth Sushant, Aditya Choudhary and Atul Verma will compete in the first round of the eliminations after finishing 45th, 53rd and 56th respectively. Ankita Bhakat, Ridhi and Bari Komalika made it to the second round of women’s recurve after finishing 20th, 26th and 29th respectively. All the three got first round byes. In men’s recurve team event, Indian trio of Salunkhe Parth Sushant, Aditya Choudhary and Atul Verma will face Canada in the first round of eliminations after finishing 13th in the qualification. The recurve women’s team of Ankita Bhakat, Ridhi and Bari Komalika did better then their male counterparts by finishing seventh to get the first round bye. The Indian trio will face Japan in the second round. In the men’s compound team, the Indian trio of Abhishek, Sangampreet and Rishab earned first round byes after finishing fifth in the qualification. The compound women’s team of Surekha, Muskan and Priya finished fifth in the qualification to face Denmark in the first round. A win against Denmark will take them to quarterfinals. India beat Ukraine 6-0 in recurve mixed team first round to face top seed Korea in the second round. The compound mixed team of Abhishek and Surekha earned a first round bye after finishing fifth in qualifications. They face RAF in the second round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/surekha-and-abhishek-advance-to-third-round/article36622220.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Chirag & Satwik withdraw from Sudirman Cup||The Indian men's doubles pair of Chirag Shetty and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy has pulled out of the Sudirman Cup mixed team championships on medical grounds. The World No. 10 pair was part of the 12-member Indian team announced by the Badminton Association of India for the prestigious event to be held from September 26 to October 3 in Finland. “Chirag and Satwik have withdrawn on medical grounds as the former is not well,” a BAI source told PTI . “It is also uncertain if they will participate in the Thomas Cup which will be held after the Sudirman Cup. It will be subject to Chirag's recovery from illness.” The Thomas and Uber Cup will be held from October 9 to 17 at Aarhus in Denmark. The Sudirman Cup will be the first BWF tournament to be held this year since the world body was forced to cancel or reschedule a number of events due to the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chirag-satwik-withdraw-from-sudirman-cup/article36622257.ece
23 September 2021||New Delhi,||Full vaccination mandatory for I-League players: Dhar||All the footballers taking part in the I-League starting in December will have to be fully vaccinated except for U-18 players and those who have recently recovered from COVID-19 infection, League CEO Sunando Dhar said on Wednesday. The league is expected to be held under bio-secure environment with strict COVID-19 protocols in Kolkata and its surrounding suburbs. “It will be mandatory for all the players and officials taking part in the I-League and I-League qualifiers to have both doses of COVID-19 vaccination. The only exception will be the players who are under-18 years and those who cannot be vaccinated due to recent recovery from the infection,” Dhar said in an interview. “Last year, double dose vaccination was not mandatory but we have made it mandatory this time,” he added. The U-18 players and those who have not got their jabs due to recent COVID-19 recovery will have to undergo more frequent testing during the tournament than the vaccinated players. “If the fully vaccinated players are having test for every 5-6 days, they (U-18 players and recently recovered players) will be tested every 3-4 days,” he said. All the players and officials are also required to remain in quarantine for six days in their respective hotels after arrival. They will be tested twice during those six days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/full-vaccination-mandatory-for-i-league-players-dhar/article36622259.ece
23 September 2021||MAdrid,||Koeman skating on thin ice||Barcelona’s under-pressure coach Ronald Koeman delivered a bizarre press conference on Wednesday as he read a pre-prepared statement before leaving without answering questions. Koeman’s position is fragile, after Barca followed up a 3-0 defeat by Bayern Munich in the Champions League last week with a 1-1 draw at home to Granada in La Liga, with the team’s tactics and style coming under scrutiny. Reading from a piece of paper, Koeman said: “Hello everyone. The club with me as coach is in a situation of rebuilding. Rebuild mode “The financial situation of the club is connected to the sporting activities and vice-versa. This means we as a team have to rebuild the team without being able to make any big financial investments. This needs time. “The young talent today could be the next big world stars in just a few years. To rebuild this team, young players will be given opportunities like Xavi and Iniesta had in their day. But we must ask for patience. “Achieving a high ranking in La Liga is a great success. In the Champions League we can’t hope for miracles.” Possible replacements Several names, including Xavi Hernandez, Roberto Martinez and Antonio Conte, have been mentioned as possible successors to 58-year-old Koeman, whose relationship with club president Joan Laporta has been strained in recent weeks. Koeman was asked about the club’s loss of identity after the draw against Granada on Monday. His team had delivered 54 crosses and ended the game with central defenders Gerard Pique and Ronald Araujo playing up front. Tiki-taki missing “If you see the list of players, what do you do? Play tiki-taki? Tiki-taki when there are no spaces?” said Koeman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/koeman-skating-on-thin-ice/article36622265.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Uncertainty over Rohit and Hardik continues||It has been one of the most lopsided contests in the Indian Premier League. But, besides planning to continue its domination over Kolkata Knight Riders, with a 22-6 head-to-head record in its favour, the Mumbai Indians camp would be fretting over the availability of two of its key members — captain Rohit Sharma and all-rounder Hardik Pandya. Neither the stand-in skipper Kieron Pollard nor head coach Mahela Jayawardene spelt out what kind of “niggles” were the two carrying. Boult stays guarded Trent Boult, the left-arm pacer, continued the trend by remaining guarded about the duo’s injury. “They are both recovering very well. In terms of their selection for the next game, I’m not too sure what’s going on there. But day by day, they are improving,” Boult said on Thursday. “They are obviously two vital players in the XI for Mumbai. And we are desperate to get them back.” KKR, meanwhile, would be looking forward to maintain its momentum after rolling over Royal Challengers Bangalore. Should the KKR bowling unit repeat its heroics against an under-pressure MI batting line-up, it can hope for a rare victory against the five-time champion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uncertainty-over-rohit-and-hardik-continues/article36622053.ece
23 September 2021||DOHA,||Sreeja edges Kukulkova||India’s Sreeja Akula overcame a tough challenge from Tatiana Kukulkova of Slovakia before winning 11-5, 8-11, 11-3, 9-11, 11-9 in a women’s singles first-round match of the World Table Tennis (WTT) Star Contender here on Wednesday.  The results:   Men: Round-of-64: Marcelo Aguirre (Par) bt Harmeet Desai 11-8, 12-10, 11-8.   Doubles (round-of-16): Kazuhiro Yoshimura & Yuto Kizukuri (Jpn) bt G. Sathiyan & A. Amalraj 11-5, 9-11, 11-5, 11-6; Yukiya Uda & Shunsuke Togami (Jpn) bt Harmeet & Manav Thakkar 11-5, 11-7, 11-8.   Women: Round-of-64: Sreeja Akula bt Tatiana Kukulkova (Svk) 11-5, 8-11, 11-3, 9-11, 11-9; Archana Kamath bt Tin-Tin Ho (Eng) 11-7, 6-11, 13-11, 11-8.   Mixed doubles (round-of-16): Wong Chun Ting & Doo Hoi Kem (Hkg) bt Manav & Archana Kamath 11-8, 11-7, 11-8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sreeja-edges-kukulkova/article36622056.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Nasaf hits ATKMB for six||Uzbekistan Super League side FC Nasaf pulverised ATK Mohun Bagan 6-0 in the inter-zonal semifinal of the AFC Cup at the Markaziy Stadium, Qarshi, on Wednesday. Forward Khusain Norchaev performed a hat-trick while Oybek Bozorov and Doniyorjon Narzullaev netted the other two. ATKMB defender Pritam Kotal had scored an own goal in the fourth minute of the game. Nasaf, which proved superior to ATKMB in speed, passing and coordination, raced to a 5-0 lead by half-time despite Bozorov’s 43rd-minute penalty coming off the underside of the ATKMB crosspiece. Nasaf, the 2011 AFC Cup champion, slowed down the pace in the second half even as the Kolkata giant produced a more disciplined effort. The host still managed one more strike midway through the session, making its domination complete.  The result: FC Nasaf 6 (Pritam Kotal 4-og, Khusain Norchaev 18, 21, 31, Oybek Bozorov 45+1, Doniyorjon Narzullaev 71) bt ATKMB 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nasaf-hits-atkmb-for-six/article36622057.ece
23 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sunrisers’ Natarajan tests positive||Bottom-placed Sunrisers Hyderabad suffered a serious setback when its left-arm pacer T. Natarajan tested positive for COVID-19 after a scheduled RT-PCR test before the match against Delhi Capitals in the ongoing IPL in Dubai. The player has isolated himself from the rest of the squad. He is said to be currently asymptomatic. The medical team has identified the following six close contacts of the player: Vijay Shankar (player), Vijay Kumar (team manager), J. Shyam Sundar (physio), Anjana Vannan (doctor), Tushar Khedkar (logistics manager) and G. Periyasamy (net bowler). They have also been placed in isolation. The rest of the contingent, including the close contacts, underwent RT-PCR tests at 5 a.m. local time this morning and the test reports are negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sunrisers-natarajan-tests-positive/article36622065.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kiran Nadar’s Formidables begins well but Solaris fights back||Formidables, led by Kiran Nadar, had a good start as it led by 16 IMPs against Solaris in the semifinals after the first set of the Team of four Gold event in the 18th HCL International bridge championship, played virtually on the Real Bridge platform on Wednesday. However, Solaris led Partho Sarathi Mukherjee fought back in the second set to reduce the gap to just one IMP. Earlier, Formidables had asserted itself with an imposing victory by 77 IMPs against Slammers in the quarterfinals. Solaris had got past Maximus by 23 IMPs after the lead was reduced to five by the third set. Shree Cement concedes Shree Cement, which had outplayed Russia by 66 IMPs in the quarterfinals in which the Russian team had to concede the tie in the fourth set as one of its players had internet connectivity problem, trailed Texan Aces by 11 IMPs after one set in the semifinals. Texan Aces increased the lead to 33 IMPs after the second set. In the Team of four Silver event, Ganga Gomti, led Prayas by two IMPs after two sets, after the latter had enjoyed a good start with a lead of 12 IMPs after the first set. In the other semifinal, Dr. SSMC bounced back to lead by one IMP at the end of the second set, after having trailed by three IMPs against Dr. Sanghi in the first set. Meanwhile, in the Open match point pairs event, the team of Uttam Swarup Gupta and Animesh Raj led with 65.75% from among 226 pairs. The duo was followed by D. Sudhanand & G. Veerabhadra Rao (63.13), Tapan Kumar Roy & Sailen Das (62.64), Sethuraman Mahadevan & H. Anjaneya Swamy (60.99) and Nirmal Kumar Jain & Rahul Shetty (60.94). After the second session of the first elimination round played over 24 boards, the top 112 ranked teams will qualify for the second elimination round in which they would be joined by 11 seeded pairs, from among the losing finalist teams of Gold and Silver events.  The results (quarterfinals):   Team of four Gold: Solaris bt Maximus 109-86; Shree Cement bt Russia 109-43; Texan Aces bt Monica Jajoo 89-68; Formidables bt Slammers 119-42.   Team of four Silver: Prayas bt Jiya 105-81; Dr. SSMC bt Sahyadri 112-82; Dr. Sanghi bt Talluri 117-101; Ganga Gomti bt Jagoron 133-75 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/formidables-begins-well-but-solaris-fights-back/article36622211.ece
23 September 2021||MUMBAI,||BCCI not to compensate match officials for 2020-21||Even as domestic cricketers have welcomed the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI’s) hike in match-fee, more than 500 match officials in Indian cricket are in for a rude shock with the BCCI deciding against compensating them for the curtailed 2020-21 domestic season due to COVID-19. Besides introducing graded match-fee for senior men’s and women’s cricketers, the BCCI apex council on Monday approved 50% of the 2019-20 Ranji Trophy edition’s match-fee for those who missed out on the last year’s tournament. Not the primary source However, the apex council decided against including match officials — match referees, umpires, scorers and video analysts — in the compensation package. “Most of the match officials are employed elsewhere on a permanent basis, so their primary source of income wasn’t affected,” a BCCI official told The Hindu on the condition of anonymity. “Besides, a majority of them were assigned at least a few games during the limited season we could host, so it was decided to consider only the cricketers who missed out on Ranji Trophy for the compensation package.” The match officials, just like cricketers, are not contracted with either BCCI or a State association. The Hindu understands that some of the major associations will request the BCCI office-bearers for the issue to be tabled during the AGM. Despite the heartburn for match officials, the cricketers, especially those who have established themselves in domestic cricketers but haven’t been able to be in India contention, were in for a windfall. The apex council ratified a steep hike for those who have played 40-plus matches in Ranji Trophy and Vijay Hazare Trophy to Rs. 60,000 per match-day from Rs. 35,000. Amazing move “It’s an amazing move. I would sincerely like to thank the BCCI, especially president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah, for being considerate about financial well-being of domestic cricketers,” Sheldon Jackson — who has moved back to his home team Saurashtra after representing Puducherry last season — told The Hindu from UAE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bcci-not-to-compensate-match-officials-for-2020-21/article36622046.ece
23 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Praggs makes tour finals||R. Praggnanandhaa tied for second place before finishing third in the Hou Yifan Challenge online rapid chess tournament on Tuesday. The Indian aggregated 11.5 points from 16 games to match the tally of USA’s Christopher Yoo. Since Yoo was victorious in their encounter, Praggnanandhaa was placed third. Leon Mendonca (10 points) was fifth, Aditya Mittal (9.5) finished joint ninth and R. Vaishali (6.5) ended up tied 11th. Germany’s Vincent Keymer (13.5 points) won the title with a round to spare. He also tops the list of eight Tour finalists who fight for $40,000 in a knockout final that takes place from October 14 to 17. Praggnanandhaa (5th) and Mendonca (8th) are the two Indians in the line-up. Mendonca also through With D. Gukesh not taking part in the last leg of the Tour, Mendonca made the ‘cut’ as the eighth finisher. After the four legs of the Tour, Team Polgar defeated Team Kramnik 324.5 points to 302.5. That meant, Team Polgar’s Gukesh and Nihal Sarin have earned a chance to travel to Dubai to witness the World chess championship title clash involving Magnus Carlsen and Ian Nepomniachtchi in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/praggs-finishes-third-makes-tour-finals/article36621972.ece
23 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Ranjeet enters quarterfinals||Top seed and former national champion V.M. Ranjeet was stretched to three sets by Sam Chawla in the pre-quarterfinals of the Rs. 1,00,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament at the Tennis Project in Baliawas on Wednesday. In the quarterfinals, Ranjeet, who had missed a couple of match points in the second set against Chawla before closing it out in the third, will play Parikshit Somani.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): V.M. Ranjeet bt Sam Chawla 6-0, 6-7(5), 6-3; Parikshit Somani bt Mohit Bhardwaj 6-3, 6-3; Raghav Jaisinghani bt Ricky Choudhary 6-1, 6-1; Jagmeet Singh bt Sanket Tomar 7-6(3), 7-5; Abhishek Gaur bt Amrutjay Mohanty 5-7, 6-3, 6-3; Chinmay Dev Chauhan bt Amandeep Rathee 6-3, 6-3; Neeraj Yashpaul bt Gourav Gulia 6-3, 6-3; Jatin Dahiya bt Deepender Grewal 6-2, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ranjeet-enters-quarterfinals/article36622214.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Telangana girls lift trophy||Telangana girls defeated Madhya Pradesh 2-0 in the final of the 33rd sub-junior national softball championship in Cuttack. Earlier, Telangana girls beat Rajasthan 6-0 in the semifinal and Delhi 1-0 in the quarterfinal.   KPHB Basketball Club and Hyderabad Rovers registered victories in their round-robin matches of the Hyderabad District Basketball Association annual league championship to stay on course to qualify for Level-2 of the championship. KPHB defeated Trinity Basketball Club 88-77 with Aravind and Sai Krishna being the lead performers. In another match, Hyderabad Rovers made short work of Rahimpura Playground with a 51-24 win.  The results: KPHB 88 (Aravind 23, Sai Krishna 21) bt Trinity 77 (Thinny 25, Raghav 18); Hyd. Rovers 51 (Tharun 16) bt Rahimpura Playground 24 (Chandrakanth 12); G 9 72 (Dinesh Kumar 18, Shravan 16, Sreekanth 12) bt RR Club 53 (Rakesh 18, Sai 14) .    The young and promising Hyderabad FC goalkeeper Manas Dubey has joined I-League side TRAU FC of Manipur on a season-long loan deal for the upcoming 2021-22 campaign, the club announced on Tuesday. The 19-year-old has been with HFC since 2019 as a part of the reserve side before joining the first team squad for the club under Manolo Marquez, during the 2020-21 Indian Super League campaign. The custodian, who trained under HFC goalkeeping coach Marc Gamon last season, will look to continue his progress with the Manipur-based club.   M. Manognya defeated Presha Shantamoorthi 6-1, 6-1 in the girls’ quarterfinals of the AITA Super Series (under-16) tennis tournament here. The boys’ matches scheduled for the day were abandoned because of heavy rain.  The results (quarterfinals):   Girls: U-16: K. Ikaraju bt N. Harshini 6-1, 6-4; Sree Tanvi Dasari bt Avani Sujit Chitale 6-3, 4-6, 6-4; Harshini Viswanadh bt Malishka Kuramu 6-3, 4-6, 7-6(5); M. Manognya bt Presha Shanthamoorthi 6-1, 6-1 .      Good spells by G. Jitender (five for 38) for Hyderabad Wanderers and Vinay Yadav (five for 49) for Hyderabad Patriots were some of the highlights of the A2-Division two-day league cricket championship here on Wednesday. The second day’s play in most of the matches were washed out following heavy rains.  The scores: A1-Division three-day league: 2nd day: Sporting XI 153 in 52.3 overs vs Jai Hanuman. Washed out.   Deccan Chronicle 245/6 in 90 overs vs SBI. Washed out.   MP Colts 204/7 in 63 overs (Mickil Jaiswal 30, Sireesh Goud 35, Abhinav Tej 30) vs. Combined District (Day 2 called off due to overnight rains)   Hyd Bottling 261/10 in 66.3 overs vs. R. Dayanand 207/5 in 73 overs (Aditya Mangat 56, G. Sankeerth 44, M. Samhith Reddy 44, T. Santosh Goud 35 batting).   Cambridge XI 36/1 in 12 overs vs. Budding Stars   Evergreen 403/4 in 85 overs (Mayank Gupta 42 n.o.) vs. Gemini Friends. Washed out.   Mahmood CC 149 in 53.4 overs vs. Gouds XI 25/6 in 11.5 overs (Y.S. Varun 3/9).   A2-Division two-day league: Kosaraju CC 355 in 69.5 overs vs. New Blues CC. Washed out.   Medak Dist 147 in 35.3 overs (Mohammed 30, Sridhar 45, Md Afraz 33, G. Jitender 5/38) vs. Hyd Wanderers. Washed out.   Khammam Dist 270/8 in 52 overs vs. Brothers XI. Washed out.   Agarwal Seniors 89/8 in 25 overs (A. Tharun 36, Shaik Adnanullah 4/29) vs. Universal.   Oxford Blues CC 269 in 67.5 overs vs. Osmania 42/0 in 9.5 overs. Washed out.   Mahadev CC 129 in 32.3 overs vs. Azad CC 8/0 in 5.2 overs. Washed out.   International CC 234 in 55 overs (Vinay Yadav 5/49) vs. Hyderabad Patriots 107/3 in 32 overs (Sujal 43 n.o.). Washed out.   Young Master CC 2010 in 64.5 overs vs. Anu CC 17/3 in 10.2 overs. Washed out.   Lords CC 116/6 in 50.5 overs vs. Canara Bank. Washed out .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/telangana-girls-lift-trophy/article36622367.ece
23 September 2021||Dubai,||Samson fined for RR’s slow over rate||Rajasthan Royals captain Sanju Samson has been fined Rs. 12 lakh for his side’s slow over rate during the team’s two-run win over Punjab Kings in an Indian Premier League match here on Tuesday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samson-fined-for-rrs-slow-over-rate/article36622067.ece
23 September 2021||Chennai,||Govt. nod to hold non-contact sports||The Tamil Nadu government has given permission for organisers to conduct outdoor competitions for non-contact sports in the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) and non-SDAT Stadiums by following the SOPs. The Government has also given permission to use stadiums and other sports facilities by sportspersons for practice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/govt-nod-to-hold-non-contact-sports/article36622139.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Cricket: TDCA league, III div., Aththis vs SRIHER RC (1 p.m.), SRIHER, turf; CCCA-Jerrold Benjamin memorial open (8.30 a.m.), CCA ground; CDCA league, I div., Dev vs Air Warriors (Sumangali ‘A’, turf); Masters vs Parasuraman CC (Sumangali ‘B’, turf), 8 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36622138.ece
23 September 2021||BENGALURU,||India to host three ITF 15K tournaments||India is set to host three ITF 15K men’s tennis tournaments in back-to-back weeks starting November 8, in Indore, New Delhi and Gurugram. The country last held an ITF 15K event in early April this year, just before the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-to-host-three-itf-15k-tournaments/article36622210.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||The path of light||Sage Parasara in his Vishnu Purana says that the One who knows about what happens to the atmas, their births and deaths, that One is the Paramatma. In the Bhagavad Gita, Lord Krishna talks about two paths — the path taken by those who reach His abode and the path taken by those who go to svarga. Those who reach Sri Vaikuntha remain there, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi in a discourse. The other category of people perform meritorious deeds, and reach svarga. But stay in svarga is not permanent. Once a person’s punyas are exhausted, he leaves svarga, to be born again and the cycle continues. But the one who goes to Sri Vaikuntha never returns to the earth. The path that leads to Sri Vaikuntha is called archiradi marga, the path of light. The path that leads to svarga is called dumadi marga, the path of darkness. In other words, archiradi marga takes one to the Supreme One. In the path that leads to Sri Vaikuntha, one is welcomed at each stage by different deities, each presiding over that particular segment of the path. On the other hand, the path taken by the one who merely performs meritorious acts is known as dhumah gati, or the path of darkness. He does these acts, with a view to enjoying the fruits of his actions. His performance of good deeds gets him svarga as a reward. There the atma enjoys many pleasures, before returning in its next birth. This path that leads to svarga also has presiding deities. These are the deities of smoke, the dark night, the waning phase of the moon, dakshinayana (Southern solstice). Upanishads also speak of the bright and dark paths. Krishna says that a jnani cannot exist even for a moment without thinking of Him. A jnani takes the archiradi marga, or the path of light, to reach the Lord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-path-of-light/article36622007.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 07:58 IST,||Sudoku — September 23, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-22-2021/article36622756.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Book an anti-resort, with wifi and goats||Lockdown has done what years of social conditioning could not: make the outdoors great again. People are now looking for places to commune with Nature while staying remotely connected to their office in wifi-enabled ‘anti-resorts’ in villages. Describe this new normal of domestic travel as you will — work-from-farm, revenge tourism or day-tripping, it is clear that the joys of a simpler life have become evident to a growing number of people. The people behind this revived interest in agri-tourism are new-age farmers and Nature lovers keen on creating eco-friendly green spaces within easy reach of the city. Farm-based restaurants curating ‘locavore’ menus (with locally grown food), have also sprung up during lockdown. “There has definitely been an upswing in the number of people interested in farm holidays during the lockdown because they want to stay in a naturally socially distanced environment away from crowds,” says Kiruba Shankar, a Chennai-based digital professional and public speaker who runs Vaksana Farms in Rettanai village in Tindivanam. Farm stays are meant to be about getting immersed in the rhythm of village life. “The beauty of staying in a working farm is that you can get your hands dirty, and participate in the daily tasks. I always encourage guests to make the most of the farm, and not consider it like some timeshare where you just come and go,” says Kiruba, whose 13-acre organic farm grows fruit trees and millets and also maintains cattle and a shelter for abandoned pets. Vaksana can accommodate 15 to 20 people in their current premises, and a ‘big tiny house’, called Pico has recently opened for bookings. A Miyawaki forest of fruit trees is among the attractions here. Families as customers With work-from-home becoming a common practice, more rural resorts are creating experiential holidays with families in mind. Business innovation consultant Shammy Jacob and anthropologist Charlotte Van’t Klooster, who moved into their ‘lifestyle farm’ with their kids in Thalambur (20 kilometres from Chennai) after shifting from Amsterdam in 2013, have seen a significant change in their visitor demographic this year. “Before lockdown, we used to have many IT professionals as volunteers; for them, farming was both a way to relieve their stress, and a chance to live their dream of working in the fields. Now, we see more families, especially those with young children, venturing out for picnics on our premises. For many residents of gated communities, the drive to get the morning milk directly from our farm is an adventure in itself,” says Shammy. The farm’s sustainability is underscored by the use of solar power and a catchment system to nourish the water table and build up biodiversity. For city-dwellers itching to get started in agriculture, Shammy has started leasing out one ground (4,800 square feet) of land within the three-acre farm, which can be used as test plots. “We provide the seeds and relevant guidance on growing crops; it helps people to find out all about farming before they take it up full-time,” he says. “There is a real transfer of knowledge taking place between generations when families use these mini farm patches, because it is usually the parents or grandparents who teach the children how to plant saplings,” says Charlotte. Making agriculture attractive to the younger generation is one of the key goals of Kadambavanam farm in Cheyyur, 102 kilometres from Chennai. Run by photographer Amar Ramesh with activities curated by Ratheesh Krishnan and SS Sriram of SPI Edge, the farm is open to visitors only by invitation through its Instagram page. “Kadambavanam is the opposite of a typical village getaway spot. There’s no staff to wait on you, no in-house restaurant, or swimming pools. We want to inspire young people in their twenties to understand what farming is, and then we group them to learn leadership skills in agriculture. People who come here have to be ready to work hard,” says Amar. The latest moos Among the many attractions of working farms are their livestock, particularly their young. Tending to the animals is a way for children growing up in urban areas to discover the intricacies of the natural food chain. For bovine companionship, head to the Karma Dairy Farm at Chikkamaranahalli, Nelamangala town near Bengaluru, that rears its 150 indigenous cows according to Israeli techniques. “The cows are milked by automated pumps in the early hours of the morning,” says the farm’s managing partner Vishwanath Murthy. “The farm sells regular milk and its by-products such as yoghurt and ghee. We also use the milk to prepare traditional sweetmeats that are sold through our India Sweet House outlets.” Originally from a family of agriculturalists in Vijipura, Murthy was involved in medical transcription and other BPO ventures, before he launched the Karma Dairy Farm in Madikeri in 2013. The 39-year-old entrepreneur co-founded India Sweet House with Shwetha Rajashekar. Besides dairy training programmes and outreach initiatives such as calf adoption, Karma Dairy Farm also offers overnight stays in luxury cabins made from converted shipping containers. “Guests can see how the cows are milked, and the sweet making process from farm to fork in under 12 hours, so that they can understand how fresh and good food can be prepared on a commercial scale,” says Murthy. Farming, bicycling and sightseeing are all part of the package at the Nannilam Farm House, a 10-acre property in Acchukattu, in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district. Started by former tour guide Sudhakar Selwyn, in 2015, the resort has reserved five of its 10 acres for organic farming (coconut, mango, millets and fodder crops). With compressed bamboo wood cottages and tents on offer as accommodation, guests can enjoy their stay in Nannilam, while occasionally encountering ‘uninvited guests’ from the forest nearby. Maintaining the agri-tourist facility has been a fruitful experience, says Selwyn. “We are trying to revive an interest in traditional cooking. While exchanging ideas with our guests, I am also learning from them about eco-friendly agri-tourism.” Home away from home To make the stay truly memorable, many farms opt for buildings that are as architecturally distinctive as they are sustainable in the long run. Karthik Padmanabhan and his wife Shyla set up Yash Farms four years ago in Narayanaghatta, six kilometres from Electronic City Phase II in Bengaluru, for personal reasons. “We wanted to improve our quality of life, which we measure by how much food we take, the kind of environment we live in, the water we drink, and more importantly, the awareness that we are part of a larger ecosystem,” says Padmanabhan, who works in the IT industry in Bengaluru. Their one-acre property, which accepts guests on the weekends and is used as a venue for photo-shoots on workdays, is an example of sustainable living — the main house has been built with mud and stones, and only 10% of the entire construction has cement in it. “We have not used modern building materials, and not shifted things too much to avoid generating pollution while we built the property,” says Padmanabhan. “The idea is to help people who come here experience concepts such as rainwater harvesting, water conservation, agriculture, or using solar energy, so that when they return home, they too can practise sustainable living.” Transferring the creature comforts of an urban hotel to the rural landscape in the name of tourism is not really the way ahead, as Amar points out. “The pandemic has made us aware of the damage that our cities have suffered,” he says, adding “If we have learned our lesson, we must now take good care of our rural areas and preserve vegetation rather than turning them into luxury real estate.”  More rural resorts are creating experiential holidays with families in mind||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/book-an-anti-resort-with-wifi-and-goats/article36621904.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Nostalgia, updated||A woman on the pitch. A man cheering her on. A familiar dance to a familiar tune, chocolate bars in tow: It has just been a few days since Cadbury India released a scene-by-scene recreation of its iconic ‘90s advertisement for Dairy Milk but the Internet refuses to move on. As screens light up with the new version, which challenges conventional, one-sided gender roles, the hashtags #nostalgia trends across social media. Every ‘90s kid is emotional, while Gen Z rushes to catch up with the hype and watches the 1994 version. Some on Twitter are calling it “updated nostalgia”. The narrative, which is also a tribute to the Indian women’s cricket team (#GoodLuckGirls) sits comfortably on the shoulders of its protagonists and their performances. Directed by Shashank Chaturvedi, the advertisement by Good Morning Films features Chennai-based actor and educator Kavya Ramachandran in the role of the cricketer, who is earning steady praise for her subtle, relatable performance. Prabhneet Singh plays the role that Shimona Rashi played in the 1994 advertisement. Though it is a shot by shot recreation, both actors make the characters their own in this contemporary take. Kavya says she had not seen the iconic advertisement which catapulted model Shimona Rashi (read: Cadbury girl) to fame: She was born the same year it aired. She saw it in its entirety when the casting director, Gayathri Smitha sent the advertisement to her for reference. Did she anticipate this reaction? “Not one bit,” Kavya laughs. The actor who is active in the Chennai theatre fraternity, also co-founded an NGO called Sukha Education Foundation that looks at bridging the gap between education and employability. “Once they cast me, I watched the advertisement multiple times. There was a little fear that came out of the pressure of recreating an iconic advertisment. Once I reached the set [in Mumbai], I understood the gravity of the project. But I was told that it was never about outdoing the classic; but looking at it as an ode. A contemporary version with a twist,” she recalls. It was shot, over two days, in Brabourne Stadium in Mumbai. As the Internet drowns in nostalgia, half the credit goes to the song: Shankar Mahadevan’s ‘Kuch Khaas Hai’, and Kavya echoes this sentiment. “The music really drove the reaction,” she says. It has once again become an earworm. As for that hook shot: it was practised and perfected over a three-day coaching camp in JSRCA run by Rajesh P, former State player in Santhome, Chennai. “Even though I have two left feet and no coordination when it comes to cricket, sport is a huge part of who I am. I was so excited to play, or even be associated with a sport on a platform such as Cadbury’s,” says the National-level swimmer whose most recent medal was a gold in Master’s National Games, Baroda in 2020. She recalls how during the coaching, young boys threw multiple balls at her, in order to help her perfect the hook shot. Her fellow teammates and actors were also professional competitive cricketers belonging to different State teams. “I was a little embarrassed to play in front of them. But the girls were so supportive and extremely encouraging,” she says.  According to Kavya, “The beauty of it is that the music was not changed or remixed at all, and it struck a chord with the people as it did back in the ’90s,” says Kavya. “And to be able to see girls, in a competitive sport get cheered on, is very refreshing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/nostalgia-updated/article36621898.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Now I’m really present, ma’am!||September 16, 2021. I am back in school after 18 months! And I am cautiously optimistic, despite being fully aware that we can never make up for the lost days. I walked in early and had to restrain myself from giving dear friends a warm hug. COVID declaration forms were signed, hands were sanitised and we were in class, after oh-so-long. I started out with a quiz in each of the classes, trying to guess the identities of my wards. After more than a year of online class, I had never really ‘met’ many of my students. I did stumble now and then, but it wasn’t a bad score overall. Meeting teenagers after 18 months has its share of laughs. I did swallow a comment and a giggle when I saw a young man whose uniform trousers was on a slow trot along the shank inching towards his knee. Several voices are breaking, grating, struggling to find identity especially in not-yet-a man’s land. A student who had never seen me on campus quipped “Ma’am, I thought you would be much… Bigger in person”. “How I wish!” I muttered. I reached out to the little ones after the first day on campus, and a XIIth grader said, “I felt nothing had really changed about school. Being back really made a difference… I was able to focus more, and being around my friends was awesome!” Another agreed. “I found that I was not getting distracted at all.” Besides the ‘veteran’ students, I was curious to know how the new XIth grade entrants felt on campus. Perhaps grateful to be in the midst of minds and antics of people their age? Relieved to finally get a break from their families? “Ma’am, this is the most normal I have felt in a long while,” said one student. Another chimed in, “As a new kid, online classes are not easy. I’m glad to be on campus because the feeling of making new friends face-to-face, and being able to shout out answers in class without having to unmute myself is a comfort.” When students taught teachers The school provided two rounds of training to get teachers ready for hybrid classes on campus. Our mode of teaching-learning will be a mix of online and offline classes for the foreseeable future. Students have been divided into batches and will all get a chance to experience both forms of learning. All through the pandemic, the young tech-savvy generation has been making life easier for us teachers. I didn’t ever have to ask Google or Alexa when stuck with technology; my students would jump in to guide me through the troubleshooting steps. The teacher-student distance did blur and a bonhomie blossomed. I must confess the joy of learning from one’s own students is not something words can convey. I have navigated three decades of holding forth in classrooms in Mumbai and Chennai to audiences aged 15-21. But, moving online posed unexpected new challenges. My confidence to gauge a student’s state of mind was eaten away, slowly, steadily with an inadequacy to gauge eye movement, body language, comprehension across rectangular screens. The fine lines between truth, white lies and a blatant lie dissipated when students wrote in on yet another device that despite their prayers, audio fairies had failed them. ‘My Internet has failed; there is a power-cut at home; I am out of data’ became as insipid as ‘I forgot to bring my homework’ lines. Then came another googly… assessment and evaluation. I had to push myself to correct papers digitally. Reams of digital answers left me with a pain ‘in the neck’, the lumbar spine, and dry eyes. The diffidence and fear that nurtured tech-phobia had to be conquered. Triumph, we did with a little help from each other and family. But as deaths mounted, fear enveloped each of us. It struck close to home when colleagues lost partners and students struggled to come to terms with personal losses. Fears and frustrations of the graduating batch of 2021 had to be constantly allayed; but I am grateful to them for having trusted me and let me into their lives. Today, most of them have reached their universities and embarked on fresh journeys. I have always been a great friend of the blackboard and chalk. Now I wonder whether I will ever go back to seeing my fingers covered with chalk dust! This I do know… however adept I get on a smartboard, I will truly miss you, my chalkboard. The smartboard however is a very exciting space. As an English teacher I plan to take the class on a virtual tour of The Globe Theatre, trek the Yukon Valley and watch and listen to poets reading out their own works. So here we are, back in near-antiseptic classrooms, observing all standard protocol, cautiously working our way out of the COVID conundrum. At no time has people skills been more pertinent and the ability to see, observe, offer a shoulder and build trust seems to be the need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/now-im-really-present-maam/article36621911.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Mylapore Kitchens, Chennai||Subhasri Natesan came to Chennai in 1995 to pursue an undergraduate course at NIFT, and later married and settled here. But many of her cherished memories are rooted in Palakkad, where she was raised. Mylapore Kitchens is a blend of both influences. “My husband’s grandmother and his mother were great cooks and from them, I learnt the art of roasting and adding the right ratio of ingredients. Having learnt the basics, I started making sambar and rasam podi and shared them with friends for feedback. Gradually, I built on the product range,” says Subhasri. Her website,www.mylaporekitchens.in,lists over 20 types of podi, Palakkad style pickles and jackfruit appalam . “There is a huge demand for homemade preservative-free podis, and the bestsellers thus far have been the 12 types of rasam powders. There is a subtle difference in the Tanjore and Palakkad style of mixes we offer, and we see that demand has been consistently growing, mainly due to an increasing interest in home-style cooking,” she says. For the upcoming festival season, they are offering gift hampers. Shipping across India and overseas. Instagram: @Mylaporekitchens. Call: 9003183002||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mylapore-kitchens-chennai/article36621918.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Killing it softly||There is a scene in Manu Ashokan’s Kaanekkaane that has Suraj Venjaramoodu’s mastery over the craft written all over it. It is when his character, Paul Mathai, transforms from a grieving father to an angry man seeking vengeance. Manu’s second film, which made a quiet entry on Sony Liv, has turned out to be the pick of cinebuffs as a result of a powerhouse of talents: Suraj, Tovino Thomas and Aishwariya Lekshmi. But it is Suraj’s act as a doting grandfather yet an implacable foe that stood out. He is all praise for the director, who made his debut in 2019 with the much-appreciated Uyare . He says that the script and director helped him breathe life into the elderly, grey-haired Paul who loses his daughter in an accident. Paul, however, begins to suspect if it was an accident or planned murder. That is when Paul turns investigator, determined to discover the truth behind his daughter’s death at any cost. The perfect act “It is a character that could have easily been melodramatic but Manu ensured that my act never crossed that line. For any memorable character, 50% is shaped by a good script, director and actor. But it becomes complete only when viewers appreciate it. That is what makes Paul so special,” says Suraj. He asserts that having two brilliant actors like Tovino and Aishwariya certainly helped him ace the character. “Even the actors with small parts did so well. I feel it is Manu’s ability that he got all of us to come up with realistic acts. I haven’t met Bobby and Sanjay, the writers and scenarists of the film, but Manu conveyed exactly what he wanted me to do,” says Suraj. A happy man Suraj has moved from strength to strength with a range of performances that began with a small role in Abrid Shine’s Action Hero Biju . The actor has been on a roll since the lockdown, with his character of a chauvinistic husband in Great Indian Kitchen going places. “Both my films that were released on OTT during the lockdown have done extremely well. Like everyone else in the film industry, I would have loved to see these films in theatres. But since OTT is the only way out for now, it has been a lifesaver in garnering new viewership for Malayalam films,” he says. Though he made his entry into tinsel town as a comedian, Suraj’s recent films have him getting into serious characters, with the absence of his trademark slapstick comedy and the Thiruvananthapuram slang that used to win him applause. “I have been getting ‘serious’ characters ever since some of my roles with a serious outlook struck a chord. But I will soon be doing a fun-filled film. Humour is my lifeline; it is in my breath and I am looking forward to acting in a light-hearted movie. However, audienes have changed and they are not going to accept the kind of comedy that used to elicit laughter before,” he says. Suraj has directed several skits and programmes for the small screen. But he feels he is not ready to turn director. “When my friends step behind the camera, I am tempted but I also know what a difficult job it is. After acting in 300-plus films, I am aware that being a director is not for everyone. So, for the time being, I plan on doing my best as an actor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/killing-it-softly/article36621872.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Opt for the corona-combo||Chennai’s Grace Supermarket chain has been online for over two years now, even before the COVID-19 lockdowns hit. But its website was a backburner project, a very small part of its operations. The chain’s dozen physical grocery shops across Chennai have always been its mainstay, till the first nationwide lockdown of 2020 flipped the tables completely. Suddenly, the website was handling most of their sales. “We were also delivering to customers who placed orders over phone calls or WhatsApp,” says Subramanian Sundaram, manager and head of operations. To announce that they were available online, they put their website on their delivery vans ferrying goods around the neighbourhood, thus attracting even more cutsomers. Grace was one of the luckier kirana stores — or perhaps one with more foresight; many others found themselves grappling with the unfamiliarity of online operations in a sudden need to keep business afloat, whilst being blindsided by the pandemic. This is where start ups like GoFrugal, a Chennai-based tech solutions firm setting up online systems and apps, stepped in. GoFrugal shot to prominence during lockdown, having helped retail stores around the country move online. Kumar Vembu, founder and CEO, compares the process to “performing a complex bypass surgery when the patient was working.” This is mainly because, though there was an urgent need to shift operations online, business hours were extremely limited and “ Kiranas couldn’t afford to pause their business to get an ERP [Enterprise Resource Planning software] implemented.” Vembu adds, “ Kirana stores are experts in doing things repeatedly. Implementing a software solution, though, is a one-time activity. For some, it was the first time they implemented an ERP for their business. Over the years, however, we have evolved a process where we have minimised the time required for the kiranas to implement our solution . In fact, our solution can be implemented in four hours, depending on the size of the business.” The firm has been doing this since 2004 and boasts a clientele of over 8,000 kirana stores across the country. Recent challenges, however, meant it had to come up with solutions tailored to the pandemic. “We recently launched a ‘corona combo’ to help kirana stores quickly upgrade and serve customers omni-channel. The three apps, online-ordering, delivery, stock-pick, have helped them win new customers, serve them faster and better,” says Kumar. Some challenges have remained constant, such as keeping inventory and training personnel. For many employees, work so far had required little to no tech-related education or training. “It was hard to get kirana staff to use software solutions. Also, constant attrition was a challenge, more so post the pandemic. We listened to them and empathised with their predicament,” says Kumar. Their solution was adding a “practice mode” to the software, and setting up training videos. Once equipped and trained, the friendly neighbourhood grocery shops just had to do what they do best: serve their customers. As Subramanian points out, neighbourhood shops and chains have one large advantage over online-only services like Big Basket: “Those brands have one or two warehouses, from where they have to plan out deliveries across the city. For us, each of our 26 shops in different neighbourhoods acts as a mini warehouse, since all the stock is right there.” Having the product ready for dispatch just one or two lanes away from the customer makes a massive difference to delivery, explains Subramanian. It also helps that the people nearby already know and trust the store, and are glad to find a familiar name online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/opt-for-the-corona-combo/article36621878.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||‘My work is all about connecting with people’||Last February, before the pandemic hit,Aadhi of Hiphop Tamizha fametook a one-day trip to Kanchipuram. There was a wedding in the family, and saris had to be bought. “I was called to do driver velai ,” he grins, recalling that day. Even as the women in his family sifted through various saris, a bored Aadhi chatted with the shopkeeper and pestered him to show him how they weave a sari. “I got a first-hand glimpse into the process and the livelihoods of the people behind it.” Aadhi knew there was a film idea there, but he still needed a young hero. “If you’ve been to Kanchipuram, you might see a group of guys hanging around on bikes when you enter town. If you are a tourist, they will guide you to the shops, depending on your budget.” Aadhi envisioned himself as one of those men, named that character Sivakumar, and wove a storyline around it. That film is Sivakumarin Sabadham (SS) , releasing on September 30 in theatres. Produced by Sathya Jyothi Films, it features Madhuri, Prankster Rahul and a host of newcomers. Its calling card, of course, is Aadhi himself, who has written and directed it, apart from scoring the music and starring in it. “When I was in college, we would study and produce, shoot and direct music videos on the side. We have even physically distributed our CDs back then! Today, I do pretty much the same job, but have an audience watching the content I put out. SS came along with a lot of pressure as it was a big project and needed to be shot with intense pandemic protocols. But it has me doing all the things I am very passionate about.” Aadhi wrote SS as a theatrical, because he believes the cinema hall connects people. “When people connect with a sequence on screen, it becomes a successful theatrical moment. Take the ‘Vaadi Pulla’ song from Meesaya Muruku. If a person oblivious to the song watches it in the theatre, he might be puzzled with everyone’s cheering… but that is because the song has already clicked, and fans erupt at seeing it on the big screen.” So, how does he work towards creating such moments? “It automatically falls in place, because I am always connected with ground reality. I am first the audience, and then a filmmaker. My team is like a training ground for aspirants; in Meesaya Muruku , we introduced a dozen people who are now doing various things on their own. I want everyone in my team to grow bigger than me.” With Anbarivu and another project lined up, Aadhi believes that he is growing as an actor. “When my first film released in 2017, it clashed with Vikram Vedha . The collection of Vikram Vedha was huge, but my film opened bigger. That is because a big group of youngsters came to the theatres that day. Since then, the openings of my films have become much bigger. And today, there is a production house that is investing and making me a star….”  Studio on the go Though he is busy acting, the composer in him is still alive. He is currently composing for Telugu film Agent and Tamil fantasy flick Aalambana . “In my earlier years, my music needed to be hits and make money. Now, I can try music solely to satisfy my creative thirst,” he says. While Agent will explore action-based music, Aalambana will have an Arabic flavour. “My upcoming flick, Anbarivu , has me as its hero, where my only job is to follow the instructions of the director. The minute my shot was over, I would head to my caravan which has an entire studio setup. I have nearly 60 songs, out of which I’m putting together a dozen songs in an upcoming album. I have mini studios in my caravan, home, office and car, and can compose whenever I am free.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/my-work-is-all-about-connecting-with-people/article36621875.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Wind in hair, questions in mind||Arun’s very first borrowed Holga camera was often his only companion during long rides through screaming traffic on the East Coast Road. Sights typical of home, whizzed past him as he journeyed on his Enfield for hours at end: from paddy fields where women in rows, with petticoats tucked into their waists and bare legs sunk in mud, tend to the crop, to a forgotten 16th Century temple tank. This journey birthed Repressed Memories, a collection of vignettes that answers many questions that plagued Arun as a child, about his identity. The self-taught photographer works extensively on film. Repressed Memories, created over a period of five years since 2016, is entirely shot on analogue cameras. And so, not only are the shots black-and-white, they are also imperfect. And that’s exactly what Arun loves about his practice: accidents. “The project started from ECR, onto the inlands and to the mountains,” says Arun. Chennai, Puducherry, Tarangabadi, Karaikal, Rameshwaram, Thoothukudi, Madurai, Kovilpatti, Tiruchi, Thiruvannamalai, Yercaud, Gudalur, Udhagamandalam and Kotagari are some of the locations he covered. He shot people and animals in their environments: Their interaction with the landscape, and how they embrace loneliness amid chaos interested him. As a child growing up in the city, such scenes were alien to Arun which made him question how much he knew about his home. “When I started, the project was very narrow; my observations were limited. Slowly, my narration and articulation evolved as diptychs and triptychs which made more sense to me. I feel that they speak more sense now,” says Arun. In one of the diptychs, a blurred frame captures a sky clad in fireworks and in juxtaposition stands a man who embodies a demon god in a temple festival. He recalls the stop at Kulasekarapattinam in Thoothukudi. His focus was on the Kulasai Dasara festival where lakhs gathered in its pre-pandemic years. “It’s very chaotic. I remember capturing the interaction of a husband and wife: she was helping her husband put makeup on. Such quiet moments make me curious,” says Arun. He discovered the beauty of out-of-focus, shaken images purely by accident. Since images can be reviewed only once they are developed, unlike in a digital camera, there is scope for surprises. “Once I discovered why it is happening, I started doing it on purpose. Here, I know what I am taking but such accidents make the process more organic,” he recalls. “In analogue, you keep thinking. You load, take pictures, develop and scan — there is no moment when you can forget about your work,” says Arun. “There are no gaps.” Repressed Memories travelled to Angkor Photo Festival in Cambodia in late 2020 and is now getting its second gallery display in Auroville at Centre d’Art Gallery.  The exhibit will be on display at Centre d'Art Gallery, Citadines, Auroville till October 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wind-in-hair-questions-in-mind/article36621883.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Upcycle, don’t shop||“From the beginning, we have been focussing on making By Hand from the Heart an experience by itself and not just about the sale — especially now, as our customers are coming back after a long time,” says Deepa Sekhar, co-founder of By Hand From the Heart. The 30th edition of this pop up brings 30 entrepreneurs from across the country to showcase their creations and conduct workshops. As the focus in this edition is on sustainability, they have counters especially for upcycling and recycling. “Murtle, the Hyderabad-based store that specialises in modular footwear, will be working on upcycling of used footwear. Customers can bring in their shoes and craftspersons will upcycle them with new elements and refurbish them. They will take the order here and send it back to customers within 48 hours,” she says. Oh Scrap, a Chennai brand known for upcycled home accessories, bags and garments, will be collecting old garments and fabrics at their counter. “As many families spent the lockdowns learning traditional cooking, we have roped in Zishta, known for traditional cookware. This is also why, for the first time, we are offering food-related workshops,” says Deepa. Food grammar and food sense will be conducted by the proprietor of Maiyam Past Food, Auroville, Vijhay Ganesh M. “I will talk about understanding the sourcing, cooking and consumption of indigenous ingredients. The second section will be on identifying authentic jaggery, dairy, ghee and oils,” says Vijhay. A coffee appreciation session will be held by Davrah Coffee, Chennai. “We also decided to feature Chennai’s Backyardbysai as the interest in gardening has gained momentum. This shop in Kodambakkam had been door-delivering plants and gardening accessories throughout lockdown,” says Deepa.  By Hand from the Heart is on September 25, 10 am to 8 pm, at Hanu Reddy Residences, Poes Garden. For details, call 8248126254.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/upcycle-dont-shop/article36621894.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Book an anti-resort, with wifi and goats||Lockdown has done what years of social conditioning could not: make the outdoors great again. People are now looking for places to commune with Nature while staying remotely connected to their office in wifi-enabled ‘anti-resorts’ in villages. Describe this new normal of domestic travel as you will — work-from-farm, revenge tourism or day-tripping, it is clear that the joys of a simpler life have become evident to a growing number of people. The people behind this revived interest in agri-tourism are new-age farmers and Nature lovers keen on creating eco-friendly green spaces within easy reach of the city. Farm-based restaurants curating ‘locavore’ menus (with locally grown food), have also sprung up during lockdown. “There has definitely been an upswing in the number of people interested in farm holidays during the lockdown because they want to stay in a naturally socially distanced environment away from crowds,” says Kiruba Shankar, a Chennai-based digital professional and public speaker who runs Vaksana Farms in Rettanai village in Tindivanam. Farm stays are meant to be about getting immersed in the rhythm of village life. “The beauty of staying in a working farm is that you can get your hands dirty, and participate in the daily tasks. I always encourage guests to make the most of the farm, and not consider it like some timeshare where you just come and go,” says Kiruba, whose 13-acre organic farm grows fruit trees and millets and also maintains cattle and a shelter for abandoned pets. Vaksana can accommodate 15 to 20 people in their current premises, and a ‘big tiny house’, called Pico has recently opened for bookings. A Miyawaki forest of fruit trees is among the attractions here. Families as customers With work-from-home becoming a common practice, more rural resorts are creating experiential holidays with families in mind. Business innovation consultant Shammy Jacob and anthropologist Charlotte Van’t Klooster, who moved into their ‘lifestyle farm’ with their kids in Thalambur (20 kilometres from Chennai) after shifting from Amsterdam in 2013, have seen a significant change in their visitor demographic this year. “Before lockdown, we used to have many IT professionals as volunteers; for them, farming was both a way to relieve their stress, and a chance to live their dream of working in the fields. Now, we see more families, especially those with young children, venturing out for picnics on our premises. For many residents of gated communities, the drive to get the morning milk directly from our farm is an adventure in itself,” says Shammy. The farm’s sustainability is underscored by the use of solar power and a catchment system to nourish the water table and build up biodiversity. For city-dwellers itching to get started in agriculture, Shammy has started leasing out one ground (4,800 square feet) of land within the three-acre farm, which can be used as test plots. “We provide the seeds and relevant guidance on growing crops; it helps people to find out all about farming before they take it up full-time,” he says. “There is a real transfer of knowledge taking place between generations when families use these mini farm patches, because it is usually the parents or grandparents who teach the children how to plant saplings,” says Charlotte. Making agriculture attractive to the younger generation is one of the key goals of Kadambavanam farm in Cheyyur, 102 kilometres from Chennai. Run by photographer Amar Ramesh with activities curated by Ratheesh Krishnan and SS Sriram of SPI Edge, the farm is open to visitors only by invitation through its Instagram page. “Kadambavanam is the opposite of a typical village getaway spot. There’s no staff to wait on you, no in-house restaurant, or swimming pools. We want to inspire young people in their twenties to understand what farming is, and then we group them to learn leadership skills in agriculture. People who come here have to be ready to work hard,” says Amar. The latest moos Among the many attractions of working farms are their livestock, particularly their young. Tending to the animals is a way for children growing up in urban areas to discover the intricacies of the natural food chain. For bovine companionship, head to the Karma Dairy Farm at Chikkamaranahalli, Nelamangala town near Bengaluru, that rears its 150 indigenous cows according to Israeli techniques. “The cows are milked by automated pumps in the early hours of the morning,” says the farm’s managing partner Vishwanath Murthy. “The farm sells regular milk and its by-products such as yoghurt and ghee. We also use the milk to prepare traditional sweetmeats that are sold through our India Sweet House outlets.” Originally from a family of agriculturalists in Vijipura, Murthy was involved in medical transcription and other BPO ventures, before he launched the Karma Dairy Farm in Madikeri in 2013. The 39-year-old entrepreneur co-founded India Sweet House with Shwetha Rajashekar. Besides dairy training programmes and outreach initiatives such as calf adoption, Karma Dairy Farm also offers overnight stays in luxury cabins made from converted shipping containers. “Guests can see how the cows are milked, and the sweet making process from farm to fork in under 12 hours, so that they can understand how fresh and good food can be prepared on a commercial scale,” says Murthy. Farming, bicycling and sightseeing are all part of the package at the Nannilam Farm House, a 10-acre property in Acchukattu, in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district. Started by former tour guide Sudhakar Selwyn, in 2015, the resort has reserved five of its 10 acres for organic farming (coconut, mango, millets and fodder crops). With compressed bamboo wood cottages and tents on offer as accommodation, guests can enjoy their stay in Nannilam, while occasionally encountering ‘uninvited guests’ from the forest nearby. Maintaining the agri-tourist facility has been a fruitful experience, says Selwyn. “We are trying to revive an interest in traditional cooking. While exchanging ideas with our guests, I am also learning from them about eco-friendly agri-tourism.” Home away from home To make the stay truly memorable, many farms opt for buildings that are as architecturally distinctive as they are sustainable in the long run. Karthik Padmanabhan and his wife Shyla set up Yash Farms four years ago in Narayanaghatta, six kilometres from Electronic City Phase II in Bengaluru, for personal reasons. “We wanted to improve our quality of life, which we measure by how much food we take, the kind of environment we live in, the water we drink, and more importantly, the awareness that we are part of a larger ecosystem,” says Padmanabhan, who works in the IT industry in Bengaluru. Their one-acre property, which accepts guests on the weekends and is used as a venue for photo-shoots on workdays, is an example of sustainable living — the main house has been built with mud and stones, and only 10% of the entire construction has cement in it. “We have not used modern building materials, and not shifted things too much to avoid generating pollution while we built the property,” says Padmanabhan. “The idea is to help people who come here experience concepts such as rainwater harvesting, water conservation, agriculture, or using solar energy, so that when they return home, they too can practise sustainable living.” Transferring the creature comforts of an urban hotel to the rural landscape in the name of tourism is not really the way ahead, as Amar points out. “The pandemic has made us aware of the damage that our cities have suffered,” he says, adding: “If we have learnt our lesson, we must now take good care of our rural areas and preserve vegetation rather than turning them into luxury real estate.”  More rural resorts are creating experiential holidays with families in mind||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/book-an-anti-resort-with-wifi-and-goats/article36622406.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Nostalgia, updated||A woman on the pitch. A man cheering her on. A familiar dance to a familiar tune, chocolate bars in tow: It has just been a few days since Cadbury India released a scene-by-scene recreation of its iconic ‘90s advertisement for Dairy Milk but the Internet refuses to move on. As screens light up with the new version, which challenges conventional, one-sided gender roles, the hashtags #nostalgia trends across social media. Every ‘90s kid is emotional, while Gen Z rushes to catch up with the hype and watches the 1994 version. Some on Twitter are calling it “updated nostalgia”. The narrative, which is also a tribute to the Indian women’s cricket team (#GoodLuckGirls) sits comfortably on the shoulders of its protagonists and their performances. Directed by Shashank Chaturvedi, the advertisement by Good Morning Films features Chennai-based actor and educator Kavya Ramachandran in the role of the cricketer, who is earning steady praise for her subtle, relatable performance. Prabhneet Singh plays the role that Shimona Rashi played in the 1994 advertisement. Though it is a shot by shot recreation, both actors make the characters their own in this contemporary take. Kavya says she had not seen the iconic advertisement which catapulted model Shimona Rashi (read: Cadbury girl) to fame: She was born the same year it aired. She saw it in its entirety when the casting director, Gayathri Smitha sent the advertisement to her for reference. Did she anticipate this reaction? “Not one bit,” Kavya laughs. The actor who is active in the Chennai theatre fraternity, also co-founded an NGO called Sukha Education Foundation that looks at bridging the gap between education and employability. “Once they cast me, I watched the advertisement multiple times. There was a little fear that came out of the pressure of recreating an iconic advertisment. Once I reached the set [in Mumbai], I understood the gravity of the project. But I was told that it was never about outdoing the classic; but looking at it as an ode. A contemporary version with a twist,” she recalls. It was shot, over two days, in Brabourne Stadium in Mumbai. As the Internet drowns in nostalgia, half the credit goes to the song: Shankar Mahadevan’s ‘Kuch Khaas Hai’, and Kavya echoes this sentiment. “The music really drove the reaction,” she says. It has once again become an earworm. As for that hook shot: it was practised and perfected over a three-day coaching camp in JSRCA run by Rajesh P., former State player in Santhome, Chennai. “Even though I have two left feet and no coordination when it comes to cricket, sport is a huge part of who I am. I was so excited to play, or even be associated with a sport on a platform such as Cadbury’s,” says the National-level swimmer whose most recent medal was a gold in Master’s National Games at Baroda in 2020. She recalls how during the coaching, young boys threw multiple balls at her, in order to help her perfect the hook shot. Her fellow teammates and actors were also professional competitive cricketers belonging to different State teams. “I was a little embarrassed to play in front of them. But the girls were so supportive and extremely encouraging,” she says.  According to Kavya, “The beauty of it is that the music was not changed or remixed at all, and it struck a chord with the people as it did back in the ’90s,” says Kavya. “And to be able to see girls, in a competitive sport get cheered on, is very refreshing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/nostalgia-updated/article36622405.ece
23 September 2021||September 23 2021 00:00 IST,||Upcycle, don’t shop||“From the beginning, we have been focussing on making By Hand from the Heart an experience by itself and not just about the sale — especially now, as our customers are coming back after a long time,” says Deepa Sekhar, co-founder of By Hand From the Heart. The 30th edition of this pop up brings 30 entrepreneurs from across the country to showcase their creations and conduct workshops. As the focus in this edition is on sustainability, they have counters especially for upcycling and recycling. “Murtle, the Hyderabad-based store that specialises in modular footwear, will be working on upcycling of used footwear. Customers can bring in their shoes and craftspersons will upcycle them with new elements and refurbish them. They will take the order here and send it back to customers within 48 hours,” she says. Oh Scrap, a Chennai brand known for upcycled home accessories, bags and garments, will be collecting old garments and fabrics at their counter. “As many families spent the lockdowns learning traditional cooking, we have roped in Zishta, known for traditional cookware. This is also why, for the first time, we are offering food-related workshops,” says Deepa. Food grammar and food sense will be conducted by the proprietor of Maiyam Past Food, Auroville, Vijhay Ganesh M. “I will talk about understanding the sourcing, cooking and consumption of indigenous ingredients. The second section will be on identifying authentic jaggery, dairy, ghee and oils,” says Vijhay. A coffee appreciation session will be held by Davrah Coffee, Chennai. “We also decided to feature Chennai’s Backyardbysai as the interest in gardening has gained momentum. This shop in Kodambakkam had been door-delivering plants and gardening accessories throughout lockdown,” says Deepa.  By Hand from the Heart is on September 25, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., at Hanu Reddy Residences, Poes Garden, Chennai. For details, call 8248126254.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/upcycle-dont-shop/article36622468.ece
23 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. gets a surfeit of statues ahead of polls||The statue of Samrat Mihir Bhoj, an icon for both the OBC Gurjar and dominant Rajput communities, unveiled by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Gautam Buddha Nagar’s Dadri town on Wednesday is one of the many such cultural icons and political figures that have been recently installed in the poll-bound State. Be it icons appealing to communities and castes, boasting a local legacy or those linked to the freedom struggle, the ruling BJP and the main Opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) have gone on an installation spree to honour such figures. On September 9, Mr. Adityanath unveiled a statue of Bharatendu Harishchadra at the Bharatendu Natya Akademi here on the noted Hindi playwright and poet’s 171st birth anniversary as part of the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to mark the country’s 75th year of Independence. In July, Mr. Adityanath along with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh was present as a statue of Lalji Tandon was unveiled in Lucknow’s prime Hazratganj area on the first death anniversary of the veteran BJP leader from the Khatri community who was considered close to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. His son Ashutosh Tandon is a Cabinet Minister in the Yogi Adityanath government. National pride In August, President Ram Nath Kovind unveiled a statue of former CM Sampoornananda and also inaugurated an auditorium named after him at the U.P. Sainik School in Lucknow. Mr. Kovind had said Sampoorananda and Param Vir Chakra awardee Captain Manoj Kumar Pandey, after whom the school is named, shared the common idea of dedicating everything to national pride. Interestingly, Sampoornananda is not the only former CM from the Congress whose statue has been installed. Mr. Adityanath in August also inaugurated a statue of Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna at the Yojana Bhavan here to honour his efforts towards ushering in “development” and said that his tenure was “unforgettable.” The statue was seen as a move to woo the Brahmins. Earlier in March, Mr. Adityanath unveiled a statue of Hindu Rajput king Maharana Pratap in Bahraich district and also laid the foundation stone of a statue of Rudendra Bikram Singh, former royalty of Payagpur who was also a BJP legislator from Kaiserganj in 1991. This came a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of a memorial for Maharaja Suheldev and development work of the Chittaura lake in the same district. ‘Rectifying mistakes’ Medieval Bhar chieftain Suheldev, whose legacy is contested by both Pasis (Dalits) and Rajbhars (OBC), has over the years been projected as a Hindutva icon by the RSS-BJP for stopping the march of a nephew of Mahmud Ghaznavi even though his historical existence is shrouded in mystery. At the event, Mr. Modi had said the country was rectifying the mistakes, injustice and tampering of history. In 2016, then BJP chief Amit Shah had unveiled a statue of Suheldev in Bahraich. Not to be left behind and working to build a larger coalition of castes, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has also been inaugurating statues dedicated to caste icons. Last month, Mr. Yadav unveiled a statue of senior SP leader and former Minister Bhagwati Singh in the Bakshi Ka Talab Inter College here months after his death. Earlier in July, Mr. Yadav unveiled a statue of OBC-Nishad leader Manohar Lal on his 85th birth anniversary at Sarosi village in Unnao district. Lal was an SP MLA and also served as a Minister apart from winning the Lok Sabha polls from Kanpur in 1977 as a Bharatiya Lok Dal candidate. His son Deepak Kumar is also a former MP and three-time MLA from Unnao. In March, Mr. Yadav unveiled a statue of Kotwal Dhan Singh Gurjar, known as a martyr in the 1857 fight for independence in Mawana in Meerut . He also unveiled a statue of former Union Minister and Kurmi stalwart Beni Prasad Verma in Barabanki on his death anniversary. SP leaders have also announced they would install a statue of Phoolan Devi, the Mallah caste icon and former bandit who was later elected to the Lok Sabha, in Rae Bareli. Apart from these, the SP has promised to build a statue of Lord Parshuram in a bid to woo the influential Brahmin community, a vow also made by BSP chief Mayawati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-gets-a-surfeit-of-statues-ahead-of-polls/article36622239.ece
23 September 2021||Patna,||14 get life term in scribe’s murder case in Bihar||A local court in Bihar’s Samastipur district on Wednesday sentenced to life imprisonment 14 accused persons in journalist Vikas Ranjan murder case. Ranjan was killed over a land dispute on November 25, 2008, in Rosera sub-division of the district. The family members of the deceased had accused 14 persons, including a local Lok Janshakti Party leader Swayamvar Yadav. While hearing the case, a local district court pronounced life sentence to all the 14 accused persons after 13 years of the incident. “Journalist Vikas Ranjan was killed on November 25, 2008, in Rosera over a land dispute. The dispute was with cousins of his village and they had hatched a conspiracy to kill him by hiring goons,” prosecution lawyer Heera Devi told local media persons. Strong evidence She added, “We produced strong evidences including audio and video clips to the court. The accused persons had threatened Vikas Ranjan and his family members with dire consequences several times. We produced eye-witnesses of the incident in the court which finally helped to get justice for Ranjan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/14-get-life-term-in-scribes-murder-case-in-bihar/article36622240.ece
23 September 2021||Mumbai,||Warrant issued against Mumbai ex-police chief||Second bailable warrant has been issued against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for not appearing before a commission set up to probe corruption charges against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh levied by Mr. Singh. The warrant has been issued by retired judge of the Bombay High Court K.U. Chandiwal. The one-member committee was appointed on March 30 by the Maharashtra government to inquire into the allegations made by Mr. Singh in a letter he wrote to the Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20. The letter had mentioned several instances where Mr. Deshmukh directed now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants. On Wednesday, a sealed envelope was given to the Commission by the Superintendent of Police, Crime Investigation Department how efforts have been made to locate Mr. Singh to execute the first bailable warrant issued on September 7. However, to no avail. Previously, the Commission had imposed fines of Rs. 5,000 in June and Rs. 25,000 twice in the last month for repeatedly not appearing before the committee. Advocate Anita Castalino, appearing for Mr. Deshmukh, said it’s time the Commission issued a non-bailable warrant against Mr. Singh and steps taken to confiscate his properties. However, advocate Shishir Hirey, representing the Committee, said it was too early to do that. The Commission agreed with Mr. Hirey and said Mr. Singh should be given another opportunity. The Commission said it should not bring down the dignity of the police and sought Mr. Singh’s presence on October 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/warrant-issued-against-mumbai-ex-police-chief/article36622241.ece
23 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||U.P. ATS arrests cleric in illegal conversion case||The U.P. police Anti-Terrorist Squad has arrested prominent cleric and scholar Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui in the illegal conversion case on Tuesday night from Meerut. On Wednesday, the ATS presented him before a court in Lucknow that refused to grant police custody. “He was sent to 14-day judicial custody,” said his advocate. According to a release, Mr. Siddiqui had direct links with the racket that was busted by the ATS in June this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-ats-arrests-cleric-in-illegal-conversion-case/article36622416.ece
