24 September 2021||Washington DC,||Modi meets Adobe, Qualcomm CEOs on first day of U.S. visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi kicked off his first visit to the U.S. in two years, with meetings with CEOs of Fortune 500 companies in the morning and bilateral meetings with Vice-President Kamala Harris and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan and Scott Morrison of Australia scheduled for the afternoon. Mr. Modi’s motorcade arrived at the Willard Intercontinental, a short distance from the White House, just before 7.30 p.m. on a wet and windy fall evening in Washington. On Thursday morning, he met with the CEOs of five companies that have invested in India or have significant investment potential: semiconductor and wireless technology manufacturer Qualcomm; renewable energy company First Solar; software company Adobe; energy systems and arms manufacturer General Atomics; and investment management company, the Blackstone Group. The main events for his DC trip, however, are Friday’s bilateral talks with U.S. President Joe Biden to discuss India’s ‘Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership’, and a Quad summit with Mr. Biden, Mr. Suga and Mr. Morrison. Mr. Modi and Mr. Biden will discuss a range of issues, including Afghanistan and counter-terrorism. They are also expected to discuss trade and climate cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-meets-adobe-qualcomm-ceos-on-first-day-of-us-visit/article36641926.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||LDF, UDF support Bharat Bandh||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have called a 24-hour general strike on September 27 in solidarity with the Bharat Bandh initiated by national-level farmers’ organisations. With the ruling front and Opposition throwing their weight behind the bandh, life is likely to come to a halt in the State for nearly a day on Monday. Both fronts have exempted emergency services, milk distribution, medical stores, clinics, hospitals, COVID-19 vaccination centres, television channels, newspapers, and newspaper distribution agents from the ambit of the strike. Farmers in north India have been on the warpath against the BJP-led Central government for over a year, accusing it of muscling ‘pro-corporate and anti-farmer’ laws through Parliament without incorporating the views of all stakeholders. Anti-farmer stance LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan and Leader of the Opposition and UDF chairperson V.D. Satheesan declared support for the bandh. Both slammed the anti-farmer stance of the Centre. They said the laws would destroy livelihoods and sell the rural sector into corporate slavery. Farmers would lose their say on what to grow and at which rate to sell their harvest. The laws also undermine the floor price structure and government procurement process. Pressed whether the shutdown would disrupt examination schedules, mobility, freight movement, retail and further hobble the COVID-19 cratered economy, Mr. Vijayaraghavan said: “Larger issues such as fuel price hike and destruction of the agrarian economy are at stake. The Centre is to blame for the state of affairs.” Mr. Satheesan said the government should reschedule examinations for September 27. He hoped the public would cooperate with the bandh and lend support to the protesting farmers. On the strike day, groups of LDF workers, not exceeding five, would hold demonstrations at the neighbourhood level to spotlight the Centre's apathy towards protesting farmers. The UDF would also organise ward-level protests in support of the striking farmers.  Protestors will hold demonstrations to spotlight the Centre’s apathy towards agitating farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ldf-udf-support-bharat-bandh/article36642269.ece
24 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||In a fit of rage, man kills wife, daughter in Sedam||A 47-year-old Pani Puri vendor who suspected his wife of having extramarital relations is said to have killed her and their 11-year-old daughter in their house in Vishwanagar in Sedam town of Kalaburagi district in the early hours of Thursday. The police have arrested the accused. The deceased were identified as Jagadeeshwari (35) and Priyanka (11). The accused, Digambar H. Ganjali, recently shifted to Sedam town from Kalaburagi. Suspecting his wife of having an illicit relationship, Digambar Ganjali often fought with her at home. On Wednesday night also, the couple had a fight which continued till 3 a.m. In a fit of rage, he attacked his wife and daughter with a stick, killing them on the spot. After some time, the accused came out of the house and informed his brother-in-law who reached the spot and found his sister and niece in a pool of blood. Sedam Police have registered a case. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-a-fit-of-rage-man-kills-wife-daughter-in-sedam/article36642197.ece
24 September 2021||Mumbai,||Minor girl sexually assaulted near Mumbai, 26 arrested||In a shocking crime, a minor girl was sexually assaulted over a period of nine months. The Manpada police in Dombivli, a town neighbouring Mumbai, have booked 29 accused and arrested 26, including two minors, under the Indian Penal Code as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act. The arrested have been remanded to police custody till September 29. The minor offenders have been sent to a juvenile remand home. Police teams are searching for three others. The 15-year-old victim’s statement said her boyfriend recorded a video of them in an intimate act in January 2021, which was later used to blackmail her. Her boyfriend used the video to force her into physical relations with some of his friends. “The victim reached the police station on Wednesday night. According to her statement, the accused sexually assaulted her repeatedly at various locations from January to September this year,” said Additional Commissioner of Police (east region) Datta Karale. A Special Investigation Team, headed by Assistant Commissioner of Police (Administration) Sonali Dhole, has been formed to probe the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-girl-sexually-assaulted-near-mumbai-26-arrested/article36641916.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad to have 100% sewerage treatment facility in two years||In a major decision to improve the infrastructure for treatment of sewerage generated in GHMC limits, the State government has sanctioned Rs. 3,866.21 crore for establishing 31 sewerage treatment plants (STPs) with capacity of treating 1,260 million litres per day (MLD) sewerage through the hybrid annuity model. They would be completed in two years. Giving details of the project to “make Hyderabad a global city”, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao told newspersons here on Thursday that the project would also help protect water bodies including lakes, tanks and ponds in the city. Once completed, the project would make Hyderabad the only city in the country to have 100% sewerage treatment facility along with the existing STPs. He also indicated the government’s plans to remove encroachments on nalas to allow free discharge of stormwater. However, the government would take both the public and elected representatives into confidence before embarking upon the task and would also make a legislation, if necessary, to make the task hurdle-free. The Minister stated that the project would be taken up in three packages to construct eight STPs with 402.5 MLD capacity with Rs. 1,230.21 crore in the north of Musi, six STPs with 480.5 MLD with Rs. 1,355.13 crore in the south of Musi and another 17 STPs with 376.5 MLD with Rs. 1,280.87 crore for Kukatpally-Hussainsagar lake catchment area. As per the hybrid annuity model, the State government would contribute Rs. 1,546.49 crore (40%) investment while the remaining amount would be mobilised by the contract agencies. The agencies would also have the responsibility to maintain the plants for 15 years after completion. Stating that the scaling up of sewerage treatment facility was taken up on the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to meet the sewerage treatment needs for the next 10 years, Mr. Rama Rao said about 1,650 MLD sewerage water was being generated every day now and another 300 MLD could add up in the next 10 years, according to a study conducted by Shah Consultants. On the existing sewerage water treatment facility, the Minister said 25 STPs were functioning now with a treatment capacity of 772 MLD out of 1,650 MLD generated every day. He stated that the present capacity could handle only 46.78% of the total sewerage water generated with 53.22% (878 MLD) going untreated into water bodies. Drinking water The Minister further stated that the government had also sanctioned Rs. 1,200 crore for providing adequate drinking water to people in urban local bodies (ULBs) and gram panchayats within the ORR and outside GHMC limits. Additional service reservoirs with 137 MLD would be constructed and 2,100 km pipelines would be laid to ensure adequate water to about 20 lakh people. He stated that about two lakh new tap connections would be given to below poverty line families in ULBs such as Jalpally, Kompally, Nizampet, Narsingi, Manikonda, Bandlaguda Jagir and others besides gram panchayats within ORR, but outside GHMC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hyderabad-to-have-100-sewerage-treatment-facility-in-two-years/article36642231.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||American Corner in Andhra University will help bridge the skill gaps: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the American Corner in Andhra University in the virtual mode from Amaravati on Thursday. Expressing happiness that the U.S. government had chosen Andhra University in the State to establish the third American Corner in India, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “This is just the beginning, and we hope that the U.S. will also be setting up an American Consulate in Visakhapatnam in the future.” Speaking about the initiative taken by the American Consulate in collaboration with A.U., the Chief Minister said that the American Corner would go a long way in bridging the skill gaps of the students. “It will play a vital role in enabling the students to study abroad,” he said. He thanked U.S. Consul General from Hyderabad Joel Reifman, USAID Mission Director in India Veena Reddy, Public Affairs Officer, U.S. Consulate, Hyderabad, David Moyer, and AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy for taking the initiative forward. Thrust areas Earlier, briefing about the American Corner, Mr. Joel Reifman said it was a place for public gathering. “The idea is to focus on development of the English language, women empowerment, and to enable students to get the latest information on U.S. education and to bridge the gap between the U.S. and A.P.,” he said. Setting up the American Corner in Visakhapatnam would pave the way for bettering the working relationship between both the countries, he observed. Mr. Reifman said students would benefit from the Education USA programme and learn more about higher education in the U.S. at the American Corner. Prof. Prasad Reddy said by setting up the American Corner, the university had taken a step towards becoming a world-class university. “We have a strong alumni presence across the globe, and this place will soon connect to the global community,” he said. Research activity Later, addressing the media, Mr. David Moyer said, apart from language training and expert talks, the Corner would help researchers in the field of science, technology, engineering and mathematics in getting connected with experts and universities in the U.S. and also give assistance in finding US government funding. “One area where we will like to focus on is research on clean energy,” he said. Ms. Veena Reddy also visited the world’s first ‘water from air’ kiosk that was set up by the USAID and Safe Water Network. She also visited the PHC where vaccines were being administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/american-corner-in-andhra-university-will-help-bridge-the-skill-gaps-jagan/article36641921.ece
24 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||2 die in Assam eviction drive||Two persons were killed and 11 others, including nine policemen, were injured when a large mob clashed with the police during an eviction drive in northern Assam’s Darrang district on Thursday afternoon. The incident happened at Dholpur 3, one of four areas the police had targeted for evicting about 800 families of Bengali-speaking Muslims “illegally occupying” about 4,500 bighas of government land. A similar eviction drive on September 20 passed off peacefully, with some families dismantling their houses and moving elsewhere, officials said. “Two civilians are probably dead and two more injured, along with nine police personnel. A mob of not less than 4,000 resisted the eviction drive by throwing stones at the police and attacking them with sharpened bamboo sticks,” Darrang’s Superintendent of Police Sushanta Biswa Sarma told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-die-in-assam-eviction-drive/article36641923.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||No link to A.P. in heroin seizure case: DGP||Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has reiterated that the State has no links to the case of seizure of heroin at a Gujarat port other than the fact that address of the company used was located in Vijayawada. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, Mr. Sawang said: “Ever since the seizure of heroin, baseless speculations and allegations are being made. In this incident, there is no linkage to the State. The person involved was not in Andhra Pradesh for the past several years. He has been operating from Chennai as per the information obtained from Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and other Central agencies.” Unfortunately, some political parties and leaders were making false statements, he said. Baseless allegations such as there was some activity close to Chief Minister's office and propaganda by some politicians were misleading and subjecting people to fear, he said. “We request and appeal to political parties to make responsible statements after verifying the facts. We are very confident that if at all such activities are taking place, the police will crackdown heavily on them,” Mr. Sawang said. “We are in touch with the DRI and central agencies and required assistance is being provided. Even we would like to get to the bottom of this anti-national activity,” he added. When asked about any previous activity at the location of the company in the city, Mr. Sawang said that police would like to not make any comments as the investigation was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-link-to-ap-in-heroin-seizure-case-dgp/article36641913.ece
24 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Combing operation on for elusive leopards||Forest officials have continued the search for the elusive leopard in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi. Also, they have intensified the search in Kavalageri village near Dharwad, where a pair of leopards were reportedly sighted on Wednesday. While the teams involved in the search operations have found pug marks and evidence of the movement of the wild cat, they have not been able to capture the leopards that have strayed into areas of human habitation. On Thursday, while the forest officials continued their combing operation in the vicinity of Nruptaunga Hills in Hubballi, a few other teams began combing operation in Kavalageri village in the sugarcane fields where the leopards were last sighted. Already, traps have be set up in the village and, on Thursday, additional traps were set up before beginning the combing operation early in the morning. Assistant Conservator of Forest Sourabh Kumar and team launched the search operation by using drone camera. During the combing operation, the forest teams found pug marks and also leopard droppings. Maruti Shivappa Uppar, who was the first to see the leopard, told presspersons that he immediately alerted his father Shivappa, who raised an alarm. “We saw the leopard near the sugarcane field just 15 m away from our house and it was staring at the cattle and the sheep that was tied to a peg outside the house. We immediately took our children inside,” he said and added that as soon as they raised an alarm, the leopard walked into the sugarcane field. Deputy Conservator of Forests (Dharwad division) Yashpal Ksheersagar said that the fresh pug marks have confirmed that the animal is still in the vicinity of the sugarcane fields spread over 25 acres of land. “We have intensified the search by deploying forest personnel from Dharwad, Haveri and Gadag districts. And, three cages, with baits, have been set up. Tranquillisers with guns have also arrived,” he said. Only one However, Mr. Yashpal denied reports about a presence of a pair of leopards. He said that the presence of only one leopard has been confirmed now. After the leopard sighting, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil visited the village on Wednesday night itself to boost the morale of the village residents and allay their fears. He has assured them of taking all steps to capture the leopards and that they should also cooperate with the administration by not venturing out alone during sunset and sunrise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/combing-operation-continues-for-elusive-leopards/article36642200.ece
24 September 2021||Kozhikode,||Consumerfed to sell liquor online||Following in the footsteps of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco), the Kerala State Cooperatives Consumers' Federation (Consumerfed) will from Friday introduce an online booking system on its websitehttps://consumerfed. net/to buy liquor from its outlets. In the first phase, the online booking facility will be made available at its outlets at Thiruvananthapuram Statue, Ernakulam Gandhi Nagar and Kozhikode Mini Bypass. The system is set to be operational in other shops within a week. Customers can book the required liquor online by remitting the relevant amount, a press release said here on Thursday. Registration The first transaction requires a registered name. Registration can be completed by entering the security code after entering the mobile number. Users will also have to certify that they are 23 years old to register. An OTP number will be sent to the mobile number when the payment is made and the booking is done. Consumers can show this number at the retail outlet to buy liquor. Also, the liquor will be packed at the store. Besides, the customer will receive a message on their mobile number that the liquor is packed and ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/consumerfed-to-sell-liquor-online/article36642267.ece
24 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||In Odisha, no-shows for second dose||India’s vaccination drive may be making steady progress but Odisha has a peculiar problem at hand. Many recipients of the first dose are failing to turn up for their second. Reason: the long interval between the first and second doses has meant that several have forgotten their scheduled date for full vaccination. Several such instances have been noticed in villages across the State of late. The interval prescribed for two doses of Covishield is 12-16 weeks, while for Covaxin it is 28 days. In Odisha, Covaxin is being administered only in two major urban centres, Bhubaneswar and Berhampur, and Covishield in the rest of the State. “The number of people not turning up for the second dose is a sizeable one. As of now, 2.83 crore people have been inoculated. About 67% of the State’s eligible population has taken the first dose. But 72% of people whose second dose is due have been vaccinated whereas 28% beneficiaries have not come to vaccine centres,” said Bijay Panigrahi, director, Family Welfare, and nodal officer for the vaccination drive. Dr. Panigrahi said though the reminder for the second dose is generated from the CoWIN portal automatically, beneficiaries have not been paying the requisite attention. The State government has come out with a list of people whose second doses are due. Front-line health workers have been instructed to bring these beneficiaries to vaccine centres. ‘Enough vaccine stock’ The State has administered the vaccine to 1.60 lakh pregnant women. “We have enough vaccines (around 20 lakh) stocked with us. For the past three days, we have been administering 4 lakh doses a day. We are also increasing the vaccination sites. As many as 1,775 vaccination centres were identified on Thursday,” he said. The vaccine and vaccination site distribution has been done in such a way as to reflect the State’s population spread. “Since beneficiaries in rural areas are more than that in urban areas, we are focusing on villages and setting up centres up to the gram panchayat level,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-odisha-no-shows-for-second-dose/article36642097.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Winter coming, Centre, States outline plans to stem pollution||The Union Environment Ministry convened a meeting on Thursday with representatives from Delhi and neighbouring States that see pollution levels soar during winter. While meteorological conditions exacerbate pollution, emissions from vehicles, thermal plants and the burning of rice chaff in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh ahead of the winter sowing of wheat are key man-made reasons for the noxious winter that puts the national capital and several cities in these States on global lists of the places with the worst air. Though no new measures were announced following Thursday’s meeting, the focus appeared to be on strengthening existing programmes. The Haryana government will be spending Rs. 200 crore to dissuade farmers from burning the rice stubble. Uttar Pradesh is deploying an organic chemical, a “decomposer”, that will dissolve the collected straw and turn it into manure. Though small pilot projects were launched last year, this year the State will be deploying it in at least six lakh acres, the Haryana government in one lakh acres, Punjab five lakh acres and Delhi 4,000 acres. Other measures which are being reinforced this year are mandating the use of bio-mass with 50% paddy straw as a supplement fuel in coal plants in the National Capital Region (NCR), and setting up a committee which will look at ways to repurpose the stubble as fodder for cattle in Rajasthan and Gujarat. The Commission for Air Quality Improvement in NCR and Adjoining Areas, which became an executive body through an Act of Parliament in August, is frequently following up with these States to ensure that these plans are adhered to. “Clean air is in the interest of all States and these are issues beyond politics. In today’s meeting, all representatives are agreed on implementing plans that will aid the farmer and not vitiate the air,” Environment Minister Bhupendra Yadav told reporters. Switch to PNG The air quality Commission on Wednesday had said that Delhi had completely switched over to piped natural gas (PNG)/cleaner fuels in 1,635 identified industries. In NCR, Haryana has so far shifted 408 industrial units out of 1,469 identified industrial units, in U.P. 1,167 out of 2,273 industrial units and 124 out of 436 such units in Rajasthan. All the identified 124 border points of Delhi were equipped with Radio Frequency Identification System to facilitate cashless toll/cess collection, thus avoiding huge traffic congestions and resultant heavy air pollution at the border points.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-states-outline-plans-to-stem-pollution/article36642104.ece
24 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Circular one-way from Clock Tower to Clock Tower made official now||The circular one-way rule being enforced on a trial basis by Mangaluru City Traffic Police from Clock Tower to Clock Tower since over a month was on Thursday regularised with the Police Commissioner issuing a formal notification. Order Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar, who, as Additional District Magistrate, issued the order, said that the Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner had written to him on September 16 seeking declaration of the Maidan Road from Clock Tower to Clock Tower via A.B. Shetty Circle, Hamilton Circle and Rao and Rao Circle as one-way. MSCL meeting The corporation Commissioner had quoted a decision by a Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. meeting chaired by the Mayor on August 14. The Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) examined the letter of the corporation Commissioner and gave a report. The report said that the one-way traffic rule will help the smooth flow of vehicular traffic in the central business district (CBD). As many roads converge into Maidan Road at different places, one-way traffic will help smooth integration of traffic. As there was not enough space for parking vehicles in the CBD, creation of one-way traffic will provide space for parking vehicles, the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) stated in his letter. Since vehicles will operate in one direction without any obstacles, chances of accidents too will be reduced. Smart City has already undertaken works, including removal of medians and improving footpaths to facilitate one-way traffic. As the area is in the CBD, the traffic volume in the region is bound to increase in the coming days and hence, one-way traffic is needed, the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) said. Based on his report, the Police Commissioner declared the 550-metre Maidan Road between Clock Tower and A.B. Shetty Circle, 250 metres of Maidan Road between A.B. Shetty Circle and Hamilton Circle, 250 metres of Maidan Road from Hamilton Circle to Rao and Rao Circle and 450 metres of Maidan Road from Rao and Rao Circle to Clock Tower as one-way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/circular-one-way-from-clock-tower-to-clock-tower-made-official-now/article36642378.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Boy moves HC against law making Kannada must in CBSE/ICSE schools||A 10-year-old student of Class IV studying in a school affiliated to the central board has moved the High Court of Karnataka questioning the constitutional validity of Kannada Language Learning (KLL) Act, 2015, which makes teaching of Kannada compulsory either as a first or second language from Class I to X from the academic year 2015-16 even in schools affiliated to CBSE/ICSE. The student, Keertan Suresh of Bishop Cotton Boys’ School, Bengaluru, represented by his mother, Sujatha N., has termed the KLL Act, 2015 as “ex facie harsh, draconian, discriminatory, and violative of the Constitution of India”. Justice R. Devdas, before whom the petition came up for hearing, ordered issue of notice to the State government. The petition has been filed as the school authorities informed the parents that now they had to introduce Kannada as second language as per government directions. A direction has been sought from the court to restrain the State government from implementing the KLL Act, 2015, in institutions affiliated to CBSE/ ICSE streams. The petitioner’s school belongs to ICSE stream governed by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination. The petitioner contended that the KLL Act was contrary to the provisions of the Karnataka Education Act, 1983, which leaves the power of regulating curriculum to the respective boards, either CBSE or ICSE. It was contended in the petition that the KLL Act “is disproportionate and imposes an undue burden and hardship on the petitioner” and “imposes unreasonable restrictions on their rights under Article 19 and 30 of the Constitution”. While making Kannada language mandatory to study as either first or second language, the State had lost sight of the fact that a child may be resettled on account of respective parents being transferred, it was pointed out in the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boy-moves-hc-against-law-making-kannada-must-in-cbseicse-schools/article36641981.ece
24 September 2021||Vijayawada,||Adani ports concludes acquisition of State’s stake of 10.40% in GPL||The Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd. (APSEZ) has concluded the acquisition of the Andhra Pradesh government’s 10.40% stake in the Gangavaram Port Limited (GPL) for a consideration of Rs. 645 crore. The merger of Gangavaram Port Limited with the APSEZ has also been approved, with the GPL’s valuation amounting to Rs. 120 per share and the APSEZ’s fair value being Rs. 754.80 per share. This resulted in a swap ratio of 159 shares in APSEZ for 1,000 shares in GPL for 58.10% stake held by D.V.S. Raju and family in the GPL. The merger is, however, subject to approval by the National Company Law Tribunal, and is expected to be completed by March 31, 2022, according to a press release by the APSEZ. It was stated that in April last, the APSEZ had acquired a 31.50% stake from Windy Lakeside Investment Ltd., a Warburg Pincus affiliate, and signed an agreement for a controlling stake of 58.10% held by D.V.S. Raju and family. Post the merger, D.V.S. Raju and family will receive approximately 4.80 crore shares, resulting in 2.2% stake in APSEZ worth Rs. 3,604 crore. The transaction has been completed at an equity value of Rs. 6,200 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/adani-ports-concludes-acquisition-of-states-stake-of-1040-in-gpl/article36641914.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel set up to monitor Delhi riots probe||Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana has ordered the setting up of a Special Investigation Cell (SIC) to expedite and streamline the investigation and scrutiny of north-east Dehi riots cases. Last week, a Delhi court came down heavily on the city police for its “lackadaisical approach” and said no steps for the proper prosecution of the 2020 riots cases had been taken by the Police Commissioner and other top officials. The order, dated September 20, said the SIC will be constituted under the chairmanship of Special Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) with Joint Commissioner (Eastern range), Deputy Commissioner (East) and Additional DCP (East) as members. Mr. Asthana said the panel shall take stock of pending investigations and trial of riots cases and chalk out a strategy to ensure swift investigation and effective prosecution. Officers should be guided to complete the probe timely, the order said. In the order, the Commissioner said the SIC should follow up with the Forensic Science Laboratory where case results are pending on priority. ‘Need SPPs in court’ Emphasising the need for Special Public Prosecutors to be present in court in all matters, the order said the court should be informed in advance in case they are not in a position to attend and suitable adjournment taken. “In such cases, Senior Police Officers will remain present in the Court to effectively present the facts,” the order stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-set-up-to-monitor-delhi-riots-probe/article36642098.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC may form panel to look into snooping charges||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana on Thursday indicated the Supreme Court’s intention to form a committee to examine allegations that the government used Israeli-based Pegasus software to spy on citizens. The revelation came when the CJI informed senior advocate C.U. Singh, who represented one of the petitioners in the case, that the court wanted to pass orders this week but could not do so because some of the members it had shortlisted for the committee were unavailable due to personal reasons. The CJI said the court would now pass orders sometime next week. The court decided to pass an interim order after the government expressed reservations over filing a “detailed” affidavit responding to the allegations. The Centre had said it would be public and compromise national security. The petitioners had asked for an affidavit from the Cabinet Secretary or for the court to form a committee led by a sitting judge to probe the snooping controversy. On September 13, a Bench of Chief Justice Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli made it clear that there would be no more “beating around the bush” on the issue. The CJI had said the court had given the government a fair opportunity to file a detailed affidavit in order to get a clear idea of its stand in the Pegasus case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-may-form-panel-to-look-into-snooping-charges/article36641924.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Toxic air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/toxic-air/article36642096.ece
24 September 2021||Belagavi,||Farmland owner arrested on rape charge||Gokak Police arrested Siddappa Kotturu, a farmland owner, on the charge of raping a worker in his farm in Maradi Shivapura village near Gokak in Belagavi district on Thursday. Siddappa Kotturu is said to have committed the offence on September 17. It was premeditated as the accused had asked another worker, Uday Avaradi, to stand guard at the door of the shed where the crime was committed, the police said. The accused also pushed around a four-year-old child of the 24-year-old victim. The boy has sustained injuries near his eye. On the fateful evening, the accused, along with Uday Avaradi came to the worker’s shed and asked her husband, also a daily wage worker employed by the farmland owner, to run an errand for him from the village. The accused and his associate went away only to come back when the woman was alone. The farm land owner then sexually assaulted the woman. Uday Avaradi is said to have stood guard outside the hut till the farmland owner came out. Later, the two accused threatened the woman that they would kill her husband, if she told him anything about the offence. She, however, she told her husband. And, he told village elders who advised him to file a complaint. A case has been registered. Investigation is on.  It was premeditated as the accused asked another worker to stand guard at the door of the shed where the crime was committed, say police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmland-owner-arrested-on-rape-charge/article36642196.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Monsoon session of TS Assembly from today||The stage is all set for commencement of the monsoon session of the State Legislature from Friday. The previous session was adjourned on March 26 after passage of the Appropriation Bill for the current fiscal. The session is likely to see passage of eight Bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-session-of-ts-assembly-from-today/article36642232.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,||TAC concerned over drop in testing among children||At its 125th meeting on September 19, the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee expressed concern over testing rate of children falling from 9% to 3% in the last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tac-concerned-over-drop-in-testing-among-children/article36641957.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Rs. 20,000 cr. spent on roads in city in 5 years||While Bengaluru has seen multiple accidents attributed to potholes, in the last five years, a whopping Rs. 20,000 crore has been spent on roads in the city. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai told the Council that he was considering a maintenance audit to monitor road development in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-20000-cr-spent-on-roads-in-city-in-5-years/article36641956.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police force mourns death of former chief||Former Delhi Police Commissioner Y.S. Dadwal breathed his last on Wednesday night at 70 after a prolonged illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-force-mourns-death-of-former-chief/article36642099.ece
24 September 2021||PATNA,||Hit-and-run on Dhanbad judge was deliberate: CBI||The CBI told the Jharkhand High Court on Thursday that the hit-and-run involving the Additional Sessions Judge of the Dhanbad court in Jharkhand was deliberate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hit-and-run-on-dhanbad-judge-was-deliberate-cbi/article36642100.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||PM CARES is not govt. fund, Centre tells HC||The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that the PM CARES Fund is “not a fund of the Government of India and the amount does not go in the Consolidated Fund of India”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-cares-is-not-govt-fund-centre-tells-hc/article36642340.ece
24 September 2021||PATNA,||Hit-and-run on Dhanbad judge was deliberate: CBI||The CBI told the Jharkhand High Court on Thursday that the hit-and-run involving the Additional Sessions Judge of the Dhanbad court in Jharkhand was deliberate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hit-and-run-on-dhanbad-judge-was-deliberate-cbi/article36642341.ece
24 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||707 students to receive engineering degrees||As many as 707 students will receive their engineering degrees during the 11th Graduation Day of SDMCET, Dharwad, to be held on Friday and Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/707-students-to-receive-engineering-degrees/article36642198.ece
24 September 2021||YADGIR,||Rain loss put at Rs. 27.10 cr. in Yadgir district||Yadgir district has suffered a loss of Rs. 27.10 crore due to heavy rain that lashed the district recently, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-loss-put-at-rs-2710-cr-in-yadgir-district/article36642202.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Caste census of BCs difficult: Centre||The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that a caste census of the Backward Classes was “administratively difficult and cumbersome”. While replying to a writ petition filed by the State of Maharashtra to gather Backward Classes’ caste data in the State while conducting Census 2021, the Centre took the issue a step forward to clarify that “exclusion of information” regarding any other caste — other than Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes — from the purview of the census is a “conscious policy decision”. This comes amid a growing clamour by political parties for a caste-based census, and the ruling BJP's silence. The Centre reasoned that even when the census of castes were taken in the pre-Independence period, the data suffered in respect of “completeness and accuracy”. It said the caste data enumerated in the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) of 2011 is “unusable” for official purposes as they are “replete with technical flaws”. “The issue has been examined at length in the past at different points of time. Each time, the view has consistently been that the caste Census of Backward Classes is administratively difficult and cumbersome; it has suffered and will suffer both on account of completeness and accuracy of the data, as also evident from the infirmities of the SECC 2011 data, making it unusable for any official purposes and cannot be mentioned as a source of information for population data in any official document,” the affidavit filed by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment said. Grave danger The government said caste-wise enumeration in the Census was given up as a matter of policy from 1951. It said there was a policy of “official discouragement of caste”. On the specific issue of collecting caste data during Census 2021, the Centre explained that a population census was not the “ideal instrument” for collection of details on caste. There is a “grave danger” that the “basic integrity” of census data would be compromised. Even the fundamental population count may get “distorted”. Besides, the Centre said, it was too late now to enumerate caste into the Census 2021. Planning and preparations for the census exercise starts almost four years earlier. The phases of Census 2021 had been finalised after detailed deliberations with ministries, data users, recommendations from technical advisory committees, etc. Preparatory work was already in place. The census questions were finalised in August-September of 2019. Instruction manuals were ready. Unusable To Maharashtra’s plea to reveal the SECC 2011 “raw caste data” of Other Backward Classes (OBC), the Centre said the 2011 Census was not an “OBC survey”. It was, on the other hand, a comprehensive exercise to enumerate caste status of all households in the country in order to use their socio-economic data to identify poor households and implement anti-poverty programmes. The Centre said the raw caste/tribe data of 2011 was unusable. For example, Mappilas in Malabar region of Kerala were spelt in 40 different ways, resulting in the listing of 40 different castes. The government said the data was stored in the Office of the Registrar General and had not been made official. It cannot be used as a source of information for population data in any official document.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/caste-census-of-bcs-difficult-centre/article36641822.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘CoWIN adheres to WHO specifications’||No concern whatsoever has been expressed by the government of the United Kingdom on the certification process of CoWIN, R.S. Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group for COVID-19 Vaccine Administration, told The Hindu on Thursday. He called reports that the U.K. had agreed to recognise Indian-made Covishield (COVID-19 vaccine) and add it to the list of recognised vaccines, but refused to recognise vaccine certificate issued by India for Indian travellers a “baseless controversy”. “There has been no communication from the U.K. about the COVID-19 vaccination certificate process. The recent talks were about the U.K.’s interest in the CoWIN platform. The technical teams of both the countries have been in touch since early September,” Dr. Sharma added. CoWIN was an open-source platform, Dr. Sharma said. The External Affairs Ministry had been in talks with countries that were interested in this platform. “Talks are at various stages and I will not be able to give specific details. But yes, several countries have shown an interest in the platform,” he added. WHO standardisation Responding to a query whether the Indian COVID-19 vaccination certificate conformed to the World Health Organization’s (WHO) specifications, he said India was adhering to the specifications. “We have looked at our certificate while keeping in mind the WHO standardisation. There is a minor technical rectification where India uses year of birth, while WHO prescribes date of birth. For those wanting this change for travel needs, the same can be rectified,” said Dr. Sharma. ‘No concerns raised’ On Wednesday, U.K. High Commissioner to India Alex Ellis had said that his country had no issues with the Covishield vaccine, but the question was on certification. On Thursday he tweeted: “Excellent technical discussions with Dr. R.S. Sharma. Neither side raised technical concerns with each other’s certification process. An important step forward in our joint aim to facilitate travel and fully protect the public health of the U.K. and India.” Dr. Sharma responded to the tweet. “Echoing his excellency @AlexWEllis’s views, this will be instrumental in resuming socio-economic activities between India and UK. We also look forward to deepening ties between @AyushmanNHA and @NHSX, as we collaborate to build a digital continuum of healthcare services.”  To a query on the controversy, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Thursday at a press conference that India and U.K. officials were in a dialogue. “And we are hopeful that the issue will be resolved soon. We stand by the External Affair Ministry’s position on the issue. This is discriminatory and we have the right of reciprocity,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cowin-adheres-to-who-specifications/article36641837.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jabs to be given at home for disabled||Persons with restricted mobility, disabilities and those with special needs can get COVID vaccination at home while following all safety protocols, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. NITI Aayog member (health) V.K. Paul said India had already achieved the milestone of vaccinating 66% of its adult population with one dose of the vaccine. “The Health Ministry aims to provide maximum vaccine cover to as many people as possible and in the endeavour this is an important step forward. Those who do not have enough mobility, and cannot even access the near-to-home vaccination facility, can be covered under this programme. We have made the provision for at-home vaccination under supervision for this group of persons,” Dr. Paul said. Speaking at the Health Ministry press conference, he said the government was confident that that the system to take vaccines to homes would be safe, effective, nurturing and supportive. “All SOPs will be followed,” he said. “The vaccination drive aims to be equitable and citizen-centric. Hence, the decision to reach those people who are not able to come to the vaccination centre for some valid reasons has been taken,” he said. Meanwhile, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan cautioned that though the number of new cases was declining, people should continue to follow COVID appropriate behaviour and get themselves vaccinated. Lakshadweep, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Sikkim had reached 100% COVID vaccination coverage of first dose for its population, he said. Festival SOP A detailed SOP had been issued for States and Union Territories for the upcoming festival season, with the direction that relaxations and restrictions be imposed based on weekly case positivity, he said. “We have advised that mass gatherings be avoided in areas identified as containment zones and in districts reporting more than 5% case positivity. Also, gatherings with advance permissions and limited people [as per local context] can be allowed in districts with a positivity rate of 5% and below,” Mr. Bhushan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jabs-to-be-given-at-home-for-disabled/article36641851.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Gogra grazing areas off-limits’||Villagers have lost access to a vast grazing area near Gogra in eastern Ladakh owing to growing Chinese presence in the area, Konchok Stanzin, a councillor from Chushul, has said. Gogra is one of the several friction points in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a stand-off since April-May 2020. The troops have disengaged from the north and south banks of the Pangong Tso and Gogra sector, creating “no zones” in areas along the undemarcated Line of Actual Control (LAC) that was regularly patrolled by Indian troops prior to April 2020. Mr. Stanzin told The Hindu that the Army had stopped the villagers’ access to the Kiu La pass that was till a few years ago frequented by the villagers of Lukung, Phobrang and Yourgo for cattle-grazing. “A group of villagers marched to the Kiu La pass a few days ago but they were denied access by the Army. There used to be a bunker on the upper reaches, but it is no longer there. We fear that the Chinese are nibbling away at our territory. This was never a disputed area,” Mr. Stanzin said. He said the area did not have hone or Internet connectivity and the villagers had decided to go there on their own initiative. No connectivity Since April 2020, Chinese troops have blocked Indian troops from reaching at least 10 patrolling points (PPs) in eastern Ladakh — running from Depsang plains in the north to the Pangong Tso lake in the south. In all, there are more than 65 PPs from the base of the Karakoram to Chumar. Mr. Stanzin said that China had constructed permanent structures and roads close to the LAC, while the Indian side boasted only a few roads. “There is no mobile connectivity in border areas and despite repeated pleas, the administration has not acted. It is frustrating. They fix the phone lines for a few hours whenever a VIP arrives here. It’s back to square one once they leave,” he said. On April 2, in a communication to Mr. Stanzin, the Defence Ministry said, “due to the present operational situation in Ladakh, grazers have been asked to restrict their cattle movements”. Army authorities when contacted declined to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gogra-grazing-areas-off-limits/article36641826.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||In Chhattisgarh, problem within Congress escalates||Amid a flare-up in the tensions between Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Health Minister T. Singh Deo, the Bilaspur District Congress committee expelled Bilaspur MLA Shailesh Pandey for alleging that the Chhattisgarh police’s first information report (FIR) against Congress leader Pankaj Singh for “manhandling” a paramedic at the Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences was to intimidate Mr. Deo’s supporters. Mr. Deo has staked claim to the Chief Minister’s post as part of a 2018 arrangement of rotational tenure that he claims was agreed between him and Mr. Baghel. He has been in Delhi since Monday. Mr. Deo said it was a personal visit. So far, he has not met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi or any other functionary at the headquarters, to avoid speculation of renewed efforts by him to lobby for the post. He is leaving for Raipur on Friday. Mr. Gandhi is expected to visit the State next week. He is coming on an invitation from Mr. Baghel. The Bilaspur police had filed the FIR on Wednesday against Mr. Singh based on CCTV footage from the hospital that shows the assault. Mr. Singh has described it as an act of revenge. He claimed that he was only intervening because the hospital staff refused to conduct an MRI on a poor patient. The FIR was also filed days after the incident, his supporters claimed. The complaint against Mr. Singh was filed on September 19. Mr. Deo’s supporters held a demonstration outside the Kotwali police station in Bilaspur on Wednesday in protest. Mr. Pandey said the action was unfortunate and it had been taken only because Mr. Singh was a supporter of Mr. Deo. “This FIR is just the tip of the iceberg, the police have been told to dig up dirt on everyone who is supporting Mr. Deo,” a Congress leader close to Mr. Deo stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-chhattisgarh-problem-within-congress-escalates/article36641843.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. expands compensation ambit||The Union Home Ministry informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that the families of those who died by suicide within 30 days of a COVID-19 diagnosis would be eligible for financial help under the Disaster Management Act. The statement came against the backdrop of the guidelines issued by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), which recommended Rs. 50,000 each as ex gratia to the families of people who died of the virus. The NDMA has proposed that the States should provide the money from their State Disaster Response Fund. In the previous hearing of the case on September 13, a Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna urged the government to consider ex gratia payment to the families of people who died by suicide, unable to bear the shock of a COVID-19 positive diagnosis. On Thursday, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Ministry, stressed that these families were also “entitled to avail financial help as granted under the SDRF” in accordance with the NDMA guidelines of September 11. That is, they too would be eligible for the Rs. 50,000 ex gratia payment. If the person died by suicide within 30 days of a positive test, it should be deemed that the person took his own life because of COVID-19, he submitted. Medical records During the hearing, the court suggested that the committees proposed to be formed at the district level under the NDMA guidelines to deal with grievances regarding certification of death should be able to directly access hospital medical records to check claims of COVID-19 deaths. This would help resolve cases in which families claim ex gratia assistance but do not have medical records of COVID-19 treatment to show. The court would pass formal orders on the NDMA guidelines on October 4. On June 30, the court, in a judgment based on a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Bansal, ordered the NDMA to frame uniform guidelines for payment of ex gratia assistance to families of COVID-19 patients who had died. On Thursday, Justice Shah observed that the court was “very happy” with the NDMA guidelines extending financial aid to many families of the COVID-19 dead. “Today, we are very happy... This has brought solace to many... This would wipe away the tears of many,” he remarked. “We are happy something has been done,” Justice Shah said. Mr. Mehta stated, “What India has done, no other country has done”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-expands-compensation-ambit/article36641856.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 7,523-cr. order for Arjun Mk-1A tanks||The Defence Ministry on Thursday placed an order with the Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF), Avadi, for the supply of 118 indigenous Arjun Mk-1A main battle tanks for the Army at a cost of Rs. 7,523 crore. “The state-of-the-art MBT Mk-1A is a new variant of Arjun tank designed to enhance fire power, mobility and survivability. Infused with 72 new features and more indigenous content from the Mk-1 variant, the tank would ensure effortless mobility in all terrains, besides precise target engagement during day and night,” the Defence Ministry said. The MBT Arjun Mk-1A was designed and developed by the Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE), along with the other laboratories of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). In February, Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally handed over Arjun Mk-1A to Army chief General Manoj Naravane in Chennai. The Army has two regiments of Arjun Mk1 tanks in service inducted between 2005 and 2010. “This production order to Avadi factory opens up a large avenue in defence manufacturing for over 200 Indian vendors including MSMEs, with employment opportunities to around 8,000 people,” the Ministry said. As reported by The Hindu earlier, the Arjun Mk-1A has 14 major upgrades over the Mk1 variant, which were formulated and approved in October 2018 and subsequently limited user validation trials were carried out of all the upgrades. The Mk1A will be without missile firing capability and will be incorporated as and when the development is complete, an official said. An Arjun hub has been set up in Jaisalmer where 248 rotables have been deposited to ensure quick support and maintenance for the fleet. The DRDO has also taken up indigenisation of various assemblies and sub-assemblies including the Commander’s Panaromic Sight (CPS) and Gunner’s Main Sight (GMS). The CPS has already undergone various rounds of trials while the GMS is in the process of being integrated. Once the indigenous CPS and advanced GMS are incorporated, the indigenous content of the MBT Arjun Mk-1A will go up from 41% to 54.3% during production, officials said earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-7523-cr-order-for-arjun-mk-1a-tanks/article36641819.ece
24 September 2021||PATNA,||Hit-and-run on Dhanbad judge was deliberate: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) told the Jharkhand High Court on Thursday that the hit-and-run involving the Additional Sessions Judge of the Dhanbad court in Jharkhand was deliberate. A video of judge Uttam Anand, 49, being hit and killed by an autorickshaw as he was taking a morning stroll in Dhanbad town had made media headlines. He was hit from behind by the speeding autorickshaw on July 28 at Randhir Verma Chowk (thoroughfare). He was declared dead at the hospital. The State government recommended a CBI probe on July 31. The agency took over the case on August 4 and formed a 20-member investigating team. Soon after the video was shown in several news channels, the Supreme Court took notice of it and said the incident had wider “ramifications”. The Jharkhand HC took suo motu cognisance of the incident and a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan Sinha and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad has been monitoring the case. The Jharkhand HC had also expressed displeasure at the slow progress of the investigation. The CBI, sources said, has informed the court that the “probe is in the final stage as forensic reports are being corroborated with physical evidences”. The agency had earlier arrested two persons — the driver of the autorickshaw, Lakhan Verma, and his helper, Rahul Verma. They were subjected to brain mapping and narco tests. The autorickshaw was registered in the name of a woman. Judge Uttam Anand was said to be hearing several cases related to the killings by mafias in Dhanbad and had rejected bail petitions of some gangsters. Dhanbad is infamous for mafias operating with impunity in the coal belts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hit-and-run-on-dhanbad-judge-was-deliberate-cbi/article36641834.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress demands probe into Pegasus||Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday welcomed the Supreme Court’s observation that it would set up a technical expert committee to probe allegations of snooping using the Pegasus spyware, while the Congress demanded a “full investigation” monitored by the top court. “On behalf of all progressive parties, I welcome the Supreme Court’s decision to set up a committee to investigate the #Pegasus snooping scam. Given its grave national security & privacy implications, every Indian hopes for an efficient & transparent probe. Satyameva Jayate!” Mr. Kharge said on Twitter Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted, “The Pegasus Spy scandal is not an issue to protect national security but an assault on national security and privacy by the Modi government. The solution is simple — A SC-monitored full investigation. SC observation of setting up a ‘technical committee’ is a right step in this direction.” At a press briefing, party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said a probe into the matter would ensure that “national security is not compromised”. “We will only say that there has to be a full-fledged probe by the Supreme Court under its supervision… Anything less than that is not going to be satisfactory as far as national security is concerned,” she stated. “The reality is that snooping was done on persons who were in elected positions of power, which also compromises the Official Secrets Act. There has never been a bigger compromise on national security than Pegasus.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-demands-probe-into-pegasus/article36641839.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rs. 50,000 as aid is a cruel joke: Congress||The Congress on Thursday described the Centre’s decision to pay Rs. 50,000 as compensation to families who lost loves ones to COVID-19 as a “cruel joke”. Addressing a press conference, spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said that every family that lost a member can “easily” be paid Rs. 5 lakh from the amount collected by the Centre as taxes on petroleum products. Ms. Shrinate claimed that last year the Centre collected Rs. 4.54 lakh crore by way of taxes on petroleum products and it would need to spend only Rs. 22,000 core from this amount to cover the official figure of 4.5 lakh deaths during the pandemic. “We demand a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh for every life lost to corona, because in India, it was a man-made crisis. Instead of providing for oxygen cylinders, beds and vaccines and medicines, this government was too busy electioneering,” she alleged. The Congress spokesperson also claimed that the Narendra Modi government initially did not want to classify the pandemic as a “disaster” under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, to avoid paying the ex gratia of Rs. 4 lakh that is mandated to every victim of a disaster. “It is also a good day to ask: where is the PM CARES fund? Why is nobody talking about the PM CARES fund in the government? This is not some private fund of the BJP. This is money that people like us have contributed to and thus is money that has been collected under the seal of the Union Government, in the Prime Minister’s name. Why is this money not being put to use?” she asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-50000-as-aid-is-a-cruel-joke-congress/article36641862.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Venkaiah pushes for attendance at panel meetings||Ahead of the reconstitution of the 24 Department-Related Standing Committees (DRSC), Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu sent a detailed record of participation by the members in committee meetings over the past year to the political parties, calling them to nominate members only based on their participation and interest. Only 16 members of the Rajya Sabha (out of 243 MPs) attended all the scheduled 361 meetings held in 2020. Six of these 16 members were chairpersons of their respective committees. Opposition parties have routinely slammed the government for bypassing parliamentary scrutiny by not sending key legislation to the standing committees. On direction from Mr. Naidu, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat collated details on the participation by 243 members of the Rajya Sabha from 32 political parties as well as Independents and nominated members, in 361 meetings of these committees held in the period of September 2020-August 2021. The report noted that 115 members clocked an attendance of 50% or more. In all, 131 members, accounting for 54% of the House, reported an attendance of 50% or more in the meetings of the DRSCs. The attendance of about one-third members of the House had been below 30%. The data showed that the average attendance of 92 BJP members of the Rajya Sabha in these meetings had been 56%, while the same for 38 Congress members was 42%. For the parties with five to 13 members, the average attendance of the YSR Congress Party was 66%. The Biju Janata Dal was a close second at 62%. The attendance of Trinamool Congress MPs, who have been at the forefront of the protests by the Opposition on the Pegasus spyware and other issues, was only 24%. The Janta Dal(U), though, had the lowest tally with just 16% attendance. Rajya Sabha sources said the attendance of members in various committees was sent to leaders of the respective parties to gauge the interest of the members and factor in the same while nominating them to different committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/venkaiah-pushes-for-attendance-at-panel-meetings/article36641832.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wearing masks saves lives, stresses court||The Supreme Court on Thursday sent a strong message to people who ridicule wearing masks in public. A Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna said wearing masks during the pandemic saves not only the person’s life but also that of others. The court said every citizen should take care not to be a public risk factor in times of a pandemic that has cost many lives globally. “It is not just a question of your life only... You have no right to play with the lives of others,” Justice Shah observed sternly. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta referred to how mask violations were rampant in several foreign countries. Mr. Mehta said people have started asking for the freedom to not vaccinate and to not wear masks in public. However, India has been more cautious, he said. The exchange came during a hearing on the National Disaster Management Authority’s (NDMA) recommendation to provide Rs. 50,000 each as ex gratia to families of those who died of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wearing-masks-saves-lives-stresses-court/article36641858.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protest against monetisation plan on Oct. 7||A joint platform of 10 Central trade unions on Thursday said they would hold protests across the country on October 7 against the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), a plan to lease government assets announced in August. The unions termed the policy “anti-national” and “destructive”. They would carry out a continuous campaign to spread an awareness of the impact of the monetisation policy on common people. October 7 would be observed as “national protest day” with agitations at district-level. A national convention of workers would be held in Delhi after Dusshera and before Diwali to decide the future course of action, they stated. "The so called ‘National Monetisation Pipeline’ was announced by the Union Finance Minister on August 23, 2021, to raise Rs. 6 lakh crore over the next four years...It is claimed that the funds so generated will be invested in expanding infrastructure. This is nothing but a nefarious design to hand over all infrastructural assets to private hands virtually free for revenue generation by them without any obligation of capital cost and share a small part of that huge revenue with the government,” their statement read. The joint platform comprises the Centre of Indian Trade Union, the All-India Trade Union Congress, the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the All-India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, the All-India Central Council of Trade Unions, the Labour Progressive Federation and the United Trade Union Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/protest-against-monetisation-plan-on-oct-7/article36641820.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||No space for anger in politics: Congress||Describing former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s comments against Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as one made in anger, the Congress on Thursday hoped he would reconsider his words as it didn’t suit his stature and there was no place for “anger in politics”. Responding to those comments, Mr. Singh was quoted by his media adviser as asking if there was “space for humiliation and insult in politics”. Addressing a press briefing, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate was asked a series of questions on Mr. Singh’s outburst against the Gandhi siblings on Wednesday and if he was planning to leave the party after his “unceremonious exit”. Ms. Shrinate said the party had no comments if someone wants to leave and that Captain Amarinder is an elder and may have stated things out of anger. “He is our elder and the elderly often get angry and say a lot of things. We respect his anger, age and experience. We hope he does reconsider his words. But there is no space in politics for anger, envy, enmity, vendetta and personal attacks and comments against political opponents,” she told reporters. “We hope he will rethink his own words while showing prudence, as he has remained a stalwart of the Congress party, which made him the Chief Minister for nine years and nine months,” Ms. Shrinate said. “Yes, there’s no space for anger in politics. But is there space for humiliation and insult in a grand old party like the Congress? If a senior party leader like me can be treated like this, I wonder what the workers must go through!” Mr. Singh was quoted by Raveen Thukral, who served as the media adviser to the former Punjab Chief Minister. On Wednesday, Mr. Singh, in a series of media interviews, had called the Gandhi siblings as ‘inexperienced’ and made it clear that he would strongly oppose the Punjab unit chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu, whom he accused of behaving like a “super CM” with the newly appointed Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi “simply nodding along”.  We hope he [Amarinder] will rethink his own words while showing prudence, as he has remained a stalwart of the Congress Supriya ShrinateCongress spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-space-for-anger-in-politics-congress/article36641824.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||PM CARES is not govt. fund, Centre tells HC||The Central government has informed the Delhi High Court that the PM CARES Fund is “not a fund of the Government of India and the amount does not go in the Consolidated Fund of India”. The affidavit filed by an Under Secretary at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said the PM CARES Fund was a charitable trust not created by or under the Constitution or by any law made by Parliament or by any State legislature. Under Secretary Pradeep Kumar Srivastava said despite being an officer of the Central government, he was permitted to discharge his functions in the PM CARES Trust on an honorary basis. PM CARES functioned with transparency and its funds were audited by an auditor, who is a chartered accountant drawn from the panel prepared by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, he stated. “To ensure transparency, the audited report is put on the official website of the trust along with the details of utilisation of funds received by the trust,” he said. The Centre’s affidavit came in response to a petition filed by Samyak Gangwal before the court seeking to declare PM CARES as a “public authority” under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. It said that irrespective of whether the trust was a ‘State’ or other authority within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution or whether it was a ‘public authority’ within the meaning of provisions of the Right to Information Act (RTI), it was not permissible to disclose third party information. A Bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Amit Bansal will hear the case on September 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-cares-is-not-govt-fund-centre-tells-hc/article36641861.ece
24 September 2021||Srinagar,||3 heavily armed men killed in Uri, says Army||Three heavily armed militants were killed and a huge cache of ammunition was recovered near the Line of Control (LoC) in the Uri Sector of north Kashmir, where an operation was on for the past six days. A militant was also killed in Shopian in south Kashmir. “The Army spotted a group of militants in Hathlanga area of Uri at 6 a.m. The group was challenged and three militants were killed in a brief exchange of fire,” General Officer Commanding, 15 Corps, Lieutenant General D.P. Pandey stated. One slain militant was identified, who is from Pakistan. “The identity of the other two is being ascertained.” The Army said it was the second such infiltration bid from across the LoC in Uri since September 18. “The September 18 bid of the infiltrators was foiled and the militants were pushed back. The combing operation in Uri has also been called off [after six days],” the Army officer said. The Army said it recovered five AK-47 rifles, seven pistols, five AK magazines, 24 (under-barrel grenade launchers) UBGl grenades, 38 Chinese grenades, seven Pakistan made grenades, Rs. 35000 Pakistani currency and eatables from the slain militants. “The Army was alert and was anticipating a change in the behaviour of Pakistan in September. We were expecting infiltration ahead of the onset of winter. I would not like to connect this with the geopolitics,” Lt. Gen. Pandey said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-heavily-armed-men-killed-in-uri-says-army/article36641827.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Minor girl sexually assaulted, 26 arrested||“The victim reached the police station on Wednesday night. According to her statement, the accused sexually assaulted her repeatedly at various locations from January to September this year,” said Additional Commissioner of Police (east region) Datta Karale. According to police sources, the video used to coerce the victim is not yet in the police’s possession. “We checked the mobile phone of the girl and also of the 20-year-old boy with whom she was in a relationship previously. In both the phones, no such video as claimed was found. We will be sending the mobile phones for forensic analysis,” Senior police inspector Dadahari Choure, Manpada station, said. Students held “All the accused are between the ages of 16 to 23 years and most of them are students. After the case was registered, our focus has been on arresting the accused,” Mr. Karale said. The girl had spoken of the abuse to her aunt. “In the conversation, the girl narrated the ordeal that had started from January. The aunt got in touch with a social worker in the area, who then suggested that a trap be laid to nab the accused red-handed,” a police official said. The girl made a call to the accused and arranged a meeting. Some of the accused picked her up in an autorickshaw while the social worker and victim’s aunt and uncle followed them. The autorickshaw in which the relatives and social worker were travelling had a punctured tyre, as a result of which they lost track of the first vehicle. They then called the police. The girl, meanwhile, sent her aunt her location by GPS. The police reached the location. By then, the girl had been gang-raped by six men, who fled when they learnt of police presence. The police nabbed two of them; the rest were caught on Thursday. “After learning about the crime had the family approached the police, at least the incident of Wednesday could have been avoided,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-girl-sexually-assaulted-near-mumbai/article36641828.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||2 killed during eviction drive in Assam||One of the injured policemen was rushed to the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, about 60 km away, while the other injured were admitted to the district hospital. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the police had to take action as the mob attacked them with sticks, machetes and spears. He said the eviction drive would continue on Friday. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government had recently decided to use the land for agricultural purposes after evicting the settlers. The incident attracted flak. Many reacted to a viral video showing a cameraman stomping on the body of a man who was shot by the police. Assam DGP Bhaskarjyoti Mahanta said the cameraman has been arrested and a case registered with the CID. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Assam is on state-sponsored fire. I stand in solidarity with our brothers and sisters in the State — no children of India deserve this”. CPI (M-L) politburo member Kavita Krishnan questioned the police firing. “What protocol orders firing to the chest of a lone man coming running with a stick @DGPAssamPolice @assampolice? Who is the man in civil clothes with a camera who repeatedly jumps with bloodthirsty hate on the body of the fallen (probably dead) man?” she asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-killed-during-eviction-drive-in-assam/article36641829.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||SC may form panel to look into snooping charges||The court decided to pass an interim order after the government expressed reservations over filing a “detailed” affidavit responding to the allegations. The Centre had said such an affidavit would be public and compromise national security. The petitioners had asked for an affidavit from the Cabinet Secretary or for the court to form a committee led by a sitting judge to probe the snooping controversy. On Sept. 13, a Bench of Chief Justice Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli made it clear that there would be no more “beating around the bush” on the issue. The CJI had said the court had given the government a fair opportunity to file a detailed affidavit in order to get a clear idea of its stand in the Pegasus case. “We thought the government would file a counter-affidavit… Now we will pass our interim orders,” he remarked. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for senior journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, had found the govt’s refusal to file a detailed affidavit “unbelievable”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-may-form-panel-to-look-into-snooping-charges/article36641830.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi meets Adobe, Qualcomm CEOs||Technology, energy and defence were the focus of Mr. Modi’s talks with industry heads on Thursday. Mr. Modi discussed technology, especially artificial intelligence, at the meeting with Adobe, according to Shantanu Narayen, the company’s head. Their discussion also included the “ever changing nature of media” and start-ups, he said. Mr. Modi’s discussion with Qualcomm CEO Cristiano Amon included semiconductors and 5G technology. “If you look at it from a year-on-year basis, American investments coming into India is growing substantially. India needs $100 billion investment annually to achieve its objective of being a $5 trillion economy. At the moment, the number is close to $70-75 billion annually, so the appetite is tremendous, and it is tied closely to the de-risking of supply chains from China and as the economic prosperity of India increases, so does the allure of the Indian market and hence the alacrity of American investors,” said Mukesh Aghi, president and CEO, U.S. India Strategic Partnership Forum. On the importance of the Quad summit, Mr. Aghi said, “It is significant because to preserve the freedom of global rules and laws of operations, it is important that the four democracies coalesce and support each other, and they are collaborating on areas of alternative technology, on de-risking of supply chains, on healthcare, on 5G technology, on cybersecurity, so it is a collaboration that is a win-win situation for the world itself.” Mr. Modi will not have large diaspora events due to COVID-19 measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-meets-adobe-qualcomm-ceos/article36641831.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||No evidence of any new variant, says INSACOG||There is no evidence of a new variant of SARS-CoV2 and presently there is no additional or public health concern regarding the Delta sub-lineages, the INSACOG, a genome sequencing consortium, has said. In its latest bulletin dated September 20, the INSACOG said Delta continues to be the main variant of concern in India. “The second wave, driven by the Delta (variant), is continuing at low levels in some States and there is no evidence of a new variant,” it said. There is a small but steady increase in the sub-lineage AY.1 since June 2021, which is being monitored, the INSACOG noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-evidence-of-any-new-variant-says-insacog/article36641846.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC introduces FASTER system to send records||In a big fillip to the fundamental rights of life, dignity and personal liberty, the Supreme Court has introduced a new system by which crucial decisions, including orders on bail and stay of arrest, can be communicated electronically to prison authorities and investigating agencies through a secure channel. Following an order on July 16 by a Special Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, the top court introduced the “Fast and Secured Transmission of Electronic Records” (FASTER) system. The Bench approved its use on Thursday. The system is meant to ensure that undertrials are not made to wait for days on end behind bars to be released because the certified hard copies of their bail orders took time to reach the prison. The system would also prevent unnecessary arrests and custody of people even after the court had already granted them its protection. It may even communicate a stay on an execution ordered by the final court on time. The process to develop the FASTER system began with the CJI’s observations in court on July 16, “In this modern era of technology, why are we still looking at the skies for pigeons to deliver our orders?” The court hearing was based on a suo motu case. The suo motu case was taken after The Hindu reported the plight of 13 prisoners in an Agra jail, who suffered imprisonment for up to two decades despite the Juvenile Justice Board declaring them ‘juveniles’ at the time of commission of their crimes. The top court had granted them bail on July 8, but they were released by the prison authorities after a delay of four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-introduces-faster-system-to-send-records/article36641906.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC raps man over Asthana plea||The Delhi High Court on Thursday came down heavily on a man who had challenged the appointment of IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner saying his petition was a “copy-paste” of another petition filed by NGO, Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) on the same issue. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh got particularly irked at the counsel for the petitioner Sadre Alam, as he could not explain certain averments made in the petition. ‘Don’t repeat’ “If you are copying, you do it 5% and write 95% of your own. Here, 97% to 99% is copied even with all the full stops and commas. Don’t do this in the future we have tolerated it this time,” the Bench remarked. The Bench enquired about the meaning of “Super Time Scale” which was referred to in the petition. Mr. Alam, in his petition, had argued that Mr. Asthana has already reached the “Super Time Scale” in his home cadre, which makes him ineligible to avail inter-cadre deputation. However, Mr Alam’s counsel was unable to explain the concept and sought time to check and come back. The HC also told advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the CPIL, “You people are also distributing your copies everywhere. Don’t do this. He [Mr. Alam’s counsel] does not know what super time scale is. You are doing it in good faith but it becomes a weapon. I have asked the question deliberately. What assistance we will get?” The High Court will hear the case again on September 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/irked-hc-raps-man-for-plea-against-asthana/article36642107.ece
24 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Tewari given Punjab Chief Secretary post||The Punjab government on Thursday appointed Anirudh Tewari, a 1990-batch IAS officer, as the new Chief Secretary of the State, replacing Vini Mahajan. Mr. Tewari, currently Additional Chief Secretary-cum-Financial Commissioner (Development), had been posted as Chief Secretary with immediate effect, said an order issued by the government. Ms. Mahajan’s posting orders would be issued later, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tewari-given-punjab-chief-secretary-post/article36641841.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC for probe into Manika Batra’s plaint||The Delhi High Court on Thursday stayed the mandate of the Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) on compulsory attendance at the National Coaching Camp in order to be selected for international events. The High Court’s order came on a petition by star table tennis player Manika Batra, who was left out of the Indian contingent for the upcoming Asian Table Tennis Championships in Doha due to the mandate. Justice Rekha Palli also asked the Centre to conduct an inquiry into Ms. Batra’s complaint against the TTFI. Ms. Batra, who is the highest ranked Indian woman player internationally, had alleged that on one occasion, national coach Soumyadeep Roy put pressure on her to “throw away a match” to enable one of his personal trainees to qualify for the Olympics 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-for-probe-into-manika-batras-plaint/article36641817.ece
24 September 2021||Agartala,||Two BSF men killed in south Tripura brawl||Two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were killed and another injured after they opened fire following a brawl at a border location in south Tripura on Thursday evening. Police officials said the incident occurred at a border outpost in the Silachari area of Gomati district at around 7 p.m. The officials said the incident was the fallout of an altercation between a constable and a havildar over duty-related matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-bsf-men-killed-in-south-tripura-brawl/article36641905.ece
24 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘Will raise people’s issues with govt.’||Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, on Thursday announced the start of the ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ campaign from October 10, in a bid to draw the State government’s attention to the “pain and problems” of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-raise-peoples-issues-with-govt/article36641840.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||PM to launch health mission on Sept. 27||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will announce the nationwide roll-out of the Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission on September 27, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Twitter. “Under this, a unique digital health ID will be provided to the people, which will contain all the health records of the person,” he said. The Minister released post-COVID-19 sequelae modules, aimed at capacity-building of health workers to manage long-term effects of the disease in those who have recovered. “The modules have been prepared to provide guidance to doctors and healthcare workers to deal with the issue of long-term effects of COVID-19,” he observed. Proactive and comprehensive treatment of COVID-19 was required to ensure minimum side-effects, he said. “We have witnessed in patients the consequences of post-COVID-19 effects due to taking higher doses of steroids in cases of mucormycosis. It is important to take medicines with fewer or negligible side-effects. If we are alert beforehand, it will be fruitful in tackling the future consequences of COVID-19,” he noted. Some perceptions related to COVID-19 — such as fear and mental health issues — needed to be tackled, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-launch-health-mission-on-sept-27/article36641852.ece
24 September 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. Congress vice-president quits||Uttar Pradesh Congress vice-president and former MLA Lalitesh Pati Tripathi on Thursday announced that he had resigned from the party but remained tight-lipped on his next step. Mr. Tripathi is the great grandson of former U.P. Chief Minister Kamlapati Tripathi. Addressing journalists, Mr. Tripathi said he resigned from all posts of the Congress as well as his primary membership. He said he felt he had “lost the right” to continue in the posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-congress-vice-president-quits/article36641859.ece
24 September 2021||Sringar,||Ex-chairman of J&K Bank joins Sajad Lone’s party||Former J&K Bank chairman Parvez Nengroo joined Sajad Lone’s Peoples Conference (PC) on Thursday. Mr. Lone said Mr. Nengroo would play a key role in scripting the party’s economic agenda as he “has had an illustrious banking career and is a hands-on leader who has risen from the ranks”. “Parvez sahib ’s experience and expertise in economic matters will immensely benefit the party in formulating a futuristic economic policy to steer J&K from changelessness to change,” Mr. Lone said. Mr. Nengroo was arrested on April 3 this year in the 2019 graft case filed by the Anti- Corruption Bureau, and was granted a bail by a local court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-chairman-of-jk-bank-joins-sajad-lones-party/article36641860.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||U.K.-based firm, Indian directors held for bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked a U.K.-based company, Molinare Limited, and its Indian directors for allegedly cheating the London branch of Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 192.48 crore. The company was into post-production services in the entertainment and media industry, The FIR also names its then managing director, Prabodh Kumar Tewari, and his two sons, Anand and Abhishek, as accused. Anand was also a company director. The three accused, who are residents of Maharani Bagh in Delhi, had cheated the bank’s London branch of £18.51 million, the CBI stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-based-firm-indian-directors-held-for-bank-fraud/article36641844.ece
24 September 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya Congress needs course correction: Ex-CM||Former Meghalaya Chief Minister Mukul Sangma on Thursday said the State unit of the Congress needs course correction. He also played down speculation on him quitting the party. The veteran Congress leader, sulking after the All India Congress Committee (AICC) reportedly snubbed him while appointing Lok Sabha member Vincent H. Pala as State party president, said he would seek to rectify the “mistakes” and “wrongs” at an appropriate level within the “four walls of the party”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-congress-needs-course-correction-ex-cm/article36641854.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Battery charging/swapping stations to be opened at fuel outlets||Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL) will soon begin setting up battery charging/swapping stations at its fuel outlets in Tamil Nadu. It has tied up with a private company to set up pilots at two outlets. The first will come up at Saidapet by the end of this year. “This infrastructure is being created to offer wider fuel choices to our customers. We will be covering more fuel outlets as demand grows. The company has planned to commission 3,000 charging stations across the country in the next three years,” a company source said. Not stopping with drawing power to charge batteries, the fuel outlets will also have solar panels and any excess power generated will be given back to the grid. “We will be charging batteries using solar power. At present, we can install solar panels with a capacity of 10 KW/hour to 15 KW/hour. If approvals come from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO) for installing solar panels atop canopies, we can depend entirely on solar charging. This can be done in the case of new fuel outlets if the canopies are designed to withstand the weight of the panels,” said A. Vinodhraj, founder and CEO, GoFuel Private Limited, which has tied up with HPCL in the State. Apart from providing space at their outlets, HPCL will offer a subsidy of around Rs. 2 lakh each to outlet owners to encourage them to go solar. “We will also provide them with engineering support to ensure that charging stations/swap points function properly,” a source in HPCL said. ‘Solarisation’ of all outlets will be done in the first phase, followed by charging stations in select outlets depending on the demand. Each outlet will have to spend Rs. 12 lakh to Rs. 14 lakh on setting up the infrastructure. “The swapping station will allow the vehicle owner to leave their battery at the outlet for charging. A network of swapping stations will allow vehicle owners to charge their batteries,” said Mr. Vinodhraj. Advance booking It is expected to take around an hour to charge a car through DC charging and cost Rs. 350-Rs. 400 per charge for a 25-30 units battery. Two cars can be charged at a time. If car owners opt for AC charging at night, it will take more time and owners can book in advance too. Bookings at the charging station will be managed by the GoFuel app. Select outlets will also have futuristic pods where those wanting to purchase E-vehicles can take a look at the models and also compare prices and features.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/battery-chargingswapping-stations-to-be-opened-at-fuel-outlets/article36642039.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases top 1,700 in Tamil Nadu||After a little over a month, fresh COVID-19 infections topped 1,700 in Tamil Nadu — 1,745 people tested positive on Thursday, taking the State’s tally to 26,52,115. In Coimbatore, 226 people tested positive, while Chennai’s daily count went over 200 again. From 194 cases on Wednesday, the city went on to record 222 on Thursday. Erode’s case count dropped from 130 to 116, while Chengalpattu recorded 107 infections. Cases rose marginally in Thanjavur (89), Tiruvallur (81) and Tiruchi (81), when compared with the previous day. Both Tiruppur and Salem recorded a small dip in cases. While 82 people tested positive in Tiruppur, as against 101 on Wednesday, cases dropped from 98 to 88 in Salem. Five districts logged under 10 cases each, with Ramanathapuram recording the least number of cases at five. Another 27 people (eight in private hospitals and 19 in government facilities) succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 35,427. As many as 22 districts recorded no fatality due to COVID-19. There were five deaths in Chennai, four in Thanjavur and three in Tiruvallur. As many as 1,624 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 25,99,567. The State’s active cases stand at 17,121. Of these, 2,145 people are under treatment in Coimbatore, followed by 2,105 in Chennai and 1,337 in Erode. With another 1,60,057 samples tested, the total count touched 4,59,16,422. As many as 1,29,646 people, including 82,030 people in the 18-44 age group and 35,259 people aged 45 to 59, were vaccinated on Thursday, taking the coverage in government centres to 4,15,63,421. The cumulative coverage in private vaccination centres, from May 1, stood at 24,29,585.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-covid-19-cases-top-1700-in-tamil-nadu/article36642016.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Likely revenue loss cited for keeping fuel out of GST||The likelihood of revenue loss and the convenient way of tax administration on petrol and diesel are the major concerns of States, including Tamil Nadu, in resisting the move to bring in petroleum products under the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), according to experts. Even though the GST Council, at its meeting last week, decided not to pursue the matter, the pros and cons of the move have again become a subject of discussion. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, the revenue from levying Value Added Tax on the two petroleum products has been in the range of 12.5% to 16% of the State’s own tax revenue (SOTR) or around 1% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in the last 15 years. In absolute figures, the revenue was a little over Rs. 3,700 crore in 2007-08; it rose to Rs. 17,905 crore in 2019-20 and stood at Rs. 16,713 crore in 2020-21, which was the first year of the pandemic. It is evident that under the present highest rate of 28%, States will not be able to net as much revenue as they have been getting under the current arrangement. If the introduction of GST for petroleum products is to be made revenue neutral, there has to be a State-specific additional levy, given the fact that the existing tax rate varies from State to State, said Sacchidananda Mukherjee, associate professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. Besides, there will be a significant impact on the inflationary trend, he said, adding that in such an eventuality, the end consumer would not benefit in terms of price reduction. As for tax administration, veteran policy makers say the present system of VAT on petroleum products is easy to administer, as there is no multi-stage taxation. If petrol and diesel are brought under GST, a destination-based tax, the situation may turn out to be more advantageous to businesses that can claim themselves of the input tax credit, than retail consumers. There seems to be another way of getting States’ consent for the GST, if the Centre comes forward to withdraw the levy of cess and surcharge on petrol and diesel. A few days ago, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan went on record, saying that the State government would reconsider its decision if the Central government took such an initiative. This assumes relevance in the light of the component and cess and surcharge on petrol and diesel having become higher than the component of the Central excise duty, as found out in a study by the petroleum planning and analysis cell of PRS Legislative Research, a New Delhi-based think tank, in December 2020. The study revealed that the Central tax component (excise duty) on petrol and diesel a litre went down from Rs. 9.48 and Rs. 11.33 in April 2017 to Rs. 2.98 and Rs. 4.83 in May 2020, whereas the component of cess and surcharge went up from Rs. 12 and Rs. 6 to Rs. 30 and Rs. 27 during the corresponding period. A policy maker, who had a stint with the Centre, said it was not just the States, but also the Central government, that would lose revenue, if GST is introduced without revenue-neutral arrangements. Dr. Mukherjee said until the country’s economy recovered and the GST system stabilised, there was no need for bringing the petroleum products under the net.  If petrol and diesel are brought under GST, a destination-based tax, the situation may turn out to be advantageous to businesses... than retail consumers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/likely-revenue-loss-cited-for-keeping-fuel-out-of-gst/article36642019.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 2,733 cases of dengue in 9 months||Tamil Nadu has recorded 2,733 cases of dengue since the start of the year. There is a three-fold rise in the number of tests performed for diagnosis, from 26,000 in 2020 to 76,000, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Thursday. “It is true that there is an increase in dengue cases. The cases usually increase during the north-east and south-west monsoons. Last year, we had 2,410 cases,” he told reporters at Madras Medical College. “We are conducting more tests now. There is no need to fear,” he said. “Fogging and spraying activities are being carried out to reduce mosquito-breeding. The Collectors have been told to expedite mosquito-control activities through the Chief Secretary and the Health Secretary before the start of the monsoon. The Health Department is working with the local bodies in dengue- control.” Mr. Subramanian said ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’, which was launched on August 5 with the aim of covering one crore beneficiaries, had so far reached 9,47,284 people. The beneficiaries received medications for diabetes, hypertension, palliative care and physiotherapy at home. To identify more beneficiaries, the Health Department would screen persons aged above 18 for hypertension and persons aged above 30 for diabetes at all government headquarters hospitals and government medical college hospitals. “We will be screening persons from Friday, and the identified beneficiaries will be linked with the scheme. The Chief Minister will launch a screening centre on the premises of Madras Medical College on Friday,” he said. In line with the International Week of the Deaf, ENT equipment worth Rs. 75 lakh would be given to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and the Tiruchi and Krishnagiri district headquarters hospitals. Hearing aids would be distributed to children and the elderly. Asked about the regularisation of the services of nurses hired through the Medical Services Recruitment Board, Mr. Subramanian said over 30,000 workers had been recruited on contract and through outsourcing. “The National Health Mission Director had said 4,800 nurses should be posted for ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’. So we decided that those who worked during COVID-19 should be given priority. We have sent an advisory to the Collectors to prioritise persons who have appropriate qualification and training and have worked at hospitals during the pandemic.” On COVID-19 cases in Chennai, he said the Greater Chennai Corporation was taking all steps to keep the number under control. “It will not be appropriate to bring in new restrictions now.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-records-2733-cases-of-dengue-in-9-months/article36642013.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MMC celebrates a 200-year-old tree on campus||A search for historical information on its heritage structures led authorities of the Madras Medical College (MMC) to a nearly 200-year-old Baobab tree on campus. Now, the college is all set to display information about the tree and its significance. On Friday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will unveil a plaque detailing the characteristics of the Baobab tree in the MMC campus. Known taxonomically as Adansonia digitata , the tree is native to the African continent and was believed to be planted here by the British, according to E. Theranirajan, dean of MMC. “We have a heritage group comprising of faculty members who are MMC alumni. We were collecting information on our heritage structures such as the Red Fort, erstwhile Anatomy Block, as there are plans to set up a museum. Then, we came across information on the Baobab tree that is nearly 200 years old. We started looking for information and found that this tree had specific features, including a hollow trunk,” he said. When authorities measured the tree, they found it was 19.8 m tall and 37 m in girth. “We came across information that the tree’s leaves were rich in Vitamin C and was used as food and medicine in Africa. It had other uses as well,” Dr. Theranirajan said. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, during his visit to the MMC campus, decided to put up a plaque to display information on this age-old tree. MMC has also set up an on-campus ‘selfie spot’. The dean said this was to create ownership for the students faculty members and the staff of the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mmc-celebrates-a-200-year-old-tree-on-campus/article36642026.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro finalises contractor for phase II’s Poonamallee depot||Metro Rail has finalised a contractor for building the Poonamalee depot for its phase II project. The depot, which will be used for the repair, maintenance and cleaning of trains, will exclusively serve those to be operated in the Poonamallee-Light House stretch. According to sources in Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), the bids for choosing a contractor were opened recently, and the joint venture between Ukraine-based Altis Holding Corporation and Varindera Constructions Limited emerged as the lowest bidder. “There are some more procedures to be completed and after that, the contract will be awarded but it will be done shortly,” the source said. Since the section of the Poonamallee-Light House stretch between Poonamallee and Power House will be the first to open to the public in four-five years, it is imperative that the depot be finished by then too, the source added. Piling work to raise a viaduct is under way in the stretch between Poonamallee and Porur, and this will be extended all the way to Power House soon. The depot, to be built at a cost of Rs. 225 crore, will require about 17 hectares of land. It will house 24 tracks and a staff quarters. CMRL has also begun work to procure trains for the stretch and also to find a contractor for laying tracks in the depot. Apart from this depot, the phase II project will have another bigger one at Madhavaram for which CMRL is yet to finalise a contractor. The work in the phase II project’s other stretches, constructed at a cost of Rs. 61,843 crore, is yet to gain momentum and only barricades have been installed and some utility diversion work has begun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-finalises-contractor-for-phase-iis-poonamallee-depot/article36642031.ece
24 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 cases among students only sporadic’||Around 400-odd students had tested positive for COVID-19 since schools reopened for higher classes in Tamil Nadu and “these were isolated, sporadic cases and not clusters,” State Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Thursday. Safe protocols “The decision to reopen schools was recommended by the expert committee at a time when the COVID-19 positivity rate was less than one percent. The committee was of the view that we reopen schools taking into consideration the mental health issues faced by students and we came up with Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) to ensure safe protocols,” he explained at a panel discussion on ‘Back to School: Challenges and Opportunities’ organised by UNICEF and the Press Institute of India. “We are keeping a close watch and officials across the health and education department are participating in regular reviews to keep an eye on the situation,” he said, adding that every school has been directed to strictly follow SoPs. K. Lakshminarasimha Rao, Chief, Social Policy, UNICEF Chennai, said that with 40% of children having no access to digital devices according to a rapid survey carried out by them, it was important that schools reopen and address the learning loss over the last year. Calling for multi-layered protection, Ravi Chandran, Professor of Paediatrics, Institute of Child Health, said that schools should advocate masking, physical distancing, frequently washing hands, ensuring faculty members do not come in if they have symptoms as well as have a random surveillance mechanism in place to test everyone on campus periodically. “With herd immunity being relatively high, it is a good time for schools to reopen provided they follow all these measures,” he said. Anuradha Ramakrishnan, principal, Maharishi Vidya Mandir, Rukmani Shreedharan, principal, PSBB Millennium School, OMR, Dr Benny Benjamin, senior paediatrician, Sudha Umashanker, journalist, and Gunisha Agarwal, founder Help E-learning were among the other stakeholders who shared their thoughts at the discussion moderated by advocate Sanjay Pinto.  Every school has been directed to strictly follow SoPsJ. Radhakrishnan,Health Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-among-students-only-sporadic/article36642053.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Survey says 80% of prospective homebuyers may make purchases in next three months||A survey conducted by real estate research firm, Jones Lang LaSalle in association with RoofandFloor, shows that 80% of prospective buyers are likely to make new home purchases within the next three months. The survey titled ‘Homebuyer Preference Survey 2021: The COVID-19 Impact’ showed that 80% of homebuyers prefer properties in the sub Rs. 75 lakh category. This has not changed much over the course of the pandemic. Prospective buyers are showing a greater willingness to relocate to suburban/peripheral markets in order to get larger homes while keeping the budget intact. The survey also looked at the demand side and it was found that there was an increased demand for 3BHK (bedroom, hall, kitchen) apartments in Bengaluru, Chennai. Hyderabad and Delhi NCR regions. While buying, consumers kept in mind factors like additional room for work and online classes. In Chennai, the preferred sub-markets are southern suburbs, which include GST Road, Adambakkam, Naganallur, Navalur, Chromepet and Medavakkam, and places in the western suburbs like Ambattur, Avadi, Porur and Mogappair. Optimistic note “With more than 80% of the prospective homebuyers expected to make a purchase in the next three months, the residential market is expected to get back on the recovery path and 2021 is likely to end on an optimistic note,” said Siva Krishnan, managing director, residential services, India, Jones Lang LaSalle. Sriram Krishnaswamy, COO of RoofandFloor, said post ‘unlock 1.0’ of 2020, the uptick in residential sales was primarily driven by pent-up demand and the presence of ‘affordable synergy’ in the market. However, sustained recovery in the next few quarters and the resilience shown during the second COVID-19 wave are indicative of a fundamental shift in the sentiment towards home ownership, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/survey-says-80-of-prospective-homebuyers-may-make-purchases-in-next-three-months/article36642027.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veterinary College standardises technique for artificial insemination in dogs with fresh semen||After achieving success in the technique of artificial insemination in dogs with fresh semen, the Madras Veterinary College at Vepery is preparing for the next phase of insemination with frozen semen. The college is affiliated to Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS). “We have standardised the technique for transcervical insemination. The success rate is 60% to 70% when fresh semen is used, and it is almost equal to natural mating. Now we have to concentrate on the use of frozen semen,” said T. Sathiamoorthy, Director of Clinics, TANUVAS. The artificial insemination was launched as a pilot project. The veterinary college also procured a vaginoscope for Rs. 15 lakh. “We succeeded in developing the transcervical insemination technique in the country for the first time,” he said. Common breeds The college started the process involving the commonly available breeds such as Labrador and German Shepherd. The semen from the male was collected through digital manipulation. “The method proved useful for dogs that have problems in natural mating,” said Dr. Krishnakumar, Professor and Head of the Department, Veterinary Gynaecology and Obstetrics. He, however, agreed that it would take time to achieve success with frozen semen. Dr. Sathiamoorthy said there were practical difficulties like transport of semen from faraway places to the semen bank. “Anyway, we are going ahead with the technique. The procedure will be a boon to pet parents as well as the native breeds. We can save the native breeds,” he said.  The college started the process involving the commonly available breeds such as Labrador and German Shepherd. The semen from the male was collected through digital manipulation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veterinary-college-standardises-technique-for-artificial-insemination-in-dogs-with-fresh-semen/article36642055.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges farmers to use power judiciously||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday made a strong case for the judicious use of power by farmers, saying that power generation involved huge expenditure for the government. “It is not enough if just the Minister and the officials revive Tangedco [from its earlier neglected state]. People too must cooperate. Let the new electricity connections pave way for a revolution in agriculture,” he said, launching a project to provide one lakh electricity connections at a cost is Rs. 3,025 crore. The Chief Minister said the government had taken steps to prevent line loss and launched the ‘ minnagam ’ app for consumers to file complaints and for them to be resolved. “We have resolved 90% complaints. Since Tangedco is directly connected to the people, I have asked the Minister to make it free from complaints,” Mr. Stalin said. He said one should not conclude that Tangedco is wealthy. “The rulers of the past regime spoiled it. It has debt to the tune of Rs. 1.59 lakh crore, and is paying Rs. 16,000 crore as interest a year. The AIADMK government procured power for a higher amount,” he said. Recalling Electricity Minister Senthilbalaji’s allegation that maintenance was not carried out for 10 years, he said: “Of the 1,481 MW power capacity installed during the AIADMK regime, 1,428 MW was planned during the rule of Kalaignar [former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi] between 2001 and 2006”. “The AIADMK regime installed only 53 MW in ten years. We have taken steps to save Tangedco and have plans to generate 17,980 MW in ten years,” he said. Announcing the government’s plan to accord priority to solar power, Mr. Stalin said the first solar park would be set up in Tiruvarur. “We have signed an MOU with the Indian Renewable Energy Development Agency for consultation on solar and hydro power, and to mobilise Rs. 1,32,500 crore. We are the only State to sign such a mega agreement for renewable energy,” he said.  It is not enough if only the Minister and officials revive Tangedco [from its earlier neglected state]. People too must cooperate M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-farmers-to-use-power-judiciously/article36642024.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After undergoing robotic surgery for cancer, doctor wins gold medal||A 28-year-old postgraduate medical student, who had undergone a successful robotic colorectal surgery for low rectal cancer at Apollo Hospital, has now completed her postgraduate studies and won a gold medal. According to a press release, the doctor was diagnosed with very low rectal cancer in 2017, at the age of 24, when she was just about to join her PG course. After the diagnosis, she had thought her medical dreams would be halted, as with conventional surgery for this cancer, the patient is left with a colostomy, a surgically-created opening in the body that routes bowel waste into a colostomy bag. However, with robotic surgery, the cancer was removed and the colon to rectal connection reconstructed, thus preventing a colostomy, said Venkatesh Munikrishnan, consultant colorectal & robotic surgeon. Cancers are adding to the burden of non-communicable diseases, and colorectal cancers are showing a rise, said Prathap C. Reddy, chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group. “Over the last few years, there have been several advances in minimally invasive techniques such as robotic colorectal surgery, which has led to significant change in the management of colorectal diseases,” said Preetha Reddy, executive vice-chairperson. The occasion also marked the completion of five years since the Apollo Institute of Colorectal Surgery began offering minimally invasive robotic surgical techniques and technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-undergoing-robotic-surgery-for-cancer-doctor-wins-gold-medal/article36642043.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Scattered rain over T.N. to continue till Monday||A trough running from Rayalaseema to Comorin area may influence scattered rainfall over the State for three or four days. The Meteorological Department has forecast that 10 districts are likely to receive isolated heavy rain on Friday. The weather system and convective activity together may favour light to moderate rainfall over a few places in the State and Puducherry. Heavy rain may lash one or two places in districts such as the Nilgiris, Theni, Namakkal, Tiruchi and Salem on Friday. Wet weather is likely to prevail over the State till Tuesday, according to IMD. Places like Chennai may escape humid weather during the day as the maximum temperature is likely to be normal and around 34 degree Celsius till the weekend. Chennaiites woke up to a clement weather on Thursday following overnight rain in some places. Officials noted that rain gauges in areas like West Tambaram and Puzhal recorded light rain on Thursday morning.   7 cm of rainfall in Melur Melur in Madurai district registered highest volume of 7 cm of rainfall during the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. On Saturday, coastal districts may have a chance of heavy rain in one or two places before rainfall activity shifts to other districts such as Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Dindigul on Sunday. There may be a drop in rainfall over Tamil Nadu after Monday. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said the low pressure area likely over northeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around Friday evening may not have a direct impact on the State. But the presence of weather systems would strengthen westerlies and aid in thunderstorm activity. The State has received an overall rainfall of 36 cm, which is 20% in excess of its average rainfall so far this monsoon and September rainfall has helped bring down deficit considerably, he said. Meanwhile, the department is also preparing to install two more high-speed wind recorders in Nagapattinam and Puducherry before the onset of northeast monsoon. There are plans to install another such instrument in Thoothukudi to get uninterrupted data on wind speed and direction. Chennai would soon get one more automatic rain gauge in Maduravoyal to strengthen the urban observational network, Mr.Balachandran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scattered-rain-over-tn-to-continue-till-monday/article36642057.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM presents Tamil literature awards||The SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), Kattankulathur, has announced the winners of the ‘SRM Tamil Peraayam Awards 2021’ (Thamizh Academy Awards). The Pudhumaippithan Padaippilakkiya Virudhu (short story, novel, drama) award of Rs. 1 lakh was shared by Kengapuram A. Venila and Sruthi from Muthunadu; the winner of the G.U. Pope Translation Award (translation from Tamil) of Rs. 1 lakh was Dr. Palani Arangasami; and the Pai. Na. Appuswamy Aaruviyal Tamil Virudhu/A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technology Award (science/technology in Tamil) of Rs. 1 lakh went to V. Dilli Babu. The recipient of the lifetime achievement award, Paarivendhar Painthamizh Virudhu of Rs. 5 lakh, was Dr. P. Valanarasu. The winners were announced by founder-chancellor of the SRM Group of Institutions T.R. Paarivendhar and SRMIST vice-chancellor C. Muthamizhchelvan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-presents-tamil-literature-awards/article36642028.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Government updating electric vehicle policy’||The State currently has around 14,000 electric vehicles (EVs), and this number is expected to increase. This is likely to be in the two-wheeler segment, especially since there is not much price parity there. “Electric two-wheelers and petrol-driven two-wheelers cost almost the same, which is perhaps one reason for around 90% of EVs being two-wheelers,” an automobile industry expert explained. “Once the Ola Factory opens, the number of EVs is expected to increase. Not just this, the Hosur belt has a lot of EV startups that are raring to go. However, the State government is yet to approve an EV policy for commercial vehicles in both the three-wheeler and four-wheeler segments. We are not sure why. Perhaps they are afraid that revenue through diesel or registrations might fall,” another expert said. Tamil Nadu, which had announced its e-vehicle policy in 2019, is currently in the process of updating it. “The government is actively considering support for charging infrastructure, especially with all the vehicles being sold,” an official source explained. The government at present grants 100% tax exemption for all battery-operated vehicles (electric vehicles).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-updating-electric-vehicle-policy/article36642040.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Take steps to declare Pallikaranai marsh as Ramsar site, says HC||The Madras High Court has directed the State government to take effective steps to declare the Pallikaranai marsh land in the city as a site protected under an intergovernmental treaty signed by members of United Nations at the Iranian city of Ramsar in 1971 for conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources. India is a signatory to the convention which came into force in the country since 1982. Justice N. Kirubakaran (since retired) also directed the government to explore the feasibility of declaring Pallikaranai marsh as a bird sanctuary under the Wildlife Protection Act of 1972. He ordered that the site should be declared as a protected wetland, under the provisions of the Wetland Rules of 2017, forthwith so that the elaborate conservation measures listed out under the Rules could be implemented. The judge ordered that non-forestry activities should be prohibited in the Pallikaranai marsh and unutilised lands allotted to government industries and institutions must be reclaimed. All institutions, industries and individuals who had been allotted any land identified as forming part of the Pallikaranai marsh, by a committee constituted for the purpose in the past, must be relocated immediately, he said. Awareness campaigns Further, the government was directed to conduct environmental awareness programmes and enlighten the people living around the marsh about the importance of the wetland and educate them about the activities that were detrimental to the habitat and ecology. He also ordered relocation of Perungudi and Alandur dumps to an alternative site and banned disposal of municipal solid waste, treated /untreated effluents or sewage into the marsh. After directing the revenue officials to conduct a survey to identify encroachments, the judge said, all encroachers must be evicted and ‘patta’ (revenue documents to prove land ownership) obtained illegally must be cancelled. The judge wanted the government to complete fencing around the marsh land at the earliest and remove blocks in water channels. He said the marsh was meant for birds and insects and therefore the State must prevent encroachments in toto. He called for a compliance report, with respect to the directions issued by him, by December 21. The directions were issued in public interest while dealing with an anticipatory bail petition filed by people accused of having usurped 66.70 acres of government land in Pallikaranai for a meagre amount of Rs. 66 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-declare-pallikaranai-marsh-as-ramsar-site-says-hc/article36642047.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Translator wants Tirukkural couplets displayed in planes, trains||T.E.S. Raghavan, 92, says Tirukkural couplets should be written with their meaning not only in buses but also in airplanes and trains. “A life is not lived, and is wasted, if one has not read Tirukkural ,” said Mr. Raghavan, who won the Sahitya Akademi award for 2020 for his translation of Tirukkural into Hindi. He is well-versed in Tamil, Sanskrit and Hindi. “I studied the Tamil vidwan course at Madras University, Siromani in Sanskrit and MA Hindi at Mysore University. As Tamil is my mother tongue, I had a natural interest in Tirukkural ,” said Mr. Raghavan, who worked as a Tamil and Hindi teacher at the Hindu High School at Triplicane before joining Shree Mangichand Bhandari Jain Higher Secondary School at T. Nagar. There are Tirukkural translations in Hindi, but what sets Mr. Raghavan’s work apart is its poetic rendition. “I have followed ‘kural venba’ — four words in the first line and three in the second — even in Hindi.” He first published the Hindi translation in 1990 and a new edition came out recently. “One should read and listen to kural day and night. It is common for people of all religions,” said Mr. Raghavan, whose work was appreciated by late Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi and late President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. Mr. Raghavan, who has also translated the Daya Sathakam , Mukundamala , Bhaja Govindam and other Sanskrit works in Hindi, explained that he had not translated Nalayira Divya Prabandham because the work had already been done by some.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/translator-wants-tirukkural-couplets-displayed-in-planes-trains/article36642195.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Drive on any major highway in State reveals large-scale mining’||The Madras High Court on Thursday said that a drive down any major highway in the State would reveal large-scale mining operations being undertaken. Rocks and boulders being broken and flattened is a common sight all over the place, it said and insisted upon the need for the mines and minerals department officials to keep their eyes and ears open to prevent illegal mining. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu made the observations while passing interim orders on a public interest litigation petition alleging illegal mining in Tiruvallur district. The judges said the case before them should not be seen in isolation since allegations were abound regarding illegal quarrying across the State and numerous cases in that regard were pending. “Indeed, a drive down any major highway in this State would reveal the large-scale mining operations undertaken and rocks and boulders being broken and flattened all over the place. It is necessary that the respondents… keep their eyes and ears open to take immediate appropriate steps in accordance with law to arrest illegal mining wherever or whenever it takes place in the State,” the judges said. The Bench also reiterated that it would not do for the State to be satisfied with the illegal or impermissible mining activities being stopped. “Any person who has indulged in illegal mining, where illegal mining would be when one operates without a licence or in excess of the terms granted by the licence, the person has to be made to pay. The State must assess the extent of illegal quarrying indulged in by a person and recover the money equivalent thereof together with the imposition of penalty.” Unless a sense of fear was instilled in persons indulging in wanton illegal mining across the State, the malady might never be arrested, the judges said and requested the State to use the machinery at its command to come down heavily on illegal miners by following the procedure established by law.  State must assess the extent of illegal quarrying indulged in by a person and recover the money equivalent thereof together with the imposition of penalty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-on-any-major-highway-in-state-reveals-large-scale-mining/article36642051.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE Dept. to retrieve land from theme park||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu on Thursday said the Department would wage a legal battle, if necessary, to retrieve land belonging to the Kasi Vishwanathar and Venugopalaswami temple in Kancheepuram district. Addressing mediapersons after a review meeting, he said 177 acres of land was willed by a zamindar in 1884 to the temple. However, in 1951, a revenue clerk classified them as anaadheenam or poromboke due to want of documents. The Department applied for patta in 1983, and after over 15 years, the Revenue Department turned down its request. “We went for two more appeals. However, those were turned down too, with the latest one being in 2021, when the Collector said the land was poromboke. My question is if it is poromboke land, should the Revenue Department not take over the land? We have gone on appeal to the Commissioner of Land Administration, and will leave no stone unturned to get the land back,” Mr. Sekarbabu said. However, there have been complaints that the land has been encroached upon by five parties, including a theme park, a school and a college near Poonamallee. “Though the Department had taken steps to retrieve the land, it did not succeed due to various factors. We will go on appeal to get it back,” he said. To a question on whether a private college in Nungambakkam, set on a sprawling campus, had been constructed on land belonging to a Shiva temple, the Minister said documents pertaining to the property had been thoroughly checked and that was not the case. Earlier, Mr. Sekarbabu, along with Secretary B. Chandra Mohan and Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran, reviewed the implementation of 112 announcements made during the Budget session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hrce-dept-to-retrieve-land-from-theme-park/article36642017.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on keyhole surgery for cancer||Gem Hospital will present The Hindu Wellness Series webinar on ‘Keyhole Surgery Is Best for Cancer Than Open Surgery’ on September 26 at 11.30 a.m. The panellists for the webinar will include C. Palanivelu, gastroenterology and cancer surgeon, and chairman of GEM Hospitals; P. Senthilnathan, head HBP, minimal access surgery and liver transplantation, GEM Hospitals; M. Vijayakumar, cancer surgeon and vice-chancellor, Yenepoya University (deemed); and Ho-Seong Han, liver and pancreatic cancer surgeon, and professor at the Seoul National University College of Medicine. The webinar session will be moderated by R. Sujatha, deputy editor – reporting, The Hindu. To register for the event visit, https://bit.ly/THGEM or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-advantages-of-keyhole-surgery-for-cancer/article36642045.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Third mega vaccination camp this Sunday||With a target of administering 15 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines, the Health Department is set to hold the third mega vaccination camp on Sunday. A total of 20,000 booths will be set up across the State. “We had no supply of COVID-19 vaccines in the last two days. The Chief Minister wrote a letter to the Prime Minister, and the Health Secretary contacted senior officials of the Union Health Ministry, following which we received five lakh doses yesterday,” Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. DMK’s Parliamentary Party Leader T.R. Baalu also met the Union Health Minister, the Minister said, adding that the State was expecting another 14 lakh doses of vaccines. As many as 28.91 lakh people were inoculated in the first mega vaccination camp on September 12 and 16.43 lakh people got jabs in the second camp on September 19.  As many as 28.91 lakh people were inoculated in the first mega vaccination camp on September 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/third-mega-vaccination-camp-this-sunday/article36642014.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kovalam gets Blue Flag certification||The Kovalam beach near Mamallapuram in Chengalpattu district in Tamil Nadu with its facilities for surfing, bathing and parking and its accent on safety has received the Blue Flag, a world-renowned eco-label certification for beaches, marinas and boats. The certification, which is provided for the duration of a tourist season, is based on certain criteria, including water quality, especially with respect to the presence of e-coli in the water, said Sujeetkumar Dongre, National Operator for Blue Flag programme, which is implemented by Society for Sustainable Urban Development in India. Thirty-three criteria are checked before the certification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovalam-gets-blue-flag-certification/article36642194.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested under POCSO Act in Ayapakkam||The Poonamalee all-women police have arrested a 21-year-old man and rescued a minor girl from him on Thursday. The accused, identified as B. Venkatesan, has been detained under the POCSO Act for sexually harassing the girl. The police said a missing person complaint was lodged by the girl’s parents with the Thiruverkadu police on September 16. On investigating, the police found that the girl was taken by a man who promised to marry her. Personnel from the Thiruverkadu police station transferred the complaint to the Poonamalee all-women station, who traced Venkatesan and the girl to Anjugam Nagar in Ayapakkam. The police rescued the girl and arrested the accused. The accused was later produced before a judicial magistrate and sent to prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-arrested-under-pocso-act-in-ayapakkam/article36642035.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dept. of Posts to hold circle level dak adalat on Oct.21||The Department of Posts, Tamil Nadu circle will conduct a dak adalat on October 21 at 11.30 a.m. in office of the Chief Postmaster General (CPMG), TN Circle, Anna Salai. People may send their grievances on postal services to M. Vijayalakshmi, Assistant Director (SB and FS), O/o of the CPMG, TN Circle on or before October 8. They can also mail to pg.tn@indiapost.gov.in. and mention complete details of the issue, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dept-of-posts-to-hold-circle-level-dak-adalat-on-oct21/article36642036.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Worker killed in stormwater drain collapse on Rajaji Salai||A 30-year-old man was killed after a portion of a stormwater drain caved in on Rajaji Salai on Thursday. The police identified the victim as Ranjith Mahji, who lived in Thirupalli street, Sowcarpet. The Elephant Gate police said Ranjith was working for a construction company engaged in highways contract work. He was engaged in the stormwater drain project on Rajaji Salai, near the Income Tax office, when a portion of the drain caved in and debris fell on him. He died on the spot. Fire Service informed The public informed the Fire Service control room. Fire and rescue personnel of High Court complex station retrieved his body. Police officials rushed to the site and sent the body to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for post-mortem. The police have filed a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-killed-in-stormwater-drain-collapse-on-rajaji-salai/article36642033.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GRP organises training programme||The Government Railway Police, in association with FICCI-FLO, organised a skill training programme for its personnel. During the two-day programme that ended on Thursday, over 50 personnel were trained in communication, courteous behaviour, personality development, behavioural skills and team building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grp-organises-training-programme/article36642034.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vice-President addresses CII conference||India is at a decisive point and there is a need to create global hubs in the space of manufacturing, agricultural exports and digital services, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu said while delivering his inaugural address at the Confederation of Indian Industry Mystic South-Global Linkages Summit. The need of the hour is to put the economy back on a high-growth track, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vice-president-addresses-cii-conference/article36642041.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wild animals are best left in their natural habitat: HC||Wild animals are best left in their natural habitat. Even if they suffer physical deficiencies, they should be encouraged to go back to the wild, unless it is a question of their survival, the Madras High Court said on Wednesday. The observations were made while passing interim orders in a case filed against the release of Rivaldo, an elephant that was captured and treated by the Forest Department for over two months after he lost a part of his trunk, into the wild. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu wrote: “The laws of nature may be cruel, but they may still be beyond human intelligence. There is a rule of the survival of the fittest, and though endangered animals are sometimes taken into captivity to protect or feed them, animals are best left in the wild.” The judges said Rivaldo’s could be the first case in the country of an elephant being released into the wild after being kept in captivity for a long period. “There is no doubt that Rivaldo will face difficulties in the wild. But one cannot be sure that he prefers captivity than being left open in the wild, and he may make attempts to make forays into human settlements; but he should always be encouraged to go back to the wild, unless it is a question of his survival,” the judges said, deciding to monitor his activities in the wild for two more months before taking a further decision on his wellbeing. The PIL petition was filed by activist S. Muralidharan, who contended that it would be better to keep Rivaldo in an elephant camp, maintained by the Forest Department. However, after watching a video submitted by government counsel C. Harsha Raj, the judges said he could be seen drinking water, foraging, grazing and attempting to extract salts from the earth. “The obvious deficiency in his trunk comes out, as Rivaldo is now using his right foot to help create balls out of bundles of grass and balance the same against his trunk to help him to lift it to his mouth. Even while drinking water, a lot of it spills out, but according to the forest officials, Rivaldo has not shown any inclination to return to human settlements, and is moving in the elephant corridors that have been restored,” they wrote. The court hoped that Rivaldo would get used to his life in the wild and that the Forest Department would keep a watch on him. It directed officials to produce another video on December 9 to show how the elephant was doing in the wild and managing his affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wild-animals-are-best-left-in-their-natural-habitat-hc/article36642020.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal wants cadre to take part in gram sabha meet||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Thursday urged party cadre, who are not from the nine districts in which local body elections will be held, to participate in gram sabha meetings to be held in other districts on October 2. The last gram sabha was held across the State on January 26. In a statement, Mr. Haasan asked the cadre to reiterate the importance of gram sabha meetings to the people and encourage their participation. He said the ruling and opposition parties were trying to ensure that the meetings were not held regularly. “The COVID-19 pandemic is a good excuse for them not to hold the gram sabha meetings. Election campaigns, voting, counting, a function to take charge of the government can all be held, but they claim gram sabha meetings alone cannot be held due to COVID-19 ,” he said. Mr. Haasan added, “Environmental issues, loot of natural resources, issues related to Tasmac shops and neglected waterbodies should be raised in the gram sabhas. The resolutions passed in the gram sabha meetings have a lot of value and they should be placed before the public.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/participate-in-gram-sabhas-kamal-tells-cadres/article36642058.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC books TNPCB chairman||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Thursday registered a case against the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board chairman and retired Indian Forest Service officer A.V. Venkatachalam on charges of criminal misconduct and misappropriation. During searches conducted on his premises at different places, investigators seized Rs. 13.5 lakh, 6.5 kg of gold jewellery and documents relevant to the case. Around 10 kg of sandalwood articles/pieces were identified at the residence of Mr. Venkatachalam and the Tamil Nadu Forest officials were requested to take necessary action. A case under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against the TNPCB chairman for his alleged involvement in criminal misconduct and misappropriation while holding the post of Member Secretary, TNPCB, Chennai (14.10.2013 to 29.07.2014), and as Member Secretary SEIAA (2017 – 2018) and as Chairman of TNPCB, Chennai (from 27.09.2019 to till date), the DVAC said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-books-tnpcb-chairman/article36642054.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEET irregularities have shaken medical aspirants’ faith: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Thursday said the NEET impersonation scam that has allegedly been unearthed in Maharashtra has created an adverse impression among the students. In a statement, he said the CBI had filed a case against Nagpur-based coaching company stating that they had taken Rs. 50 lakh from students promising them that they would get a seat in government medical colleges. “When NEET was implemented in 2010, it was stated that it would improve the standard of medical education and that it would end the commercialisation of medical education in India. Centre said that it would stop irregularities related to medical college admissions. While that has not happened, there are irregularities found in the conduct of NEET itself. This is unacceptable and has destroyed the faith of the students in the conduct of NEET and medical college admissions,” he said. He said NEET should be cancelled for the current academic year and medical admissions should be based on Plus 2 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/neet-irregularities-have-shaken-medical-aspirants-faith/article36642059.ece
24 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two schools closed after students test positive||A government school near Pollachi and an aided school in Mettupalayam were closed for disinfection after students tested positive for COVID-19. Officials from Department of School Education said five Class X students – three girls and two boys – and one teacher from the Government High School, Puliampatti, near Pollachi, had tested positive. Following this, the school was closed for disinfection on Thursday. All the students and faculty members, who were in contact, would be tested and the school would reopen on Monday, the officials said. The government-aided Mahajana Higher Secondary School at Mettupalayam was closed on Wednesday for disinfection after three Class XI boys tested positive for COVID-19, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-schools-closed-after-students-test-positive/article36642078.ece
24 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special NMR train to be operated on October 2||The Salem Division of Southern Railway has said a special train would be operated between Mettupalayam and Udhagamandalam on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) section on October 2 as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. The division said in a release that Train No. 06147 would be operated as a fully-reserved special service for a one-way trip to Udhagamandalam. It would leave Mettupalayam at 9.10 a.m., halt at Coonoor at 12.30 p.m., leave Coonoor at 12.55 p.m.and reach Udhagamandalam at 2.25 p.m. The train would have four coaches with 72 first-class seats and 100 second-class seats. The fares would be the same as in the regular service -- Rs. 1,450 for first-class and Rs. 1,050 for second-class from Mettupalayam to Udhagamandalam. The fares from Mettupalayam to Coonoor would be Rs. 1,100 for first-class and Rs. 800 for second class. For a Coonoor to Udhagamandalam trip, it would be Rs. 550 for first-class and Rs. 450 for second-class. Reservation began on Thursday, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-nmr-train-on-oct-2/article36642073.ece
24 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Going to school is of students’ volition’||In the prevailing situation, private schools must not force students to attend in-person classes, Minister of School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Thursday. He took part at an interaction organised here by the Confederation of Indian Industry with private school representatives. Speaking to journalists later, he said parents remained concerned about the safety of their children in schools following the reopening for Classes IX-XII. “If the students are interested, they can come [to schools].” As for the allegation that private schools did not adequately report COVID-19 cases to the authorities, Mr. Mahesh Poyyamozhi said contracting the virus was “not a crime” and the private schools must alert the Department of School Education even if a single case was detected. All schools must follow the standard operating procedure, the Minister said. Mr. Poyyamozhi said the government was yet to decide on the reopening of schools for Classes VI-VIII, and it would consider all factors before taking a decision. Schools raise concerns According to a release from the CII, representatives of the private schools in Coimbatore district highlighted the issues such as difficulties in conducting online classes and physical education for children and regulatory approval for schools. Mr. Mahesh Poyyamozhi said these issues were under the consideration of the government and assured them that his Department would help to remove the hurdles faced by schools. The Minister also urged private schools to provide adequate facilities to children from rural areas and ensure inclusivity in the enrolment of students, including those with special needs.  Contracting the virus is not a crime and private schools must alert the Department of School Education even if a single case is detected Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi Minister of School Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/going-to-school-is-of-students-volition/article36642022.ece
24 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Range Officer arrested after tiff with High Court judge’s son in Valparai||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Thursday arrested Valparai Forest Range Officer K. Jayachandran on a charge of “misbehaving” with three persons, including the son of a judge of the Madras High Court, allegedly under the influence of alcohol at the hill station on Tuesday night. However, Forest staff held a protest alleging that it was a case of abuse of power. The officer was arrested on Thursday evening for offences under Sections 294 B (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine, or with both), 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) and 4 (1) (j) (consumes or buys liquor or any intoxicating drug) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, police said. He was arrested based on a complaint lodged by a head clerk of the judicial magistrate court, Valparai. The court remanded him in judicial custody. Meanwhile, Forest Department staff staged a demonstration at Attakatti terming the police action an act of abuse of power. A statement issued by the Forest Department Officers Association, Anamalai Tiger Reserve branch, said it would go ahead with intense protest against the police action. According to the police, three persons, including the son of a judge, were given accommodation at the Forest Department guest house at Sirukundra on Tuesday evening. The police claimed that the Forest Range Officer came there late in the night and misbehaved with the three guests who had come out of the guest house. The officer was under the influence of alcohol, the police said. Forest Department sources who are close to the arrested officer claimed that he merely advised the trio to stay inside the guest house as there could be movement of elephants and other wild animals at night. The three guests argued with him and one of them said he was the son of a High Court judge, they claimed. M.S. Muthusamy, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Coimbatore range, insisted that the police did not have any pressure to register a case against the forest officer. “A medical test was done and he was found under the influence of alcohol,” he said. Forest Department sources said accommodation for the three guests was arranged at a very short notice following a request from a court staff.  He merely advised the trio to stay inside the guest house as there could be movement of elephants Forest dept. source||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-range-officer-held-after-tiff-with-hc-judges-son/article36642060.ece
24 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two get 20 years jail in emu scam||Two proprietors of a firm that offered investment schemes involving emu farming were awarded 20 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) by a special court in Coimbatore on Thursday. A.S. Ravi, Special Judge, Special court for the trial of cases registered under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (TNPID) Act in Coimbatore, sentenced M.S. Kumar (49) of Chennimalai in Erode and Karthikeyan (51) from Ramu Colony in Tiruppur to undergo the punishment in two separate cases. According to the Economic Offence Wing (EOW), the duo started a company named Om Sakthi Emu Farms with its office at Thanneerpanthampatti near Vedasandur in Dindigul district in 2011. The firm offered two schemes. In the first scheme, the company assured investors to provide six to 20 emu chicks, feeds and sheds for their rearing for investments ranging from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh. The investors were promised to get monthly maintenance charge of Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 10,000 and annual bonus of Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 30,000 for 24 to 36 months depending on the initial deposit they make. Under the second scheme, the firm would rear emu chicks and it offered investors attractive monthly returns and annual bonus. Sixteen persons invested a total sum of Rs. 23.83 lakh in the company which failed to keep up the promises. An investor, Vellimalai of Pannaipatti in Dindigul, lodged a complaint with the District Crime Branch, demanding action against the firm and its proprietors for cheating. A case was registered against the firm and the proprietors which was later handed over to the EOW, Coimbatore. Besides sentencing the proprietors to undergo 10 years of RI, the TNPID court slapped a fine of Rs. 27.50 lakh on them. Kumar and Karthikeyan had a second case against them for cheating 25 investors of Rs. 58.51 lakh which was also investigated by the EOW. The court awarded 10 years of RI and a fine of Rs. 55 lakh to them. Special Public Prosecutor S. Manickaraj appeared for prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-get-20-years-jail-in-emu-scam/article36642074.ece
24 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for murdering grandson||The R.S. Puram police arrested a 50-year-old woman here on Wednesday on charges of murdering her one-year-old grandson. The police said Nanthini (24) got married to a relative five years ago. After she had differences of opinion with her husband, she and her younger son Dhurkesh started living with her mother R. Nagalakshmi for the past eight months. Her four-year-old son is with her husband. As per the complaint lodged by Nanthini at the R.S. Puram police station, she left home for work at 8 a.m. on Tuesday and returned at 9.30 p.m. Nagalakshmi told Nanthini that the child slept around 7.30 p.m. after which she locked the house and went out to dump garbage. When she returned, the child was lying on the floor and he was put in the cradle again. According to the First Information Report, Nanthini noticed froth coming out of her son’s mouth. The child was rushed to a nearby private hospital where doctors advised them to take him to another hospital. The toddler was taken to the other hospital from where he was referred to a multispeciality hospital around 11 p.m. The doctors, who examined the child, found that he was dead. Nanthini lodged a complaint with the police suspecting foul play in her son’s death. “The boy’s body had marks of beating. After the autopsy findings showed that the boy’s skull had a crack and a biscuit wrap was found stuck in his throat, Nagalakshmi confessed that she beat the child as she did not want to take care of him. Also, she believed that the child could be a reason for her daughter’s separation from her husband,” said a police officer. The officer said Nagalakshmi was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-held-for-murdering-grandson/article36642082.ece
24 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Digital survey of excavated lands in Thadagam valley being done||A digital survey of lands excavated for brick-making in five village panchayats in Thadagam valley in Coimbatore district is being carried out. Official sources said the survey was on in No 24 Veerapandi, Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Somaiyampalayam and Pannimadai to assess the quantum of soil excavated. Report “The survey is in progress with the coordination of different departments, including the Revenue and Geology and Mining. A detailed report will be prepared after the completion of the survey,” said an officer in the know of the development. The exercise is done using satellite images and other technologies, said another official. ‘Close watch needed’ S. Ganesh, coordinator of Thadagam Valley Protection Committee, urged senior officials, including the District Collector to maintain a close watch over the survey. “We fear that the brick kiln operators may exert influence on those involved in the survey. It should be held in a fair manner so that it comes out with the real picture of the environmental degradation caused in the five villages in the valley,” he said. Mr. Ganesh alleged that some of the brick kiln operators were selling the bricks manufactured by them even after they received the closure order from the district administration. They were also shifting or selling their machinery, against the directions of the administration, Mr. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digital-survey-of-excavated-lands-in-thadagam-valley-being-done/article36642083.ece
24 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Action against workplaces without ICC: Collector||Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran said on Thursday that action would be taken against government and private workplaces with more than 10 women employees if they did not have an internal complaints committee (ICC) to redress complaints of sexual harassment at workplace. A release from the Collector said the ICC must be set up in all the departments, educational institutions, hospitals, industries and training institutes belonging to the government. Private establishments, micro and small industries, commercial establishments, textile and jewellery shops also must have the ICC at their respective head offices. Details The committee must be constituted in adherence to the Sexual Harassment of Women in the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. The workplaces must send its details to the District Social Welfare Office at the District Collectorate (contact number: 97507 63260) at the earliest, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-against-workplaces-without-icc-collector/article36642077.ece
24 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held, trucks seized||The Sulur police arrested two persons and seized two trucks for transporting gravel without permission on Wednesday. According to the police, they stopped a truck on Chettipalayam – Palladam road. It had 2.5 units of gravel that was transported without valid documents. A case was registered against truck owner Sathiyendran of Chinnakuyili and driver Ezhilarasan of Periyakuyili. The police arrested Ezhilarasan and seized the truck. The police stopped another truck on Bharathipuram to Kannampalayam road with 2.5 units of gravel, which was being transported illegally. Vehicle owner Subramanian of Boluvampatty and driver Vinothkumar of Lakshminaickenpalayam near Sulur were booked. The police later arrested Vinothkumar and seized the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-trucks-seized/article36642069.ece
24 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Conclave showcases export potential||The office of the Director General of Foreign Trade and the Coimbatore District Industries Centre organised here on Thursday an exhibition and a meeting on export promotion. The exporters conclave on ‘India’s Rising Export Potential in Global Market’ had 27 stalls that displayed details of products exported from Coimbatore. The visitors were also guided on products with export potential, export opportunities, and schemes for exporters. Major products The major products exported from Coimbatore are coir, industrial valves, pump sets, textile machinery, engineering goods, tea, garment and gold jewellery. With a large number of MSMEs, the district has industries spread across textiles, pumpsets, wet grinder, foundries, engineering, jewellery and coir sectors. The conclave aimed at encouraging new exporters, creating better interaction between government departments here and the exporters, and identifying export potential for products made here, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conclave-showcases-export-potential/article36642072.ece
24 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Small tea growers to get benefits under govt. scheme||Small tea growers in Kotagiri in the Nilgiris district will soon benefit under the Special Area Development Programme of the State government. On Thursday, Minister K. Ramachandran disbursed subsidies to the beneficiaries. A release from Tea Board India said small growers contributed to nearly 50 % of the total tea production in the Nilgiris. Though many of them produced speciality teas, they faced challenges in marketing the products. In an effort to boost speciality tea production in the Nilgiris and to bring more small tea growers under the purview of the board, the Board had introduced a special package to extend financial assistance to small growers under the Special Area Development Programme of the State government. A total amount of Rs. 1.21 crore would be disbursed to 275 growers who had less than one hectare under tea, six people to set up speciality tea boutiques in the Nilgiris, and to two tribal self-help groups (SHGs) to set up mini tea factories. M. Balaji, Executive Director of the Tea Board, said the beneficiaries were all from Kotagiri as Kotagiri and Kundah were two places where there was labour shortage and the quality needed to be improved. As many as 275 small tea farmers were identified and given total subsidy of Rs. 30 lakh to get battery operated harvesters and pruning machines. The subsidy amount had been remitted to their bank accounts. The Board had also given no objection certificates to six beneficiaries to set up 400 sq.ft tea boutiques each. They would sell speciality teas produced by the small growers and tea factories. Two of these boutiques would be set up by two unemployed small tea growers. They would each get 50 % subsidy to set up the boutique in phases and the Board had also arranged bank loans for them. The boutiques would be under the larger banner of Tea Board. Two tribal SHGs, each with 30 to 40 members, would establish mini tea factories and get 50 % subsidy (Rs. 10 lakh). The tea factories and boutiques would start operations in a couple of months, he said. The tea factories would also have tie ups with small growers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-tea-growers-to-get-benefits-under-govt-scheme/article36642068.ece
24 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Building sealed||Town Planning wing officials of Coimbatore Corporation on Thursday sealed a building in Central Zone for violation. Assistant Town Planning Officer, Central Zone, A. Babu said based on instructions from Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara he led a team to seal the building on VCV Road, near Devangapet, in Ward 25. The owner of the building that was nearing completion had constructed more than the area permitted in the approved plan. The Corporation had permitted construction of ground plus two floors for 648 sq.m. for two dwelling units. But the owner had constructed ground plus three storeyed structure with six dwelling units, Mr. Babu said and added it was 100% violation. He had sealed it before the owner could start using the building as it was only a few weeks away from completion, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-seals-building/article36642076.ece
24 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for posts in Child Welfare Committees||The Department of Social Defence has called for applications for the posts of chairperson and members of the Child Welfare Committees constituted under the provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015. The appointments are made on an honorarium basis and one of the appointees shall be a woman. The applicant shall have a degree in psychology, or psychiatry, social work, law, or health, education or special education for children and shall have been actively involved in health, education or welfare activities of children for not less than seven years, or alternatively should be a practising professional in child psychology, psychiatry, law, social work, human development, or special education for differently-abled. The applicant shall not be less than 35 years of age and shall not have completed 65 years of age. A person may be eligible for appointment for a maximum of two terms. Further details may be ascertained from District Child Protection Unit. The last date for the receipt of applications is October 7, 2021. The applications shall be sent to the District Child Protection Officer, District Child protection Unit, Collectorate, Cuddalore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-posts-in-child-welfare-committees/article36642453.ece
24 September 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Heinous crimes unabated in Dindigul district||Stephen, 38, who was wanted in a few criminal cases in Dindigul and Theni districts, was beheaded at Hanumantharayankottai on Wednesday night. Stephen, who has a wife, son and daughter, worked in a private resort in Kodaikanal. He became jobless during the lockdown. He was friendly with a former panchayat president and they were selling liquor. Meanwhile, the police seized a huge haul of liquor bottles recently and arrested a few accused based on the information provided by Stephen. One among the accused could have murdered Stephen. This murder comes close on the heels of murder P. Nirmala Devi, 59, by an unidentified armed gang at Chettinayakanpatti on Wednesday. On Thursday, the police said that special teams have been formed to nab the killers of Nirmala Devi. A two-wheeler, which was seized by the police from the scene of crime on Wednesday, was found to be a stolen one. So, the police intensified vehicle checks on the district borders. On September 15, DMK functionaries Meeran Babu and Vijayrajan were attacked with deadly weapons by an armed gang on Sattampillai Street. Both were undergoing treatment and a case of attempt to murder had been registered. The attack was an outcome of enmity that started over a contract work from the civic body, the police said. The next day, a gang assaulted Ibrahim, 32, of Makkan Street near Kuttiapatti in Dindigul district. He was referred to Government Rajaji Hospital Madurai where he died. Though the police attributed “personal motive” or “previous enmity” to the gruesome murders, residents are shocked over spate of murders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heinous-crimes-unabated/article36642169.ece
24 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Karungalpalayam cattle shandy in Erode witnesses poor sales||Despite sharp increase in arrival of cattle to the shandy at Karungalpalayam, business was poor as traders from other States did not turn up for purchasing them on Thursday. The weekly shandy was closed for four-and-a-half months due to COVID-19 pandemic and was reopened on September 2. Initially, 150 cattle were brought to the shandy. It increased to 300 cattle on September 9 and 450 on September 16. Usually, traders from Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra visit the shandy regularly to purchase cattle. But on Thursday, only traders from a few districts in the State arrived to purchase cattle. Farmers said that since COVID-19 pandemic prevails in Kerala, traders did not turn up. As many as 600 cattle, including 350 cows, 200 buffaloes and 50 calves were brought to the shandy by farmers from within the district and from nearby districts. “But, less than 30% of the cattle were sold”, they said and added that the shandy would witness brisk business only if traders started arriving from other States. Earlier in the day, vehicles carrying cattle were allowed after disinfection while drivers and farmers were allowed only after producing vaccination certificates. The shandy administration also placed awareness boards at many spots asking farmers and traders to ensure personal distancing while inside the premises. Also, wearing of masks was stressed through the public address system regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karungalpalayam-cattle-shandy-in-erode-witnesses-poor-sales/article36642177.ece
24 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Steps taken to establish three bus stands in Erode: Minister||Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy has said that steps were taken to establish three bus stands to ease traffic congestion in the city. Addressing the media at the Collectorate here on Thursday, the Minister said that an integrated bus stand was planned at Solar which would come up on 25 acres. “It would take one-and-a-half years to establish the bus stand”, he added. Since development works were being carried out at the existing bus stand in the city, a temporary bus stand would be established at Solar and works will be completed in one-and-half-a-months. “Buses proceeding towards Karur, Tiruchi, Madurai and southern districts would be operated from the temporary bus stand”, he added. Mr. Muthusamy said that a bus stand would be established in Kanirowther Kulam area and work is on to identify the land. “Buses to Gobichettipalayam and Sathyamangalam would be operated from here”, he said. Likewise, a bus stand would be established in four acres at Arachalur, he said and added that the three bus stands would help in reducing traffic congestion in the city. He said that steps were taken to declare Chikkaiah Naicker College as a government college after which a sports stadium would be established at Rs. 35 crore apart from a library. Under the ‘Ungal Thoguthiyil Stalin’ scheme, a total of 42,000 petitions were received in the district and action was taken on 90% of the petitions, the Minister said. Earlier, Mr. Muthusamy in the presence of Collector H. Krishnanunni, A. Ganeshamurthi, MP, and E. Thirumagan Evera, MLA, handed over compensation of Rs. 42 lakh to 14 children who lost their parents due to COVID-19. He also distributed compensation to seven families who lost their family members in accidents. District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan, Erode Revenue Divisional Officer P. Premalatha, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-establish-three-bus-stands-in-erode-minister/article36642182.ece
24 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Competitions for school students to mark Postal Week celebration||The Department of Posts is conducting various competitions for school children as part of National Postal Week celebration from October 11 to 17. A release from Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode Division, said that essay writing competition on the topic “Your vision for India Post '' will be conducted for students in the age group of 14 to 18 (classes 9 to 12) in Tamil. For the video-making competition, the topic is “Your dream Post Office '' and students in the age group of 10 to 18 (classes 5 to 12) can participate in the competition that will be held in Tamil or English. For poster designing competition, the topic is Sukanya Samridhi Account advertisement for students in the age group of 10 to 14 years (classes 5 to 8) and itwill be held in Tamil or English. The release said that students should use A3 size white chart for poster designing competition and A4 size paper for essay writing competition with a minimum of 300 words and there is no limit on maximum number of words. The first two winners in each category will be awarded and students should send their works through registered or speed post along with a copy of ID proof for date of birth. name, class, school name and contact number of parents should be written legibly on the reverse side of their work. Video can be sent through email along with a scanned copy of ID proof topostalweek.erode@ gmail.comwith the size of the video file not exceeding 15 MB. The entries should reach Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode Postal Division, Erode 638 001 by October 6. For details, contact 0424-2252400.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/competitions-for-school-students-to-mark-postal-week-celebration/article36642183.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Verdict in Kerala Assembly ruckus case on October 6||The verdict in the discharge petition filed by General Education Minister V. Sivankutty and others in the Assembly ruckus case will be passed by the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Thiruvananthapuam, on October 6. In the event of the trial court allowing the discharge petition, the accused legislators can walk free. If found guilty, the MLAs will have to face trial at the court itself. However, the accused can file appeal against the verdict in the High Court. When the CJM took up the case on Thursday, counsel for the accused contended that the charges levelled against the Minister and five others would not stand the test of law as they had not committed the offence of trespass as defined in law. The dais of the Speaker cannot be considered as a private property. It is not even a private room, which is in the exclusive possession of the Speaker. However, the dais of the Speaker is part of the State Assembly and the legislators have access to the Assembly, he argued.  Opposing the discharge petition, the Deputy Director of Prosecution submitted that the accused committed the offence of trespass by entering the dais of the Speaker and caused the destruction of public property by damaging electronic equipment, including a microphone and computer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/verdict-in-kerala-assembly-ruckus-case-on-october-6/article36641873.ece
24 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Will welcome Godavari-Cauvery link project: Duraimurugan||State Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan said in Krishnagiri on Thursday that the Tamil Nadu government would welcome the Godavari-Cauvery inter-linking project. During an inspection and review meeting, when journalists asked whether the State would welcome the Godavari-Cauvery linking project as the Centre had sent a draft to the States, he said, “Why wouldn’t (we) welcome it? But, it would take time (for realisation of the project)”. On speculations about an imminent cabinet reshuffle, Mr. Duraimurugan did not comment, and said that he was not the Chief Minister. The Minister, who is also in charge of Mines Department, said in a release that in the current financial year, till August 2021, the State government earned Rs. 428.62 crores as mine revenues and advised officials to take measures to increase the revenue. He advised the officials to seize vehicles carrying mineral resources to other States without due permission and that zonal flying squads should prevent smuggling. Officials were advised to abide by court directions and take immediate action against illegal quarries. Mr. Duraimurugan also urged the officials to take stringent measures to prevent illegal mining. Mr. Duraimurugan along with Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R.Chakrapani visited the TANMIN tile manufacturing unit here and asked the officials to take steps to market its goods profitably. The Minister also enquired about the functioning of other quarries in the district and told the officials to run them in a profitable manner, and in adherence to environmental guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-welcome-godavari-cauvery-link-project-duraimurugan/article36642192.ece
24 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man found murdered||A daily wager was found murdered near Hosur. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Babu (40), a daily wager from Achadapalli here. Police said Babu along with his friend Premnath, a daily wager was consuming liquor near Karnoor during the late hours of Wednesday. In an inebriated condition, a quarrel occurred between the duo and Premnath attacked Babu with a liquor bottle in a fit of rage. Mathikari police nabbed Premnath while he was trying to escape from the place. Police recovered the body and sent it to the Hosur government hospital. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-murdered/article36642189.ece
24 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||100 % vaccination achieved in five wards of Madurai||Five of the 100 wards in Madurai Corporation have achieved 100% vaccination against COVID-19. In the wards where people were reluctant to take the vaccine shot, the number of cases was slightly increasing, said Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan here on Thursday. Speaking to The Hindu , he said 50% the residents in most of the wards had taken both doses. he focus was to contain the spread locally. “We have been doing door-to-door checks in residential areas where complaints of fever and other ailments are coming in,” he said and added that reluctant people were given counselling about the importance of the vaccine. Dengue cases Referring to dengue cases, Dr. Karthikeyan said that compared to last year, the situation was well under control now. Fogging operation carried out in advance areas and pumping out of stagnant rainwater had fetched results, the Commissioner said, adding they would intensify fogging in thickly-populated wards and streets. On the one hand, people were being sensitised on the importance of keeping their surroundings dry and free of garbage. Mass cleaning of channels - big and small - had helped to keep dengue fever in check. Oil balls were dropped in channels after the silt was removed. The Corporation had recently procured mobile fogging machines using which small stretches and bylanes coul be covered more effectively. The Health department officials said that they were sprinkling mosquito larvicidal oils (MLO) in channels as it effectively discouraged the adult mosquitoes from laying eggs. Moreover, the oil helped in destruction of breeding in contaminated water. Till Wednesday, 582.50 tonnes of silt had been removed from the channels and so far 9.7 km-long major channels had been cleared of encroachments, Dr Karthikeyan said and hoped to complete the cleaning of channels by this weekend. Meanwhile, in a bid to step up COVID-19 vaccination, the Corporation plans to inoculate all citizens above 80 years and differently abled persons at their doorstep. All that a beneficiarys have to do is to register their names by dialling 84284 25000 and they would get the vaccines within a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/100-vaccination-achieved-in-five-wards-of-madurai/article36642376.ece
24 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court confirms life sentence imposed on man for double murder||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has upheld the life sentence imposed on a man for committing the offence of double murder, kidnapping and sexually assaulting the minor daughter of one of the victims in 2014. The court was hearing the criminal appeal filed in 2018 by Kaleeswaran who was awarded triple life sentence in 2017 by the Dindigul Mahila Court. The sentence was ordered to run concurrently. He challenged the conviction and the sentence. The case of the prosecution was that Kaleeswaran had an illicit relationship with a woman from Palani, who had engaged him as a driver. After the woman got into a relationship with another man, she ignored Kaleeswaran. Angered by this, he murdered the woman and her illicit partner. He stole Rs. 23.54 lakh from the house and also kidnapped and sexually assaulted the woman’s minor daughter who had witnessed the incident. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and J. Nisha Banu observed that cumulative circumstances clearly proved that the man had committed the murder, kidnapped the minor and sexually assaulted her. Considering the materials, the prosecution had established the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. The trial court had rightly convicted the accused, the court observed and dismissed the criminal appeal. The court confirmed the judgment of the trial court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-confirms-life-term-for-double-murder/article36642161.ece
24 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plot allotment: appeal filed against single judge order||A batch of candidates who had alleged irregularities in the allotment of industrial and commercial plots at SIDCO Industrial Estate in Kappalur in Madurai district have preferred an appeal before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court against a single judge order. The single judge had dismissed the batch of petitions that challenged the allotment on the ground that the procedure was not transparent. The single judge order said that the candidates were well aware of the notification and if they had any grievances, they should have challenged the notification before participation. There was no favouritism or selective selection, the court said and dismissed the petitions. In the appeal against the order, the candidates said that the allotments were made on preference to benefit certain persons. The draw of lots method adopted in the process of allotment to select the allottees was vitiated by influence. They sought the single judge order to be set aside. Hearing the appeal preferred by the candidates, a Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice to the State and sought a response in the appeal. The case was posted for final disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allotment-of-plots-appeal-filed-against-single-judge-order/article36642158.ece
24 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bar Council told to enrol lawyer who took part in agitations||Coming to the aid of a lawyer who had participated in the anti-Sterlite agitations, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to enroll him as an advocate on its roll. The Court was hearing the petition filed by K. Siva. After completing law degree from the Tirunelveli Government Law College, he applied to the State Bar Council to enroll as an advocate. The application was sent for police verification. Following the police verification, the petitioner was told that there were more than 80 criminal cases against him. He was not called for enrollment and was orally informed that unless he obtained a Court order, he would not be permitted to be enrolled. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar observed that the right to freedom of speech and expression and the right to assemble peaceably and without arms are fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution. “Moreover, every citizen has a right to comment on the policies of the government and they can have their own views on such policies. The petitioner took part in the protests raising voice against the policies of the government,” the judges said. Perusing the status reports submitted to the court by Superintendents of Police, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli and Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli, the judges observed that though the said involvement of the petitioner in the cases was listed out, he was not named in the FIRs. “Nowhere was it stated that the petitioner was involved in heinous crimes or in anti-national- or anti-social activities. The cases were referred to the CBI for investigation. The petitioner was not included in the first final report or in the supplementary charge sheet.” “The Court was at a loss to understand as to how the State Bar Council relied on police reports alone without getting any report from the CBI and without resorting to any enquiry declined his enrollment,” the judges said. The duties of the State in protecting the environment are basically the rights of the people. In one of the cases, he was said to have raised slogans by holding banners along with other law students. The protest was towards fulfillment of a fundamental duty. “The Court has no hesitation to hold that the enrollment of the petitioner as an advocate was unjustly being denied.” The Court directed the State Bar Council to enroll the petitioner as an advocate on the roll of the Bar Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bar-council-told-to-enrol-lawyer-who-took-part-in-agitations/article36642373.ece
24 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Welfare fund created to help advocates||In order to help the needy and junior advocates practising in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, senior and junior advocates have formed a trust - Madurai Bench of Madras High Court Advocates Welfare Fund Trust. Through the trust, financial assistance to advocates will be given. In case of death of an advocate, financial assistance would be given to the family members. Financial assistance towards medical expenses would also be provided to needy advocates. Senior counsel M. Ajmal Khan, who mooted the idea to create a trust for the welfare of the advocates, said that many advocates suffered during the first and the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic, both financially and health-wise. He said that most of the advocates practising in the Madurai Bench were first generation advocates from humble backgrounds. They were unable to meet medical expenses or funeral expenses in case of a death in their families. They had to borrow money. Sometimes assistance was rendered to them through other fellow advocates to meet the expenses. In order to help needy and junior advocates, the welfare fund was created, he said. A bank account has been opened in this regard. A proposal will be made to the High Court judges to order the costs imposed on litigants to be payable to the welfare fund to help the advocates in need of assistance, he added. Mr. Ajmal Khan has contributed Rs. 10 lakh to the fund. Advocate S. Srinivasa Raghavan said that the Bar Associations in the District Courts should also create such welfare funds to help the needy advocates practising in the District Courts. The Board of Trustees comprises members from all the Bar Associations of the High Court Bench. The members have made contributions towards the welfare fund.  Many advocates suffered during the first and the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic M. Ajmal Khan Senior counsel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trust-to-help-the-needy-advocates/article36642159.ece
24 September 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||80% of Thalainayar town panchayat residents get their first jab||The officials of Thalainayar town panchayat have devised unique methods to create awareness of COVID-19 vaccine in their areas. Thanks to these efforts, 80% of the population have been inoculated with at least one dose of the vaccine. The workers themselves made large models of syringes, vaccine vials and dressed up in bright costumes to attract the public. A cultural programme with music and dance, street plays and other activities were conducted to create awareness on the importance of taking the jab. “There were some common misconceptions about the side-effects of getting the vaccination and these programmes were successful in eliminating. The public is now actively taking part in the vaccination camps,” K. Kuhan, Executive Officer told The Hindu . The authorities also mobilised women workers to visit residents with a thambula thattu and invite them to get the vaccination. “Through this way, we were able to make an emotional connect with them. The residents said that they felt like a member of their family was encouraging them to take the vaccine,” Mr. Kuhan said. The awareness programmes resonated well with the public and at the vaccination camps, there was short supply of the vaccines. “We hope to soon inoculate 100% of the people in the district with at least one dose. This way, if a third wave comes, we will all be safe,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-of-thalainayar-town-panchayat-residents-get-their-first-jab/article36642149.ece
24 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects hydro-electric power project||District Collector Shreya P. Singh reviewed the progress of hydroelectric power project at Kolli Hills, besides construction of tunnels. A Rs. 338.79 crore hydroelectric power project is being constructed at Kolli Hills and Ms. Singh reviewed the construction of weirs and tunnels as part of the project on Wednesday. As part of the project, weirs are being constructed across the branches of Ayyar River at Achakadupatti, Irungalpatti, Theliyangudu, Kovillur and Kadampallam. As part of the project, rainwater would be stored in the weirs and 20 MW of power would be produced. Tunnels are being constructed between Irungalpatti and Chellipatti for carrying water from Ayyaru river to the power generation house on the foothills of Kolli Hills near Puliyancholai. The water would be released back into Ayyar river after power generation, a release said. According to officials, 71.23 million units of power is expected to be generated a year through the project and it would improve groundwater level and enhance tourism activities in the region. The tunnel has been cut for 1,522 metres from Irungalpatti to Chellipatti and for 1,383 metres in the opposite direction. 3,725 metres of tunnel has to be dug as part of the project. Ms. Singh along with senior officials visited the tunnel construction works and also checked the construction of weirs at Theliyangudu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-hydro-electric-power-project/article36642187.ece
24 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Nainarmandapam residents struggle for clean water||Residents near Nainarmandapam in Mudaliarpet constituency complain of lack of availability of potable water and of health problems due to consumption of unsafe water. Hundreds of people belonging to lower middle class families on Bharathidasan Street, Thiruvalluvar Street, Muthatamizh Street, Jeevanandham Street, VOC Street and Thennanchalai complain that they are getting discoloured water. Sometimes, the water supplied by the Public Works Department smells bad due to mixing of sewage, residents said. “My four-year-old son fell sick three weeks ago. He recovered but again developed fever and an upset stomach. When we took him to a clinic on Cuddalore Main Road, the doctor advised us to change the water as the boy was getting sick frequently due to drinking contaminated water,” said Iyyanar, a driver residing on Bharathidasan Street. If the residents want to obtain clean water, they have to travel around 2km to collect RO water supplied by the government at a subsidised rate of Rs. 7 for a 20kg can, he said. “Women cannot travel such a long distance to collect water. In my case, I will be away for a few days every month. Therefore, I cannot expect my wife to travel that distance. Many people are now buying water cans from nearby shops paying Rs. 30 for a 20-kg can, he said. A. Divya, a resident on the same street, said, “I am pregnant and I am really concerned about my health and that of the baby. We cannot afford to buy drinking water for Rs. 30 every day,” When the piped water is boiled a white foam-like substance forms. “In the next street, people got water containing worms. The food cooked using the piped water also smells very bad,” she said. C. Raju, a resident of Jeevandham Street, said the pipelines were laid almost 30 years ago and have developed cracks in several places. “Due to the leaks, sewage and other materials are getting mixed with the water. It is a serious health concern.” The situation worsened three months ago, Mr. Raju added. DMK legislator L. Sampath, while raising the issue in the Budget session of the Assembly, said people were getting sick by drinking contaminated water. No groundwater One of the main issues is the lack of availability of groundwater as lakes meant to recharge the groundwater are used for other purposes, including rearing fish. Once, the owner catches the fish, the lakes are kept dry for several months, he added. “The government should take immediate steps to provide clean drinking water to the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nainarmandapam-residents-struggle-for-clean-water/article36642456.ece
24 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G calls for expanding coverage under Ayushman insurance scheme||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has called for expanding the coverage of beneficiaries under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY). Addressing the Patient Safety Week celebrations at the Drugs Control Department under the auspices of the State Health Mission on Wednesday, Ms. Soundararajan said within three years of its initiation, the scheme had helped provide access to medical care for the poor, preventing complications from illnesses and even cutting down mortality. Ms. Soundararajan, a doctor herself, recounted how serving in a rural setting made her realise first-hand the struggle of patients to raise money to cover treatment and medicine costs. People should make good use of this scheme, she said. The benefit of this scheme is that the rate of deaths without access to medical expenses has decreased in the last three years. She urged the Health Department to take appropriate steps to improve the reach of the programme to cover all those who are eligible. The Lt. Governor advocated dispensing medicines in precise dosage as per the age and Body Mass Index of patients. These days, people realise the efficacy of modern drugs but are worried about their side effects. The week-long celebrations should raise awareness among professionals and the public on judicious drug choices and monitoring for adverse drug reactions, she said. She also urged the health professionals to get themselves constantly updated on latest developments. She recalled how it was an eye-opener to learn at a recent medical conference that new protocols for snake-bite treatment recommended adult dosage of anti venom for child patients as well. Ms. Soundararajan also interacted with beneficiaries of the PMJAY insurance scheme who shared their stories of how it enabled them to avail themselves of healthcare during medical crises. T. Arun, Health Secretary and V. Anandalakshmi, Deputy Director of Health participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-calls-for-expanding-coverage-under-ayushman-insurance-scheme/article36642451.ece
24 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports 91 new cases; no death in last 24 hours||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours as 91 new cases were confirmed on Thursday. Puducherry logged 66 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,883 tests, followed by Karaikal (19) and Mahe (6). Yanam did not report any new case. The test positivity rate was 1.55%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.77%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,834 — Puducherry (1,440), Karaikal (245), Yanam (106) and Mahe (43). With 67 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 969. Of these, 132 patients were in hospitals and 837 cases in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,25,826 cases against 1,23,023 recovered patients. Of an estimated 17.56 lakh tests done till date, over 14.89 lakh samples returned negative. Meanwhile, 9,493 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 9,42,187 doses, including 2,70,690 second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-91-new-cases-no-death-in-last-24-hours/article36642146.ece
24 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK sets up panel to screen candidates||The Puducherry unit of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has set up a high-level committee to screen candidates for the local body poll, Opposition leader and convenor of Puducherry unit of the party, R. Siva said here on Thursday. Addressing party workers, he said the committee would scrutinise and forward the applications to the DMK leadership for approval. He said people in the Union Territory had immense faith in the DMK after seeing the performance of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. K. Stalin. Exhorting the cadre to work hard to ensure the victory of DMK candidates, the Opposition leader said, “People of the Union Territory want DMK rule after seeing the good work done by Mr. Stalin in Tamil Nadu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-sets-up-panel-to-screen-candidates/article36642448.ece
24 September 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Schoolteacher held under POCSO Act||The Pudukottai All Women Police arrested a private schoolteacher D. Shanmuganathan (48) against whom a case under the POCSO Act was booked for alleged sexual harassment of a Plus One girl student recently. Police sources said Shanmuganathan was produced before the Mahila Court here on Thursday and sent for judicial remand. Shanmuganathan was later lodged in the sub jail at Tirumayam. The All Women Police at Pudukottai had registered the case under sections 11 (i), 11 (iv) read with 12 of the POCSO Act against Shanmuganathan on Wednesday on a complaint preferred by an official of the District Child Protection Unit. The charge against Shanmuganathan, who was teaching commerce and maths, was that he had sexually harassed the girl studying in the same school over phone a few days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schoolteacher-held-under-pocso-act/article36642155.ece
24 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Clash between two groups over putting up party flag||A clash occurred between two groups near Thevettipatti here after they quarrelled over putting up a party flag on the roadside. According to the police, the clash occurred between members of SC community and Vanniyars after members of SC community attempted to erect a flag of Viduthalai Siruthaigal Katchi along a stretch of the State Highways. Police said that notice had already been issued by the State Highways to representatives of various political parties to remove existing flagpoles from the highway. This led to a quarrel between the groups and stone-pelting, the police said. Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav said that a few police personnel were injured in the pelting of stones and about 50 persons from both the groups have been arrested. He added that police personnel have been deployed in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clash-between-two-groups-over-putting-up-party-flag/article36642185.ece
24 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers demand payment of dues||Autorickshaw drivers who operated for Salem Corporation’s COVID-19 containment works petitioned with District Collector and Salem Corporation Commissioner here on Thursday demanding settlement of their payment dues. The petitioners protested in front of Salem Collectorate and raised slogans demanding payment of daily contract wages which they were promised for working with the Corporation to operate for health workers to conduct COVID-19 containment measures like collection of swab samples. Petitioners charged that they were engaged through a private operator for Rs. 1000 a day and they haven’t received payment for over 100 days. The protesters demanded that the district administration intervene in the issue and ensure settlement of dues at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/auto-drivers-demand-payment-of-dues/article36642184.ece
24 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mega desilting drive inspected||Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj reviewed the progress of mega desiltation drive of water channels and drains here on Thursday. Mr. Christuraj reviewed the progress of cleaning works at Anthoniyapuram canal, at drains in Rail Nagar, Ram Nagar, Gowri Canal, Military Road, Sankari Main Road and various other places. According to a release, JCB machines and other equipment are being used as part of the works. According to officials, as part of the drive, 1.5 km of Rajavaikal canal, 200 metres of Kannapukara Street canal and Periyar Valaivu canal are being desilted. The cleaning works are progressing at all the 33 town panchayats. Approximately 470 km of drains in town panchayats would be cleaned and 1,143 workers have been deployed for the purpose. 124 vehicles are being used for the cleaning drive, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-desilting-drive-inspected/article36642188.ece
24 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to 20-year jail term for sexual assault||The Special Court for trial of POCSO cases sentenced a 25-year-old man to 20 years of imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor girl. According to the police, Dhanapal (25), a daily wager, attempted to sexually assault an eight-year-old girl from his neighbourhood in 2018. The victim informed her parents and based on a complaint from the victim’s mother, a team led by Inspector Indira from the Omalur All Women Police Station registered a case and arrested the accused. Hearing the case on Wednesday, Special Court Judge S. Muruganantham sentenced the accused to 20 years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-sentenced-to-20-year-jail-term-for-sexual-assault/article36642190.ece
24 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Fix moderate charges for hiring harvesters’||The Communist Party of India, Ammapettai Union, has urged the district administration to intervene and fix a moderate amount as charges for hiring paddy harvesting machines to carry out harvesting of ‘kuruvai’ paddy. Claiming that private owners were charging a flat rate of Rs. 2,500 per hour, Union Secretary, CPI Ammapettai Union, R. Senthilkumar in a memorandum addressed to the district administration has said that the farmers who have already taken up ‘kuruvai’ under severe financial stress were burdened further by the overcharging by private harvester machine owners. He also pleaded with the district administration to ensure quick and smooth procurement of ‘kuruvai’ paddy through the direct purchase centres (DPCs) as tonnes of harvested paddy were lying in the open near the DPCs and were exposed to the vagaries of nature. At some places the harvested paddy have started sprouting, he added. Further, crop ready for harvest was also affected as farmers were unable to carry on the harvest in view of overcharging by private harvester machine owners. Meanwhile, farmers in Ganapathi Agraharam in Papanasam taluk have alleged that more than 2,000 bags of paddy were lying in the open near the DPC and the farmers were finding it tough to save the paddy from rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fix-moderate-charges-for-hiring-harvesters/article36642145.ece
24 September 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Impersonators arrested||The Thiruvidaimaruthur police have arrested two persons on charges of impersonating as blood relatives of a double-murder case accused by producing fake documents at the District Munsif cum Judicial Magistrate Court, Thiruvidaimaruthur on Thursday. Inquiries reveal that bail applications for six persons accused in connection with the murder of Arunkumar and Aravind of Thulakkaveli near Cholapuram in December last year, were moved at the Court by Kasiraman and Balu of Kumarankudi. During scrutiny of bail applications it was ascertained that the duo had submitted fake documents to claim that they were the blood relatives of the accused persons. The duo were arrested on charges of impersonation and remanded to judicial custody by the Thiruvidaimaruthur police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/impersonators-arrested/article36642144.ece
24 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Justice Aruna Jegadeesan panel completes 30th sitting||The 30th sitting of Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission probing police firing during anti-Sterlite protest on May 22, 2018, in which 13 persons were killed, has questioned 100 witnesses, including employees of Sterlite Copper living in the company’s quarters near the Collectorate when it came under attack by rioters. The Commission also inquired during the sitting the policemen and officers who were on bandobust duty in Collectorate area on the fateful day. Commission’s advocate Arul Vadivel Sekar said 51 employees of Sterlite Copper, including its vice-president, assistant vice-president, senior managers and safety officers, who were residing in the company’s ‘Tamira 2’ Quarters, were grilled during the 30th sitting. Besides ransacking several houses there, a mob also set on fire several cars and bikes parked inside the quarters before the police opened fire to control them. Since Sterlite Copper remained sealed after the police firing, the senior officials who had been transferred to Vedanta’s other units in Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh came back to Thoothukudi for tendering witness. Two Deputy Superintendents of Police, six Inspectors, Sub-Inspectors and policemen, who had been deployed in and around the Collectorate, were also quizzed during this sitting that started on September 13.  1,330 summoned The Commission has so far recorded the statements of 962 people after summoning 1,330 people and marked 1,237 documents as evidence. During the next sitting in mid-October, the Commission is expected to record the evidences of doctors who conducted post-mortem of the gunned down persons and ballistic and forensic experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aruna-jegadeesan-panel-completes-30th-sitting/article36642160.ece
24 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Smart City project supervisor killed as container falls on him||A smart city project supervisor on Wednesday was killed here when a container that was being lifted by a crane fell on him. Since the Corporation has instructed contractors to complete the ongoing smart city projects before the onset of the northeast monsoon in mid-October, development works are being executed day and night. Kamatchinathan, 22, of Kumarapuram and Joel of Terespuram were supervising the works on Jayaraj Road on Wednesday night. Around midnight, a container used by workers, which was on the roadside, was shifted to the other side of the road with the help of a crane. The two supervisors were monitoring the operation of the crane by Ali Badhusha, 35, of PSP Nagar near Korampallam. The crane accidentally came into contact with an overhead live wire and there were electric sparks. Mr. Badhusha apparently panicked and released the container, which fell on Kamatchinathan, killing him on the spot, and injuring Mr. Joel. Thoothukudi Central Police and the Fire and Rescue Services personnel were informed of the incident and the body of Kamatchinathan was retrieved. Joel was undergoing treatment in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, sources said. Thoothukudi Central Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supervisor-killed-as-container-falls-on-him/article36642164.ece
24 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Two tonnes of turmeric seized in Thoothukudi||The Q Branch police have seized two tonnes of turmeric which was about to be smuggled to Sri Lanka on Wednesday night. One person has been arrested in this connection. Demand Police sources said smuggling of turmeric from Thoothukudi had increased sharply as demand for the spice in Sri Lanka had increased due to unprecedented inflation. As surveillance along Thoothukudi coast had been intensified in the wake of the increased smuggling activities, a team led by Q Branch Inspector Vijaya Anita was patrolling along Vellaipatti Beach near here on Wednesday night. As they saw an unregistered fibreglass boat anchored at Vellaipatti Beach around midnight and a person loading bags in the boat, the police team nabbed him and found two tonnes of turmeric packed in 50 bags in the boat. Arrested During interrogation, the police found that the person detained with turmeric-laden boat was R. Mohammed, 29, of Terespuram in Thoothukudi. The Q Branch police are investigating about his contacts here and in Sri Lanka. In the past five months, the Q Branch police have seized over 10 tonnes of turmeric and arrested 12 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-tonnes-of-turmeric-seized/article36642165.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||After a long gap second entry at Tiruchi Junction reopens||After a gap of one-and-half years, the Tiruchi railway divisional authorities have reopened the Kallukuzhi second entrance of the Tiruchi Junction. The decision to reopen the second entry of the station was taken following a decline in COVID-19 cases. Railway officials said a combined counter for passenger reservation system and unreserved ticketing system is functioning on the second entry side after it was reopened. A luggage scanner has been deployed at the second entry side where Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel are being deployed in shifts to screen belongings of passengers. The second entry was closed for travellers when the COVID-19 pandemic broke out in March 2020. That was also the time when passenger train services were completely suspended to prevent the spread of the viral infection with the railways operating only freight and parcel trains. However, express train services were gradually resumed following relaxations announced by the State government. The officials said the second entry at Kallukuzhi side has been reopened for rail travellers following decline in COVID-19 cases and in the wake of more relaxations having been announced. The official said arrangements have been made at the main entrance of the Tiruchi Junction for separate entry and exit routes for passengers. The entry for passengers at Tiruchi Junction would be near the PRS booking office side, while the exit would be via the VIP entrance side at the main entry. Sources said there has been a steady movement of rail passengers at Tiruchi Junction as well as all over the Tiruchi Division notwithstanding COVID-19 ever since express train services resumed. The Tiruchi - Chennai Egmore (Cholan express) specials being operated on the mainline section via Thanjavur and Kumbakonam; Tiruchi - Thiruvananthapuram Intercity express; Tiruchi - Chennai Egmore (Rockfort) via Ariyalur and Vriddhachalam specials; the bi-weekly Tiruchi - Howrah specials and the Tiruchi - Palakkad Town passenger are the trains originating from Tiruchi Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-a-long-gap-second-entry-at-tiruchi-junction-reopens/article36642154.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers continue sit-in protest||Over 600 guest lecturers in 10 government arts and science colleges that were earlier constituent units of Bharathidasan University conducted their sit-in demonstration for the second day on Thursday, demanding settlement of their salaries for the last four months. Classes for students came to a standstill for the second consecutive day. According to a representative of the protesting guest lecturers, the next course of action will be decided on Friday, at the end of the planned three-day sit-in demonstration. Salaries of the guest lecturers in the 10 of the 41 converted government arts and science colleges across the State remain to be paid. Out of all the State universities, BDU had the highest composition of 10 constituent units that were converted into government colleges in two phases. The guest lecturers in other converted colleges are being paid salaries by the respective universities. The Bharathidasan University, it is learnt, has received oral instructions more than once to settle the salaries of the guest lecturers. The guest lecturers and about 90 non-teaching staff are understood to have devised a plan of action to sustain their protest until their salary dues are settled. The guest lecturers are being paid monthly salary under three categories: Rs. 15,000 for full-time teachers, Rs. 12,000 for hourly-basis teachers and Rs. 5,000 for those appointed by Parent-Teacher Associations. The guest lecturers have demanded that they be paid Rs. 20,000 per month in keeping with a government order issued last year, and to subsequently conform to the UGC recommendation. As per the Seventh Pay Commission recommendation, UGC NET or JRF qualified guest lecturers in Government and aided colleges need to be paid Rs. 1,750 per day and maximum of Rs. 43,750 for 25 working days in a month. Those without UGC qualifications will get Rs. 1,600 and maximum of Rs. 40,000 per month. Meanwhile, the Joint Action Committee of Bharathidasan University Teaching and Administrative Staff Associations staged a demonstration on Thursday assailing the university for making attempts to sanction salary for the guest lecturers by sourcing the reserve funds. The JAC has planned to sustain the demonstration on Friday as well. On September 27 and 28, the teaching and non-teaching staff have planned to wear black badges at their workplace. The representatives of the associations will hold hunger demonstration on September 29 and 30 and on October 1. From October 4 onwards, the members of all associations in the JAC will take part in the hunger demonstration, said sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-continue-sit-in-protest/article36642137.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Over 50% of persons with disabilities have been vaccinated in Tiruchi||Over 50% of persons with disabilities have been inoculated with COVID-19 vaccines in the Tiruchi district. The door-to-door vaccination camps and the mobile vans undertaken by the Tiruchi Corporation and other local bodies have led to the district vaccinating 53.2% of them. Speaking to The Hindu , S. Chandramohan, District Differently Abled Welfare Officer said that as of this week, around 12,000 of a total 20,199 people were inoculated. The Differently-Abled Welfare Office has taken on the responsibility of contacting the 20,000 people individually and seeking their willingness to get the jab. While those with transportation and support have been able to take the vaccination, some are still unable to travel and are also unaware of the mobile services provided by the civic bodies. For them, the Differently Abled Welfare Office plans to set up a vaccination camp at their office itself. “Persons with disabilities who visit the office for various reasons could get the jab on the same day,” Mr. Chandramohan said. The plan has been submitted to the Deputy Director of Health Services and will be implemented by October 1, he said. The mobile vaccination camps would continue to function for the benefit of those who are bedridden and who do not have access to transport facilities. For patients within the corporation limits, a special helpline number - 6385269208 has been made available for the purpose. A special team has been deployed solely to guide persons with disabilities and others who were unable to visit the daily vaccination camps to get the jab. Tiruchi district is in the 10th place among other districts in the State in inoculating persons with disabilities. Meanwhile, Pudukottai district has inoculated 100% and is in the first position, and Karur is in the third position. in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-50-of-persons-with-disabilities-have-been-vaccinated-in-tiruchi/article36642148.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition of ‘kolu’ dolls is on||The annual exhibition-cum-sale of ‘kolu’ dolls opened ahead of Navarathri festival at Poompuhar showroom of the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation at Singarathope in the city on Wednesday. The exhibition features an array of ‘kolu’ dolls, both stand alones and sets, made by artisans from Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Madurai besides those from West Bengal, Rajasthan, Puducherry, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. The ‘kolu’ doll sets include famous temples such as Rockfort, Big Temple, Srirangam, Palani and Thiruthani temples and those depicting various mythological tales. The expo also features traditional dolls and toys such as Kondapalli dolls, Etikoppaka toys, M arapachi toys, papier-mâché dolls, and dolls made of mud and other material. The prices of the dolls range from Rs. 50 to Rs. 45,000. Tiruchi Revenue Divisional Officer N. Viswanathan inaugurated the exhibition on Wednesday in the presence of R. Gangadevi, showroom manager, and other officials. The exhibition will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. (including Sundays) till October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibition-of-kolu-dolls-is-on-at-poompuhar-showroom/article36642142.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases go up in central region||The central region reported 316 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, a significant rise compared to the previous day's record. Seven patients succumbed to the infection in the region. Of the seven patients, four hailed from Thanjavur, and one each from Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. In Thanjavur district, 89 patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. A marked increase was reported in Tiruchi district. The district saw 81 fresh cases. Meanwhile, a total of 21 people who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital recovered from the infection and were discharged. Tiruvarur recorded 47 fresh cases, while Nagapattinam reported 30. In Pudukottai, 23 patients reported COVID-19 positive, and in Mayiladuthurai, 20. The number of cases in Karur witnessed a slight dip with 11 patients testing positive, and in Ariyalur, nine. Perambalur district remained unaffected by the increase in cases in its neighbouring districts. On Thursday, six patients tested COVID-19 positive in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-go-up-in-central-region/article36642150.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||22 antisocial elements arrested||The Tiruchi Rural Police carried out a special drive in the district against antisocial elements and arrested 22 rowdies. The two-day drive was carried out on September 21 and 22 on the instruction of the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Pa. Moorthy. The drive was launched in the wake of twin murders that were committed in quick successions in Tiruchi City Police limits recently. The murders prompted the City Police to conduct a special drive which led to the arrest of several antisocial elements. A police press release on Thursday said the Tiruchi Rural Police conducted the special drive in the wake of possible chances of some antisocial elements taking refuge in their limits following the operation conducted by the Tiruchi City Police. The two-day drive led to the arrest of 11 antisocial elements in Jeeyapuram sub division; four in Tiruverumbur sub division and seven in Lalgudi sub division. Those arrested were later sent for judicial remand. In addition to this, police teams executed 14 warrants and held 17 persons who were found to be roaming in a suspicious manner. The teams also arrested four ganja sellers and nine others for selling liquor illegally. A total number of 4,697 Motor Vehicle cases were booked during the two-day drive that was carried out to prevent offences from being committed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-antisocial-elements-arrested/article36642540.ece
24 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Poll observer inspects counting centres in Tirunelveli district||Local body Election Observer for the district J. Jeyakanthan on Thursday inspected nine designated centres for counting of votes to be polled in the upcoming local body election. He was accompanied by Collector V. Vishnu and Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan. The election to rural local bodies are to be conducted in two phases on October 6 and 9. Mr. Jayakanthan visited Periyar Government Higher Secondary School, Cheranmahadevi (counting centre for votes to be polled in Cheranmahadevi union), Rani Anna Women’s Government College, Old Pettai (for Manur union) and Rose Mary College of Arts and Science, Ponnakudi (for Palayamkottai union), along with Mr. Vishnu and Mr. Manivannan. The election observer reviewed the security arrangements made by police at the counting centres and other measures such as installation of CCTV cameras at vantage points. The votes to be polled in the elections would be counted at TVS Higher Secondary School, Thirukkurungudi (for Kalakkad union), S.A. Raja Arts College, Vadakkankulam (for Valliyoor union), TDMNS College, S. Kallikulam (for Radhapuram union), and RECT Polytechnic, Vijayanarayanam (for Nanguneri union) and Mr. Vishnu inspected the centres and inquired about the security arrangements and installation of CCTV cameras made there. Votes would also be counted at Merit Polytechnic College, Idaikkal (for Pappakudi union) and Amali Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Vickramasingapuram (for Ambasamudram union) too. “More than 1,500 police personnel will be involved in the poll-related security arrangements,” Mr. Vishnu said after inspecting the counting centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-observer-inspects-counting-centres/article36642168.ece
24 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||173 nominations rejected in Tirunelveli||In the scrutiny of nominations filed by aspirants for the upcoming rural local body polls done here on Thursday, 173 nominations were rejected. As 6,871 have filed their nominations for 2,069 positions in rural local bodies in the district, scrutiny was done on Thursday in various places in the presence of candidates or their representatives. Since a huge number of candidates filed the nominations, officials could not provide the number of nominations rejected during the scrutiny that protracted beyond even after 8 p.m. During the scrutiny, a nomination filed in Palayamkottai union for the district panchayat councilor post was rejected, leaving 77 in the fray. And, 47 of the 839 nominations submitted for panchayat union councilors were rejected. In the village panchayat president category, 39 nominations were rejected and 1,206 aspirants were in the fray after scrutiny. In the village panchayat ward section, 86 nominations were rejected. When the scrutiny of nominations was going on in Maanur panchayat union office, the candidates or their authorised representatives were allowed inside the office only if the officials found any discrepancy in the nomination even as it was taken-up for scrutiny. However, the candidates and their supporters, who gathered in large number in front of the panchayat union office since morning, asked police and officials to allow them inside. Since more than 500 people gathered there, they could not be allowed inside as it could lead to absolute commotion during the scrutiny. The crowd also hampered the smooth flow of traffic on the busy Tirunelveli–Sankarankovil Road. After the police held talks with the waiting candidates and their supporters, they were allowed inside in batches that solved the issue. A similar situation prevailed in front of Palayamkottai panchayat union office situated on the cramped Langarkana Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/173-nominations-rejected-in-tirunelveli/article36642166.ece
24 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||7,635 liquor bottles destroyed in Tirunelveli||Officials on Thursday destroyed 7,635 liquor bottles worth Rs. 13 lakh seized by the Prohibition Enforcement Wing. The liquor bottles were seized during surprise checks at hideouts and vehicle checks. Following the end of court proceedings in connection with cases registered for smuggling of liquor, the bottles were destroyed on Thursday near Perumalpuram in the presence of Palayamkottai Tahsildar Dhas Priyan and Tirunelveli City Prohibition Enforcement Wing Inspector Muthulakshmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7635-liquor-bottles-destroyed-in-tirunelveli/article36642542.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two held for stealing tusk from elephant carcass||Two persons have been arrested in connection with the stealing of a tusk from an elephant’s carcass near Udumalpet in Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) limits, the Forest Department said on Thursday. In a release, the department said K. Chinnathangam (31) and K. Velu (24), both residents of Kulipatti tribal settlement in ATR, were arrested on Wednesday. They were produced before the Dharapuram Judicial Magistrate and were remanded in judicial custody on Thursday. On the evening of August 29, the forest staff spotted the carcass of a male elephant near Kattupatti tribal settlement in Udumalpet forest range with its left tusk missing. On September 2, a team of officials found the tusk in a bag under a rock, about six km from where the carcass was found. According to sources in the Forest Department, the two accused were employed as drivers and did not have any criminal background. Preliminary investigations revealed that on spotting the carcass, the duo and a few others from Kulipatti cut off the tusk. It was not immediately clear whether the accused had intended to sell it. No evidence of poaching was found in the nearly month-long investigation, the sources said. Efforts are on to nab the others involved in this case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-stealing-tusk-from-elephant-carcass/article36642080.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||RI arrested for graft||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) arrested a Revenue Inspector attached to the Dharapuram Municipality on charges of accepting a bribe of Rs. 5,000 on Wednesday. DVAC sources said Karthikeyan (35) demanded the bribe amount from a resident of Dharapuram for name transfer on municipality house tax. The resident approached the DVAC and a team led by Inspector S. Vinodhini laid a trap at the municipal office on Wednesday. The officers caught the RI red handed. He was booked under sections of Prevention of Corruption Act and remanded in judicial custody, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ri-arrested-for-graft/article36642079.ece
24 September 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for forcing 17-year-old into wedlock||The All Women Police, Tiruvarur, has arrested a woman and a man on charges of forcing a 17-year-old girl into wedlock recently. According to sources, the accused, 65-year-old woman residing in the Periyar Samathuvapuram near Tiruvarur had executed the marriage of her 17-year-old granddaughter with a divorcee residing at Paravakottai. The marriage was held at Paravakottai on September 8. The local people brought the child marriage to the notice of the District Child Welfare Office (DCWO). On ascertaining that the information was true, the DCWO subsequently lodged a complaint with the All Women Police, Tiruvarur. Acting upon the complaint, the police on Tuesday arrested the woman and the man who had entered into wedlock with the teenager under the POCSO Act and remanded them to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-forcing-17-year-old-into-wedlock/article36642143.ece
24 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Cross Country Championship held in MRC||The Cross Country Championship 2021 comprising 12 units from the Dakshin Bharat Area was held at the Thangaraj Stadium in the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington, Coonoor, on Thursday. The event was conducted by the MRC with teams of six runners competing in the 10-km event. The event was flagged off by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of the MRC. The MRC finished in the first place followed by Artillery Centre, Hyderabad, and ASC Centre (North). The individual first position was secured by Havildar Parasappa M Halijol of the MRC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cross-country-championship-held-in-mrc/article36642085.ece
24 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Four accused in Kodanad case quizzed||The four accused in the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case continued to be questioned by the Nilgiris district police on Thursday. Initially, the investigators called Manoj alias Manoj Samy and Santhosh Samy to the district police office for questioning on Wednesday, but continued the questioning of the two on Thursday also. In addition to Manoj and Sathosh Samy, Bijin Kutty and Satheeshan, the two other accused in the case were also asked to appear before the police. Bijin Kutty and Satheeshan arrived at the district police office with their lawyers, K. Vijayan, Senthil Kumar and M. Munirathinam. Police sources said Manoj and Santhosh had been questioned for the longest time. Both had told police that they were not “captured” while on the run, as was claimed by police in their submissions in court, but were “kidnapped” by some persons and handed over to police. They further alleged that their “kidnappers “were part of the gang that broke into the house of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa to steal valuables, the police source said. The break-in resulted in the murder of a security guard at the bungalow and injuries to another. The questioning of the accused in the Kodanad heist-cum murder case has been on for the last few weeks, after the police filed a memo in the District Sessions Court stating that they wanted to conduct further inquiry as new evidence had emerged during the course of the trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-accused-in-kodanad-case-questioned-by-nilgiris-police/article36642063.ece
24 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Assaye Day commemorated at MRC||Assaye Day was commemorated at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington, Coonoor, on Thursday. In a release, the MRC said, “Assaye Day is celebrated as a tribute to the victory of Madras Native Infantry Battalions in the Battle of Assaye on September 23, 1803.” The Commemoration Ceremony started with a wreath laying ceremony organised at the Madras Regimental War Memorial, Wellington. A wreath was laid by Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of the MRC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assaye-day-commemorated-at-mrc/article36642086.ece
24 September 2021||Vedaranyam,TAMIL NADU||Salt pan workers await disbursal of promised relief||Thousands of workers at salt pans in Vedaranyam expect prompt disbursal of the monthly relief of Rs. 5,000 per family announced recently by the State Government during the off-season months that extends from October to January. Small scale manufacturers believe that the promised relief, a fulfilment of the poll promise by the Government, would, to a significant extent, prevent migration of workers in search of jobs to western districts to sustain their livelihood during the rainy season. There is, however, no information so far on how the prospective beneficiaries will be enumerated. “We are still awaiting official information on distribution of the promised monsoon relief,” says V. Senthil, Secretary, Vedaranyam Small Scale Salt Manufacturers' Federation. State-wide, thousands of workers in salt pans are known to have secured membership of the Unorganised Workers Welfare Board. “Formation of a separate welfare board for the salt pan workers is the need of the hour to enrol all of them. The manufacturers are looking for clarity on the eligibility of workers for availing themselves of the monthly relief during the monsoon months,” Mr. Senthil said. The salt industry in Vedaranyam has not recovered after the devastating impact of Gaja cyclone in 2018. Most of the salt pans were inundated with silt from the sea and neither the Central nor the State Government had fulfilled the request made by the manufactures for a special assistance to resume salt production. Thereafter, the workers were left without jobs and a good number of them thought it fit to migrate elsewhere for livelihood. The salt industry is still in a crisis situation in Vedaranyam, and the heavy spells of downpour in recent weeks have only precipitated the problems of the manufacturers and workers. Salt extraction, one of the primary economic activities of Vedaranyam region, is done from about 10,400 acres of which 7,000 acres are operated by two big companies by taking land on lease from the Salt Commission of India. The remaining 3,400 acres have been let on lease to about 700 small-scale producers (holding 5 to 10 acres). Nearly 8,000 male and female permanent workers from Vedaranyam and surrounding villages are involved in the salt production process, manufacturers say. During the lean season from October to January, most of the workers borrow money from moneylenders at exorbitant rates of interest and eventually end up in deep debts. Though the workers are entitled to priority in allotment of leased land for salt extraction through formation of coop societies, not many are aware of their rights. According to Sujitha, a Tiruchi-based activist involved in sustaining livelihood of the salt pan workers, their deteriorating health condition is a cause for deep concern. According to a study undertaken by a team from JIPMER in partnership with M. S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, a high prevalence of eye infection associated with exposure to sun and ultraviolet rays was found among salt workers of Vedaranyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salt-pan-workers-await-disbursal-of-promised-relief/article36642136.ece
24 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Candidate under police protection||The Ambur police have given round-the-clock protection to P. Indumathi, 21, an Independent candidate, ahead of the rural local bodies elections. On Wednesday, she filed her nomination for president of the Nayakkaneri village panchayat in the Madhanur panchayat union, one of the six panchayat unions in Tirupattur district, despite objections from the village residents, who are mostly tribals. They had protested since the elections were announced against the seat being reserved for the Scheduled Caste women, arguing that a majority in the village are the Scheduled Tribes. Earlier, the village was in the general category. “We have given protection to the woman candidate. We have also requested her to restrict her activities, including visiting the panchayat union office for scrutiny of her nomination, for safety reasons,” Saravanan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Ambur Sub-Division, told The Hindu . Interestingly, no nominations have been filed for the nine ward posts in the panchayat. Nayakkaneri is one of the 38 tribal villages in the hillock near Ambur. Most of the residents depend on farming. Men also work as labourers in the foothills and in Tiruvannamalai, Salem and Krishnagiri districts. For the total 354 posts of village panchayat president in the Mahanur panchayat union, 1,080 nominations were filed. “Indumathi’s nomination has been accepted. If she does not withdraw it by Saturday, she will be declared the Nayakkaneri village panchayat president,” said Durai, BDO (Madhanur). Friday will be a holiday for all schools in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts on account of the training for teachers in the conduct of the elections. Helpline numbers Schools will reopen on Saturday. Helpline numbers (18004253668 and 18004253669) have been opened by the Ranipet administration for reporting any election-related issue to the election control room. For the total of 7, 251 posts, including village ward members and panchayat union presidents, in these three districts, 23,640 nominations were received, and around 3% were rejected on scrutiny on Thursday. S. Vijayarajkumar has been appointed as election observer for Vellore, V. Chandra for Ranipet and C. Kamaraj for Tirupattur.  Indumathi’s nomination has been accepted. If she does not withdraw it by Saturday, she will be declared Nayakkaneri village panchayat president DuraiBDO (Madhanur)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/candidate-under-police-protection/article36642547.ece
24 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 22 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,258 with 22 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 47,881 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 259. The district's death toll is 1,118. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,924. In Tirupattur district, 16 new cases were reported on Thursday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,841. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 31, taking the total number of cases to 54,093. Out of this, 53,147 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 283.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-22-new-cases/article36642548.ece
24 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Election Observer appointed||The State Election Commission has appointed IAS officer K.S. Palanisamy as election observer to Villupuram district for the rural local body polls to be held on October 6 and 9. According to a release, public can meet the observer in Room No.4 in the Circuit House at the Collectorate complex to lodge complaints on violation of the model code of conduct. Complaints could be lodged with him over the mobile phone on 75503 72424.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-observer-appointed-for-villupuram/article36642452.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||116 cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 116 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the total tally to 1,01,150. While 152 persons were discharged after recovery, 1,337 continue to be under treatment. A total of 88 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 85 cases were indigenous and 21 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 52 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Thirty indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri and 37 cases were reported in Krishnagiri, including one imported case. Coimbatore district reported 226 new cases. The district had 2,145 active cases of the disease on Thursday and 246 persons recovered. The death toll of the district increased to 2,322 after two COVID-19 patients aged 71 and 60 died on Wednesday and Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/116-cases-in-erode-district/article36642179.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 226 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district reported 226 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. The district had 2,145 active cases and 246 persons recovered. The toll of the district increased to 2,322 after two persons aged 71 and 60 died on Wednesday and Monday. The district’s test positivity rate stood at 2.3 % on Wednesday. Tiruppur district reported 82 fresh cases on Thursday, which took its case tally to 92,394. The toll went up to 951 as one new death was reported. The district had 944 active cases and 79 patients were discharged on Thursday. The positivity rate based on Wednesday’s data was 2%. In the Nilgiris, 36 persons tested positive and the total number of cases stood at 32,497. The toll stood at 196 while 342 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-226-new-covid-19-cases/article36642084.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inconvenience to public||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inconvenience-to-public/article36642071.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University: NSS Day, Anna Auditorium, 4 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Virtual Faculty Development Programme, 2.15 p.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Webinar on ‘Leading World with Artificial Intelligence’, 11 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Origami Challenge Contest, 3.15 p.m.  VLB Janakiammal College of Arts and Science: Webinar on ‘Role of Chef Boulanger - An International Perspective’, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36642081.ece
24 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Saundatti Yallamma, Chinchali Mayakka temples to reopen on September 28||Temples in Belagavi district, including Saundatti Yallamma temple and Chinchali Mayakka temple, closed for nearly one-and-a-half months, will reopen on September 28. The State government has decided to throw open the temples that are managed by the Muzrai Department on September 28. Devotees will be allowed to visit the temples only if they follow COVID-19 SOPs. However, the ban on all major rituals such as jatras, processions and rallies will continue. In a public notice, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that those who violate the SOPs will face serious action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saundatti-yallamma-chinchali-mayakka-temples-to-reopen-on-september-28/article36642204.ece
24 September 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Congress protests failure of Centre, State||The Congress held a protest rally against, what it called, the all-round failure of the NDA government in the Centre and the BJP government in the State. in Hirebagewadi village on Wednesday. B.V. Srinivas, Youth Congress national president, said that the Union government had betrayed the poor, the farmers, the youth, the women, and the common voters. “The only thing it is doing is protecting the interests of the corporates,” he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lied to the youth of this county. He promised to create 2 crore jobs per year and if he had kept his word, 14 crore jobs should have been created in seven years. But due to the bad decisions of the PM, 10 crore jobs have vanished from the economy,” he said. Similarly, the BJP government came to power promising to reduce inflation and controling fuel and commodity prices. But under their watch, petrol, diesel, and gas prices have risen. On a fair estimate, food prices have increased beyond 100%. Cooking oil has increased by over 50%. All this is because the government’s policies are tuned to benefit the private corporations, Mr. Srinivas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-protests-failure-of-centre-state/article36642216.ece
24 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rally in the first week of October||A rally will be held in Bengaluru in the first week of October, if the State government does not fulfil its demand for inclusion of Panchamasali community in 2A category, Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjay Swami said in Belagavi on Thursday. “We had set a deadline of September 15 for the government to consider our demands. But the government has not fulfilled our demand. The government has failed to protect our interests. However, we are willing to extend the deadline to October 1. If our demands are not met, then we will organise a protest in Bengaluru in a few days after October 1,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rally-in-the-first-week-of-october/article36642207.ece
24 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bommai to unveil Angadi statue||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will unveil a statue of Suresh Angadi on Angadi College campus on Savgaon Road on Sunday. The former Chief Ministers B.S. Yediyurappa and Jagadish Shettar and Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi will be present at the unveiling ceremony. Mr. Bommai will arrive in Belagavi on Saturday evening. He will inaugurate the Town Municipal Council office and a bus stand at Sankeshwar. He will also inaugurate a bus stand, a bus depot and a diploma college in Hukkeri on Saturday evening. The Chief Minister will inaugurate the Ravindra Koushik e-library at Shivaji Garden and the Mahatma Phule Garden for the disabled in Tilakwadi. He will address the newly elected members of the Belagavi City Corporation at Mahaveer Bhavan. Mr. Bommai will leave for Gadag by evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-to-unveil-angadi-statue/article36642208.ece
24 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Baby rescued||Passers-by rescued a two-year-old girl who was thrown into a sugarcane field in Halyal village after being tortured by unidentified miscreants. Two farmers, who heard the cries of the child, called out for help and informed the police. Pradeep Nandagaon, a youth from Halyal village, shifted the child to a private hospital. Doctors found that the girl had suffered burns, possibly from cigarette butts. The girl is out of danger, a doctor said. A detailed medical examination will reveal if the girl was sexually assaulted, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/baby-rescued/article36642206.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fire staff prevent blaze from spreading to 78 cracker cartons||Timely intervention by Fire and Emergency Services averted what could have been a much bigger disaster at the transit godown at New Tharagupet in Chamarajpet where an explosion, suspected to have been triggered by the mishandling of a consignment of crackers, resulted in a fire that killed two people on Thursday. There were 80 cartons of firecrackers (sky shot rockets) — each box containing nearly 15-20 kg of explosives — stacked on either side of the walls of the narrow godown. Officials now suspect fire was triggered when one of the boxes fell down. B.M. Shekhar, District Fire Officer, who led the firefighting at the scene, said by the time they arrived at the spot — within 10 minutes after the alarm was sounded — the fire was already raging.They realised the magnitude of the situation when they saw the remaining cartons,fortunately still untouched by fire.“We cut off the power supply. As a priority we wet the crackers to ensure they do not explode. If the entire consignment had exploded, the damage would have been far worse,” he said. It took them 30 minutes to put out the fire. Police officials recovered 78 cartons of crackers that were untouched by the fire, indicating that two boxes exploded. The entire consignment put together had at least 1,200 kg of explosives, police officials estimate. Narrow escape The first floor of the ground-plus-one building that housed the godown, which was on the ground floor, is home to a senior citizen and cardiac patient Saramma. She lives with her two granddaughters, both aged under 10. “The blast was so loud. All the window panes shattered and it felt like the house was collapsing. I screamed for help saying there are two kids here. Some youths came rushing, rescued us and brought us down safely within minutes,” Ms. Saramma recounted the ordeal to mediapersons. Her son Anand, who was at work, rushed home. On finding his family unharmed, he broke down while thanking the two people who rescued his mother and his children.  The blast was so loud. All the window panes shattered and it felt like the house was collapsing. I screamed for help saying there are two kids here. Some youths rescued us and brought us down safely within minutes. Saramma, first floor resident We cut off the power supply. As a priority we wet the crackers to ensure they do not explode. If the entire consignment had exploded, the damage would have been far worse. B.M. Shekhar, District Fire Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-staff-prevent-blaze-from-spreading-to-78-cracker-cartons/article36641964.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TAC concerned over testing among children dropping to 3%||At its 125th meeting on September 19, the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee expressed concern over the testing rate of children falling from 9% to 3% in the last few days. TAC has recommended that the State should ramp up testing levels of children to 10% in the next one week. In the wake of a possible third wave, the State Health Department had earlier announced that 10% of the daily tests would be among children. “With only 86 of the 95,618 samples collected from students from Class VI to II PU, testing positive for COVID-19, the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) among school children is 0.08% as of September 15. Although this is reassuring, the sampling rate for COVID-19 of school children has dropped from the initial 9% to 3%,” the TAC report said. Following the reopening of schools, children are subject to random RT-PCR testing regularly. Asserting the need to maintain the low TPR, the TAC report stated that efforts should be made to further reduce it. Besides, the committee also recommended data segregation and reporting of testing children in urban and rural areas. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the only way to keep TPR under check is to increase tests. Asserting that at least 10% of the daily tests should be focussed on children in the 0-18 age group, Dr. Manjunath said that special attention should be given to children as this age group is likely to be hit the most, during the third wave. “In view of the low positivity rate, there is an emerging consensus to start offline full-day classes for Standards VI to VIII. This can be done only if the low TPR is maintained and all current Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are strictly followed,” he said. Veena V., deputy director, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK), said efforts are being made to ramp up testing. “Our testing staff are regularly visiting schools to take up random testing. Sometimes it is difficult to keep the same pace of testing because some children may not agree to get tested,” she said. She added that instructions had been given to the testing staff to convince children when they visit schools for tests. Prashanth Urs, HOD and senior consultant Neonatologist at Apollo Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, who is part of the State’s Paediatric Technical Committee for preparedness of third wave of COVID-19, said random testing may be ideal to do in schools but parents may stop sending their children. “It may be advisable to identify symptomatic children and test them. All schools should have a nodal person, who will notify such children to the concerned health authorities so that such cases are followed up at home,” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tac-concerned-over-testing-among-children-dropping-to-3/article36641975.ece
24 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kalyana Karnataka Board to be constituted within 10 days||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced on Thursday that the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB) will be constituted within 10 days. Participating in a debate on issues related to the development of Kalyana Karnataka region, Mr. Bommai said the government would take measures to fill about 20,000 vacancies through direct recruitment. He also announced that the ban on new recruitments by government departments would be lifted in the region. He was responding to the concern expressed by members in the Legislative Assembly that reservation in recruitment provided to the region under Article 371(J) was being deprived due to recruitment ban as part of austerity measures on account of COVID-19. Pointing out that the board had an allocation of about Rs. 2,000 crore for this year including the opening balance of Rs. 500 crore from the unspent funds of previous year, he said the board should spend this within March 2022. Measures would also be taken to re-open IT and Textiles Parks in the region to increase job opportunities, he said, while adding that he had been making efforts to get a new railway division for the region. Meanwhile, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy expressed concern that there was a trend of those hailing from the backward region, but settled in cities like Bengaluru and Mysuru for a long time, trying to misuse the reservation in appointments and promotion by wrongly claiming themselves to be local residents. But after recruitment or promotion, they use their influence to get a transfer out of this region, he said. The government would take measures to prevent such a trend, he promised. Earlier, the Opposition members took exception to Planning and Statistics Minister Munirathna trying to reply to the debate on the grounds that he is still new to his department and urged the Chief Minister to reply. Several members, including Priyank Kharge, Eshwar Khandre and Ajay Singh of the Congress, accused the State government of step-motherly treatment to Kalyana Karnataka region by not constituting the development board. Mr. Khandre said over 30,000 vacancies existed in various government departments in the seven districts falls under the region. In Gulbaga University, for instance, he said out of 36 posts of professors, only two were filled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalyana-karnataka-board-to-be-constituted-within-10-days/article36641988.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Whopping Rs. 20,000 cr. spent on roads in city in 5 years||While Bengaluru has seen multiple accidents attributed to potholes, in the last five years, a whopping Rs. 20,000 crore has been spent on roads in the city. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday told the Legislative Council that he was considering a maintenance audit to monitor road development in Bengaluru. His response came after Congress member P.R. Ramesh sought to know details about the roads in Bengaluru and if there was “any stretch of even 1 km without any problem”. “I will fix the responsibility on the officers. The audit is to find the history of the road and monitor potholes and other road-related problems,” Mr. Bommai, who also holds the Bengaluru Development portfolio, said in response. In his written reply to the member, he also said that Rs. 20,060 crore had been spent on road development and maintenance in the last five years. Bengaluru has a road network of about 13,000 km. Mr. Ramesh said that Rs. 1.5 crore to Rs. 2 crore for 1 km has been spent on maintenance, and these roads have to be in good condition for at least five years as per the IRC guidelines. He also questioned the government’s silence on his query on if there was any stretch without potholes and thermal cracks, among other things. The member pointed out that Magadi Road had developed a number of potholes within five months after a fresh round of asphalting. In response, Mr. Bommai said he would order an inquiry into it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/whopping-rs-20000-cr-spent-on-roads-in-city-in-5-years/article36641959.ece
24 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Compensate all COVID-19 victims without conditions’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has urged the State government to give compensation for all COVID-19 victims instead of sticking to the order of providing compensation to only one member of the family. More than 3.5 lakh people have died owing to COVID as against the government’s claims of only about 37,000 victims, he said. He alleged that 1,500 tonnes of gold, worth Rs. 4,17,000 crore, had been mortgaged by people in four different private financial companies in the State to raise resources for meeting hospital expenses. Another Congress member Ramalinga Reddy took exception to the State government bringing in conditions, like upper age limit of 60 years and possession of a BPL card, to be eligible for compensation in case of a COVID-19 death. He urged the government to remove such conditions. Congress leader D.K. Shivakumar also urged the government to provide jobs to the family members of those who died owing to the shortage of oxygen. Sanitiser ‘scam’ Mr. Siddaramaiah also produced a sanitiser bottle in the Assembly to claim that it was a sub-standard one. He alleged that the government had procured these bottles at a cost of Rs. 9.66 crore from a company. But the sanitiser had already changed its colour and it had been declared as sub-standard, he pointed out. Stating that already Rs. 2 crore had been paid to the company by the government, Mr. Siddaramaiah termed it as a scam and an instance of corruption in the handling of second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/compensate-all-covid-19-victims-without-conditions/article36641971.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gaming Bill passed amid apprehensions||The Legislative Council late on Thursday night passed the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021, that bans online gaming and betting amid doubts expressed by the Opposition members over its effectiveness. Leader of Opposition S.R. Patil said the Bill may not stand the scrutiny of law as there are several High Court and Supreme Court directions considering them as game of skills. “Besides, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had spoken in favour it in his Mann Ki Baat, and Niti Aayog has also favoured it.” Congress Chief Whip M. Narayanswamy urged the government to reconsider the Bill since thousands of jobs in gaming sector were at stake, and it brought revenues to the government. While the Janata Dal (Secular) member Bhoje Gowda felt that the Bill would not succeed, another JD(S) member Marithibbe Gowda said that unless this Bill was formed at a national level, it would not be effective. Home Minister Araga Jananendra said that much thought had gone into bringing the Bill. “We can block online gaming apps under the IT Act. This is a good experiment. We can bring changes if necessary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gaming-bill-passed-amid-apprehensions/article36641973.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM promises fair compensation for farmers||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that the acquisition of land for Dr. Shivaram Karanth layout will be done within the framework set by the Supreme Court, and that efforts would be made to provide fair compensation to farmers who lose land. “I will convene a meeting of political representatives and the Supreme Court-appointed committee to find an amicable solution,” Mr. Bommai the Legislative Council after Congress Chief Whip M. Narayanaswamy raised the farmers’ plight due to acquisition process. “It is a multi-dimensional issue, but we cannot exceed the Supreme Court order that has clarified that farmers are not eligible to receive compensation under the 2013 land acquisition Act. We are also aware that the layout will have to be developed on available land,” said the Chief Minister. He acknowledged the lack of a transparent land policy to acquire land in rural areas. About 3,500 acres in Bengaluru North taluk has been sought to be acquired for the formation of the layout by BDA. Though the acquisition process was initiated in 2003, it has been stuck in a legal quagmire over the quantum of compensation. Earlier, Mr. Narayanaswamy drew the attention of the Chief Minister to the ongoing dharna by farmers. He said that there was no need to acquire existing homes and demolish them. “When the market rate per acre is about Rs. 6 crore, farmers are being offered old rates that were very low,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-promises-fair-compensation-for-farmers/article36641990.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Aim is to achieve national standards in air pollution’||As the World Health Organistion (WHO) updated its air quality guidelines for the first time in 15 years, it has been evident that the new targets are a far reach for countries such as India, where many cities like Bengaluru are yet to achieve national standards. But experts in the field have highlighted the urgency in attaining them, pointing out that air pollution at any level is unsafe. According to the new guidelines the annual PM2.5 mean has been updated to 5 g/m3 as against 10g/m3 in 2005. The annual mean for PM10 is updated from 20 g/m3 to 15 g/m3 and NO2 to 10 g/m3 from 40 g/m3. But Greenpeace India’s report ‘Airpocalypse IV’ highlighted that out of 287 cities, more than 80% (231) cities/towns had PM10 levels, exceeding the 60 g/m3 limits for PM10 prescribed under the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) by the CPCB in 2018. The report found that only one city/town — Lunglei in Mizoram — had PM10 levels under WHO prescribed levels of 20 g/m3 (for 2018). In 2020, the organisation said at least 79 of the world’s 100 most populous cities had annual mean PM2.5 air pollution levels that breached the 2005 WHO Air Quality Guidelines, according to data published by IQAir. In Bengaluru, the PM2.5 (g/m3 ) in 2020 was 28 which, Greenpeace says, exceeded the 2021 2021 guidelines by 5.6-fold. Avinash Kumar Chanchal, Climate Campaigner, Greenpeace India, told The Hindu that the WHO is clear that achieving the guidelines should be the ultimate aim for all places. “However, it is clear that the guidelines will be easier to achieve in some places than in others. For this reason, the WHO has provided interim targets — stepping stones that governments should attempt to achieve in the short term. Even small improvements in air quality will save lives and improve health,” he said. Sreekanth Vakacherla, Senior Research Scientist at Center for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP), also agreed that while developed countries could afford to comply with these new standards, it could be a bridge too far for low- and middle-income countries, including India. Pointing out the differences within India, he said the air pollution in Bengaluru and Delhi cannot be compared. “Delhi’s air pollution is complex due to its geography, extreme weather conditions, local emissions, and transported components. In Bengaluru, though air pollution is less when compared with Delhi, it is still a non-attainment city.” Mr. Vakacherla said India’s National Clean Air Programme aims to reduce 20-30% air pollution by 2024, keeping the base year as 2017. “Our immediate goal should be to achieve the current national standards. Region-specific strategies to combat air pollution are the need of the hour.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aim-is-to-achieve-national-standards-in-air-pollution/article36641969.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP nets Rs. 2,141.51 crore in property tax, meets 53% of target||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has netted Rs. 2,141.51 crore in property tax (till September 22). The civic body has so far achieved 53% of the target of collecting Rs. 4,000 crore in property tax. Reviewing the property tax collection, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, on Thursday, directed revenue officials to identify defaulters in each of the eight zones, issue notices, and recover the dues. The tax collected thus far is reportedly more than what was collected during the corresponding period last year. Last fiscal, the property tax target was Rs. 3,500 crore and the civic body had collected Rs. 2,780.9 crore. Civic officials said defaulters with a huge outstanding amount had been identified in each zone and demand notices has been issued to them.It was just recently that several citizens, who had been paying their taxes diligently, were slapped with notices by the BBMP over an alleged mismatch in the tax zone classification. Over 78,500 notices had been slapped on property owners, who were asked to pay not just the difference in tax but also penalty and interest for four years, since the tax zone reclassification was done in 2016–17. Following protests from a large section of property owners, the BBMP sent a proposal to the State government seeking waiver of penalty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-nets-rs-214151-crore-in-property-tax-meets-53-of-target/article36641960.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Sugar barons not repaying loans’||Stating that several political leaders involved in the sugar industry had not repaid loans taken from the cooperative sector, Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar on Thursday said that he would convene a meeting to find solutions to long-standing issues in the cooperative sector lending to sugarcane cultivation. “Some legislators [managing sugar factories] do not pay interest or repay principal. One well-known political figure has availed Rs. 250 crore loan from Apex bank and DCC banks in Karwar and Belagavi. He has not paid yet,” the Minister said. When asked to name persons, Mr. Somashekar said: “If I name them, they will send me away.” He was responding during a discussion on the sugar industry in which Congress members from North Karnataka pointed out that sugarcane farmers were in trouble in several places due to the crisis in payment. “If a small farmer defaults on loans, his property is auctioned off. However, several sugar factories that have taken huge loans have defaulted on it,” Congress member Basavaraj Itagi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sugar-barons-not-repaying-loans/article36641993.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. open to discussion on NEP: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the State government was open to discuss the National Education Policy (NEP) comprehensively so that public will also know its importance. Responding in the discussion on NEP, Mr. Bommai said: “Changes are being brought to the education sector, which is facing challenges, after a long time. It is natural that there will be differences of opinion... We have received reports from the taskforce. Our government is ready for further discussion.” ‘Not consulted’ Earlier, Congress member B.K. Hariprasad said that NEP has been drafted without a broader discussion. “The committee has not visited the North East. It has only consulted RSS-backed institutions. Though discussions should have taken place in Parliament and legislatures, it was discussed with the Sangh Parivar to impose its ideology on children.” Janata Dal (Secular) member Marithibbe Gowda said NEP is being pushed from this academic year in a hurry. “Governing bodies have not been created. What happens to the existing diplomas? NEP makes having permanent lecturers in colleges mandatory while there are more than 14,000 guest lecturers working. How will these be reconciled with the new policy?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-open-to-discussion-on-nep-cm/article36641994.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MLC seeks probe||Of the total 1,856 honorary doctorates awarded by universities in Karnataka, more than 50% have been awarded by Hampi Kannada University alone. Karnatak University, established in 1949, has so far awarded 108 honorary doctorates. However, Hampi University, established in 1991, has so far issued 1,141 honorary doctorates. “A total of 1,856 honorary doctorates have been given by State-run universities and 23 honorary doctorates by private universities,” BJP member Tejaswini Gowda told the Council, quoting from a reply from the government. She sought an inquiry to know what the honorary awards given by Hampi varsity were.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlc-seeks-probe/article36641991.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||B.R. Shetty group’s bankruptcy hits dialysis centres in govt. hospitals||With businessman B.R. Shetty’s group having gone financially bankrupt, the State government on Thursday informed the Legislative Assembly that many dialysis centres in government hospitals across the State have become dysfunctional and efforts will be made to restore them in a month. In a reply to D.S. Suresh (BJP), Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar said the previous government had outsourced services to B.R. Shetty’s health firm to deliver services at dialysis centres in government hospitals, but in many places the centres have not been providing services. The group has not paid salaries to staff for many months and the government has been paying from the National Health Mission, Mr. Sudhakar said. The Minister said the government would foreclose tenders and call fresh tenders for operation of the dialysis centres. Mr. Sudhakar also said that the department was planning to take legal action against the firm for its failure to honour commitments in delivery of services to poor patients. Shivananda Patil (Congress) said dialysis patients have been visiting private hospitals for treatment by paying around Rs. 3000. Neither injections nor tablets were available in hospitals, he said. Mahantesh Kaujalagi (Congress) said that in some cases, breakdown in power supply was causing inconvenience to patients. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri told the Minister to take steps on a war-footing to set the system right. The bureaucracy would not show much interest and the Minister has to take steps for commencement of services in hospitals, he told Mr. Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/br-shetty-groups-bankruptcy-hits-dialysis-centres-in-govt-hospitals/article36641995.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yatnal renews reservation demand for Panchamasalis||Senior members Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Arvind Bellad (both BJP) rushed to well of the House on Thursday demanding that the government set a time limit for granting reservation to the Panchamasali community under 2A of OBC quota so that they can avail benefits of 15% reservation in jobs and education. Presently, the community is included in 3B and is eligible to avail benefits under 5% quota. Mr. Yatnal raised the issue during zero hour in the Legislative Assembly and said the government led by former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in March had said that the government would seek reports from the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission in six months and decide on reclassification and increasing quota. The seer of the Panchamasali community had taken out a rally and staged a protest at Freedom Park in the city seeking reservation. They have threatened to renew the agitation if the Chief Minister does not heed to their demand within the promised time frame. With Chief Minister Baasavaraj Bommai not present in the House, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri assured Mr. Yatnal that he would ensure reply to the question from the Chief Minister. Later, both members returned to their seats. Mr. Yatnal had vociferously raised the demand in the Assembly when Mr. Yediyurappa was the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yatnal-renews-reservation-demand-for-panchamasalis/article36641999.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. to boycott Om Birla’s speech to both Houses||The Congress has decided to boycott Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s address to members of both the Houses of the State legislature on Friday. Party legislators held a meeting and decided to boycott the speech of Mr. Birla on “Democracy: Safeguarding the parliamentary values”. “We requested the Assembly Speaker not to hold such a joint session of the legislature in the Assembly and we urged him to hold the programme at the Banquet Hall in the Vidhana Soudha. But the Speaker turned down the suggestion,” KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar told the press after the meeting. Noting that only the Governor and the President were eligible to address both Houses of the legislature, Mr. Shivakumar said Mr. Birla’s speech was “unwarranted”. He further said that the Legislative Assembly “cannot be used for political purpose”. He said that the State government and the State legislature were creating a bad precedent by inviting the Lok Sabha Speaker to the Legislative Assembly to deliver a speech. Mr. Shivakumar condemned Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri’s decision to invite Mr. Birla and said it was “against the spirit of the Constitution and rules of our democracy”. Earlier in the day, Mr. Kageri appealed to all members to be present in the House to hear Mr. Birla’s speech on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-to-boycott-om-birlas-speech-to-both-houses/article36641986.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman found murdered, police suspect husband||A woman was found murdered at her residence in Annapoorneshwarinagar on Wednesday evening. The victim has been identified as Roopa, 34. “Her husband, who is absconding, is the main suspect in her murder,” said the police. The incident came to light when Roopa’s son returned home from tuition to find her body. Her throat had been slit with a kitchen knife. The child told the police that his father was at home when he left for tuition. “But he has been absconding since then,” said a police officer, adding that the couple were married for nine years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-found-murdered-police-suspect-husband/article36641980.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Warehouse owner booked||The police have booked Ganesh Babu, owner of the godown Mahakali Amman Lorry Service Centre, for culpable homicide and also under various sections of the Explosives Act, 1884. “Ganesh Babu neither had a trade licence from the civic body nor a permit to store explosives. No safety precautions were taken,” a senior police official said. While the mishandling of a consignment of firecrackers is suspected to have triggered the explosion and the fire, the police are waiting for the forensic report.  “There are safety protocols prescribed for storing explosives, none of which were followed. The godown did not even have a permit,” said a senior police official. He added that many godowns in the city store explosives even though they do not have the permits to do so. “Cracker factories in Sivakasi and elsewhere also do not insist on transport permits, leading to illegal and unsafe transport and storage of crackers,” the police official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/warehouse-owner-booked/article36641961.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Priest robbed while on his way home||A priest who was returning home after a puja at MLC and former Minister R. Shankar’s Kalyan Nagar residence was attacked by an armed gang who robbed him of his valuables on Tuesday night. The priest, Manikantha Sharma, was in his car when the attackers waylaid him near Hennur junction on the Outer Ring Road, around 10.15 p.m. When he got down from the car, the gang threatened him. When he tried to flee, they attacked him and he sustained injuries on his right arm and thigh. They robbed him of 60 grams of gold chain, Rs. 20,000 in cash, and his mobile phone. He is recovering at a hospital. The Govindapura police are analysing CCTV camera footage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priest-robbed-while-on-his-way-home/article36641965.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HOPCOMS starts online sale of fruits, vegetables||HOPCOMS, Lalbagh, has begun online marketing of fruits and vegetables coming under the BBMP south zone limits. The new facility from farmers to consumers has been started in partnership with CodeCatalysts Private Limited. Speaking to The Hindu , HOPCOMS president N. Devraj said HOPCOMS will deliver within one hour of booking. To start with, this facility has been extended only to the areas in south Bengaluru.  Prasad G. from Codecatalyst said that booking will be accepted from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. This facility will be available with a minimum purchase of Rs. 200 and Rs. 30 will be charged for delivery. Mr. Prasad said that the delivery for booking received after 9 p.m.,will be done on the next morning. For booking, customers have to download HOPCOMS app from the Google Play store or Apple’s App store or by calling 8951395439.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hopcoms-starts-online-sale-of-fruits-vegetables/article36641967.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Reverse diabetes’ initiative||With diabetes being a common cause of blindness in the 20-75 age group and high blood sugar leading to diabetic retinopathy, diabetic macular edema, cataract, and glaucoma, a Bengaluru-based eye care centre has launched a ‘reverse diabetes’ initiative. Under the initiative, Narayana Nethralaya will set up an exclusive clinic manned by a team of 15 specialists to address and treat diabetic eye diseases. Addressing mediapersons, K. Bhujang Shetty, chairman and managing director of Narayana Nethralaya, said nearly 70% of the 1,500 patients seen on a daily basis come with diabetic eye diseases. “The team will work towards assisting patients on methods to reverse diabetes and spread awareness about complications that diabetes can cause,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reverse-diabetes-initiative/article36642219.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 836 new cases, 15 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 836 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,71,044. Bengaluru Urban reported 310 and seven deaths. With 15 deaths, the toll rose to 37,683. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 852 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,19,742. The State now has 13,590 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.57%, the Case Fatality Rate stood at 1.79%. As many as 1,45,085 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,18,033 RT-PCR. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,67,78,755.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-836-new-cases-15-deaths/article36641977.ece
24 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Appropriation Bill adopted||The Assembly adopted the Karnataka Appropriation Bill on Thursday. The Bill piloted by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who also holds finance portfolio, seeks to pay Rs. 10,265.33 crore from the consolidated fund of the State government towards defraying several charges during 2021-22 in respect of various services. Mr. Bommai said this included Rs. 1,000 crore to be paid towards Jaljivan Mission, Rs. 3,300 crore towards COVID-19 management by the Health Department, and Rs. 1,700 crore towards the Food Department. He said efforts would be made to reduce unnecessary expenses in various departments through implementation of the report by the committee led by former Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar on administrative reforms from November 1. Mr. Bommai hoped that the Centre may not stick to its plan of ending the system of reimbursement of shortfall in revenue on account of GST from 2022 as all the States had sought continuance of the system. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah stated that the cumulative loan burden of the State that stood at Rs. 2,42,000 crore in 2013 when he stepped down as Chief Minister had now touched Rs. 4,57,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appropriation-bill-adopted/article36641989.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Why more funds for Shivamogga?’||Suresh Gowda and other members of JD(S) alleged discrimination in releasing funds to Mandya and other backward taluks under the Nanjundappa Committee report and demanded government explanation for release of more funds to Shivamogga district. While Rs. 145 crore had been released to the Shivamogga district, less than Rs. 20 crore had been sanctioned to other districts having backward taluks, Mr. Gowda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-more-funds-for-shivamogga/article36641985.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPSC selection list: Minister assures solution||Refusing to set any deadline to sort out the controversial KPSC-2011 batch selection list that the earlier government had scrapped, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy on Thursday assured to find a solution. Responding to Congress member P.R. Ramesh, who sought the notification of the list to bail out the 362 candidates, Mr. Madhuswamy said: “We are holding consultations with legal experts and are trying to make the notification valid. However, we cannot make decisions quickly because we need to give jobs.” He said that the government is considering whether a new law has to be framed or an executive order is sufficient. He said: “We have rejected the charge sheet and are considering how to find a solution without it being questioned in court.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kpsc-selection-list-minister-assures-solution/article36641992.ece
24 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Growers’ team meets Finance Minister||A delegation of the Karnataka Growers Federation, on Wednesday, met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Delhi and submitted a memorandum of several demands including the restructuring of farm loans borrowed by the planters. The delegation that included KGF office-bearers was led by Chikkamagaluru MLA and BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi. They urged the Minister to offer fresh loans for the planters at lower interest rates. The members of the delegation brought to the notice of the Minister that the governments of coffee-growing countries had been offering loans at low interest rates to encourage them to compete with other countries. Appeal The KGF representatives also appealed to the Minister to exempt coffee planters from the ambit of the Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. The delegation included KGF president H.T.Mohan Kumar, and organising secretary K.K.Vishwanath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/growers-team-meets-finance-minister/article36642399.ece
24 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 46 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,10,762. So far 1,352 people have died in the district due to the infection. Among the fresh cases, three each were from Arkalgud and Channarayapatna, eight in Arsikere, one in Belur, 22 in Hassan, two in Holenarsipur and seven in Sakleshpur taluk. As many as 465 people are under treatment in the district, according to a communique from the district administration. Shivamogga reported 16 fresh cases on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fresh-cases-in-hassan/article36642217.ece
24 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Protest planned||Residents of Barangi hobli in Sagar taluk have resolved to stage a protest on October 2 demanding proper internet connectivity in the area. The residents have formed a struggle committee seeking better internet connectivity and launched a campaign – No Network, No Vote – boycotting the elections until their demand is fulfilled. As part of their struggle, they will hold a protest meeting at Kattinkar and take out a march up to Kogar, where they will stage rasta-roko on the Sagar-Bhatkal road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-planned/article36642218.ece
24 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||707 students to receive engineering degrees||As many as 707 students will receive undergraduate and postgraduate engineering degrees during the 11th Graduation Day of Sri Dharmasthala Manjunateshwara College of Engineering and Technology (SDMCET), Dharwad, to be held on Friday and Saturday. Principal of SDMCET K. Gopinath told presspersons in Dharwad on Thursday that because of COVID-19, the graduation day will be held in four different sessions over two days. Prof. Gopinath said that four eminent alumni of the institution, CTO of Starmark Software Tharakram, senior software architect of Arcadia Suhas Kulkarni, Director of Volvo Atul Kumar Katti and MD of JMS Jagadish Nandi, will address the students during the different sessions. Secretary of SDM Education Society Jeevandhar Kumar will preside over the graduation day programmes. He said that the college became an autonomous institution in 2007 and has been steadily contributed to the growth of engineering education in the last 40 years. During the graduation day, provisional BE degree certificates for students of seven departments admitted during 2017 will be presented. Topper Prof. Gopinath said that the top scorer of the college, Sharadhi from the Department of Information Science and Engineering with a CGPA of 9.89, will be awarded the Padma Vibhushan Dr. D. Veerendra Heggade Gold Medal. This apart, endowment prizes will be awarded to the meritorious students with top scores in different disciplines, he said. To a query, he said that the college has been encouraging students to take up research. It has already taken up sponsored research projects worth Rs. 3 crore. The college has received funding from TEQIP World Bank worth around Rs. 15 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/707-students-to-receive-engineering-degrees/article36642213.ece
24 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pratijyna Panchayat to be held in Hubballi tomorrow||The Lingayat Panchamasali community, which is seeking reservation under 2A category, will hold a Pratijnya Panchayat in Hubballi on Saturday, in the run-up to the second phase of the agitation. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday, president of the reception committee of the Panchamasali Agitation Committee Ninganna Karikatti said that the event in Hubballi was another step towards reminding the State government about its promise of including the community under 2A category. Mr. Karikatti said that the then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and then Home Minister and present Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had sought time for fulfilling the demand. “Now that time has ended. We urge Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to take a decision on the issue by October 1, failing which the community will resume its agitation at Freedom Park in Bengaluru,” he said. President of the Youth Wing of community Viresh Undi and leader Nagaraj Gouri said that despite repeated agitations by the community, the government is yet to fulfil the demand. While various Chief Ministers and Ministers had been giving assurances about including the community under 2A category, nothing has been done yet to fulfil a rightful demand, the two leaders said. In the Pratijnya Panchayat to be held at Gokul Garden in Hubballi, seer of the Lingayat Panchamasli Peetha of Koodalasangama Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami, the former Union Minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, the former MLA Vijayanand Kashappanavar and others will be participating, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pratijyna-panchayat-to-be-held-in-hubballi-tomorrow/article36642205.ece
24 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Site allotment||Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority will allot 275 sites in Tadasinakoppa residential layout in Dharwad through lottery at 10 a.m. on Monday. The beneficiaries will be selected through lottery in a transparent manner at the HDUDA auditorium. Those who have applied for residential sites and are eligible are requested to be present during the selection process, HDUDA chairman Nagesh Kalburgi has said in a release.    All India Jain Youth Federation’s Mahaveer Limb Centre, Inner Wheel Club of Hubballi West and Inner Wheel Club of New Gen Angels have jointly organised an artificial limb camp at 12.15 p.m. on Friday at Mahavir Limb Centre on KIMS Hospital premises, a release has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/site-allotment/article36642212.ece
24 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bike rally planned ahead of bandh||The Bharat Bandh, announced by Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions, on September 27, will be a peaceful demonstration in Kalaburagi district, the former MLA B.R. Patil has said. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, Mr. Patil said that more than 18 pro-farmers organizations, trade unions, seeds and grains merchants association will also join the demonstration in support of the farmers union protest against the three new farm laws. Ahead of Bharat Bandh on September 27, farmers and various organisations will take out a bike rally on September 25. They will organise a torchlight rally in the district on September 26 to garner support from all sections of the people. “On September 27, we will block roads connecting the ring road to prevent commuters from entering or exiting the city during the protest,” Mr. Patil said. Mr. Patil has urged the traders to shut down their shops and extend support to the bandh. However, participation in the protest will be voluntary and no one will be forced to join, he added. Terming the 10-month long agitation at Delhi as India’s historic movement, Mr. Patil reiterated that farmers were fighting for their rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bike-rally-planned-ahead-of-bandh/article36642210.ece
24 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||252 illegal religious structures identified in Kalaburagi||Complying with a Supreme Court order concerning illegal religious structures, the Kalaburagi City Corporation has identified 252 such buildings in the Kalaburagi district. These structures have been erected in civic body limits and on land belonging to various departments. Of them, 32 were demolished and 220 have been considered for removal. The urban local bodies in the district had identified 178 illegal structures either constructed in public places or on gardens before the Supreme Court order came on September 29, 2009. But after the directions of the Supreme Court were given in 2009, a resurvey has found an additional 74 illegal religious structures.  “We are taking steps to demolish illegal structures built after the cut-off date of 2009,” Kalaburagi City Corporation Commissioner Snehal S. Lokhande has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/252-illegal-religious-structures-identified-in-kalaburagi/article36642203.ece
24 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Move to opt for Rs. 52-cr. waste management plan questioned||The Congress said on Thursday that the Mangaluru City Corporation led by the BJP has proposed to opt for a Rs. 52 crore solid waste management plan from February next by not exploring the cheapest alternative plans. Addressing a joint press conference here, Leader of the Opposition Congress in the council A.C. Vinayraj and the former Congress MLA from Mangaluru City South J.R. Lobo said that of the Rs. 52 crore, the civic body has proposed to spend Rs. 38 crore only on purchasing vehicles for collecting garbage from the doorsteps of citizens and transporting it to the compost plant in Pachchanady. In addition, it has proposed to recruit 1,175 workers for handling waste. They said that it is the costliest plan for the city. Mr. Vinayraj said that the corporation has proposed to purchase 437 vehicles. Once purchased, their maintenance is not an easy task. There are many issues involved in the maintenance of vehicles. The maintenance also involved expenditure. He said that the existing plan, where the collection and transportation has completely been outsourced, could continue. Mr. Lobo said that Mangala Resource Management Pvt. Ltd., a start-up promoted by Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mutt, had evinced interest in handling solid waste on no-profit no-loss basis which will not run up to Rs. 52 crore. This start-up has experience in handling garbage in Uppinangady town, Baikampady Industrial Area, MRPL and 40 villages of Karkala taluk. The start-up is also involved in the process of handling solid waste generated by more than 100 temples. It has also proposed to handle solid waste generated in any one of the wards free on a pilot basis. But, the corporation without giving a chance to the start-up to handle waste and exploring the cheapest alternative plan, is opting for a costly plan, Mr. Lobo said and questioned the intention behind such a move. Mr. Vinayraj said that the corporation has not asked for even a detailed project report on handling waste from the start-up, which has proposed to make handling solid waste a profitable venture in five years and later, hand it over to the corporation. But the corporation is not considering this proposal. They said that the latest move by the corporation could lead to corrupt practices. The former Mayor M. Shashidhar Hegde and senior councillor Naveen R. D’Souza were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/move-to-opt-for-rs-52-cr-waste-management-plan-questioned/article36642383.ece
24 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Evidence is must for arresting accused under SC/ST Act, says police official||Arrests in a case under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocity) Act and other penal provisions are done only if there is evidence to the cognisable offence that is alleged, said Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane here on Thursday. In answer to a question during the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes grievance redressal meeting held at his office, Mr. Sonawane said that it is wrong to assume that an accused will be arrested soon after a complaint is filed under the Act. “There should be evidence showing the cognisable offence for an arrest to be made,” he said. To another question, he said that the police register complaints which point out the commission of a cognisable offence. When an activist mentioned about ill-treatment at a police station recently, Mr. Sonawane said that people need not wait till the grievance redressal meeting but report it forthwith to him or other district police officers. “All the (19) police stations are covered by CCTVs and any type of misconduct can be easily noticed. We will immediately act on such complaints,” he said. Mr. Sonawane said that directions will be issued to police station heads and also beat constables to regularly visit Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes colonies. He said that the police will resume holding legal awareness sessions in schools. The next grievance redressal meeting will be held in Bantwal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/evidence-is-must-for-arresting-accused-under-scst-act-says-police-official/article36642391.ece
24 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tannirbavi Beach to be cleaned today||The College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, will observe International Coastal Cleanup Day on Tannirbavi Beach from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. on Friday. The objective is to create awareness among people to keep beaches clean, safeguard the environment and inculcate the habit of respecting coastlines which in turn nurtures marine biodiversity. Common goal The International Coastal Cleanup Day began more than 30 years ago, when communities rallied together with a common goal of collecting and documenting trash littering their coastline. The movement was catalysed by the passion and spirit of two committed individuals in 1986 in the U.S. Campaign The National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR), Chennai, under the Union Ministry of Earth Sciences has taken up the initiative to conduct a nationwide coastal cleanup campaign covering 35 beaches during September under Swachha Sagar campaign. Dean and professor of the college A. Senthil Vel said in a release here on Thursday that the Mangaluru City Corporation will coordinate in the efforts. And, it will provide necessary facilities during the campaign. Another objective of the campaign is to generate baseline data on marine debris for understanding the abundance distribution and composition of plastics on the beach. As the Union government has already committed to phasing out single use plastic by 2022, the data will provide a comparative understanding in implementing the tools. It will also be helpful for the formulation of Marine Litter Policy. The data will be collected scientifically to prepare the final report for the Ministry and the Prime Minister’s Office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tannirbavi-beach-to-be-cleaned-today/article36642220.ece
24 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karanth award for Girish Bharadwaj||Dr. Shivaram Karanth Huttoora Prashasthi Prathistana, Kota, Udupi district, has selected the bridge-man of India Girish Bharadwaj from Sullia for this year’s Dr. Shivaram Karanth Huttoora Prashasthi. Mr. Bharadwaj is credited with building over 140 low-cost suspension bridges across India for rural connectivity. The award will be presented at Kota Shivaram Karanth Theme Park, Kota, on October 10. Speaking to reporters in Udupi on Thursday, U.S. Shenoy, a member of the committee constituted to select the achiever for the award, said that Mr. Bharadwaj was selected as his work in constructing suspension bridges helped many people in rural places. This award is being given to achievers for the last 16 years for their efforts in their respective fields. Mr. Bharadwaj is a recipient of the Padma Shri Award. As part of the birth anniversary programme of late Dr. Shivaram Karanth, various cultural and literary programmes will be organised from October 1 to October 10. The recipients of the award include novelist S.L. Bhyrappa and progressive farmer Kavitha Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karanth-award-for-girish-bharadwaj/article36642385.ece
24 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||VHP demands stern action against rape accused||Terming the sexual harassment and cheating of a Mysuru-based woman by a Mudipu-based man as a case of Love Jihad, Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s Matru Shakti and Durga Vahini groups have demanded stern action against the accused. In a statement, Matru Shakti Pramukh Surekha Raj and District Durga Vahini Convenor Sweta Adhyapady said that the accused made the victim believe that he was a Hindu and then sexually assaulted her. He forced her to pay Rs. 35 lakh, they said. The accused is part of an organised network involved in Love Jihad, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vhp-demands-stern-action-against-rape-accused/article36642387.ece
24 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested on sexual assault charge||The Mangaluru Police have arrested Mohammed Azwan (32), a native of Mudipu, on the charge of sexually assaulting a 21-year-old Mysuru-based woman and cheating her of Rs. 35 lakh. A team of policemen traced Azwan in a hideout in Choodasandra in Bengaluru at around noon on Thursday and brought him to the city. In a complaint lodged with the Women Police Station here on Wednesday, the victim said that she came in contact with Azwan in Mysuru in 2019 where he worked in a mobile recharging shop. He identified himself as Sharat and after promising to marry her he sexually assaulted her several times. He also took from her a total of Rs. 35 lakh on different occasions and operated two eateries in Mysuru and Hunsur. In the course of their relationship, he revealed his original identity and said that he cannot marry her as he was already married to another woman. He deserted the woman and also did not return the money which the victim had given him after borrowing it from her family members, friends and private financiers. On September 21, the woman came to the house of the accused in Mudipu where she was reportedly assaulted and thrown out. People saw her sitting in a bus shelter at Konaje and shedding tears and they informed Emergency Response Support System 112. The police brought her to the Konaje Police Station, where, after a counselling session, she revealed about the sexual harassment meted out to her and also cheating by Azwan. The victim told the police that she will file a complaint in Mysuru. Finding that she did not have money to travel, the police inspector arranged for a ticket and told the bus driver and conductor to safely take her to Mysuru. However, soon after, on consultation with her lawyer and a few activists in Mangaluru, the victim filed the complaint with the Women Police Station after meeting Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar. “Special teams worked together and took into custody the accused from a hideout in Bengaluru,” Mr. Kumar told reporters on Thursday. Denying a charge that the victim was ill-treated by Konaje Police on Tuesday, Mr. Kumar said that the police patiently heard her and as per her wish, arranged for her safe travel to Mysuru. “I personally spoke to her Wednesday and she had nice words to say about Konaje Police. She then went to file the complaint with the Women Police Station,” Mr. Kumar said. The police have booked the accused under Section 376 (sexual harassment), 384 (extortion) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-on-sexual-assault-charge/article36642221.ece
24 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Coast Guard holds search and rescue workshop||The Karnataka headquarters of the Coast Guard conducted a maritime search and rescue workshop here on Thursday. Representatives from the Coastal Security Police, Customs, Immigration, Fisheries Department, Fisheries Association, and Red Cross Society took part. Deputy Inspector-General and Commander, Indian Coast Guard, Karnataka, S. B. Venkatesh said that the global shipping industry is responsible for transporting 90% of world trade and hence the safety of vessels is critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coast-guard-holds-search-and-rescue-workshop/article36642389.ece
24 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Encroachments swallowing lakes||The lakes in Mysuru are fading into oblivion. The number of water bodies in and around the city has dropped to 34 from 72 in the recent past. In Nanjangud, the temple town on the banks of the Kapila, the number of lakes has fallen to 14 from 28. Citing a report from EMPRI (Environmental Management and Policy Research Institute), water conservationist U.N. Ravi Kumar said the report on the status of lakes in and around Mysuru was prepared four years ago. Based on the report, “we can say the lakes are disappearing for various reasons, primarily encroachments.” Speaking on the topic of lakes in Mysuru during an interaction organised by Mysore Grahakara Parishat here recently, he said the Kukkarahalli Lake, which spread across 49 hectares in the heart of the city, was in need of immediate attention for stopping the entry of sewage into the lake. The University of Mysore is the caretaker of the lake. The main source of freshwater to the lake is Poornaiah canal. The Mysore City Corporation, the University of Mysore and the district authorities have the collective responsibility of maintaining and safeguarding the lake. A report from the National Institute of Engineering had claimed that water from as far as Bommanahalli lake, which is about 21 km from the lake, joins the Kukkarahalli lake, he explained. Rajakaluve or the stormwater drain, which is also the main source of water to the lake, has been encroached upon at several places. No action has been taken to clear the encroachment despite the authorities being alerted on several occasions. “The University of Mysore, for want of funds, has not done much to protect the lake and therefore the district authorities must provide funds. The lake ecosystem was disturbed due to desilting of fertile soil from the banks,” Mr. Kumar observed. He said Karanji Lake, which is under the Mysuru zoo, has been also encroached upon, including the portions of Rajakaluve that brings fresh water to the lake. The lake surroundings have tall trees where the migratory birds build nests during breeding season. Three years ago, Karanji Lake had dried up fully and desilting was done to deepen the lake for impounding more rainwater. Some portions of Lingambudhi lake area were acquired for the purpose of constructing the Outer Ring Road and a few layouts too have encroached upon the lake area, thus disturbing its ecosystem. The sewage flow into the lake has also not been addressed fully, he explained.  Mr. Kumar said the lakes that existed in 2001 started disappearing and their number dropped substantially by 2011 due to the frequent encroachments. Lakes exist only in ten districts in the State as the remaining districts are either dominated by hills or they are dry places. The erstwhile Maharajas of Mysore developed many lakes in and around Mysuru, and that’s why Mysuru had so many water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/encroachments-swallowing-lakes/article36642405.ece
24 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Go digital for profits, exporters told||Mysuru stands fifth in exports in the State with total annual exports amounting to Rs. 2,916 crore. Also, between September 2020 and March 2021, Mysuru exported goods worth Rs. 2,914 crore. The major exports take place in pharma, textiles, wood products, IT, printing, medical equipment in Mysuru, according to the District Industries Centre. In Mysuru, the DIC on Thursday conducted an exporters’ conclave where the top exporters of the city displayed their wares. As many as 154 industries are engaged in exports and 85 of them are identified as top exporters from Mysuru. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham inaugurated the conclave organised as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav and Vanijya Saptaha, on the Zilla Panchayat premises. ZP CEO Yogesh, Joint Director Lingaraju and others were present. In his address, Mr. Gautham told the industrialists to adopt to the digital revolution and added they can prosper only if they do so. Using digital technologies, the industries can expand their earnings, he felt. He said the government and the district administration always supported industrial development. Mysuru houses globally-recognised industries and companies, and Mysuru was progressing well in the service sector DIC Joint Director B.K. Lingaraju said Mysuru stands second in the State in the service sector after Bengaluru, and stands fourth in freight transport. Export house Industries in Mysuru export goods to over 63 countries, including USA and Germany and those in the Gulf. An export house is coming up in Mysuru at a cost of Rs. 5-6 crore to further boost exports from the city, Mr. Lingaraju said, adding that it will commence its operations soon. Mysuru Industries Association Secretary Suresh Kumar Jain was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/go-digital-for-profits-exporters-told/article36642401.ece
24 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Assault on hotel owner by police officer condemned||The Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysuru and the Hotel Owners’ Association have condemned the assault on the owner of a hotel in Bamboo Bazaar by a police officer accusing him of not complying with the night curfew rules. In this regard, the Federation has decided to file a complaint with the Commissioner of Police, highlighting the alleged harassment caused to the legitimate traders and businessmen in Mysuru by police personnel in the name of enforcing curbs over pandemic and the night curfew. While urging the Commissioner of Police to render justice in the case as the hotel owner was slapped and also beaten with a stick by the police officer for keeping the hotel open, the Federation has threatened to stage a protest if no action was taken in connection with the case. The incident of the police officer thrashing the hotel owner has been captured in the hotel’s CCTV. “The weekend curfew was lifted recently and the hotels are yet to recover from the losses they incurred during the lockdown. No hotel deliberately violates the rules. The police have turned blind to violations in other sectors while targeting only hotels and shops. The police ask us to shut down hotels at 8.30 p.m. though we can stay open till 9 p.m. If the violation is done, it could be told in a proper way instead of assaulting the person who pays tax to the government,” the Federation said in a release here. The incident has hurt the hotel industry and affected the morale of the hoteliers and the Commissioner of Police must take steps so that such incidents do not recur, the stakeholders said Probe sought Meanwhile, the Hotel Owners’ Association said it strongly condemned the assault on Javed Ahmed Pasha, the hotel owner, by the Mandi Mohalla Police Inspector and demanded an inquiry into the incident. “It is a disappointing that a hotelier who runs business, paying all taxes and giving employment to at least 20-30 people, is treated this way. If at all the hotel owner has done anything wrong, the police could have booked a case or penalised him instead of slapping and beating him with stick,” said association president C. Narayana Gowda. He said the police have not taken any action when certain businesses are being run till 11 p.m. despite night curfew. “We don’t know why the police targeting the hotels. They speak improperly to the people running hotels in Kuvempunagar, J.P. Nagar, Vidyaranyapuram and other areas,” Mr. Gowda said in a letter to the Commissioner of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assault-on-hotel-owner-by-police-officer-condemned/article36642402.ece
24 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||SJCE, Holosuit sign MoU||SJCE, the flagship and constituent college of JSS Science and Technology University, Mysuru, has signed a Memorandum of Understating (MoU) with the cutting-edge robotics company Holosuit headquartered in Singapore. Holosuit will be delivering skill development programmes on a range of emerging technology subjects with practice of concepts being accomplished in a virtual world called “HoloWorld”, a release from the university said. Holosuit is partnering with SJCE to create a Centre of Excellence in Robotics and Cyber Physical Systems, and in AR/ VR and AI. Holosuit is servicing the needs of industry in electricity, automobiles, and building solutions for the Indian Army. S.A. Dhanaraj, Registrar, JSS STU, said students and faculty will benefit from the knowledge base of Holosuit, and the tie-up will help the university in crafting the students to be industry-ready. The Registrar, and the Head, Department of Computer Science and Engineering were present at the signing ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sjce-holosuit-sign-mou/article36642403.ece
24 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. committed to developing M.M. Hills pilgrim centre: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that his government is committed to the comprehensive development of Sri Malai Mahadeshwara Temple in Chamarajanagar district as it is one of the important pilgrimage centres in the State. Mr. Bommai, who is also the chairman of Sri Malai Mahadeshwara Kshetra Development Authority, said at a meeting of the authority in Bengaluru on Wednesday that the development works have gained pace at M.M. Hills and all elected representatives have given their support. As the temple attracts lakhs of devotees, priority has been given for improving the facilities for them, he added. The Chief Minister told the meeting to implement the decisions taken on the development works at the hills. Directive  Minister in charge of Mysuru and Chamarajnagar S.T. Somashekar told the officials to complete the works on priority and as scheduled and added that the facilities have to be maintained properly after their inauguration. Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle, who is the vice-chairperson of the authority, said more facilities can be planned around the site where the 100-feet statue of Sri Malai Mahadeshwara was being constructed. Status report Authority Secretary Jayavibhavaswamy listed out the works that are being implemented and the progress of the development works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-committed-to-developing-mm-hills-pilgrim-centre-cm/article36642406.ece
24 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Job racket in Kodagu||The Kodagu district administration has cautioned the public about a job racket, making fake job promises and issuing fake appointment orders for government jobs in the district. The administration has come to know that Rs. 1.50 lakh was being sought from the aspirants for getting them appointed to the posts of village accountants (VAs). A candidate also received a fake appointment letter. Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal said the district administration has not issued any notification. If the appointments were to be made, advertisements would be issued in the newspapers, and applications would be invited online.  The DC has appealed to the people to inform the district administration if they get any phone calls offering jobs and issued appointment letters for the government jobs. For more details, call 08272-225500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/job-racket-in-kodagu/article36642409.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,KARNATAKA||IISc. among top 500 global institutions in QS Employability rankings||The Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), Bengaluru, and six Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) are among 12 Indian institutions that have figured in the top 500 universities in QS Graduate Employability Rankings 2022 announced on Thursday. IISc. and OP Jindal Global University have figured in the 301-500 category. While three central universities have made it to the list, among the private universities in the list are OP Jindal Global University, Sonepat, and BITS Pilani. The six IITs include IIT Bombay, which has been placed in the 101-110 ranks, IIT Delhi (131-140), IIT Madras (151-160), IIT Kharagpur (201-250), IIT Kanpur (251-300), and IIT Roorkee (500). “Each of the universities ranked has demonstrated an ability to produce graduates with the ‘soft skills’ required for the modern workplace. Given the fierce competition for graduate roles around the world, students should be seriously considering how their university can prepare them adequately for full-time employment, by connecting them with global employers and ensuring they develop the necessary skills and knowledge,” Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) said in a note on its website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iisc-among-top-500-global-institutions-in-qs-employability-rankings/article36641979.ece
24 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir district suffers Rs. 27.10 cr. loss owing to heavy rain||Yadgir district has suffered a loss of Rs. 27.10 crore due to heavy rain that lashed the district recently, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said. She was talking to The Hindu on Thursday. She said that the loss due to rain was put at Rs. 27.10 crore as the district received heavy rain for a couple of days early this month. As many as 164 houses have been partially damaged. And, of them, 107 are in Hunsagi followed by eight in Surpur, 19 in Wadagera, 27 in Shahapur and three houses in Yadgir. Rainwater entered into 67 houses causing damage to essential commodities. “The total loss in house collapse incidents was estimated at Rs. 32.80 lakh,” she added. The Deputy Commissioner further said that agriculture crops in 482 hectares and horticulture crops in 5.60 hectares have been destroyed and for this, the loss was estimated at Rs. 4.37 crore. Apart from this, 59.95 km of road have been damaged and the loss has been estimated at Rs. 19.51 crore. As many as eight bridges have been damaged causing a loss of Rs. 2.70 crore. A loss of Rs. 16.14 lakh has been estimated with 10 electricity transformers and 69 poles being damaged. Although heavy rain did not cause any harm to human lives, three livestock were killed causing a loss of Rs. 1.12 lakh, Dr. Ragapriya said and added that the general public can dial Ph: 08473-253800 for any emergency or help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-district-suffers-rs-2710-cr-loss-owing-to-heavy-rain/article36642211.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two killed in suspected cracker blast||Two neighbouring shops and nearly eight two-wheelers as well as a goods vehicle parked in front of the godown were severely damaged. Four persons in the area sustained injuries. According to police sources, one of the injured survivors, Anjiswamy, is critical. “He suffered over 60% burns. Two others, identified as Ganapathi and James sustained 15% and 28% burns respectively, while the fourth person, Manjunath, was discharged after treatment,” said the sources. The incident occurred barely two days after a fire broke out at a flat in an apartment complex in Devarachikkanahalli, killing a woman and her elderly mother on September 21. While investigators are yet to determine the cause of the fire in the flat, they haven traced Thursday’s blast to crackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-suspected-cracker-blast/article36641966.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Search intensified||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/search-intensified/article36642215.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A different discussion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-different-discussion/article36641997.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||On the job||photo||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-the-job/article36642408.ece
24 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Naval ship to reach Port Museum||The wait will soon be over. The decommissioned Fast Attack Craft (I N FAC) T-81 that the Indian Navy has allotted to the Port Museum under the Alappuzha Heritage Project will reach its final destination—the seaside in front of the museum by the end of this week. The vessel, which reached Thanneermukkom a few days ago, will be brought to Alappuzha by road on a 106-wheeled multi-axle trailer. P.M. Noushad, managing director, Muziris Spice Route Heritage Project, said on Thursday that the transportation from Thanneermukkom to Alappuzha was delayed by a day. “The plan was to begin the journey on Thursday. The craft has already been mounted on the trailer. As it is a heavy load, we do not want to take any chances. Some additional welding works are being done to ensure that the vessel is fitting tightly on the trailer. The trailer carrying the craft will start moving on Friday morning. If things go as planned, it will reach its final destination by Saturday,” Mr. Noushad said. FAC T-81 was commissioned into the Indian Navy in June 1999. The 25-metre-long ship has a displacement of 60 tonnes and could attain a maximum speed of 45 knots (85 kmph). Ship’s history It could cover a range of 600 nautical miles. Fitted with OERLIKON 20mm gun with Typhoon system, its hydrodynamic design and state-of-the-art machinery gave the vessel optimum utilisation of power and suitability for shallow water operations. The ship, which was attached to the Western Naval Command, had performed a wide variety of roles including surveillance, reconnaissance, coordinated search and rescue operations, and high-speed interception of small craft. After decommissioning, FAC T-81 was towed to Kochi in May 2021. The Port Museum, being set up by renovating godowns close to the old port office near the Alappuzha beach, will have a dedicated section for the Indian Navy. The museum will showcase the State’s rich maritime history, especially the story of the Alappuzha port, including its formation, growth as a commercial hub of the erstwhile State of Travancore, and the decline towards the fag end of the 20th century. It will have details of all ancient ports that existed in the State. Besides, artefacts from countries that had trade links with the State through ancient ports, materials collected from port sites, miniature models of important ships that had called at the Alappuzha port and so on will be exhibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/naval-ship-to-reach-port-museum/article36642356.ece
24 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Elephant tusks seized from rock cavity in Parunthumpara||Two elephant tusks were found hidden in a rock cavity near Parunthumpara in the district on Thursday. A search was conducted in the area near Grampykokka under the Murinjapuzha forest station limit in the Erumeli range following a tip-off received by the forest intelligence wing. The tusks, weighing around five kg, were found hidden in the rock cavity by afternoon. Grampykokka is the downhill area of the tourist destination of Parunthumpara. It is suspected that someone living nearby could have hidden the tusks for sale. A case has been registered, a forest official said. A search will be conducted in the forests for the carcass of the elephant suspected to have been killed by poachers. Fourth case This is the fourth case registered in connection with the seizure of elephant tusks in the district this year. Earlier, two cases were registered at Thodupuzha and one at the Neriamangalam forest division. Two months back, elephant tusks were seized at Ettumanur and an inquiry found that they were bought from Kumily in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-tusks-seized-from-rock-cavity-in-parunthumpara/article36642361.ece
24 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Wild elephant found dead||A female wild elephant aged around 20 years was found dead in the interior forests of the Marayur Sandalwood Division near the Chinnar Wildlife Sanctuary on Wednesday. Forest officials said the elephant could have died in a fight with a tusker and there were internal injuries as per the post-mortem examination. Residents of the Indira Nagar area found the carcass and informed Marayur Range Officer M.G. Vinodkumnar. A team of officials inspected the area and the carcass. It is suspected that the elephant suffered serious haemorrhage in a fight with the tusker, leading to its death. The post-mortem examination was conducted by assistant veterinary officers Nisha Raichal and Anumad. Mr. Vinodkumar said the elephant could have died four days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-elephant-found-dead/article36642359.ece
24 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Animal hospice in Wayanad nearing reality||The construction of an animal hospice and palliative care unit for big cats in the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, a safe haven to more than half the number of tigers in Kerala, has entered the last phase. Facility cost The facility, the first such initiative in the State, is being set up in the Kurichiad range of forest under the sanctuary. The unit is being set up on the premises of Vanalakshmi, an abandoned pepper plantation of the Forest Department at Pachadi in the Kurichiad forest range, at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh. “The unit will be a rehabilitation centre for major carnivores such as tigers and leopards and could hold four animals at a time,” warden S. Narendra Babu told The Hindu . Under the project, injured and diseased animals will be treated at the centre after capturing them. They will either be rehabilitated in zoos or released into the wild after treatment depending on their health, said Mr. Babu. Holding rooms “The major works, including four holding rooms attached with two squeezed cages at both the ends, have been completed. Each holding room is connected to an open area covered with chain-linked fence measuring 500 sq m.,” said Mr. Babu, adding that remaining works such as the construction of staff quarters, storage room and water connection to the unit were under way. Safety trench In case of emergency, the unit would be utilised for treating animals. A trench is also dug around the unit as a part of protection measures. The unit would be operational after a month, Mr. Babu added. The department has captured seven tigers from Wayanad in two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/animal-hospice-in-wayanad-nearing-reality/article36642336.ece
24 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||41 complaints heard at DGP’s adalat||A total of 41 complaints were heard at a grievance redressal adalat held at the district police headquarters here by Director General of Police Anil Kant on Thursday. Half of the cases related to civil issues, including financial fraud. Mr. Kant directed that the investigation should not be delayed if the complaints had a criminal element in them. It was also directed to examine all the 41 cases and to reply to them within two weeks. Property dispute cases were handed over to the Station House Officers concerned for investigations. The adalat also heard a complaint regarding delays in the appointment of dependants in the police department. The District Police Chief has sent a letter to the government on the matter. The DGP directed that there should be no lapse in the follow-up of these issues. The complaints were handled by a special team from the State police headquarters.  Mr. Kant also flagged off the newly allotted Pink Bike Patrol in Kasaragod district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/41-complaints-heard-at-dgps-adalat/article36642288.ece
24 September 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||CB asks Surendran to produce phone||The Crime Branch team investigating the Manjeswaram election bribery case has again issued a notice to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president K. Surendran. The probe team issued the notice asking him to appear for inspecting his mobile phone. Mr. Surendran had claimed that he had lost his mobile phone. But the investigation team says the phone is still in use. He has been asked to produce the phone within a week for inspection. Mr. Surendran had been questioned by Kasaragod Crime Branch DySP Satish Kumar last week in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-asks-surendran-to-produce-phone/article36642284.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Motorist alleges harassment by Kumbalam toll plaza staff||The Ernakulam District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has served notice on the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the contracting firm entrusted with the operation, maintenance, and tolling (OMT) for the Edappally-Aroor NH 66 Bypass after a motorist complained of harassment at the toll plaza. According to the complaint filed by a lawyer, the staff at the NHAI’s Kumbalam toll plaza detained him and his family members who were travelling by car and threatened them, despite adequate balance in his FASTag account to deduct toll. Even worse, the staff let the family, including his wife and two children, to leave only after they paid double the toll amount. This despite the fact that the complainant, Russel S. of Poonithura, a lawyer and Assistant Professor at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), produced proof of Rs. 40 having been debited from his FASTag wallet on January 17 morning, and there being a balance of Rs. 315 in the account. He filed a complaint before the commission, seeking a compensation of Rs. 1 lakh, arraying the NHAI Chief General Manager (Nodal Officer for Public Grievances), managing director of Kochi-Aroor Tollways Pvt. Ltd, and the manager of the Kumbalam Toll Plaza, as opposite parties. After examining the complaint, the District Consumer Commission presided by D.B. Binu directed officials of the NHAI, the OMT firm, and the toll plaza manager to present themselves before the commission on October 28 to explain their stance. In his complaint, Adv. Russel mentioned that the toll plaza staff had shouted at him in front of his wife and children and those who had gathered on seeing the commotion, all through the 10 minutes that they were detained at the plaza. It caused much inconvenience and agony to him, his family members, and other passengers. “Within an hour, the toll amount was found deducted by the NHAI from the same wallet. This shows there was adequate balance in the wallet. The attitude of the toll plaza employees was very adamant and against the very purpose for which the NHAI was constituted—to ensure the comfort and convenience of motorists and pedestrians. Moreover, the NHAI and others did not respond to a legal notice that I issued in February, stating my grievance and seeking Rs. 1 lakh compensation for the agony and inconvenience caused to me and my family members. All this amounted to deficiency in service,” Adv. Russel said. It was less than a month ago that Thripunithura MLA K. Babu narrated his ordeal at the toll plaza after after a boom barrier fell atop his car, causing damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motorist-alleges-harassment-by-kumbalam-toll-plaza-staff/article36642303.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Making kids aware of cybersecurity||An interactive training space named Kid Glove Simulator Room has been set up at the Cyber Police Station at Infopark to promote online safety awareness among children. Schoolchildren will thus be able to visit the simulator space to have a walk-through experience and become aware of the hidden dangers that lurk in digital space. This is part of the Cyber Awareness & E-Certificate Project of the Kerala Police titled KID GLOVE (www.kidglove.in). In this, cybersecurity clubs have been constituted in schools within the limits of the Kochi Police Commissionerate. The innovative space has digital forest games, awareness posters with storyline, table-top exhibits (including of computer components, storage devices, sensors, Raspberry pi and Arduino security systems) with audio output description through headsets. Cyber quiz It will also take children to the world of drones and robots and shed light on the role of the police in tackling cyber crimes. Cyber quiz sessions too will he hosted. The training room, which was inaugurated by C.H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City), was conceptualised by Aishwarya Dongre, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order and Traffic), with a team of cyber police officers. They were supported in the venture by Joby Joy, executive advisor, Outreach, ISRA (Information Security Research Association), while robotics was readied with the help of Rahul, CEO of Inker Robotics, Thrissur. On Thursday, students from different schools had a walk-through experience in the simulator room in batches of 10. More batches are expected to follow suit in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-kids-aware-of-cybersecurity/article36642281.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Land for metro’s Infopark extension by December 31||The entire 6.40 acres to be acquired for the Kochi metro’s Infopark extension will be handed over to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) by December 31, District Collector Jafar Malik has said. It is in addition to the land needed to construct stations en route. The land for building Water Metro jetties too will be acquired by December 31. Of this, land has been acquired for jetties at Bolghatty, Kakkanad, and Eloor, while the land for 11 other jetties will be acquired by October 31, he added. Canal rejuvenation Land acquisition for the canal rejuvenation project to be implemented by KMRL will be speeded up. A metre more of land is being acquired on each side of the Edappally Canal, prior to dredging it to make it navigable. Survey stones have been laid for a 2-km distance, Mr. Malik said at a meeting here on Thursday to take stock of the progress of land acquisition for various infrastructure projects in Ernakulam. Deputy Collectors P.B. Suni Lal and O.J. Baby were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-for-metros-infopark-extension-by-december-31/article36642311.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. asked to incentivise tea replantation||The chairman of the Tea Trade Association of Cochin, Thomas Jacob, has said that both the Central and State governments should incentivise tea replantation to help increase production. Productivity in Kerala had dwindled largely due to the disruptions in replanting operations. The high cost of labour in the State was one of the reasons why replanting operations had been held up in Kerala. He said productivity in Kerala stood around 1,600 kg per hectare while in Tamil Nadu, it was in the range of 2,500 kg to 2600 kg. According to figures from the Tea Trade Association, Kerala has shown an increase of more than four million kg in tea production during 2020 compared to 2019 despite the obstacles posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in disruptions in production and processing operations caused by a severe shortage of workers as well as restrictions on the movement of workers. The State produced 59.05 million kg of tea during 2019 in comparison to 63.09 million kg in 2020. The tea production in South India stood around 222 million kg in 2020 against 218 million kg in 2019. The increase was more than 3 million kg. Karnataka showed a marginal increase in tea production at 5.13 million kg in 2020 against 4.63 million kg in 2019 but Kerala's neighbouring Tamil Nadu produced 153.83 million kg against 155.31 million kg in 2019, which was a fall of 1.48 million kg. He said that heavy rain during the current year could cause some problems on the tea production front. The association figures showed that sale through the Cochin auction centre stood at 45,030 tonnes during 2020 as against 66,600 tonnes at Coonoor and 14,832 tonnes at Coimbatore. Figures showed that sale at the Cochin centre was 51,005 tonnes during 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-asked-to-incentivise-tea-replantation/article36642304.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No let-up in illegal waste dumping in Ernakulam||Illegal waste dumping spaces seem to be on the rise in Kochi and its outskirts, as unauthorised persons and firms store and dispose of waste in violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, according to official findings. The lack of concerted action on the part of enforcement agencies and local bodies was evident in the latest episode of such illegal dumping at Kalamassery. An inquiry by the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) found that a few people who had taken a private land at Kalamassery on lease for storing non-biodegradable waste had dumped it there without obtaining permission from the Kalamassery Municipality. The civic body initiated action only after complaints were lodged against the illegal dump in the one-acre plot near Seaport-Airport Road. Those who had taken the land on lease agreed to shift the waste, while claiming that it would be collected by a firm engaged in plastic manufacturing. However, they failed to produce relevant documents to prove that the firm was authorised to collect and transport waste as per the Solid Waste Management Rules. It was later found that the waste was illegally dumped at a site near Willingdon Island during night hours, according to PCB officials. Meanwhile, the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management is learnt to have recommended action against the municipality and those who stored waste in the land. The committee also pointed out that the number of illegal dumps had gone up in Ernakulam district. The responsibility of waste segregation and its transportation to treatment facilities lies with local bodies as per rules. Civic bodies have to hold consultations with the PCB before engaging any person for removing waste and transporting it to safe destinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-let-up-in-illegal-waste-dumping-in-ernakulam/article36642319.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Incorrect entries in vaccination certificate alleged||The Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the District Medical Officer (DMO), Ernakulam, to inquire into a person’s complaint that the date and venue entered in his COVID vaccination certificate were incorrect. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan passed the directive on a writ petition filed by K.P. John of Aluva. According to him, he had received the first dose in March and the second in April, both from a vaccination centre in Aluva. However, the certificate issued to him in July showed that the second shot was administered in July at a centre in Ernakulam. When the petition came up for hearing, the court said the DMO should verify whether it was a genuine mistake or part of some mischief. Action sought If the incorrect details on the certificate are found to be the result of mischief, stringent action should be taken against the officials concerned. If it is a mistake, a new certificate could be issued.  If there is a mistake, a new certificate could be issued, HC says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/false-entries-on-vaccine-certificate-alleged/article36642312.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||STP work at West Kochi to go ahead despite protests||The work on the proposed sewage treatment plant (STP) for West Kochi will go ahead despite the local resistance to the project, Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), the agency implementing the project, has said. The State authorities have asked CSML to take the project forward. Soil samples were collected from the site for testing. The construction of the temporary compound wall of the site was completed. The mission is taking steps to implement the project at the site allotted by the Kochi Corporation, CSML sources said. Incidentally, the resistance to the project has intensified with protest marches being taken out to the proposed site. The plant with an installed capacity of treating 6.5-million-litre-per-day has been proposed at a 45-cent holding near the Kalvathy canal. The Rs. 166-crore plant has been mooted to scientifically treat sewage in the Smart City project area in divisions 1 to 5 of the Kochi Corporation. T. K. Ashraf, chairman of the Health Standing Committee of the Kochi Corporation, wrote to the civic administration asking the authorities to intervene in the matter and stop the work. The project has been proposed at a site, which was close to a busy commercial area. There were a few schools, hospital, and several commercial establishments in the area. The project should not be implemented at the site, as the local body had not issued permission for setting up the plant there, he said. He suggested that the project be shifted to a nearby site, where the medical care facility of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation once functioned. The now unoccupied site was ideal for the project, and the authorities should respect the sentiments of the local population, he said. The CSML authorities maintained that the apprehensions of local residents were baseless as the project posed no pollution risk. Similar plants were functioning in busy cities elsewhere. The mission had carried out extensive outreach programmes and awareness sessions for stakeholders, including councillors, and clarified their doubts, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stp-work-at-west-kochi-to-go-ahead-despite-protests/article36642313.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Action council, traders obstruct metro work||Activists of Metro Action Council and a section of traders under the banner of Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti obstructed preparatory work at Vazhakkala for the Kochi metro’s 11.20-km extension to Infopark, on Thursday. They alleged inaction on the part of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) officials, District Collector, and the State government on memoranda submitted on land acquisition and payment of compensation to develop roads beneath the proposed metro corridor to 22-metre wide stretches. Sources said Vazhakkala was among the areas in the proposed metro corridor where encroachments were rampant, while illegal parking had made matters worse. Kochi-1 card Meanwhile, KMRL has replaced 2,486 Kochi-1 cards issued to commuters, citing technical issues. Commuters can contact the customer care centre at any metro station for replacement of cards. For assistance, they can contact KMRL’s customer care (1800-425-0355). The upgraded Kochi-1 card offers a hassle-free ride in the Kochi metro, the metro agency informed.  Authorities indifferent to memoranda on land acquisition and compensation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-council-traders-obstruct-metro-work/article36642310.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Secretaries to ensure ‘zero waste on ground’||The Secretary of the urban local body concerned has to ensure ‘zero waste on ground’ as per the provisions of the State Policy on Solid Waste Management. The official has to ascertain that public places and roads are free of waste heaps. The Secretary is responsible for implementing the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. An assessment by the Local Self Government Department (LSGD) in Ernakulam had found that most local bodies were lagging behind in fining rule violators. It pointed out that there was relatively low enactment of rules pertaining to solid waste management. Twenty-seven local bodies are yet to initiate action against illegal dumping of waste in public places and waterbodies. Stringent punishment should be given to those found burning waste in public or dumping it in open spaces and waterbodies. Action against violators should include fining and prosecution. Secretaries of local bodies should take the lead in acting against illegal dumping of waste. Officials have to issue clear guidelines and specify responsibilities of personnel of Health, Engineering, Town Planning and Revenue departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/secretaries-to-ensure-zero-waste-on-ground/article36642320.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No-trust motion against UDF in Thrikkakara fails||A no-confidence motion by the Opposition Left Democratic Front (LDF) against the ruling United Democratic Front (UDF) in the Thrikkakara municipal council failed due to lack of quorum in the council meeting on Thursday. The Opposition could not succeed in moving the resolution as only 18 councillors in the Opposition turned up for the meeting, while 25 UDF councillors in the 43-member council, including five from the front constituent Muslim League, stayed away. The LDF required the support of 22 councillors in passing the motion against municipal chairperson Ajitha Thankappan. An LDF councillor who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 turned up in PPE kit to ensure that the Opposition camp had full attendance. The LDF said it would bring another no-confidence motion after six months if the Congress failed to remove Ms. Thankappan from the post. Terming the failed attempt by the LDF as a political victory for the UDF, the municipal chairperson said the Opposition had been targeting her by levelling baseless charges. ‘Not aware’ On whether there was any move within the UDF to oust her from the post, Ms. Thankappan said she was not aware of any such development. “As a loyal party worker, I will abide by whatever decision taken by the leadership,” she said. The district leadership of the Congress gained a political upper hand against the LDF, as it managed to win the trust of four rebel Congress councillors. The party could also ensure the support of five of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) councillors amid reports that they might shift their stand. However, internal rumblings are likely to crop up again, as there has been no official confirmation on whether the Congress will remove Ms. Thankappan from the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-confidence-motion-against-udf-in-thrikkakara-fails/article36642317.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC dismisses plea against detention||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday upheld the detention of A.M. Jalal and P. Mohammed Shafi, accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, under the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act,1974 (COFEPOSA). The Bench, comprising Justice A.K Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice Muhammed Nias C.P., passed the verdict while dismissing the petitions filed by the spouses of the accused challenging the detention. The Bench observed that the detaining authority had acted entirely in accordance with the statutory purpose set out in Section 3 of the COFEPOSA Act while passing the detention orders. There had not been any shortcoming, let alone any illegality, while passing the orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-dismisses-plea-against-detention/article36642324.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to govt. to pay prize amount||The Kerala High Court has directed the State government to disburse the prize amount of Rs. 40.95 lakh to the winner of the government’s Win Win lottery, the draw of which was held in 2015. The directive came on a petition by P. Sitha of Palakkad. The government had turned down her claim, citing that she is the wife of a lottery agent which was suspended by the Lottery Department for indulging in unlawful business practice. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan observed that the duty of the authority was only to find out whether the ticket was genuine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-directive-to-govt-to-pay-prize-amount/article36642283.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||City completes first jab for all residents||The city has administered the first dose of COVID vaccine to all its residents, Mayor M. Anilkumar has said. The campaign for providing the second dose through public camps would begin once the vaccine was available. As many as 3.21 lakh doses of vaccine were provided to the residents through the vaccination camps organised exclusively by the local body. Those who missed the first jab should contact the councillors for getting the dose, said a communication issued by Mr. Anilkumar. The mass vaccination camps organised by the civic body in association with traders and the police turned out to be effective. The drive witnessed a large number of non-city residents too being provided the vaccine, the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/city-completes-first-jab-for-all-residents/article36642314.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,564 test positive in Ernakulam; TPR 15.3%||As many as 2,564 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. A total of 2,564 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 46 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 15.3%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 50 included Thrikkakara (79), Karukutty (72), Thripunithura (64), Chittatukara (61), Maneed (57), Keezhmad (54), Parakadavu (54), Udayamperoor (53), and Keerampara (51). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Edakkatuvayal, Kumbalanghi, Kottapadi, Chalikavattam, Thirumaradi, Perumpadapu, Ayampuzha, Kadamakudy, Karuvelipady, Pindimana, Ayappankavu, and Elamkulam, according to an official release. As many as 16,692 tests were conducted on Thursday, and 16,848 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2564-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-153/article36642315.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Oracle convicted in rape case||Sentencing a temple priest/oracle to life imprisonment for raping a girl, a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday wondered which God would accept the obeisance and offerings of such a priest or make him a medium. The Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice Ziyad Rahman, while partly allowing an appeal by Madhu, an oracle, against the Manjeri Special Court for the cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, observed that “in this case we have a pujari/komaram (priest/oracle in a temple) taking the abandoned woman and three children under his wing, only to repeatedly molest the elder girl child, that too in the presence of her siblings. We wonder which God would accept the obeisance and offerings of such a priest or make him a medium?" The court, however, acquitted the accused of charges under the POCSO Act on the ground that the age of the victim had not been proved. The court noted that as she was kept away from school, she did not have the age proof. However, the evidence had established that the victim was subjected to repeated rape by the accused. So, he was convicted to life imprisonment under Section 376 (1) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oracle-convicted-in-rape-case/article36642325.ece
24 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Forest dept. to settle dues||Various cases that are eligible for compensation under the Forest Department will be settled without delay, Minister A. K. Saseendran has said here. Presiding over a meeting of top officials and people’s representatives at the Kollam Collectorate, he said the oldest cases would be given priority. “The demand to raise the compensation amount for crop damage will be considered along with the proposal for a timely revision of funds for rehabilitating families from forest areas,” he said. The department would direct the Revenue Department to initiate proceedings related to the issue of title deeds in areas where joint inspections had been completed. Mr. Saseendran said necessary steps would be taken to control human-wildlife conflict in forest fringes. The services of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme workers would be used for digging trenches to prevent elephants from entering human habitations.  The Minister instructed forest officials to maintain a cordial relation with the public and pay special attention to solving their issues. MLAs P.S. Supal and C.R. Mahesh, District Collector Afsana Parveen, Kollam Chief Conservator of Forests Sanjay Kumar, Conservator of Forests Neetulakshmi, Additional District Magistrate N. Sajitha Begum, Punalur RDO B.Sasikumar, assistant collector Arun S. Nair and officials from the Forest and Revenue Departments attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forest-dept-to-settle-dues/article36642363.ece
24 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,593 more test positive in Kollam||Kollam reported 1,593 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,353 recoveries on Thursday. At present, the district has 25,151 persons under observation. While 5,602 completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 3,60,052 primary and 20,017 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 17.6%. 1,545 in Kottayam The number of new cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,545 people testing positive on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 1,531, including two health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. With 173 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Manjoor, which recorded 74 cases. As many as 1,667 recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the active cases to 7,028. Meanwhile, 51,854 remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 880 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 880 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 878 contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. With 56 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Vehoochira, which reported 48 cases. Meanwhile, the decease claimed ten more lives in the district. With 176 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 8,306 in the district. ( With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1593-more-test-positive-in-kollam/article36642367.ece
24 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Allergies, mistrust add to vaccine hesitancy||From food allergies and fear of injections (trypanophobia) to anxiety and medical mistrust, a range of factors have contributed to vaccine hesitancy in Kerala, say health officials. While some districts have crossed the 90% COVID-19 vaccination milestone, some others lag behind with a sizeable portion still reluctant to take the first jab. “When asked, most people said they were worried about possible side-effects such as blood clots while some others expressed their apprehensions about the efficiency of the vaccine. Those have missed out will be traced through various methods and we plan to vaccinate the entire eligible population within September 30,” said an official. Misinformation Health workers cite misinformation as one major reason since people with a range of minor allergies seem sceptical. “It’s safe for persons who are allergic to some food or drug, but we usually advise them to take the vaccine at some major hospital. We also came across some myths like vaccinated people developing issues like infertility and heart inflammation.” the official said. There is also a percentage who avoid the vaccine without any specific reason while some others consider it “unsafe” due to the quick development and approval stages. “There are people with a wait-and-see attitude. We will be reaching out to them through local bodies and residents’ associations. Awareness programmes are already progressing and we have been urging them to take the shot since around 85% of patients who died of COVID-19 were unvaccinated,” the official said. New strategy As part of a new strategy to ensure maximum coverage, the department will be getting in touch with people who test negative. The list of persons who test negative each day will be handed over to a special team. The team will contact them and encourage them to take the vaccine. “Even among teachers, nearly 25% was yet to take the first shot in some districts. We have launched vaccination camps exclusively for teachers, students and other staff members. Also, arrangements are in place for expectant mothers in all maternity clinics and hospital,” the official said. Varying degrees of trypanophobia is also a reason preventing a very small percentage of adults from getting the jab. Fear of needles “There are people who refuse to take injections and blood tests because of the fear for the needles and surprisingly many are adults. Usually counselling helps and in certain cases professionals can recommend some coping mechanism. But the point is people in this category require a lot more persuasion and reassurance,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allergies-fear-mistrust-add-to-vaccine-hesitancy/article36642358.ece
24 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Proposal to develop road gets nod||The Ministry of Road Transport & Highways has given permission to implement a comprehensive plan to develop the road from Titanium Junction to Bharnikkavu by including it in the National Highway 183A. At present, NH 183A is from Bharanikkavu to Vandiperiyar and the project is to integrate NH 183 with the National Highway 66. The width of the existing road is 7 m to 10 m and it will be developed with 17-metre width and upgraded as per NH standards. Modern road safety systems, ROB, and bridges will be part of the project. “The Ministry has instructed to discuss the draft plan with people’s representatives and the final decision regarding the width and allied elements will be taken after that,” N.K. Premachandran, MP, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposal-to-develop-road-gets-nod/article36642364.ece
24 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) Kerala has invited applications for hybrid electric vehicle programme. Students and graduates of polytechnic and engineering from Mechanical, Electrical, Automobile, and Electronics streams can apply. For details, visit asapkerala.gov.in or contact 9495999660.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article36642365.ece
24 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Minister to open organic farming programme||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani will inaugurate the Kudumbashree Mission’s ward-level organic farming programme on Friday. Mayor Prasanna Earnest will preside over the function and district panchayat president V.Sumalal will be the chief guest. Fifty families from each ward in various grama panchayats will be selected for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-open-organic-farming-programme/article36642368.ece
24 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man arrested for pouring acid on son||The Pala police here on Thursday arrested a 61-year-old man who allegedly poured acid on his 31-year-old son. The arrested was identified as Gopalakrishnan Chettiyar, a native of Anthinadu, near here. The victim, identified as Shinu, has been admitted to hospital with burns all over his body. He is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kottayam. Preliminary investigations attributed the crime to a raging rivalry between the duo, who used to pick up quarrels on most days. Following the acid attack, which took place on Wednesday evening, the accused went into hiding but soon landed in police custody. The accused would be produced before a magistrate, police officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-pouring-acid-on-son/article36642357.ece
24 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ganja seized, 3 arrested||The Kottayam East police arrested three youths with 8 kg ganja near the Kottayam railway station on Thursday. The arrested were identified as Badusha, 24, of Kottayam, Abhishek K. Manoj, 22, of Pathanamthitta, and P.R. Jerin, 22, of Kanjiram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-seized-3-arrested/article36642370.ece
24 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No headway in social media abuse probe, say complainants||The police are yet to track miscreants who recently created fake Instagram profiles of girl students from the rural areas of Kozhikode district and used the profiles to secure their WhatsApp numbers from their friends for circulating pornographic contents. Though the First Information Report (FIR) has been registered in some of the incidents, the complainants allege that the probe has not been intensified to track the suspects. They complain that the cyber cell is yet to take up the case for tracking the IP addresses of gadgets used for the crime. “When we called, an officer in-charge of the investigation said there would be some breakthrough soon in the case. However, we are not hopeful as the police are yet to start a serious investigation into the case,” said a relative of one of the complainants. Some of the complainants also pointed out that the delay in exposing miscreants behind such cases would give confidence to many cyber criminals. The parents of some of the complainants said they had no technical knowledge to deal with social media abuse and that they were trusting on the intervention of the police to crack the case. They said the cyber abuse gave a lot of mental stress to their children studying in high school and higher secondary schools in the district. Students came up with the complaints last week. Though four mobile phone numbers used for sending obscene contents to students were traced and submitted to the police, the source remained unknown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-headway-in-social-media-abuse-probe-say-complainants/article36642295.ece
24 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New-gen rickshaws run out of fuel||Those who purchased electric, CNG and LPG variants of autorickshaws expecting better field support from the government for zero emission are in deep crisis owing to shortage of electric charging and fuel filling stations. Nearly 150 electric autorickshaws and over 200 LPG/CNG variants are part of the ailing system. Despite proposals to set up 10 electric charging stations in the public sector to promote e-rickshaws, they are yet to be functional in the city. A charging station which was earlier set up with the support of the KSEB at Nallalam is open only to other electric vehicles. The situation is similar in rural areas too, where around 100 e-rickshaws are in operation. In the absence of charging stations in the public sector, e-rickshaw operators are incurring heavy losses as they are forced to depend on three private charging stations. “It is not possible to operate long-distance services with home-charged batteries. Moreover, private charging stations collect Rs. 350 per vehicle,” said an operator who recently purchased an e-rickshaw. He added that the vehicle could cover only 130 km on a single charging. LPG-powered autorickshaw operators in Kozhikode city are facing similar difficulty. There are just two LPG filling stations within the city limits, and operators are often forced to stop services owing to shortage of stock at the stations. Despite their demand to open more dispensing units, no favourable action has come distributors. Balasubrahmanyan, who owns CNG-powered autorickshaws, said just one filling station was available for as many as 150 autorickshaws in the city. “Besides, many other commercial and private vehicles depend on the station. We need at least four pumps in different locations to avoid rush,” he pointed out. Meanwhile, fuel dealers said efforts were on to set up more LPG/CNG distribution units in two years after getting clearance from the authorities. Within a few months, one more CNG dispensing unit will be ready near the Sarovaram bio park, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-gen-rickshaws-run-out-of-fuel/article36642294.ece
24 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||92% administered first dose of vaccine in Kozhikode||Even as the district confirmed 1,735 more fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, the latest figures on vaccination released by the Health Department showed successful coverage of the maximum number of people. The updated figures released on Thursday said 91.61 % of the total population had received their first jab. According to Health Department records, 22.26 lakh persons received their first shot. Till date, 8.95 lakh persons, including 1.73 lakh persons below the age of 45, received their second dose as well, accounting for 40% of the total population. The age-wise data said 9.90 lakh persons between the age of 18 and 45 received their first jab in Kozhikode district. In the case of those between 45 and 60, the figure was 6.17 lakh. According to officials, 320 lakh persons above 60 received their second dose. In the category between 45 and 60, it was 3.06 lakh. Health Department officials said the pandemic had so far claimed 2,557 lives in Kozhikode district. On Thursday, the test positivity rate stood at 15.17%. The total number of persons who were put under observation reached 56,466 with the inclusion of 4,054 more persons with the updated list on Thursday. Of the newly reported 11,735 cases, 1,704 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The sources remained unknown in the remaining cases. Over 11,500 persons were screened for the infection as part of the preventive measures in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/92-administered-first-dose-of-vaccine-in-kozhikode/article36642290.ece
24 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fire audit report on S.M. Street by police to be submitted in a week||Apart from the inspections conducted by the Fire and Rescue Services Department, the Special Branch wing of the city police is also carrying out a comprehensive fire audit on S.M. Street as part of the efforts to find out even micro-level safety violations in the area. The audit report, being prepared in the wake of the latest fire outbreak on the street, will be ready in a week. Assistant Commissioner (Special Branch) A. Umesh, who heads the auditing process, says the report will be submitted to District Police Chief (Kozhikode city) A.V. George. The main aim of the process is to make trades accountable for safety issues and address them without any delay, he adds. Based on the report, there will also be recommendations for legal action against traders if they are held responsible for violations. The whole street has been divided into different zones for carrying out the inspection and covering all the shops in a phased manner. After reviewing the study report, there are also plans to summon traders who have been found responsible for serious safety rule violations. The department is conducting the drive as part of converting the street into a safe zone for both traders and customers. “We will also contact departments concerned for corrective measures. It is a well-planned job to save the street from bigger fire outbreaks,” says Mr. Umesh. He also points out that there will be interventions on the part of the authorities to support the traders’ community. In the previous audits carried out by fire officials, serious violations had been found on the part of some traders who failed to install fire safety equipment in their shops. The conversion of fire safety area into an additional storage space for dumping stock has also been noticed in several places, which were later cleared following the warnings of checking squads. Leaders of trade unions and merchant organisations are also in support of the audit as it is meant to improve the fire safety measures on the street. Responding to the suggestions of the police, many traders, who were earlier hesitant to improve fire safety systems, have changed their mind and started fitting equipment in their shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-audit-report-on-sm-street-by-police-to-be-submitted-in-a-week/article36642292.ece
24 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. urged to ease norms for one-time aid for ryots||The State committee of the Kerala Karshaka Thozhilali Congress has appealed to the State government to clear the technical hurdles that prevented many eligible farmers from receiving the one-time financial assistance declared by the government through the Farmers Welfare Fund Board. Association leaders pointed out that the financial aid declared in the wake of the pandemic-induced crisis did not reach many eligible beneficiaries due to the technical issues related to their bank accounts, passbooks, lack of PAN cards and the absence of minimum balance in accounts. According to them, the minimum balance criteria alone troubled many. A Statement issued by the State committee here on Thursday said the farmers’ minimum balance in bank accounts should be reduced to Rs. 250 to help them easily claim the one-time assistance. All the bankers should be given instructions in this regard with immediate effect, the release said. The committee leaders also pointed out that the time earlier allotted for clearing the technical issues was not sufficient for the majority of the applicants. At least such persons should get two more months to clear the formalities, they demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-urged-to-ease-norms-for-one-time-aid-for-ryots/article36642282.ece
24 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Aster DM Healthcare service at Dubai expo||As a corporate partner of the India pavilion at Dubai Expo 2020, Aster DM Healthcare will provide healthcare services to global tourists and also operate a first aid medical booth to provide emergency medical care for six months. It will also present a grand showcase for a month during the Health & Wellness week starting in January 2022, a news release said here on Thursday. Beyond the India pavilion, a non-branded Aster pharmacy store is also being set-up at the expo retail centre and a branded store at the Expo Village. Medcare is setting up teleMEDCARE- a telehealth booth inside the non-branded Aster pharmacy store at the expo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aster-dm-healthcare-service-at-dubai-expo/article36642287.ece
24 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Nipah curbs in Pazhoor village lifted||The Kozhikode district administration has lifted the containment zone regulations imposed on Pazhoor, a village in Chathamangalam panchayat, where a 12-year-old boy died of Nipah on September 5. District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy said here on Thursday that the area was excluded from the containment zone list as all samples collected from the location tested negative apart from reporting no fresh suspected cases. At the same time, the Collector made it clear that the surveillance by the local self government department squads, the police and health department would continue. Crowding in public places would be disallowed. The residents in the area were asked not to travel outside the ward as far as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nipah-curbs-in-pazhoor-village-lifted/article36642291.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||2 permanent judges for HC||Two additional judges of the Kerala High Court were elevated as permanent judges on Thursday, the Law Ministry said. According to a notification that was issued by the Department of Justice, Justices Mudalikulam Raman Anitha and Karunakaran Nair Haripal, who are additional judges of the Kerala High Court, have been made judges of the same High Court with effect from the date they assume charge of their respective offices As of September 1, the Kerala High Court, with a sanctioned strength of 47, is working with 37 judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-permanent-judges-for-hc/article36642321.ece
24 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Police bust fake diesel racket in Palakkad||Police officers busted a racket involved in selling spurious diesel to private buses here on Thursday. A few bus workers were caught while filling the buses with the fake diesel at the stadium bus-stand. The police said the workers were filling the tanks of three buses that conduct services to the Perinthalmanna-Malappuram side. Stocked in cans The fake diesel was found stocked in the bus in cans. The workers reportedly told the police that it was one Faisal, a bus owner from Kondotty in Malappuram district, who had given them adulterated diesel at a cheaper rate. When the normal diesel cost Rs. 93 a litre, the fake diesel known by many names such as biodiesel, ship diesel, tsunami diesel, and corona diesel, was available for Rs. 50 a litre. The police said they would initiate further action after chemically examining the fake diesel. The police officers said that the fake diesel was collected from ships after their journey at a cheap rate, and sold by adding certain chemicals. It can burn much faster than the normal diesel, and therefore can cause major accidents if used in transport vehicles. The police intensified their investigation after complaints that buses running on the Kozhikode-Palakkad route were using fake diesel. The police said that the spurious diesel would cause serious environmental damage as the emission level was several times more than that of the normal diesel.  Buses running on the Kozhikode- Palakkad route are using fake diesel, collected from ships at a cheap rate and adding chemicals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-bust-fake-diesel-racket/article36642276.ece
24 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man gets 7-year RI for raping woman at marriage hall||The Additional Sessions Court at Ottappalam has sentenced a man for seven years of rigorous imprisonment for raping a woman during a marriage at a convention centre at Chalissery, near Ottappalam, eight years ago. Additional Sessions Court Judge P. Saidalavi on Thursday sentenced Hyderali, 38, for seven years in prison and slapped a fine of Rs. 50,000. Failure to pay the fine will invoke an additional three months in prison. The prosecution argued that Hyderali, an autorickshaw driver, had raped the 29-year-old woman in the dressing room of the marriage hall. He had threatened her by telling that he was in possession of her private photos and that he would post them on the Internet. The court found him guilty under Indian Penal Code Section 376 for rape and IPC Section 506 for criminal intimidation. The case was registered at the Pattambi police station in 2013. Additional public prosecutor K. Hari appeared for the victim.  Hyderali, an autorickshaw driver, raped a 29-year-old woman in the dressing room of the marriage hall||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-gets-7-year-ri-for-raping-woman/article36642274.ece
24 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Susheelamma laid to rest with State honours||The body of G. Susheelamma, the last of the freedom fighters from the legendary Vadakkath family, was cremated with State honours at her house at Anakkara in the district on Thursday afternoon. A close relative of freedom fighter Captain Lakshmi Sahgal and dancer Mrinalini Sarabhai, Susheelamma died on Wednesday evening aged 100. The funeral took place after the arrival of her daughter Nandita from Chennai. Police offered a gun salute to the body before taking it to the pyre. Funeral rites Nandita’s son Vasudevan lit the pyre along with his close relative Satyajit. People from different walks of life paid homage to Susheelamma, who had been the epitome of Gandhian principles for the residents of Anakkara and neighbouring regions. Ottapalam Subcollector Shikha Surendran laid a wreath on behalf of the State government. Block panchayat vice president P.R. Kunhunni laid a wreath on behalf of Assembly Speaker M.B. Rajesh. Former MLA V.T. Balram laid a wreath on behalf of Opposition Leader V.D. Satheesan. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, P. Mammikutty, MLA, District Congress President A. Thankappan, former district Congress president C.V. Balachandran, Thrithala block panchayat president V.P. Rajeena, Anakkara grama panchayat president K. Mohammed, and Kapoor grama panchayat president Sharafuddin Kalathil attended the funeral.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/susheelamma-consigned-to-flames/article36642275.ece
24 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||4.9 kg of gold seized from two people||The Railway Protection Force and the Customs preventive unit seized 4.9 kg of gold from Sabari Express coming from Hyderabad on Thursday. The seizure was made after a tip-off. Two men, Uttam Gore, 32; and Menas Jana, 31; from Mumbai were arrested for carrying the contraband. The gold was found hidden in the clothes. The seized gold is expected to fetch Rs. 2.16 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/49-kg-of-gold-seized-from-two-people/article36642277.ece
24 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||SHRC takes up cause of nomadic tribe||Taking note of the plight of the Malampandarams, a nomadic community living in the Sabarimala forests, the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) will convene a meeting of various government departments in Pathanamthitta next month. The decision follows a visit to the tribal settlements on Thursday by SHRC member V.K. Beena Kumari.  Major issues During the visit, the member took note of the different issues faced by the tribal community, including lack of access to COVID-19 vaccine and non-availability of ration cards. As per estimates, about 97 of the 240 Malampandaram families live inside the deep forests of Ranni and Konni. They are leading a miserable life due to lack of access to basic necessities. During the visit, the commission member also interacted with the tribal community members and directed the Perunad police to probe the alleged assault of Ajayan, a tribal youth, by assailants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-takes-up-cause-of-nomadic-tribe/article36642369.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vizhinjam project gets new deadline||The first phase of the multi-crore Vizhinjam international seaport project will be completed and commissioned in 2023, the Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil said on Thursday after holding talks with officials of the Adani Vizhinjam Port Pvt. Ltd. (AVPPL). The Minister came out with a new deadline even as the Ahmedabad-based Adani Group sought a five-year extension (till 2024) for completing the Rs. 7,525-crore port project which had overshot the original December 3, 2019, target date. Earlier requests by the AVPPL for extensions citing force majeure situations had been declined by the government. Subsequently, arbitration proceedings commenced earlier this year and the AVPPL had placed its claims before the three-member tribunal. Weekly review While natural calamities and the COVID-19 outbreak had delayed work, the situation has now improved, Mr. Devarkovil observed after meeting senior AVPPL officials at Vizhinjam. The State government is placing emphasis on exploiting this opportunity and speeding up the work, he said. The government also intends to constitute a monitoring committee to carry out a weekly review of the progress of work, the Minister said. Granite shortage The port was scheduled to commence operations on December 3, 2019, as per the concession agreement inked in August 2015. A nine-month ‘cure period’ (grace period) also has expired. Work on the 3.1-km breakwater, a major component of the project, has been dragging following an acute shortage of granite. Approximately 850 metres of the structure has been completed. Cyclones Ockhi and Tauktae and the COVID-19 outbreak also had contributed to the delays. In August and September this year, Kerala had sought the help of the Tamil Nadu government for procuring granite for the project. An official of AVPPL said that if work on the breakwater progresses smoothly in the months ahead, the first ship can be brought to Vizhinjam by the end of 2023. However, full-fledged operations, which includes other components listed in the concession agreement including rail and road connectivity, would take more time, the official said. MD of VISL The State government has appointed IAS officer K. Gopalakrishnan as managing director of Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd. (VISL), the government company which oversees the project. The VISL will open its office at Vizhinjam this week, the Ports Minister said.  Adani Group had sought a five-year extension — till 2024 — for completing the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vizhinjam-project-gets-new-deadline/article36642322.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||It’s hard lessons for Plus One admissions||Rasheeda P.V. never had to worry about her daughter’s education. Today, though, she wonders which school her daughter will end up in for the Plus One higher secondary course. The student from Kozhikode who wants to pursue Science has failed to receive allotment in the first list despite securing A+ in all subjects. She had applied to 11 schools. If the second allotment also draws a blank, says Rasheeda, she will have to send her daughter to an unaided school. Uncertain future With only 2,18,418 students of the 4,65,219 applicants getting allotment in the first round under the single window system, nearly 2.46 lakh students are staring at an uncertain future. At a prominent school in Thiruvananthapuram, 485 students have secured full A+. With competition this tight, there is a mad scramble for community and management quota seats, with nearly 1,000 applications for management quota against 140 seats. The allotment is riddled with anomalies, teachers say. Students no longer have the option of shifting to a school of their choice if there are seats vacant after the first two allotments. Instead, school transfers are now allowed after supplementary allotment. So a student who has taken admission to a school that was not in their first few options may remain stuck there, while a student who had not received allotment may still get a chance in the school of their choice in the wake of the supplementary allotment. School teachers say the fact that one in three students who passed SSLC has full A+ has complicated matters. Besides the maximum grade points, students studying in the State stream get three bonus points. If taking admission in the same school, a student gets two points, if it is the same panchayat or municipal body, two points, and if the same taluk, one point. A student applying to a school in a local body other than the one they studied in loses two bonus points. If they change both the school and the panchayat, they lose four points. Students in the NCC, Student Police Cadet (SPC), Scouts and Guides (winners of Rashtrapati or Rajya Puraskars) and those who know swimming also get two points. However, most students and parents do not know of these aspects. Teacher says how all four are clubbed together is unfathomable. While some students slog it out in the SPC, NCC or Scouts and Guides, others get the two points for swimming the easy way without proper scrutiny. In a tie A student who gets the Scouts and Guides Rashtrapati or Rajya Puraskar does not get any additional benefit from the swimming certificate submitted, since both carry the same points. However, in a tie, a student who submits the swimming certificate and who has participated in Scouts without getting the award will still hold the advantage because of the Scouts participation certificate. Such anomalies in the grading system will have serious consequences this year, say the teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-hard-lessons-for-plus-one-admissions/article36642332.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online booking likely for weekend entry to Ponmudi||The Forest Department is set to launch an online booking system for weekend visitors to Ponmudi. The move comes amid an influx of visitors to the ecotourism destination since its recent reopening following the COVID-19 lockdown. Crowd management has lately become a daunting task for the local police which have also struggled to ensure motorists’ safety at the 22 hairpin curves along the Vithura-Ponmudi road amid the inclement weather. The route has been witnessing a spate of accidents particularly during the weekends. The online ticketing system to regulate tourist arrival was mooted by the police under such circumstances. However, the modalities of the proposed system are yet to be finalised. The options being mulled include a mechanism on the lines of the Sabarimala virtual queue system that reserves slots. While the ticketing system will be primarily meant for weekend visits, it could be extended to weekdays too during the peak tourist season. The system could also fix a limit of three hours for visits to the upper sanatorium. Besides, the number of vehicles would be restricted to around 250 four-wheelers and an equal number of two-wheelers. As part of efforts to reduce traffic snarls, an additional ticket counter has come up for visitors en route to Ponmudi. Nedumangad Additional Superintendent of Police Raj Prasad said a counter had been established at the Anappara forest check-post. This is in addition to the existing facility at the Golden Valley check-post in Kallar. Ponmudi, Kallar closed The Ponmudi and Kallar ecotourism centres were closed on Thursday, a day after Kallar ward in Vithura grama panchayat was declared a containment zone in view of the rising number of COVID-19 infections. Although Ponmudi falls under the Peringamala grama panchayat, the road leading to the hill station passes through Vithura. Besides, several employees at the hill station hail from Kallar. While Ponmudi will remain closed for a few days, alternative measures are being planned to resume entry next week, official sources said.  System may be extended to weekdays too later A limit of three hours could be fixed for visits to upper sanatorium||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-booking-likely-for-ponmudi-entry/article36642306.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Satheesan asks KC(M) to make stance clear on ‘narcotic jihad’||The ‘narcotic jihad’ controversy continued to ripple through Kerala politics and made its reverberations felt across the polity again on Thursday. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the onus was on Jose. K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M), a recent Left Democratic Front partner, to clarify whether he agreed with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's stance on narcotic jihad. Mr. Satheesan's challenge came a day after Mr. Vijayan slammed Pala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt for raising the spectre of a "non-existent" radical Islamist plot to corrupt the youth by plying them with narcotic drugs.  Speaking to reporters at the fag-end of a day-long UDF conclave here, Mr. Satheesan said the UDF had held multiple-level discussions with Muslim and Christian community leaders to ease social tensions and rebuild trust. It took Mr. Vijayan 14 days to respond to the issue despite its immense social ramification. The government repeatedly stonewalled the Opposition's demand for an all-party meeting. It had played second fiddle to the Sangh Parivar's divisive agenda, Mr. Satheesan said. LDF stance An almost simultaneous meeting of the LDF in the capital reportedly sidestepped the jihad controversy. Two coalition partners, the P.J. Joseph-led Kerala Congress the and Indian National League, had struck diametrically opposite positions on the issue. Mr. Joseph had skirted criticising the bishop. Instead, he demanded an inquiry into the concerns raised by the prelate. In contrast, the INL required the metropolitan to withdraw the "hurtful" observation. Briefing mediapersons later, LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said that the Chief Minister had articulated the government's stance on the issue. The BJP had earlier accused both the UDF and the LDF of kowtowing to Islamists for their vote bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/satheesan-challenges-jose-k-mani-over-narcotic-jihad/article36641876.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SilverLine will tear State: UDF||A UDF meeting on Thursday opened a new battlefront against the LDF government by resolving to muster popular resistance against the K-Rail project. At a press conference here, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan and UDF convener M.M. Hassan doubted the economic and environmental viability of the government's flagship semi-high-speed railway project. Quoting from the M.K. Muneer subcommittee report on K-Rail, Mr. Satheesan said SilverLine would tear the State asunder geographically. A 557-km line protected on either side by 4 m to 10 m walls would bifurcate the State and it would impede the natural flow of water and act as a dam in the event of a flood or mud slip. The project required the acquisition of 1,500 hectares and displacement of 20,000 families, 50,000 shops and 153 hectares of farmland. The Centre had sanctioned a standalone elevated high-speed railway system. However, K-Rail hugged the terrain and required the construction of more than 1,000 overpass and underpasses.  Mr. Hassan said the UDF would treat all constituents alike and bolster the coalition at the booth, block and mandala levels. He said organisational weakness had contributed to the UDF's defeat in the 2021 Assembly elections. Moreover, the public health emergency caused by the pandemic helped the LDF surmount the anti-incumbency factor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/silverline-will-tear-state-udf/article36642330.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vital transport reforms pending: expert||National Road Safety Council member Kamal Soi has criticised the State government for failing to enforce high-security registration plates (HSRP) for old vehicles and introduce smart cards for driving licences and registration certificates issued in Kerala. Accusing the government of violating Central Motor Vehicles Rules and the notifications issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), Dr. Soi said on Thursday that Kerala was the only State not to implement the reform thus far. While all motor vehicles manufactured after April 1, 2019, have been equipped with the tamper-proof HSRPs, the government has not taken any initiative to implement the directive for older vehicles. 90% of vehicles The road safety expert who visited Transport Minister Antony Raju a day ago pointed out that roughly 90% of the 1.52 crore registered vehicles in Kerala were manufactured prior to April 1, 2019. He said the plates comprised a hot-stamped hologram and a unique identification number that could not be counterfeited. “Such security features enable easy identification of vehicles in case of accidents. Considering the high prevalence of vehicle-borne crimes, such aspects assume great relevance. The details of the owners can be obtained even if the vehicles are burnt,” he said. Kerala had not been able to roll out the microprocessor chip-embedded smart cards for driving licences and registration certificates for vehicles. Such cards also contain security features to prevent duplication, fraud, and misuse. Having been configured in MoRTH’s centralised Vahan 4.0 portal, these cards also enable e-challan management and transparency in the activities of the Transport Department, Dr. Soi said. Despite awarding the contract to public-sector undertaking ITI Ltd., the State government is yet to provide the technical specifications for issuing the smart cards. Dr. Soi said he would move the court if implementation of the reforms dragged on in the State.  Kerala only State not to introduce tamper-proof registration plates, smart cards for driving licences. Kamal Soi National Road Safety Council member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vital-transport-reforms-pending-expert/article36642523.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Batches, bio-bubbles under consideration||The General Education and the Health departments are mulling whether to have classes till noon for school students and continue with online sessions in the afternoon or have full-day sessions for three days for one batch and then get the next batch in for the following three days once schools reopen on November 1. The proposals were put forward at a high-level meeting of officials of both departments, led by Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty and Minister for Health Veena George, to finalise the modalities for the reopening of schools. Introduction of bio-bubbles is also being considered. The Ministers told mediapersons that the meeting discussed a range of issues and had entrusted the Principal Secretaries of both the departments and the Director of General Education to prepare a comprehensive report at the earliest. The minutest detail, from the time children leave home for school and return, will be scrutinised to make the arrangements. The meeting discussed aspects such as renovation of school structures, cleaning of toilets, how many students to seat on a bench, sanitising and masking, arrangements for school buses, how to reserve seats for children on public transport, if mid-day meals can be activated or if food allowance can be provided. Draft guidelines After detailed discussions between the Principal Secretaries, talks will be held with other stakeholders such as Local Self-Government, the Public Works and the Transport departments. The draft guidelines will then be circulated among the departments before finalising the guidelines. The guidelines will be prepared after seeking field-level recommendations, the Ministers said. Meetings will be held with teachers’ organisations, political parties, youth organisations, local body officials and Collectors. School-level meetings will also be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/batches-bio-bubbles-under-consideration/article36642333.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Portal to guide students on career||A career guidance portal for students of classes IX to XII has been rolled out by the Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell of the higher secondary wing under the General Education Department. The portal will benefit nearly 14 lakh students in the State. Details of employment sectors around the world, college directory, and examinations and scholarships will be available on the portal for public school students in the State. More than 500 job sectors are included on the portal. These have been divided into professional and vocational categories. The career pathway of each job has been specified. More than 21,000 institutions in the State and country have been included in the college directory. Details of 25,000 courses too are provided. Seven institutions abroad and their courses can also be referred to on the portal. Notifications for entrance examinations to institutions and courses in the State and nationally, eligibility criteria, seats, fee and so on and nearly 1,000 scholarships, national and international, that students can receive are available on the portal. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty inaugurated the portal launched with the support of Unicef.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/portal-to-guide-students-on-career/article36642521.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Nokkukooli’ row: two union members held||The Pothencode police arrested two trade union activities for reportedly manhandling a few construction workers for denying ‘nokkukooli’ on Thursday. The accused were identified as Thulaseedharan Nair and Venugopalan Nair of Neduveli near Pothencode. While both the arrested are affiliated to the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), the police said workers belonging to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) were also involved in the incident. Rs. 10,000 demanded The incident occurred in Kaduvakkuzhy around 9 a.m. when the group disrupted the construction of a house. Claiming that the complainant, Manikantan, a mason who led the construction, had unloaded certain equipment and construction materials a day ago without hiring them, the union activists demanded Rs. 10,000. Captured on cellphones While the construction workers refused to pay the ‘nokkukooli’, the union activists purportedly assaulted them and a few workers recorded the incident on their mobile phones. A case has been registered under provisions of the Kerala Loading and Unloading (Regulation of Wages and Restriction of Unlawful Practices), Act. Efforts were on to nab the others involved in the attack, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nokkukooli-row-two-union-members-held/article36642529.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 19,682 cases||Kerala reported 19,682 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 1,21,945 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool is dropping at a fast pace, and on Thursday, it had 1,60,046 patients, with 20,510 patients reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. The Health Department states that only 13% of the active cases are hospitalised. 152 deaths The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 24,191, with the State adding 152 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Thursday. Current ICU occupancy remains more or less steady for the past few days. The figure on Thursday stood at 2,102. The number of patients requiring ventilator support has dropped to 900. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 1,689, while the total number of COVID hospitalisations across the State have been declining steadily. Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 3,033, followed by Ernakulam 2,564, Kozhikode 1,735, Thiruvananthapuram 1,734, Kollam 1,593, Kottayam 1,632, Malappuram 1,401, Palakkad 1,378, Alappuzha 1,254, Kannur 924, Pathanamthitta 880, Idukki 734, Wayanad 631 and Kasaragod 276 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-19682-cases/article36642328.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for throwing rock at well-digger||The Parassala police arrested one person for allegedly attempting to murder a well-digger by hurling a large rock on him near Dhanuvachapuram on Thursday. The accused, Binu, 51, of Dhanuvachapuram Park Junction, allegedly threw the heavy rock at Shine Kumar, alias Sabu, 43, of Udiyankulangara while Shine was digging a well at Binu’s house. While both have been friends for long and used to often work together, their relationship had soured lately following an argument over the well being dug at Binu’s house. An altercation had occurred on Wednesday over Shine’s demand for wages for the work, eyewitnesses told the police. The animosity is suspected to have spurred the attack on Thursday. Weighing over 10 kg The rock, which weighed well over 10 kg, fell on Shine’s shoulder. A co-worker Bhuvachandran was also in the well at the time of the incident. After being rescued by a Fire and Rescue Services team, Shine was admitted to the Neyyattinkara Taluk Hospital. Binu, who fled the scene after the incident, was soon caught by the Parassala police. He has been booked on attempt-to-murder charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-throwing-rock-at-well-digger/article36642530.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probe into bike racing, accident in Neyyar Dam||The Neyyar Dam police on Thursday commenced investigation into the alleged instance of motorbike racing and a subsequent accident that left a youth with a partially severed leg few days ago. The alleged incident had taken place near the Neyyar reservoir on Sunday. The injured youth, identified as 26-year-old Unnikrishnan of Vattiyurkavu, and five of his friends were apparently doing stunt riding in the area. The visuals of the incident recorded by one of them went viral on the social media on Thursday. The clip showed the gang doing dangerous stunts even as other motorists passed by the narrow road. As Unnikrishnan continued to block the passage, another motorcycle, ridden in considerable speed, knocked his vehicle down. The youth, who suffered a fracture in his leg, was thrashed by the irate rider and his companion. Unnikrishnan was hospitalised and treated for the leg injury. Complaints abound The incident occurred against the backdrop of local residents raising complaints of speeding and stunt riding in the area. While the police received a complaint from Unnikrishnan’s relatives, a case will be registered after recording his statement, according to officials.  A video clip showed a gang doing dangerous stunts on a narrow road Another motorbike knocked the youth’s vehicle down, and the rider thrashed him||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-bike-racing-accident-in-neyyar-dam/article36642533.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Attack on health workers: CM promises stern action||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government will take stern action against attack on health workers. Speaking after inaugurating four projects in the health sector on Thursday, he said attacks on COVID warriors would be viewed as an assault on society at large. He said the four projects worth Rs. 37.61 crore would supplement the development works in various health institutions from sub-centres to medical college hospitals. The new projects included a 100-bed ICU facility with ventilators for COVID patients at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital, a new building for the Pica community health centre and drug testing laboratory at Konni. Mr. Vijayan also inaugurated a 1,000-day children’s health programme. Presiding over the inaugural function, Health Minister Veena George said Kerala could overcome the multiple challenges posed by the COVID-19 situation and the outbreak of Zika and Nipah virus only because of the strong health infrastructure, people’s participation, collaborative work, and scientific approach to the crisis. Ministers V. Sivankutty, P.A. Mohamed Riyas, and officials from various departments participated.  Attacks on COVID warriors will be viewed as an assault on society at large, says CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-health-workers-cm-promises-stern-action/article36642273.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minister hints at seat hike in unaided schools||A hike in the number of Plus One seats in unaided higher secondary schools under the General Education Department is under consideration, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. He said here on Thursday that a hike of 20% would make available necessary seats for students seeking Plus One admission. However, the situation would be reviewed after the main allotment. Admissions as per the first allotment will be held on September 25 and 29 and October 1. The second allotment is on October 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-hints-at-seat-hike-in-unaided-schools/article36642334.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘First 1,000 days’ project extended to all districts||The government aims at eliminating child mortality in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating online on Thursday the expansion of the ‘First 1,000 days’ project, piloted by the Women and Child Development Department, to all districts. From 10 to 7 In 2016, the child mortality rate in the State was 10. The United Nation’s goal was to bring it down to eight. However, the State managed to reduce it to seven. This was a huge achievement. However, more could be achieved on this score. The ‘First 1,000 days’ project was piloted in 11 Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) projects. This is now being expanded to 28 projects. Under the project, medical camps are held once in three months with the support of local bodies. Pregnant women and lactating mothers identified are provided nutritious food through anganwadis. This will help prevent child morality, the Chief Minister said. ‘Healthy cities’ Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George, who presided over the function, said efforts were on to fix criteria for making health institutions women-and-child-friendly. The goal was to realise healthy cities and healthy villages with the support of local bodies, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-1000-days-project-extended-to-all-districts/article36642522.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,734 cases in district||Thiruvananthapuram district recorded 1,734 COVID-19 cases and 1,455 recoveries on Thursday as the active caseload rose to 1,61,63. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 15.4%.  New containment zones were declared in Vadakkode ward of Neyyattinkara municipality, Koppam ward of Nedumangad municipality and Kallar ward of Vithura grama panchayat. The containment zone at Puthenkode ward of Manamboor grama panchayat and the micro-containment zones in Kulathoor and Pallithura wards of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and Kamukinkode ward of Athiyannoor grama panchayat have been lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1734-cases-in-district/article36642528.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Goyal Prize for Ajayaghosh||A. Ajayaghosh, Director, CSIR – National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (CSIR-NIIST), has been awarded the prestigious Goyal Prize for 2020 in chemical science. The award, instituted by Kurukshetra University, is given to an outstanding scientist for overall research contributions. The prize consists of a medal citation and a cash award of Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/goyal-prize-for-ajayaghosh/article36642526.ece
24 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fellowship in memory of Anil Radhakrishnan||The Kesari Memorial Journalists Trust has invited submissions for the Anil Radhakrishnan Development Journalism Fellowship instituted in memory of S. Anil Radhakrishnan, former Chief of Bureau, The Hindu , Thiruvananthapuram. Launched in collaboration with the family of the late journalist, the fellowship comprises an amount of Rs. 50,000 and is meant for investigative studies in the fields of tourism, transportation, finance and infrastructural development of Kerala. Each year one person will be awarded the fellowship and publish a book of high academic quality in the selected field in Malayalam on English. Entries must be submitted tokuwjtvm@gmail.com. The deadline for submission is October 18. Anil Radhakrishnan’s wife S.S. Sindhu and office-bearers of the trust said the book would be formally released on June 23 on the occasion of his remembrance day. Further details can be obtained from http://kmjt.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fellowship-in-memory-of-anil-radhakrishnan/article36642371.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Promising start faces hurdles from the script||If making the protagonist relatable is something that could add to a movie connecting effectively with its audience, Sunny has something very relatable to start with, in this pandemic period. The quarantine experience, forced by COVID-19, is something that many will find it easy to connect with. Sunny (Jayasurya) has just landed back in Kerala from a stint in the Middle East, and checks in at a high-end hotel to spend his mandatory quarantine period. But that’s where the part of being relatable ends, for Sunny is someone who is saddled with a truckload of problems, much more than that an average human being would face. Everything that can go wrong has gone wrong in the life of this down and out businessman, who is also a part-time musician. He is facing a huge debt after a friend deceived him, his marriage is on the rocks, and he is struggling with a drinking problem that could threaten his life. Element of mystery In his eighth collaboration with Jayasurya, director Ranjith Sankar draws on the pandemic experiences to tell the story of a man, for whom the virus is the least of his concerns. An element of mystery shrouds Sunny in the beginning, when he is shown to burn his passport as soon as he lands. We slowly begin putting the pieces together from the phone calls he makes, and from his conversations with a woman staying on the floor above him, whose face is only partially shown. Sunny is the only major character to make an appearance on screen, with the rest of them making their presence felt through the voices of some known actors. In his initial days inside the hotel, one gets a sense that the character of Sunny is a continuation of Jayasurya’s previous outing as the drunkard Murali in Vellam , except for his economic status. He is hallucinating and falling apart, with the isolation adding to the problem. But with the extent of his problems slowly getting revealed, we also visualise the director setting it all up for a motivational movie in these rather bleak times. Though Jayasurya somehow manages to keep the interest alive, acting out Sunny’s sudden ups and downs, the script, which has an easy going manner about it, really does not do the same. It seems to be tailored to magically solve all his problems in the same way it piled on all these issues on a single person at the same point in his life. But, the conflicts or the resolution never manage to build any anticipation to pull in the viewer, who can watch it all with a sense of detachment. Despite the soaring background score at key points, the script is such that the film itself never soars above the average territory. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/promising-start-faces-hurdles-from-the-script/article36642279.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Skilled sailors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/skilled-sailors/article36642309.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gearing up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gearing-up/article36642272.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article36642286.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Start of splendour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/start-of-splendour/article36642445.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Farmers’ company||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-company/article36642525.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Prop for marine life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prop-for-marine-life/article36642537.ece
24 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Crime Branch probing possible kidney racket||The Crime Branch (CB) has launched a preliminary investigation following reports that scores of people in the coastal areas of Ambalappuzha in Alappuzha district had sold their kidneys through intermediaries in recent years. Officials said here on Thursday that at least 24 people, including women, from poor economic backgrounds in two wards of Ambalappuzha South grama panchayat had “donated” their kidneys for money. The CB has not yet registered a case. "We have not yet received any complaints. The preliminary probe is being conducted based on media reports," said a Crime Branch official. Role of intermediaries Officials said the investigation was primarily focused on the involvement of intermediaries. "The donors have given their kidneys voluntarily. But they have received sizeable sums of money. The probe is looking at whether the middlemen have lured them into selling their kidneys by exploiting their financial struggles. It is to be ascertained whether the intermediaries have benefited financially from the deals. If that is the case, an FIR will be registered and the matter will be pursued," the official said, adding that the lack of complaints may impede the investigation. Officials said more people were willing to sell their kidneys for financial incentives. "After media reports started to emerge, we have been receiving calls from different parts of the region. In one, a woman, a divorcee, said that she recently backed out of a deal that she had struck with a middleman in Kozhikode to sell a kidney due to a lack of agreement over the amount. The woman, who has undergone medical examinations ahead of undergoing donor nephrectomy at a hospital in Ernakulam, was initially promised Rs. 15 lakh by the intermediary. However, the middleman later reduced the amount to Rs. 10 lakh, which she did not accept," said a CB official part of the investigation. The expenses for her medical tests and travel were borne by the intermediary, he added. Officials said similar cases were reported from Thrissur and some parts of the Malabar region, with the State Crime Branch already looking into the involvement of an organ transplant racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-crime-branch-probing-possible-kidney-racket/article36641869.ece
24 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contractor stops mid-day meals as his panel not elected||The students of Pedda Jalapuram Mandal Praja Parishad School had to go without food on Thursday as their parents elected some members of their choice to the School Management Committee and not of the midday meal contractor M. Nagaraju. School Management Committee Chairman M. Amarnath members Anil, M. Subba Reddy and M. Srinivasulu Reddy in a written complaint to the Mandal Education Officer of Singanamala made this allegation and demanded action against the midday meal contractor. At many places in the district, there were verbal clashes between rival groups with political allegiance to different parties during the elections on Wednesday, but many parents were in shock to witness politicisation of the elections to the school management committees also and hoped that these panels would be kept away from politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contractor-stops-mid-day-meals-as-his-panel-not-elected/article36641928.ece
24 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SKU incubation centre wins Rs. 5-cr. grant||Some select startups operating from the Atal Incubation Centre of the Sri Krishnadevaraya University Confederation (AIC-SKU Confederation) will now be eligible for a financial assistance of up to Rs. 20 lakh as the SKU-AIC has been selected under the Startup India Seed Fund Scheme of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The AIC-SKU is the first Incubator in Andhra Pradesh to get a fund of Rs. 5 crore. Under this scheme, the AIC-SKU Confederation can support innovative startups, turning them around as successful business ventures. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has launched the Start-up India Seed Fund Scheme (SISFS) with an outlay of Rs. 945 crore to provide financial assistance to startups for the proof of concept, prototype development, product trials, market entry, and commercialisation. “The fund will support an estimated 3,600 entrepreneurs through 300 incubators in the next four years. Easy availability of capital is essential for entrepreneurs . Funding from angel investors and venture capital firms becomes available to startups only after the proof of concept is provided. Similarly, banks provide loans only to asset-backed applicants,” said AIC-SKU Director Konduru Nagabhushan Raju.  Referring the eligibility criteria, he said a startup, recognised by the DPIIT, should have been incorporated for no more than two years and must have a business idea to develop a product or a service with a market fit, viable commercialisation, and scope of scaling. Preference would be given to startups offering innovative solutions in sectors such as waste management, water management, financial inclusion, education, agriculture, food processing, biotechnology, healthcare, energy, defence, space, railways, and etc. The startup should not have got more than Rs. 10 lakh under any other Central or State scheme. Shareholding by Indian promoters in the startup should be at least 51%, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sku-incubation-centre-to-get-rs-5-cr-startup-india-seed-fund/article36642419.ece
24 September 2021||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dissidence in YSRCP out ahead of swearing-in of MPP presidents||Dissidence in the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) in Kurnool and Anantapur districts has come out in the open as a few party leaders aspiring to be Mandal Praja Parishad (MPP) presidents either protested or threatened to quit the party altogether on Thursday, a day before the swearing-in for the posts. Kummarivandlapalli MPTC member-elect Battala Ramalakshmamma on Thursday told the media that she had quit the YSRCP in protest against her not being given the MPP president post. She claimed that Kadiri MLA P.V. Sidda Reddy had promised her the post prior to the elections. “Mr. Sidda Reddy had made me contest the elections by promising the MPP chief post and I won with a handsome margin. Now, the MLA is trying to give the post to someone from his community,” she told the media. However, she promised to abide by the decision of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy after YSRCP senior leaders got in touch with her. Meanwhile, in Gudur Mandal of Kurnool district, K. Nagulapuram MPTC member-elect L. Narasimha Reddy staged a dharna, accusing Kodumur MLA Sudhakar Babu of denying him the Gudur MPP president post. Mr. Narasimha Reddy, along with his supporters, demanded that the YSRCP district in-charge Minister P. Anil Kumar must intervene and ensure justice. Toss of coin At Chilamattur Mandal Praja Parishad, MLC Shaik Mohammed Iqbal brokered peace and chose three MPTC members-elect to be to the MPP presidents by turns. Purushottam Reddy got the first chance after a toss of coin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dissidence-in-ysrcp-out-ahead-of-swearing-in-of-mpp-presidents/article36642436.ece
24 September 2021||ANANTAPUR/Kurnool,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zilla Parishad chiefs chosen||The YSRCP candidate, Boya Girijamma, who won the election in Atmakur Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency (ZPTC) has been chosen as the Zilla Praja Parishad Chairperson of Anantapur district. There will be two Vice-Chairpersons — Nagaratna from the Narpala ZPTC (SC) and Sudhakar Reddy, a ZPTC member-elect from Dharmavaram Rural mandal. These names were finalised on Thursday and they will be formally elected at a special meeting of the Zilla Parishad scheduled for Saturday.  Meanwhile, Sanjamala Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency (ZPTC) member-elect Malikireddy Venkata Subba Reddy will be the next Chairperson the Kurnool Zilla Parishad. Mr. Subba Reddy, former vice-sarpanch and single window chairperson, was given the ‘B’ Form amid hectic political lobbying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zilla-parishad-chiefs-chosen/article36642416.ece
24 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed, four injured in Bengaluru explosion||A loud blast followed by a fire ripped through the congested bylanes of New Tharagupet in Chamarajpet here left two persons dead and four injured on Thursday. The blast occurred at a transit godown of a transport firm due to suspected mishandling of a consignment of firecrackers stored there. The impact of the blast was so intense that Manohar, 28, hailing from Tamil Nadu, a driver at the firm who was reportedly loading the consignment into the vehicle, and Aslam Pasha, 45, who runs a puncture shop next door were flung onto the street. Their bodies were found several metres away from the accident site. Harish Pandey, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) said preliminary investigations indicated that the blast and subsequent fire were triggered by the mishandling of crackers. “There was a large consignment of 80 carton boxes of crackers -- sky shot rockets --- each box probably containing 15-20 kg of explosives. While transporting them, one box seems to have fallen down triggering the blast after two cartons caught fire. Manohar seems to have borne the brunt of the blast,” he said, adding that a forensic analysis was also conducted. “We are waiting for the report.” Two neighbouring shops and nearly eight two-wheelers as well as a goods vehicle parked in front of the godown were severely damaged. Four persons in the area sustained injuries. According to police sources, one of the injured survivors, Anjiswamy, is critical. “He suffered over 60% burns. Two others, identified as Ganapathi and James sustained 15% and 28% burns respectively, while the fourth person, Manjunath, was discharged after treatment,” said the sources. The incident occurred barely two days after a fire broke out at a flat in an apartment complex in Devarachikkanahalli, killing a woman and her elderly mother on September 21. While investigators are yet to determine the cause of the fire in the flat, they haven traced Thursday’s blast to crackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-four-injured-in-bengaluru-explosion/article36641877.ece
24 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 Maoists from Charla lay down arms||The CPI (Maoist)’s Charla Area Committee suffered yet another setback with as many as its 14 “militia members” from five forest fringe villages of Charla mandal surrendering before the police on Thursday. This comes barely a fortnight after the en masse surrender of 52 Maoist militia/village committee members from four interior tribal villages of the border mandal at Charla police station earlier this month. A total of 14 Maoist militia members, including three minors, from Yerrampadu, Rallapuram, Ramachandrapuram, Kistarampadu and Korakatpadu gave themselves up before Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt in Kothagudem on Thursday. At a press conference held in his chambers on Thursday afternoon, the SP said the 14 militia members of the outlawed outfit from five remote villages were vexed with the “constant harassment” by the Maoist leaders to attend their meetings and send “ration”. “Having fed up with the Maoist ideology, they have surrendered en masse by shunning the path of violence to lead a peaceful life,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/14-maoists-lay-down-arms/article36642266.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||College girl stabbed to death||A college girl, M. Swetha, was stabbed to death by a youth near the Tambaram railway station on Thursday afternoon. The assailant, G. Ramachandran, 25, attempted to harm himself with the same weapon, a kitchen knife, but was overpowered by members of the public and handed over to the police. He told the police that he had a strained relationship with the 20-year-old student. A police officer said Swetha, doing a diploma in medical laboratory technology at Madras Christian College, was walking towards the railway station to go home in Chromepet, when Ramachandran accosted her. He wanted to speak to her near the railway quarters. The police officer said that during the initial interrogation, Ramachandran, working at a private company at Maraimalai Nagar, told them that he and Swetha had become friends while travelling in the suburban train. But a few weeks ago, the girl stopped meeting him and did not respond to his phone calls, stating she wanted to end the relationship. On Thursday, when both were having a verbal spat, he suddenly took out the knife from his bag and stabbed her multiple times. On hearing her cries, the locals rushed to her rescue. In the meantime, the accused attempted to die by suicide. Even before the people could take Swetha to a nearby hospital, she died, the police officer said. The accused, native of Thirukuvalai in Nagapattinam district, has been arrested and admitted to the Chromepet government hospital. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/college-girl-stabbed-to-death/article36641983.ece
24 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jaidev and Ajay win tennis doubles championship||S. Jaidev and G. Ajay Kumar defeated Ch. Sai Krishna and N.T. Ram Kumar to win the doubles championship of the AP State Level Open Tennis Tournament 2021 organised by the Krishna District Sports Association. Dr. Jaidev and Ajay defeated senior players Ch. Sai Krishna and NT Ram Kumar (10-3). In the 45-plus doubles, Kumara Swamy and P. Venkateswarlu won against Koteswara Rao and Srinivas. In the 60-plus category, Paul Manohar from Guntur teamed up with CBS Vara Prasad to beat S. Ramakrishna, senior doctor, and Kantha Rao, retired IGP (10-3). The tourney was sponsored by senior tennis player and managing director of Shanti Nursing Home Ramakrishna Krishna District Tennis Association president K. Radha Krishna Murthy, Managing director of SAAP N. Prabhakara Reddy gave away prizes to the winners. Y. Ram Kumar, Vice President; Mallikarjuna Rao, executive member, of the Krishna District Tennis Association, and Y. Siva Ramakrishna, tournament director were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jaidev-and-ajay-win-tennis-doubles-championship/article36641932.ece
24 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||FAIFA lauds steps taken to promote digital tech||The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) has lauded the steps taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to promote digital technology in the farm sector. In a statement, FAIFA said that technology adoption in the agriculture sector would enable farmers, especially smallholder farmers (SHF), to make informed decisions on crops to grow, seed variety to use, and adoption of best practices. Additionally, it would provide a framework to farmers for future dealings while selling their products and help them navigate the market easily while also reducing the risk of uncertainty. This is besides maximizing the yield thereby making the agriculture sector profitable. “Introduction of digital technologies in the farm sector will aid precise targeting of all subsidies, services, and policies to benefit the farming community. This is in addition to modernising agriculture supply chains, enabling agri supply chain players to plan their procurement and logistics on precise and timely information. It will also give a push to projects that use artificial intelligence, blockchain technologies to modernize the country’s agriculture sector,” said FAIFA president Javare Gowda. He said that government's decision to partner with private sector enterprises establishes a common intention to educate and increase farmers’ income between government, companies, and the farming community to bring in revolutionary changes in the Indian agriculture sector. This move would result in meaningful outcomes for smallholder farmers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/faifa-lauds-steps-taken-to-promote-digital-technology/article36641929.ece
24 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Henry Christina to be Guntur ZP chairperson||Kathera Henry Christina, the Zilla Parishad Chairperson-elect from Guntur district, will be the second Dalit woman to occupy the coveted post. She will be sworn in on Saturday in the presence of Ministers, MLAs and officials. Ms. Christina is the wife of Suresh Kumar, who runs an NGO in Tenali, and is presently District Cooperative Marketing Society chairperson. Ms. Christina had contested from Tadikonda (SC) Assembly constituency in 2014 and had lost to Tenali Sravan Kumar from the Telugu Desam Party, but had won the hearts of partymen with her commitment and hard work. In the elections held in 2021, Ms. Christina won from Kollipara ZPTC with a majority of over 17,000 votes. It was a coincidence that the last Dalit ZPTC chief, K. Vijayamma, had represented Kollipara ZPTC during the Congress government. “We are forever grateful to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who had fulfilled his promise of elevating a Dalit woman to the coveted post. We assure that we will live up our leader’s expectation and ensure that welfare schemes are taken to the doorstep of the people,’’ said Ms. Christina. It was a bit of testing time for Ms. Christina as she had to wait for the ZPTC elections which were postponed due to COVID-19 and later were caught up in courts. She had a tough task ahead as the ZP had been without a head for the last two years after the change of guard at the State. Ms. Christina completed graduation at Khammam and underwent teacher training course at Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/henry-christina-to-be-guntur-zp-chairperson/article36641931.ece
24 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 held for burglary attempt in jewellery outlet||The Proddatur police have arrested 10 persons accused of breaking into a jewellery outlet in the town and making a vain burglary bid. With his gold business failing, Shaik Yakoob (44) of Proddatur took to real estate four years back and reportedly came in touch with car drivers Thota Ramachandrudu (33) and P. Nitya Pujaiah (34) during his travel to Chennai and Coimbatore. The three met a self-styled burglary expert R. Venkateswarlu (43) of Tripurantakam in Prakasam district, who allegedly gave them the plan to break into a jewellery outlet on Mokshagundam Street. They even conducted a recce few days back. Intending to secure ‘talented manpower’ for executing the theft plan, they hired G. Bangaru Raju (40) of Mangalagiri town in Guntur district, who in turn roped in A. Bala Yesu (34) and K. Venkanna (30) of Vijayawada, M. David Raju (19), S. Appala Naidu (26) and P. Shankar Rao (22), all the three hailing from Visakhapatnam district, with a promise to share the booty. “Though all the 10 gained entry by threatening the security guard in the early hours of Wednesday, they ran away after another guard on the first floor raised an alarm,” Additional Superintendent of Police (Operations) M. Deva Prasad said on Thursday, while producing the accused. Based on a complaint from the jeweller, the police launched a manhunt and nabbed all of them near Chowdamma temple in the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-arrested-for-bid-to-burgle-jewellery-outlet/article36642415.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala plans extra cover for ivory||Ten tonnes of ivory in the possession of the Kerala Forest Department will be shifted to a high-security centre shortly. Besides ivory, around 200 kg of sandal oil, seized by officials from illicit sandal oil distilling units earlier, will also be moved to the treasure chest that has come up on the campus of the State Forest Headquarters. The State Board for Wildlife had declined permission twice to destroy the ivory stock in Kerala, forcing the department to set up the new facility. A proposal to set up an ivory museum too failed to find favour with authorities. The Forest Department in some other States, including Assam, destroyed the rhinoceros horns and elephant ivory in its possession recently. The ivory and sandal oil would be stored in the strongroom, which has security features matching the currency chest of the Reserve Bank of India, says P.K. Kesavan, Head of Forest Force, Kerala. The ivory of wild elephants that died of natural causes and the ones seized from wildlife offenders adds to the stock. These days, State Treasury officials are reluctant to accept ivory to be stored in their strongrooms as it is a space-consuming affair, says Mr. Kesavan. Growing ivory stock The ever-growing stock of ivory has been a cause of perennial worry for the Forest Department. There were instances when ivory stored in the strongroom of the department was stolen. Ivory involved in wildlife crimes would be kept in the respective forest range offices. Later, it would be shifted to the Forest Headquarters with the permission of courts, says another forest official. All wild animals and its meat and trophy, including ivory, are considered government property under the Wildlife (Protection) Act. The value of ivory cannot be fixed as its trade is banned in the country. Sole exception Only those persons who inherit an elephant and have its ownership certificate could keep its ivory once the animal is dead. Those inheriting such a trophy should make a declaration regarding the inheritance to the Chief Wildlife Warden of the State, notes the Act.  The ivory and sandal oil will be stored in a strongroom which has security features matching the currency chest of the RBI. P.K. Kesavan, Head of Forest Force, Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-plans-extra-cover-for-ivory/article36641871.ece
24 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||IS sleeper cells working in Kerala?||The arrest of several persons from Kerala by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with terror-related cases recently has raised concern about suspected sleeper cells of the Islamic State (IS) operating in the State. A fortnight ago, the NIA filed a chargesheet against three persons, Mohammed Ameen, aka Abu Yahya of Malappuram, Mushab Anwar of Kannur, and Rahees Rasheed of Oachira in Kollam. The agency also registered a suo motu case against seven known and a few other unknown persons for involvement with the terrorist activities of Mohammed Ameen and his associates, accused of running Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (IS) propaganda channels on social media platforms, including Telegram, Hoop and Instagram, for propagating violent jihad and radicalising and recruiting new members. Officials say after the decline of the ISIS Caliphate in Syria and Iraq, Mohammed Ameen visited Kashmir in March 2020 for ‘hijrah’ (religious migration) and engaging in terrorist acts. He was engaged in raising and distributing funds in connivance with Rahees Rasheed and Kashmir-based accused Mohammad Waqar Lone, aka Wilson Kashmiri, for propagating the activities of the IS in India. Incidentally, the NIA last month arrested two women Mizha Siddeeque and Shifa Harris from Kannur on charges of associating with Mohammed Ameen for spreading IS activities through the social media. Mizha had also travelled to Tehran along with her associates to join the IS in Syria. She had created a page on Instagram to propagate, motivate, radicalise and recruit Muslim youths for the IS. It was found that Shifa had transferred funds to Lone for IS activities. Now, the NIA says that its investigations have revealed that the IS is trying to spread its tentacles in India through propaganda online. Gullible youth are targeted on open social media platforms. Once a person shows interest, he/she is enticed to communicate with online handlers based abroad using encrypted social media platforms. The handlers then use the person for uploading online content, translation of IS texts to local language, conspiracy, preparation of a module, collection of arms and ammunition, preparation of IEDs, terror funding and even attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/is-sleeper-cells-working-in-kerala/article36641866.ece
24 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple ‘end life’ in Srisailam||A married man and woman allegedly committed suicide in a choultry at Srisailam on Thursday. According to police, Kameswara Rao, 40, and Nagalakshmi, 38, came to the choultry on Wednesday night. The staff reportedly found them in an unconscious state on Thursday morning and shifted them to a hospital, where they died . The two hailed from Malakanur in Guntur district and reportedly consumed pesticide. They reportedly were in a relationship but were married separately 15 years ago. According to police, the woman allegedly quarrelled with her husband and came in contact with her former boyfriend. There is always someone to talk to by dialling 100; or 112, Over WhatsApp: 7777877722.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-end-life-in-srisailam/article36642417.ece
24 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Privatisation of PSEs intended to favour of corporate firms’||The Congress activists led by senior leader P. Chinta Mohan staged a demonstration in Sullurpeta on Thursday, in protest against what they called the ‘active pursuing of plans’ to privatise the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). “ It is unfortunate that the BJP-led Central government has been on a privatisation spree. The policy to privatise Public Sector Enterprises (PSEs) did not spare any sectors including steel, sea ports, airports, railways and defence to favour a select corporate firms,” alleged Mr. Chinta Mohan. Making the matter worse, he said, both the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and the main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the State had been mute spectators to the move. He alleged that the agrarian crisis had deepened under the BJP’s rule at the Centre, which had failed in ensuring farm inputs at affordable prices and remunerative prices for farm produce.  Staff Reporter from Chitoor adds: Meanwhile, Congress activists led by Mr. Chinta Mohan staged a protest at Satyavedu, alleging that sand was being smuggling from the State to Tamil Nadu. “The YSRCP leaders are resorting to indiscriminate smuggling of sand from Chittoor district to various places in Tamil Nadu. Sand worth crores of rupees is being smuggled in tractors, and lorries. Corruption and looting of natural resources have peaked in the YSRCP’s tenure,” Mr. Chinta Mohan told the media at Satyavedu. Congress leaders Rajendra Naidu and Purushottam and others took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/privatisation-of-pses-intended-to-favour-of-corporate-firms/article36642421.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC reserves judgment on bail plea of Fasal||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its judgment on a plea for bail filed by Thwaha Fasal, a journalism student in his twenties, accused under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for having Maoist links. A Bench of Justices Ajay Rastogi and A.S. Oka reserved its verdict also on an appeal filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) challenging the bail granted to Alan Shuhaib, a third-year law student and Fasal’s co-accused in the case. The duo from Kerala were arrested in November 2019. While the trial court granted them bail, the Kerala High Court cancelled Fasal’s bail while not interfering with Shuhaib’s. A chargesheet filed by the NIA accused the youth of harbouring and associating with the banned outfit. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, for the NIA, argued that the duo, by inference, were ‘members’ of the banned organisation. Members, if found guilty, were sentenced up to life in prison under UAPA. In contrast, association or supporting a banned organisation attracts either fine or only a few years in prison. Mr. Raju said the NIA is going to apply for sanction under Section 20 of the UAPA, which deals with punishment for being a member of a terrorist organisation. But the court on Thursday made it clear that it would examine the two petitions regarding bail with the charges arraigned in the chargesheet. “You can do whatever you want, but we have to go with what is provided to us,” Justice Rastogi responded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-reserves-judgment-on-bail-plea-of-fasal/article36641880.ece
24 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child sex abuse victim found hanging||In a case of suspected suicide, a 16-year-old victim of sex abuse was found dead at her house at Konni in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta on Thursday. The deceased, a native of Pramadam, was found hanging from the ceiling. The incident took place when the victim’s father had gone for work. According to the police, the girl had been subjected to abuse by one of her neighbours, who landed in police custody a couple of months ago. Following the incident, she was taken for counselling by the police. The accused, meanwhile, is yet to be released from jail. On an alert, the Konni police rushed to the spot and carried out inquest proceedings. The police have registered a case of unnatural death. Officials said the deceased had been living with her father and grandmother. The police were planning to shift her to a rescue home.  (Suicide Prevention Helpline Disha can be reached at 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-sex-abuse-victim-found-hanging/article36641874.ece
24 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helping young girls to break the glass ceiling||With the Army launching a recruitment drive for women, many girls from rural areas are striving hard to become a part of women Military Police wing. In spite of many objections from parents and others, they are determined to prove themselves in the armed forces. Over 150 girls from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have been attending a rigorous training programme being provided by ‘Indian Army Calling’, a defence training institution established with the motto of serving rural youngsters. A teenaged girl, R. Madhuri of Wanaparthy in Telangana, had come all the way to Srikakulam to realise her dream of joining the military services. “My parents were shocked with my decision initially. They feared that a military job was very tough, and girls would not be able to adjust in the service. But I convinced them and came here for training,” she said. D. Supraja of Warangal studied Intermediate but could find a decent job in spite of many attempts. It made her to look at the Military Police wing, which would ensure a decent salary apart from other benefits. “The job in the Army would ensure decent life and help me to serve the country,” she said. Indian Army Calling founder and director Basava Venkata Ramana, 26, of Srimukhalingam village of Srikakulam district, said the girls were able to complete different tough tasks, including running, conducted as part of the training. “Normally, boys have to complete 1.6 km distance within five minutes 30 seconds. There is a time relaxation for girls. But many of them are able to complete the task within five minutes. Their performance is good in pull ups, balance, ditch and others too. Getting required fitness is a must to pass the physical test. We are providing training to clear the written exams which is conducted at the next level,” he added. Mr. Venkata Ramana, who could not get selected in the Army due to lack of prior training five years ago, caught the attention of everyone with his vision. He ensured jobs for more than 350 youngsters in the last couple of years by organising training programmes under the supervision of retired military and police officials. No course fee Though there is no course fee, the candidates are charged Rs. 3,500 for shoes, dress and other materials. After observing the dedicated work of Mr. Venkata Ramana, many philanthropists and property owners are extending their helping hand for the smooth conduct of training programmes. Currently, the training is being conducted in a vacant land adjacent to 80 feet road. The property owners who have not yet taken up any construction work on the premises allowed the girls and others to undergo training without any trouble. “We are happy to allow training programme in our land since it is beneficial to many unemployed youth. Fortunately, other owners are also extending their wholehearted support,” aid Sadhu Mohana Rao, a property owner. Bontala Govinda Rao, a retired army personnel, said that all the ex-servicemen were extending financial support and conducting training programmes for the youngsters. “Many youngsters who got jobs with the training programme are helping the institution to establish the required infrastructure. Their voluntary contribution is helping to buy required equipment. It helps to minimise the financial burden on the youngsters,” Mr. Govinda Rao said. “The government should hold training camps in all districts for youngsters, since they don’t know how to achieve fitness and pass the written test. The government’s initial support will help many join the Army and serve the nation,” Mr. Venkata Ramana told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/helping-young-girls-to-break-the-glass-ceiling/article36642426.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to revise list of COVID-19 deaths; new guidelines soon||The State will bring out a revised and comprehensive list of COVID-19 deaths in accordance with the new Central guidelines on the definition of or what constitutes a COVID death, Health Minister Veena George has said. The State guidelines on COVID death are being revised and the new guidelines will be finalised and published within a few days. It will take into account the new clarification provided by the Centre that even if a patient was COVID-negative at the time of death, it would be treated as death due to COVID if it has happened within 30 days of the patient testing positive for COVID. Comprehensive list The new list of COVID deaths which occurred in the State would be comprehensive and would not leave out any deaths related to COVID, Ms. George told mediapersons here on Thursday, while visiting the new intensive care units (ICUs) being opened at the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital (MCH). The Health Department has decided to conduct an inquiry into COVID deaths that took place in the State and will take necessary steps to resolve any anomalies in reporting. Steps have been taken to receive all complaints on non-inclusion of deaths due to COVID in the State’s official list of deaths. The government had no intention to deny compensation to any family which had lost a member to COVID and would facilitate the inclusion of all COVID-related deaths on the revised list, Ms. George said. Disease transmission She said that disease transmission was reducing in the State and the proportion of the vaccinated had been climbing steadily. However, people should not let down their guard and violate COVID protocols as even the fully vaccinated could get the infection and transmit it. One crore vaccinated Over one crore persons had been fully vaccinated, while 90% of those eligible for vaccination had been covered by the first dose Ms. George went around the two new ICUs set up at the MCH in anticipation of the third wave. The 100 ICU beds have been set up using Rs. 5.5 crore. In the first phase 17 ventilators would be arranged and more would be set up in phases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-revise-list-of-covid-19-deaths-new-guidelines-soon/article36641909.ece
24 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more take oath as TTD trustees||Pokala Ashok Kumar and K. Sanjeevaiah on Thursday took oath as member trustees of the newly constituted TTD Trust Board. They were administered the oath of office by Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy inside the temple. Deputy Chief Minister Narayanaswamy, who was present, extended his wishes to the members. CVSO Gopinath Jatti and Deputy EO Ramesh Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-more-take-oath-as-ttd-trustees/article36642437.ece
24 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘More stringent law than POCSO needed’||State Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma said that tough laws are necessary, given the rise in crimes against women and children. “An Act that is more stringent than the POCSO is the need of the hour,” she said while participating in the ‘Poshan Maah’, a Central’s initiative to improve nutrition in children, adolescent girls, pregnant women and lactating mothers. Mahila Commission member Gajjela Lakshmi Reddy accompanied her. “It is scary to see that women do not feel secure even in their own homes,” she said, referring to the shocking incident from Nellore where a man recorded a video of his wife ending her life by hanging. Ms. Padma expressed concern over the ‘ mala fide’ intention of certain elements to derive political mileage from the cases pertaining to atrocity against women. She fed infants at the ‘Annaprasana’ programme and interacted with pregnant women during the ‘Seemantham’ at a workshop conducted by the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) on the impact of government schemes on women’s empowerment. “Right from the Amma Vodi to registration of house pattas in the name of women, Disha App, 50% of nominated posts to women, every scheme conceived by the State government has women as the central idea. Fear and worry should become a thing of the past and we should move on with confidence,” she told the women. Tirupati Mayor R. Sireesha, a gynaecologist by profession, medical practitioner P. Krishna Prasanthi, SPMVV Rector D. Sarada, ICDS Project Director Naga Sailaja, TUDA Secretary S. Lakshmi spoke on nutrition and career of women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/act-more-stringent-than-pocso-needed/article36642463.ece
24 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Regional Science Centre adds many attractions for children||The Regional Science Centre, Tirupati (RSC-T), a unit of the National Council of Science Museums, has come up with many attractions for children after the coronavirus pandemic. As part of the week-long 28th anniversary celebrations, the centre is offering science park exhibits such as ‘YO YO’, dancing balls, swing a pendulum and depth illusion. Tirupati Mayor R. Sireesha declared open the new facilities at the campus on Thursday and planted a sapling to mark the occasion. Hailing the RSC for promoting science among children by kindling their scientific temper, she called upon school managements and teachers to make it a regular practice to take their students to the science centre. “A visit to this centre will expand the horizons of students and inspire them for taking science as a career option,” she said. Lions Club of Tirupati president M. Bhaskar presided over the event, while district cabinet treasurer Rajendra Prasad, secretary N. Mani Sandeep, treasurer Sheik Mubarak Basha took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/science-centre-gets-exciting-for-children/article36642422.ece
24 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati zoo to become ‘plastic-free zone’||Come October 2, the Sri Venkateswara Zoological Park (SVZP) will become a ‘plastic-free zone’, where no single-use plastic products will be allowed. Zoo curator Hima Sailaja has asked the representatives of the food courts to offer glass bottles to the visitors. Soft drinks will be sold only in cans, carton-packed containers and glass bottles. Munching stuff available in disposable plastic covers will remain banned, .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirupati-zoo-to-become-plastic-free-zone/article36642423.ece
24 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on curbing drug menace: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officers of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) to focus on curbing the drug menace and conduct awareness programmes in universities and colleges on the consequences of drug abuse. He has also directed that stringent action be taken against those cultivating and transporting cannabis (marijuana), and smuggling liquor. ‘Liquor sales drop’ In a review meeting on the functioning of the SEB on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, to reduce liquor consumption, the government had increased the alcohol prices and closed almost one-third of the outlets and shut down belt shops and permit rooms across the State. “As a result, liquor sales have dropped from 34 lakh cases per month to 21 lakh cases, and beer sales fell from 17 lakh cases per month to seven lakh,” he said. Sand supply Taking stock of supply of sand, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said action should be taken if the mineral was sold at prices higher than what had been stipulated. The toll-free numbers of the SEB should be well publicised to enable people to tip off the SEB about illegal sand mining. He also instructed the officials to increase the number of reaches and sand depots. The officials told the Chief Minister that 18,686 kg ganja was seized in 220 cases and 384 persons were arrested. Under ‘Operation New Savera’ between March 20 and 31, about 69 cases were registered and 174 people arrested. A total of 2,176 kg marijuana was seized. So far, 1,20,822 cases of alcohol manufacturing and smuggling had been registered and 1,25,202 persons were arrested. Almost 63,310 cases were booked in 2020 and 57,512 in the current year. While the SEB registered 74,311 cases, the police booked 46,511 cases. Similarly, 8,30,910 litres of illicit liquor, 8,07,644 litres of country-made liquor and 2,30,48,401 litres of jaggery wash were seized and destroyed. Also, 29,491 vehicles were seized. As far as sand smuggling was concerned, the officials said 2,211 cases were registered and 5,72,372 tonnes of sand was seized. A total of 16,365 vehicles were seized and 22,769 persons arrested. Director General of Police Gautam Sawang, Special Chief Secretaries Sameer Sharma (planning and resource mobilisation) and Rajat Bhargava (revenue), SEB Commissioner Vineeth Brijlal, Principal Secretary S.S. Rawat, Additional DGP (intelligence) K.V. Rajendranath Reddy, and SEB Director (special units) A. Ramesh Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-curbing-drug-menace-jagan/article36641867.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Science is interdisciplinary sans boundaries, says Nobel laureate||Science is inter-disciplinary and international, it knows no boundaries, said Nobel laureate Michael Stanley Whittingham, who shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 2019 along with Akira Yoshino and John B. Goodenough. Addressing the convocation of VIT-AP University in virtual mode on Thursday, the British-American chemist said: “I use science in the broadest sense of the word. The sooner we break down these disciplines, the better for everybody,” he said and went on to substantiate his contention. “I am a chemist, John Gardner was a physicist and Akira Yoshino was an engineer. We brought the three disciplines together to achieve a breakthrough.” He said after Oxford, he went to California and pursued material science and engineering. “So I started understanding the engineering side of things, which is very important.”. He urged the students to grab the opportunities that come their way. “Don’t let opportunities pass by and don’t be conservative, be willing to take risks,” he said, adding: “Have a dream and exercise patience as discoveries take longer than most people anticipate or wish,” he emphasised, informing that he and his team had the first idea about batteries in the 1970s. It took close to 20 years before they became commercially viable. Referring to the advantages the current generation has, he said today, the iPhones had more power than the basic computers available then. He said global warming was an area of grave concern today. “I prefer to call it global messing up.” he said, citing the climate change impact. “In the United States, we have droughts in the west, floods in the east and the south and fires in another region. We are witnessing the wettest summer ever,” he said urging the students to contribute their mite in solving the issue. Pointing to the fact that India was installing the second largest amount of solar power after China, he said it was time to get over use of coal and rid the society of fossil fuel. “Leave a cleaner legacy and a safer world to the next generations,” he said. Director, Customer Experience & Success, Microsoft India, Mayurika Singh said students should avoid sweating for small things. “Take chance, learn to work on blank canvas and do the right things for right results,” she insisted. Dr. Whittingham also inaugurated in virtual mode new buildings of the university. Founder of Chancellor of VIT G. Viswanathan, vice-presidents Seker Viswanathan, Sankar Viswanatham and G.V. Selvam, Executive Director P. Sandhya, assistant vice-president K. Viswanathan, Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy, Registrar CLV Sivakumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/science-is-interdisciplinary-sans-boundaries-says-nobel-laureate/article36641937.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 more succumb in State||The State reported 11 more COVID deaths and 1,171 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 20,43,244  and 14,108 respectively, while the number of active cases came down to 13,749. During the past day, 1,207 patients recovered, taking the total recoveries to 20,15,387  and recovery rate to 98.64%. The daily test positivity rate of the 55,251 samples tested was 2.12%. The test positivity rate of the 2.79 crore tests conducted so far remain at 7.32%. Chittoor and Nellore reported three deaths each while Krishna reported two and Prakasam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each. No death was reported in seven districts. More than 80% infections reported in the past day were from six districts of East Godavari (255), Chittoor (158), Krishna (147), Nellore (145), Prakasam (141) and Guntur (101). The remaining seven districts altogether reported 224 infections. They include West Godavari (94), Kadapa (48), Visakhapatnam (45), Vizianagaram (15), Srikakulam (9), Kurnool (7) and Anantapur (6). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,90,091), Chittoor (2,42,747), West Godavari (1,77,086), Guntur (1,75,220), Anantapur (1,57,526), Visakhapatnam (1,56,345), Nellore (1,44,132), Prakasam (1,36,507), Kurnool (1,23,985), Srikakulam (1,22,611), Krishna (1,16,806), Kadapa (1,14,580) and Vizianagaram (82,713).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-more-succumb-in-state/article36642429.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||China tests Indian seafood online for COVID-19||China, which suspended imports of frozen seafood products citing the presence of the COVID-19 virus, began inspecting stocks at the Indian processing plants and export units. After finding traces of nucleic acid on the packaging of the seafood, China rejected the marine products shipped from India citing a threat of COVID-19, besides blacklisting some international exporters a few months ago. More than 500 seafood containers were stranded at ports in China for several days. India exports marine products to the United States, Europe, China, Japan, Vietnam, Middle-East and other countries from 30 ports. In Andhra Pradesh, around 80 processing plants-cum-export industries are there, most of them in West Godavari, East Godavari, Visakhapatnam, Nellore and Prakasam districts. Of the total, nearly 40 plants are located in and around Bhimavaram, in West Godavari district, Marine Product Exports Development Authority (MPEDA) officials said. Exports pick up Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, MPEDA Chairman K.S. Srinivas said that China had started inspecting the seafood products online in the processing-cum-export units located in A.P., Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Gujarat and other places in India. “Seafood exports have picked up in the international market in the last few months and India is exporting marine food to all parts of the world. There is no need for aqua farmers to panic,” Mr. Srinivas said. Virtual inspections Due to COVID-19, China was conducting virtual inspections in the processing units and export companies. After completion of testing, China is releasing the containers, he said. In Andhra Pradesh, 13.92 lakh tonnes of shrimp (34% of the total production in India) is being produced in about 52,000 hectares, followed by Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Officials of the Export Inspection Agency (EIA), MPEDA and Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) are making efforts to boost the exports, the Chairman said. “We are addressing the issues raised by China at different levels and the problem will be resolved soon,” Mr. Srinivas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/china-tests-indian-seafood-online-for-covid-19/article36642617.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Farmers slipping into a debt trap’||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has said the agriculture sector in the State is in a crisis due to the “anti-farmer” policies. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Atchannaidu said the farmers were slipping into a debt trap due to lack of remunerative prices. “The prices of tomato and chilli have fallen beyond expectations,” the TDP leaders said, and slammed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for “failing to come to the rescue of the farmers.” “Tomato farmers in Kurnool, Anantapur and Chittoor are hardly getting Rs. 1 to Rs. 5 per kg. They are unable to get even the transportation and other charges. The price of green chilli has plummeted to Rs. 3 a kg,” Mr. Atchannaidu said. In the Hindupur market yard, the price of a quintal of red chilli had come down to Rs. 3,000, he said. “Cotton farmers too are facing a similar hardship. The government is slashing the price if moisture content is more than 8%. The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) is not purchasing if the moisture content is more than 12%,” Mr. Atchannaidu said, and wondered what Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu were doing to alleviate the farmers’ sufferings. “What has happened to the promised price stabilisation fund of Rs. 3,000 crore?” he asked. Calling for steps to mitigate the farmers’ woes, Mr. Atchannaidu warned of a State-wide agitation if the government did not act immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-slipping-into-a-debt-trap/article36642439.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC suspends jail sentence of IAS officers in contempt case||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Thursday suspended the order of a single Judge dated September 2 wherein three IAS officers, including one retired official, were sentenced to jail and another two others were directed to pay fine in a contempt case. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya admitted their contempt appeals and placed the single Judge’s order under suspension upon reaching a conclusion that there was no wilful disobedience on the part of the officials. IAS officers Manmohan Singh (retired) and S.S. Rawat were given a jail term of four weeks each, and Revu Mutyala Raju two weeks, while a fine of Rs. 2,000 each was imposed on K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu and M.V. Seshagiri Babu. Mr. Manmohan Singh was Principal Secretary (Revenue) at that time. Mr. Rawat was Principal Secretary (Finance) and he is still in that post. Mr. Mutyala Raju was Collector of Nellore district and is now Additional Secretary to the Chief Minister. Mr. Seshagiri Babu was Collector and is now Inspector-General of Registration and Stamps). Mr. Chakradhar Babu had also worked as Collector. The order was to pay compensation to the petitioner T. Savitramma for acquiring her three-acre D-form patta land in Yerragunta village in Venkatachalam Mandal for the establishment of a regional centre of the National Institute for the Mentally Handicapped. She had disputed the manner in which the land was resumed for the above project and alleged that there was an inordinate delay in the payment of compensation. Appearing for the State during Thursday’s hearing, special government pleader C. Sumon said there was no deliberate violation of the said order and all efforts were made to implement it but timely compliance was not possible owing to certain administrative difficulties. He insisted that the officers were diligent in their communications and were following up the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-suspends-jail-sentence-of-ias-officers-in-contempt-case/article36642430.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly Privileges Committee decision to deny mike to TDLP leaders decried||TDP’s Repalle MLA A. Satya Prasad has objected to the decision of the Assembly Privileges Committee to deny mike to TDLP Deputy Leaders K. Atchannaidu and Nimmala Ramanaidu to speak in the House. Mr. Satya Prasad wrote separate letters to the Privileges Committee Chairman and the Assembly Secretary on Thursday, requesting them to reconsider their decision. “Denial of the opportunity to speak in the legislative bodies is tantamount to undermining the freedom of expression guaranteed in the Constitution. It is not correct to prevent the Opposition leaders from speaking on people’s issues in the Assembly,” Mr. Satya Prasad said. “In fact, the Opposition has the responsibility to bring people’s problems to the notice of the government. In a democracy, the Opposition has a duty to question the policies of the government,” he said. Terming the decision as unilateral, the MLA said the ruling YSRCP would take advice from the Opposition if it were really committed to the well-being of the people. “Criticism will have to be taken in a constructive way. It is incorrect to consider the questioning of the government on people’s issues as a crime,” Mr. Satya Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assembly-privileges-committee-decision-to-deny-mike-to-tdlp-leaders-decried/article36642440.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to buy paddy at 764 RBKs in Krishna||Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha has said that plans are afoot to purchase paddy at 764 Rythu Bharosa Kendralu (RBKs) in the district from farmers after kharif. In a review meeting here on Thursday, Ms. Latha said that paddy cultivation was taken up in 2.49 lakh hectares this kharif and 17.11 lakh metric tonnes of yield was expected as per estimates of the Agriculture Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-buy-paddy-at-764-rbks-in-krishna/article36642618.ece
24 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Darshan for 10,000 devotees per day during Dasara||Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas Rao has said that necessary arrangements are being made for the ensuing Dasara festival. The Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam would organise the festivities from October 7 to 15. The Minister inspected the progress of works on Thursday, and held a review meeting at the VMC hall. He said that the devasthanam had decided to allow only 10,000 devotees to visit the temple per day during the festival days. Of this, free darshan would be provided to 4,000 devotees, and Rs. 100 ticket darshan for 3,000 persons. Another 3,000 people would be allowed to have darshan on Rs. 300 ticket. The tickets have to be purchased online. In view of COVID-19, the devasthanam has decided not to organise Bhavani Deeskha this year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/darshan-for-10000-devotees-per-day-during-dasara/article36641934.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State gets pat from Central Waqf Council||Members of the Central Waqf Council have appreciated the State government for taking over 559.61 acres of Waqf land and protecting it. Members Naushad, Haneef Ali, Munawari Begum and Darakhshan Andrabi visited the AP State Waqf Board office and conducted an inspection along with Minority Welfare Special Secretary Gandham Chandrudu and others. According to a release, the members said that more than 50% of the waqf board properties were mapped. They said that they would take up issues such as sanction of pending funds from the Centre and division of properties from the Telangana board. A.P. Waqf Board chief executive officer S. Aleem and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-gets-pat-from-central-waqf-council/article36641927.ece
24 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heroin haul: ‘Adani can’t escape responsibility’||The Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) organised a protest demanding that the Central government bring out the facts related to the smuggling of heroin, on BRTS Road here on Thursday. CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao said that privatisation of ports had paved the way for smuggling of drugs. “The Adani group cannot escape responsibility as the heroin was seized from the Mundra Port managed by it,” he said. About 3,000 kg of heroin worth Rs. 21,000 crore was seized. The Adani group had stated that monitoring of the consignments and policing was not under its purview. Onus lay on the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Central government to clear the air on this, he said. Why were the officials not quizzing Adani group management, he asked. Independent inquiry sought An independent inquiry into the heroin smuggling under the supervision of judiciary was necessary, he added. CPI(M) leaders D. Kasinath, D.V. Krishna, B. Ramana Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heroin-haul-adani-cant-escape-responsibility/article36641933.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disclose details of CM, Adani meeting: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has demanded the State government disclose the details of a “secret” meeting between Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and industrialist Gautam Adani. In a statement on Thursday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said that Andhra Pradesh State Cabinet had hurriedly adopted resolutions to allow the Adani group to set up 9,000 MW solar power plants in the State. What were the reasons behind the approval for allowing Adani group alone when four to five companies had to be given the opportunity to set up the plants, he said. The Jagan Mohan Reddy government was hatching plans to hand over Gangavaram, Krishnapatnam and Machilipatnam ports on a platter to Adani group. When there were noted contractors in Andhra Pradesh, why was the government tilting to Gujarat-based industrialists or contractors? he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/disclose-details-of-cm-adani-meeting-cpi/article36642620.ece
24 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stipulation in judicial service rules struck down||A Division Bench of the A.P. High Court, comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya, has struck down the condition under Rule 6 (f) of the A.P. State Judicial Service Rules, 2007, which stipulates that candidates belonging to the Backward Classes should secure at least 60% marks in aggregate in the written examination and viva voce for appointment as junior civil judges. Consequently, the court ordered the Registrar (recruitment) to select the petitioner, Shaik Nishad Naaz, for the said post. Government pleader for Law and Legislative Affairs P.S.P. Suresh Kumar appeared for the State, while advocate Y. Balaji presented the arguments on the behalf of the petitioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stipulation-in-judicial-service-rules-struck-down/article36642432.ece
24 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPF India donates Rs. 30 lakh||A delegation of the CPF India Private Limited, comprising its President (aqua operations) Wichit Kongkheaw and Assistant Vice-President (human resources and general affairs) K. Gopinath, met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Thursday. They handed over a demand draft for Rs. 30 lakh towards donation under their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) scheme. Nitirooge Phoneprasert, Consul General of the Royal Thai Consulate in Chennai, Consul Mongkol Siwaluki and Consular Officer Syed Mohammad Yusuf were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpf-india-donates-rs-30-lakh/article36642434.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGE removed||The government on Thursday appointed Joint Director, School Education Department, K. Ravindranath Reddy, as in-charge Director of Government Examinations (DGE), relieving Additional Director A. Subba Reddy from the duties of the post with immediate effect. APNGOs Association hailed the decision to remove Mr. Subba Reddy following protests by employees of the SSC Board, alleging harassment and demanding his removal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dge-removed/article36642441.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents urge GVMC to allocate land to special needs school||Dozens of parents of mentally challenged children cooked lunch on the road at MVP Colony on Thursday protesting the closure of a special needs school by the civic body earlier this year. The parents demanded that the Hidden Sprouts Special School, which was partially demolished by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) in June this year for functioning on land belonging to the civic body, be given an alternative accommodation or be allowed to function from the same place. The Town Planning Department of the GVMC had partially demolished some of the temporary structures at the school on June 6 this year. The civic body also had asked the school management to vacate the premises and had closed down the school. GVMC officials stated that as per the lease agreement, the school was not eligible to utilise vacant land apart from the allotted structure. The school management had reportedly occupied open spaces and had been using them as a playground for the past seven years, officials said. On Thursday, parents alleged that though the corporation had promised to allot some other building to the school, no accommodation has been provided till now. According to the parents, their mentally challenged children had become habituated to go to school and were now finding it difficult to stay at home all day, further affecting their state of mind. “My son has been going to the school since 2019. The school teachers were taking good care of him. I have seen a lot of improvement in his behaviour ever since he began going to school. But for the last four months, he is not able to spend time at home and is becoming restless,” said a parent from Ravindra Nagar, who participated in the protest. There are around 190 special children aged between five and 15 years. Many of the parents are middle-class people and some are from the Below Poverty Line (BPL) segment. “We send our children at 9 a.m. by bus and leave for work. Again, we receive the children by 4.30 p.m. Sometimes if we fail to receive children, the teachers drop them at our homes. The school management has been taking care of our children with a lot of affection. We condemn the government apathy towards the school,” said another parent. A few parents claimed that after the closure of the school, they are forced to stay at home to take care of their children and are unable to go to work, resulting in a loss of income. Founder Principal of the school, K. Srinivasa Rao, said that initially the GVMC had looked for a few buildings and also finalised a building at Arilova. However, the corporators there had raised objections. Later, the civic body promised to provide an alternative accommodation at another place. “The corporation has assured us that this issue would be brought before the council during the council meet. But there was no discussion on this in the recently-held meeting,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-urge-gvmc-to-allocate-land-to-special-needs-school/article36642628.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mock drill held at city airport||A mock drill simulating a bomb threat was conducted at the Visakhapatnam International Airport on Thursday. The drill is conducted once a year to check the preparedness of various agencies in handling bomb threats at airports and to create awareness among passengers. The mock drill is a procedure wherein a bomb threat is identified, and multiple steps taken for dissemination of information of the threat to various agencies, which work together to identify the bomb, and dispose it of as per laid down procedures, according to Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao. Representatives of Airports Authority of India (AAI), CISF, airline operators, bomb detection and disposal squads, health authorities from KGH, police department, fire service authorities, and officials from INS Dega (Indian Navy) and Customs and Immigration Department participated in the exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mock-drill-held-at-city-airport/article36642624.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 students of tribal school test positive for COVID-19||Nineteen students from a boys’ residential school at Kotturu village in G. Madugula mandal of Visakhapatnam district tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. All the students are asymptomatic and healthy, according to officials. P. Leela Prasad, Additional District Medical and Health Officer, Paderu, said that the Health Department conducted random COVID-19 tests on students at the school on Wednesday, after which it emerged on Thursday that 19 of them had contracted COVID-19. He added that all the students who tested positive are around 14 years of age and are studying in classes VIII to X. Close contacts were also tested, he added. “Since many of the students do not have the facility of separate toilets and rooms in their houses, we are sending them to the District Hospital in Paderu where they would be given proper treatment and medication. All the students are completely healthy and asymptomatic,” Dr. Leela Prasad said. Sanitation activities are being taken up at the school. Officials are yet to take a call on whether or not to close the school for 10 days. Since the reopening of the school, till date, nearly 35 to 40 students have tested positive for COVID-19 in Visakhapatnam district, sources said. 45 new cases The district has recorded 45 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,855. The death toll also rose to 1,085 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. As many as 49 persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have recovered in the last 24 hours, according to a COVID-19 bulletin released on Thursday. The number of recoveries increased to 1,54,816, while the active cases stand at 954.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19-students-of-tribal-school-test-positive-for-covid-19/article36642629.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restore Chennai-Vizag trains to old timings, urges Tourism Minister||Conversion of train no. 22870 Chennai – Visakhapatnam and 22802 Chennai – Visakhapatnam weekly overnight trains into ‘daytime special trains’ by the Southern Railway (SR), reportedly due to operational constraints at MGR Chennai Central Station, has led to a drastic fall in patronage for these two trains. These weekly trains, operated by East Coast Railway (ECoR), were introduced following persistent demands by passengers from Visakhapatnam region working in Chennai, who come home during the weekends, apart from tourists. These trains were converted into special trains due to the COVID-19 pandemic and operated on Zero-Based Timetable by Indian Railways. Information obtained by rail users, under the Right to Information Act (RTI), for train no. 22870 (Chennai–Visakhapatnam) for the last four years, shows the occupancy ratio of the train was 98.98% in 2016-17, 106.87% in 2017-18, 111.61% in 2018-19 and 114.06% in 2019-20, showing a steady increase. In contrast, the occupancy of 02870 Chennai – Visakhapatnam weekly special was 83.92% during 2020-21 and from April 1, 2021 to July 31, 2021 it is a mere 54.26%. Similarly, train no. 02008 (old no. 22802) Chennai – Visakhapatnam weekly special on Saturdays, which had occupancy of 138.48% in 2020-21, declined to 80.41% from April 1, 2021 to July 31, 2021. Meanwhile, on a representation from rail users, Minister for Tourism and Culture Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has written to the General Manager of Southern Railway, Chennai, on Thursday, seeking continuation of the old timings for 02008 and 02870 Chennai – Visakhapatnam weekly special trains as ‘overnight express trains’ for the convenience of the travelling public as well as from a commercial point of view. Mr. Srinivasa Rao noted that previously these trains used to run as overnight trains in both directions and had 100% occupancy. He has suggested extension of train no. 02007 and 02869 (Visakhapatnam – Chennai) trains till Villupuram junction via Chennai Egmore and Tambaram for good turnaround time and better rake utilisation, apart from restoration of 02008 and 02870 as overnight trains from Chennai Central to Visakhapatnam junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restore-chennai-vizag-trains-to-old-timings-urges-tourism-minister/article36642625.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM participates in ‘Swachh Parisar’||Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy participated in the Swachch Parisar programme at the DRM office, as part of the ongoing ‘Swachhta Hi Seva Pakhwada’, on Thursday. Intensive cleanliness drives were conducted at all major and minor stations under Waltair Division. A massive ‘Shramdaan’ was organised involving Railway employees, for cleanliness in and around the office premises, work places and station areas. Addressing the gathering of employees and workers, the DRM said that under the Swachh Parisar , special attention was paid to cleanliness at workplaces, platforms, FOBs, railway tracks, dustbins and waiting rooms. The cleanliness drive was carried out by railway employees in the premises of railway stations and circulating areas. Railway passengers were made aware of the need to keep railway premises cleanliness and strict adherence to COVID-19 safety norms like social distancing and wearing masks at all times while in public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drm-participates-in-swachh-parisar/article36642626.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will pursue issue of homeless people, says District Judge||Principal District and Sessions Judge and Chairperson of DLSA A. Hari Haranath Sarma assured to take up with higher authorities the issues faced by homeless people in the city, and said legal assistance would be sought from the State Legal Services and the High Court through a PIL if the need arose. Justice Sarma was addressing homeless people at a shelter home being run by AUTD and GVMC, here on Thursday. He said he would speak to the authorities concerned for providing insurance cover to the homeless. Earlier, he distributed Aadhaar cards to the homeless people at the shelter. According to Pragada Vasu of AUTD, the homeless people were not getting vaccinated as most of them did not possess an Aadhaar card. This was brought to the notice of the judge by the secretary of DLSA K.K.V. Bullikrishna. Justice Sarma immediately responded to the issue and got a special camp organised by the District Aadhaar Kendra after which cards were distributed, he said. The district judge was appalled to know that the city has only eight shelter homes. As per the Supreme Court guidelines, there should be one shelter home for every one lakh population. In 2015, eight shelter homes were established when the population was about 15 lakh and today, we have the same number of shelter homes but the population has doubled, Mr. Vasu said. According to Mr. Vasu, in 2017, a joint survey was conducted with GVMC and 1,300 homeless people were identified only from the core city area. Today, this number has crossed the 3,000-mark and we have provisions to accommodate only 300 at the eight shelter homes. T he rest are living under flyovers and at public places, he said. Mr. Bullikrishna, senior advocate Lakshmi Rambabu and Aadhaar Kendra manager Srihari were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-pursue-issue-of-homeless-people-says-district-judge/article36642634.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) opposes public hearing on land acquisition||The CPI(M) district committee has opposed the hurried convening of a public hearing for the acquisition of land for the Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial Corridor (VCIC), at Krishnapalem of Rambilli mandal in the district on Thursday. In a letter to the District Collector on Thursday, CPI(M) district committee secretary K. Lokanadham noted that thousands of acres of land was already being acquired in the district for the PCPIR project. Justice was not done to the displaced persons, whose lands were acquired for the pharma industries and the SEZ in the past, he said. The local people, who were not even given contract jobs in these industries, were living in misery, Mr. Lokanadham said. Though the State government had issued a G.O. stating that 75% of the jobs should be reserved for the local people, no industry was implementing it. The industries were polluting the villages and causing health problems among the local people. Industrial accidents were also on the rise in Visakhapatnam district and many lives were being lost, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-opposes-public-hearing-on-land-acquisition/article36642621.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commissioner urges locals to follow ‘dry day’||GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana has urged people to follow ‘Friday Dry Day’ from this Friday, in order to keep seasonal diseases at bay. People will have to ensure that their homes and surroundings are clean and dry to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. “People should check for empty, used coconut shells, rubber tyres, and empty plastic bottles and things where there is a possibility of mosquitoes to breed in the surroundings of the house and clear them. She also added that water in flower pots, trays in the fridge, should be cleaned time to time. The commissioner also appealed people to use mosquito nets.  The Commissioner also said that malaria officers should visit every house and create awareness on the spread of seasonal diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commissioner-urges-locals-to-follow-dry-day/article36642631.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Ports Minister arrives in city||Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways, Shantanu Thakur, arrived in the city on Thursday for a three-day visit. He was welcomed by Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao. On Friday, the Minister will conduct a review meeting with officials of VPT on the ongoing developmental activities and would lay foundation stones for several developmental programmes at VPT. He will also participate in a plantation drive and Swacchata Pakhwada Programme. The Minister is also scheduled to distribute prizes to winners of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav Competitions conducted during June and July. Later, he will interact with PPP operators, unions and associations. The Minister will also visit operational areas in VPT and take part in a launch cruise. He will initiate the beginning of repairs and rehabilitation of a jetty, development of a cruise terminal, construction of a covered storage shed, development of a truck parking terminal at INS Dega and inauguration of a grade separator at Convent Junction area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-to-participate-in-vpt-meet/article36642619.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector reviews vaccine coverage||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna instructed officials to ensure that all eligible people in the district were given both doses of COVID-19 vaccine at the earliest. He said that in the Agency areas, the Health Department should prepare a Sachivalayam-wise action plan in order to vaccinate all the residents who are above the age of 18. Addressing a review meeting with officials at the Collectorate on Thursday, Mr Mallikarjuna said that ‘No Mask- No Entry’ boards should be placed prominently at all commercial establishments and offices in the district. The Collector also instructed officials to fill up vacant posts at hospitals. He took stock of beds in hospitals, oxygen supply, number of ventilators available, beds, staff, vacant posts, and 104 services. The Collector also asked to take more stringent steps to tackle and control the spread of seasonal diseases in the district. He instructed senior health officials to conduct inspections at Primary Health Centres (PHCs). Andhra Medical College Principal Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, DMHO Dr. P. Surya Narayana, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, and King George Hospital (KGH) Superintendent Dr. P. Mythili were among those present at the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-reviews-vaccine-coverage/article36642630.ece
24 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB Inspector, MRO among eight nabbed for gambling||Pendurthi police on Thursday conducted raids on the house of a retired Excise official and arrested eight persons including several government officials, for allegedly indulging in gambling, at Laxminagar area in the city. The arrested persons were identified as Retired Excise Inspector Syed Khaza Bahadur, Inspector of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB-Thallavasala) V. Ravi Kumar, MRO of G.K Veedhi B. Sridhar, Retired Sub-Inspector Kausalya Kumar, and Cooperative Senior Inspector D. Lakshmana Rao. Others were Y. Suryanarayana, a contractor, D Krishna, a painter and Kumaraswamy, a private employee. According to police, based on credible information, police teams raided the house of Syed Bahadur at Laxminagar, where they caught all the persons while playing cards by betting money. Police also seized Rs. 1.85 lakh cash from them. A case is being registered under Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Gaming Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seb-inspector-mro-among-eight-nabbed-for-gambling/article36642632.ece
24 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram meets paddy sowing targets||Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari directed officials of the Agriculture Department to provide sufficient fertilizer through Rythu Bharosa Kendras to farmers immediately with the picking up of agriculture activity in all 34 mandals of the district. Ms. Suryakumari said that rainfall was abundant in September which helped farmers grow paddy and other crops without hesitation. Deputy Director of the Agriculture Department S.B.S.Nandh and Deputy Director (RBKs) M. Anand said that paddy sowing was being done in 1,20,350 hectares as against the projected 1,18,851 hectares. Mr. Nandh said that urea requirement for the current season was 40,350 metric tonnes, of which 35,000 tonnes had already been supplied to farmers. He said that other crops including maize and sugarcane were being sown in all the areas with the availability of required water in tanks due to abundant rainfall in the last two months. He said that there was a deficit rainfall in the month of June and July, but the rainfall was significant in all the mandals for the last couple of weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizianagaram-meets-paddy-sowing-targets/article36642458.ece
24 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pandiri Rata’ organised at Sri Pydimamba shrine||Festival activities for the historic Tholella Utsavam and Sirimanotsavam began at Sri Pyditalli Ammavari temple in Vizianagaram on Thursday. Vizianagaram Mayor Vempadapu Vijayalakshmi and other officials participated in ‘Pandiri Rata Utsavam’ which was the initial celestial festival ahead of the Sirimanotsavam on October 19. The Mayor urged devotees to follow COVID-19 protocol while visiting the temple as the threat of a third wave of COVID-19 was yet to die down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandiri-rata-organised-at-sri-pydimamba-shrine/article36642460.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||House secured||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/house-secured/article36641879.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tending his crop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tending-his-crop/article36641940.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 increases mortality among dialysis patients||Conversion of dialysis centres into COVID centres during the devastating second wave has greatly affected treatment and discouraged patients from attending dialysis sessions. This has resulted in an increase in mortality among the dialysis population within the period from 15% in 2019 to 20% in 2020, said a study conducted by dialysis network NephroPlus on Thursday. Age factor The study sampled 17,662 patients in the second wave of COVID; 1,111 or 6.2% of the screened patients were infected with COVID-19 and a staggering mortality of 32.76% was observed among these patients. This is far greater than mortality recorded in 2019 within the same period. Age is another important variable that comes to bear in the study. The mean age of COVID-infected people was 53.63, with 45% of all infected persons above the age of 55. NephroPlus undertook the research to understand the impact of COVID on dialysis patients in terms of infections, hospitalisations and mortality as also the benefits of vaccination, and stated that the vaccines are truly effective. The work has been published in the reputed international “Nephrology Journal, Kidney International Reports”, said a press release. In the first wave, 14,573 dialysis patients were studied. Out of the number infected with COVID-19, 99% were hospitalised for an average of 12 days and mortality rate stood at 23%. Principal investigator Dr. Vivekanand Jha said that the study showed that infections, hospitalisations and mortality, were all significantly reduced among people who had taken at least one dose of the vaccine. Less risk “We found that those patients on dialysis who had taken even one dose of the vaccine had as much as 33% reduced risk of getting coronavirus infection compared to those who were not vaccinated. More notable was the halving of the risk of death, even if they got COVID,” the scientist said. Dr. Jha, also the former president of the International Society of Nephrology, said, “This study provides a nationwide snapshot of the health effects of the pandemic in this vulnerable population who did not have the choice of isolation or social distancing and needed to come to their dialysis centres regularly even during the peak of the pandemic. We found that COVID among patients on dialysis was 20-fold greater than that reported in the general population, when adjusted for age and sex. While it was 8.7% among dialysis patients during the study period, the infection among the general population stood at 0.44% during the same time period”. NephroPlus co-founder Kamal D. Shah said, “It is very important for dialysis patients to know that they have a high risk of contracting this lethal virus and die if they don’t take the vaccine as per our study.” Senior vice-president for clinical affairs Dr. Suresh Sankarasubbaiyan is another member of the research team. NephroPlus operates 265 dialysis centres in 150 cities across 23 States. For further information: https://www.nephroplus.com/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-increases-mortality-among-dialysis-patients/article36642237.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monsoon session of Legislature set to start from today||The stage is all set for commencement of the monsoon session of the State Legislature from Friday. The previous session was adjourned on March 26 after the passage of the Appropriation Bill for the current fiscal and the next session of the Legislature should be held within 180 days of the adjournment, falling on September 25. Passage of Bills The session is likely to see passage of eight Bills including one relating to an Act to keep a check on the activities of touts duping tourists to the State capital and two more relating to the changes in the Goods and Services Tax that were made since the adjournment of the previous session. Another Bill relating to reorganisation of certain villages that were merged with the municipal bodies nearby is also expected to be tabled in the session. Two ordinances relating to Housing and setting up of Horticulture University are likely to be replaced by relevant Acts during the session, according to sources. The House is expected to start with the Question Hour that would be followed by the Zero Hour and short discussion on issues of immediate public importance. The meeting of the Business Advisory Committees would follow after the lunch break to decide about the duration of the session as well as the priority items that should be included in the agenda. The State government has asked the departments to keep the details of their activities since the last session updated. Circular issued In a circular issued to the departments, the government has asked the departments to send a note on the activities of the respective department including the schemes being implemented and the initiatives that were taken as also the details of the important programmes. Proforma had been circulated to the departments asking them to mention the scheme, the year of its launch, the number of beneficiaries and the amount spent so far. “Notes relating to the information has been received from all the departments,” a senior GAD official told The Hindu . Arrangements reviewed Meanwhile, Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy convened a meeting of senior officials including top officials of the Police department on the arrangements that are being made for the smooth conduct of the session. Addressing the participants, he said the session should be conducted in a transparent way like the previous Budget session and there was need for cooperation from the government officials in this regard. Officials should keep the information about their respective programmes ready so that it could be circulated among the members as and when asked. Departments should nominate nodal officers who should be present in the House and steps should be taken to furnish replies for the questions asked by the members in the previous session. Steps should also be taken to ensure strict adherence to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and protocols issued from time to time. In addition to ensuring that peaceful atmosphere prevailed inside the House, officials should focus on ensuring that there were no untoward incidents on the Legislature premises too. The Police department in particular should extend their utmost cooperation in the smooth conduct of the session, he said, thanking the officials for the effective conduct of the sessions as compared to several other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monsoon-session-of-legislature-set-to-start-from-today/article36642261.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL set to achieve production target||In the backdrop of increasing demand for energy with the economic activity returning near normalcy, as it was before the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown last year, the demand for coal too is on the rise improving the prospects of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) crossing the target of producing 70 million tonnes (mt) coal this fiscal. “We have plans to commence production in at least 10 new mines over the next three years and add production of at least 5 mt every year to reach a production target of 85 million tonnes by the end of 2023-24,” a senior executive of the coal company said adding that the company has secured environmental clearance for the Cluster of GDK-1 and 3 and GDK-2, 2a and 5 (Godavarikhani) opencast and underground mines with a normative production capacity of of 4.1 mt per annum. The plan to add at least 5 mt production capacity every year for the next three years has been prepared keeping in mind the closure of some existing mines during the period. Along GDK (Godavarikhani) cluster, JVR (Jalagam Vengal Rao) OC-2, VK (Venkatesh Khani), the company has plans to start production in MVK, Goleti, Rompedu (JK), Tadicherla, Penagadapa and New Patrapada (in Odisha) over the next three years. A recent move by the Ministry of Coal to regulate coal supply to thermal power projects to ensure required coal supplies to plants having higher plant load factor was a clear indication of rapidly increasing demand of energy, the official said. He cited the example of SCCL itself as the production in the first five months of the current fiscal was 25.4 mt against 14.79 mt during the same period during the previous fiscal. Similarly, the supplies (dispatches) of coal this year has been 26.71 mt till August-end of 2021-22 against 14.18 mt during the same period of 2020-21. Increase in the production of supply, which is nearly 72% and over 88%, respectively this fiscal compared to the last fiscal also makes the demand for fuel clear. Along with GDK opencast and underground mines (5) cluster and JVR opencast-2 extension, which also secured environmental clearance last month, the SCCL management has plans to commence production in the Naini (Odisha) coal block this fiscal, at least during the fag end of 2021-22 in the third one. Over the next couple of years, the three projects are expected add about 10 mt production, the SCCL official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-set-to-achieve-production-target/article36642255.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Genetic testing mandatory for every married couple’||India with a huge population and known for endogamous and consanguineous marriages — within the same community or family — it is necessary for every married couple to undergo genetic testing for thalassemia since there is a chance of one in 30 to pass on the gene to the off-spring, said scientists of the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) on Thursday. CCMB has a full-fledged Genetic Diagnostic Centre within its premises where several options are there for families to get tested for various genetic diseases caused by mutations, which could manifest in the subsequent generations from silent carriers. These could be neurological diseases, cancers, sickle cell anaemia, spinal muscular atrophy and several others. “Most genetic diseases are incurable but can be managed or prevented with early detection and diagnosis. There is a chance for mutated gene to be carried into every pregnancy. Rare diseases occur in one or two persons in every 5,000, which means 70-96 million people are susceptible to carrying genetic disorders collectively putting a healthcare burden,” said scientist Surya Prabha during ‘Open Day’ virtual presentation. Genetic diseases could affect several generations in a family and any incidence of repeated pregnancy failures, failure to identify health issue despite numerous tests, hole in the heart, deformities during birth and the likes should be the alerts to seek genetic counselling and testing for identifying the disorders. While there are no curative treatments, about 800 of them can be managed with injections, transfusions and gene therapy available for four disorders, she said. Various tests can be carried out during the pregnancy testing the fluids to check for the signs of any genetic diseases in the off-spring using cytogenetic, molecular and sequencing techniques. Hypertension and diabetes do not have a cure while tuberculosis is rampant despite medication being available, so there is nothing to be unduly alarmed about genetic disorders, the scientist observed, offering hope of advanced treatments available within 10-15 years. Earlier, director Vinay K. Nandicoori said every year close to 10,000 students visit the campus for interacting with scientists and watching them work in labs during ‘Open Day’ programme but the pandemic has forced an online event for the second successive year and hoped for a return to normalcy next year. CCMB has contributed a lot during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/genetic-testing-mandatory-for-every-married-couple/article36642235.ece
24 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A book that explores 1965 war heroics||September 23 is a golden day in Indian military history when the Indian Army decisively won the 1965 war turning the defensive position into an offensive stance and hunting the hunters mercilessly. The war on record is inconclusive though, as the Indian Army was asked to stand off when they were just 13 km away from Lahore with the ceasefire announced, but not before inflicting serious damages to Pakistan defence forces that were better equipped and better prepared, being the aggressors. “The strategy of this battle is known world over and serves as a lesson plan for a lot of war colleges around the world, but we Indians do not know about it,” says Sonnia Singh, author of “The Turning Points 1965 War” that gives a refreshing insight into the war victories through short stories format and personal details. The daughter of Brigadier Surinder Singh, who was part of the war, says each story highlights the point of no return wherein the position of a seeming defeat of India was turned into a victory, thanks to the grit of our soldiers and the strategic planning of the military commanders. Amongst the most interesting chapters of the book include ‘Champions of the Cerulean Skies’ where the might of the Air Force came into play with daredevil tactics while ‘The Conqueror of Haji Pir’ is a tribute to Maj. Ranjit Dayal’s unbelievable bravado for the capture of the Haji Pir Pass. The audacious capture of Dograi, twice by Lieutenant Colonel Desmond Hayde, the spectacular annihilation of Pakistan’s sophisticated Patton tanks (Supplied by the US) at the tide-turning point in Khemkaran reflected in the ‘Battle of Assal Uttar’, and the audacious attack by the Indian Air Force on the pride of the Pakistan Air Force - Sargodha Air base is narrated in ‘Good Morning Sargodha.’ The author also explores the factors that led to the loss of initial victories gained due to differences in opinion of the commanders apart from the situation turned due to the foresight and courage of Lt. Gen. Harbaksh Singh and the bravado by the Marshall of the Indian Air Force Arjan Singh. The IAF participated in a war for the first time. “The book also recognises the valour and the expertise of the enemy where applicable as India honours all Heroes,” she says, adding that the present generation must understand how India fought its wars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-book-that-explores-1965-war-heroics/article36642241.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP to rake up ‘forgotten’ TRS promises||The State unit of the BJP will be highlighting the issues of implementing the ‘Dalit Bandhu’ throughout the State and will try to pin the TRS government on the ‘forgotten’ promises of providing stipend to the unemployed youth and sanctioning three acres to each Dalit family, among the many other subjects of public importance in the forthcoming Legislative Assembly Session. This was decided at an impromptu meeting held between party president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar along with MLAs - T Raja Singh and M. Raghunandan Rao in Goverdhanpet of Sircilla district as part of the ongoing ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ of the former for the 27th day on Thursday. Addressing a public meeting later, the BJP chief lashed out at the government for misusing the police to foist false cases against his partymen and demanded the department to remain impartial rather than take action at the bidding of the ruling party functionaries. “I have nothing but respect for the police personnel but few officers have been taking a partisan stand. But, we are not going to be afraid of cases being filed or dragging us to courts. Mr. Raja Singh himself has 45 cases against him but he is unfazed,” he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar said Sircilla district has not yet seen much development despite Minister and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao representing it and wondered why farmers have to struggle to get sufficient water. Common people are being deprived of basic infrastructure as is evident during the recent rains when most areas were under water, he said. He questioned the government about its strategy to deal with bumper harvests and said his party will be on the farmers side if the government continues to threaten them to force into raising alternate crops. “Why are farmers denied insurance scheme of the Centre? Why is soil testing not being taken up for which funds were released,” he questioned. Bandh ‘laughable’ At a separate press conference, former MLC P. Sudhakar Reddy said the joint opposition call for a country wide bandh on Sept.27 is “laughable” and said none of the parties starting from the Congress to the Left parties have “no right” to criticise the Modi government considering the “people- friendly” policies in the last seven years. Meanwhile, senior leader G. Narayan Reddy suggested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao limit the proposed hike of RTC fares and power tariff to 5-10% and charged that both utilities are in doldrums due the latter’s own making in not allowing incremental raise in rates in the last few years, pushing them into heavy losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-rake-up-forgotten-trs-promises/article36642259.ece
24 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||How India overcame odds, UK tasted defeat for first time||Exactly five years after the diplomatic coup by getting its judge elected to the ICJ, Indian diplomat Syed Akbaruddin has written a ringside account of the event. ‘India Vs UK’ is a testament to the changing dynamics of multi-lateral governance and international law. Just before the book is to be launched, Syed Akbaruddin, who was India’s Permanent Representative to the UN, shared his views about how India overcame odds and the UK tasted defeat for the first time. It was the first time a G5 member could not get its judge elected to ICJ. Why did you think you needed to tell this story? Much of written history sources we are taught in schools are not Indian. These are the accounts of foreign travellers, be it Megasthenes, Fa Hien or Hiuen Tsang. Our knowledge of the past was not written by the participants but by visitors. I want to create a tradition where important issues and stories are told by those who participate. Such stories build institutions, institutions that help the society in the long run. I wanted to talk about the many young foreign officers who were part of the diplomatic jigsaw puzzle which came together for this triumph. The Foreign Affairs Committee report on the ‘2017 Elections to the International Court of Justice’ reached a conclusion that the ‘influence of UK at the UN is at risk’. International relations are dynamic relative to the country’s position. The UN froze certain statuses dating to 1945 or before the middle of the last century for perpetuity. India became an original member of the UN even before it became Independent, as the UK assumed India would vote for them. The permanent members designed the system, which ensured that they would win even if there were elections. One of these institutions was the ICJ. Judges should be independent. Why is there a requirement about a country and how many votes it can get? The bylaws work in their favour as you have to win in both the bodies to get elected. This gives a disproportionate influence to the permanent members. You need eight votes to win in SC. The five members are guaranteed of five votes because of the you-scratch-my-back-I-scratch-yours policy. It is not an even playing field at all. That’s why for 70 years they have been winning. This has now changed. How were the voting commitments at General Assembly and Security Council marshalled or managed? The Arthashastra says, ‘When it is our interests. All is fair’. Every instrument of leverage is used to gain in stature. We had political clout and we put in more effort. When you create history, there will be a fallout. Next time we contest elections to a world body there will be doubts among the participants as to whether they want to take on India. Did you manage to sleep during those crucial days? Indian diplomacy doesn’t sleep. Those were very restless days. It was a 24-hour effort. We had to deal with Pacific Time, feedback at New York time and also keep the Headquarters (New Delhi) in the loop. Technological platforms enabled quick decision making over wide cross section of decision makers. Technology now available has provided secrecy and quick exchange of information. We would not have been able to move the issue this quickly 20 years earlier.    (The interview has been edited for reasons of space)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/how-india-overcame-odds-uk-tasted-defeat-first-time/article36642244.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TREDA Property Show from October 1||Telangana Real Estate Developers Association (TREDA) announced the 11th edition of Property Show, from October 1 to 3 at HITEX Exhibition Centre with over 100 stakeholders including builders, material suppliers, and financial institutions, showcasing their latest offerings during the event. Telangana Real Estate Developers Association president R Chalapathi Rao and fellow office bearers - secretary general Sunil Chandra Reddy, executive vice president M. Vijaysai and treasurer K. Sridhar Reddy, told a press conference that while the COVID-19 pandemic had impacted the industry since the beginning of 2020 and the lockdowns imposed during the first and second waves, the immunisation process had been helping a great deal in bouncing back to normal. ‘Right time’ “Hyderabad is doing remarkably well in recent times and as we head towards the festive season, this is the right time for every prospective buyer to consider, plan and invest in a property of their choice, that could not just benefit them in short-term but in long-term as well,” he said. ‘Scoring high’ Mr. Chalapathi Rao said the twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad continued to score high in the corporate world and had become the most preferred destination for multinational companies to set up operations. The industry-friendly reforms and innovative policies that had been undertaken by the Telangana Government had also led to significant developments putting the real estate sector on a progressive track, he claimed. While real estate companies would display their range of properties like apartments, villas, plots and farm lands suited to various classes of customers, financial institutions like State Bank of India, HDFC Ltd, ICICI Bank Ltd, IIFL Home Finance Ltd, and Canara Bank would offer their home loan products along with suppliers displaying their latest products and services. Entry is free for the three-day property show open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. on all three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/property-show-from-oct-1/article36642249.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court dismisses IAS officer Srilakshmi’s plea||Noting that the Supreme Court had in several decisions deprecated the practice of staying criminal trials and police investigations, Justice Shameem Akther of the Telangana High Court dismissed a criminal petition filed by IAS officer Y. Srilakshmi of Andhra Pradesh in a CBI case involving Obulapuram Mining Company. The judge noted that the officer, against whom the CBI had filed a charge-sheet, failed to present valid grounds for the court to invoke Section 482 of Criminal Procedure Code to stall CBI Court proceedings. The interim order issued by the High Court on this July 9 in the matter was vacated. Though Section 482 of Cr.P.C. conferred wide powers on HC, they are to be used sparingly and with abundant caution, the judge said. The inherent power can be used only when there was abuse of court process or to secure ends of justice, the verdict said. The IAS officer’s case did not come under such exceptional case where the power had to be invoked, the judge said. The petitioner’s counsel contended that the CBI Court can conduct hearing on framing of charges and discharge application ‘only after the CBI filed the final report’. However, the CBI lawyer argued that investigation into the alleged illegal mining was completed. The issue of illegal mining at the areas abutting the inter-State border between Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka was sub-judice with the apex court seized of the matter, the counsel said. It was the prerogative of the investigating agency to probe into particular issue in a case and the petitioner cannot compel CBI to investigate a particular matter, the CBI lawyer argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-dismisses-ias-officer-srilakshmis-plea/article36642253.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court summons Finance Special Chief Secretary||Telangana High Court had instructed Special Chief Secretary, Finance, K. Ramakrishna Rao, to appear before it on this September 29 to explain the delay over releasing money towards compensation in land acquisition cases pending before different courts in the State. A bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar on Thursday issued Form-I notice to the senior IAS officer in a contempt of court matter filed by seven persons hailing from different districts. They were seeking compensation under the Land Acquisition Act. The contempt of court matter arose out of a taken-up PIL petition. In 2017, Mahbubnagar District Principal Judge wrote to the HC about the inordinate delay in releasing compensation to the farmers and villagers, whose lands were acquired for different projects, despite the court passing orders. The letter was suo moto taken up as PIL petition by the High Court. The bench instructed all the District Collectors to present details pertaining to the pending cases of execution petitions. The judge stated that several persons from Adilabad, Karimnagar, Khammam, Mahbubnagar, Nalgonda, Medak, Nizamabad, Ranga Reddy, Warangal, Jagityal and Kamareddy districts lost their lands but could not secure compensation. After hearing the PIL plea, the bench issued orders to the State government to pay the compensation sums to the persons who lost their lands. The government had to pay Rs. 52.70 crore towards compensation along with an interest amount of Rs. 5.48 crore to the persons who lost their lands. Though the government had issued an order according administrative sanction for payment of the money, the Finance Department did not give the concurrence, the court said.  Several persons across the State lost their lands but could not secure compensation. High Court, Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-summons-finance-special-chief-secretary/article36642257.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sunday-Funday back on Tank Bund||After a gap of one week due to Ganesh immersion, Sunday as Funday will be back on Tank Bund from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. on September 26. Special Chief Secretary of the Municipal Administration department Arvind Kumar tweeted on Thursday that the Sunday-Funday event by closing Tank Bund to vehicular traffic and allowing public movement on the long stretch of road only by walk would have some special attractions this time. The programmes on the occasion include performance by the band company of Telangana State police, orchestra with Telugu songs, folk arts of Telangana like Oggu Dolu, Gussadi and Bonalu kolatam and fireworks. There would also be eateries, exhibition of handlooms and handicraft, distribution of free saplings by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) and many more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sunday-funday-back-on-tank-bund/article36642250.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Manthan co-founder Ajay Gandhi passes away||A noted chartered accountant and co-founder of Manthan, a platform for social discourse, Ajay Gandhi, died on Thursday evening at the age of 65. He was admitted to Basavatarakam Indo-American Cancer Hospital and Research Institute for a fortnight. Gandhi was the chairman of Hyderabad chapter of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India over two decades ago. He was a partner of Gandhi & Gandhi firm of chartered accountants at Basheerbagh. Gandhi was also a trustee of Hyderabad Literary Trust which conducted the annual Hyderabad Literary Festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manthan-co-founder-ajay-gandhi-passes-away/article36642248.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Admission for Armed Forces college||Telangana Social Welfare Residential Armed Forces Preparatory Degree College for Women, Bibinagar, (TSWRAFPDCW), has invited SC students for attending spot admission to fill remaining 46 seats for academic year 2021-22. Available courses are B.Sc (MPC) and BA(HEP). The admission process will be held on the college premises Sept 23-25. Selected candidates will be provided additional Army training under supervision of a retired military officer along with a degree. The students will be chosen based on their performance in written test (academic), physical test and medical test. For further information, contact 995010687 and 9182709884.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/admission-for-armed-forces-college/article36642512.ece
24 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ICET results released; 51,316 candidates qualify||Results of the Telangana State Integrated Common Entrance Test (TS-ICET)-2021, held for admission into MBA and MCA courses in Telangana, were released on Thursday with 51,316 candidates emerging successful. Chairman of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) Prof. R. Limbadri released the results along with TSCHE former chairman Prof. T. Papi Reddy, Vice Chancellor of Kakatiya University Prof. Thatikonda Ramesh and ICET-2021 convener Prof. K. Raji Reddy. He said that out of 66,034 candidates registered for the test, 56,962 had taken the test - of which 51,316 qualified. He said that there was increase in candidates who had applied for ICET-2021. Last year 58,392 candidates registered while 41,506 qualified. The test was conducted on August 19 and 20 in 10 regional centres in the State and 4 centres in Andhra Pradesh. R. Lokesh secured the first rank while Pamidi Sai Tanuja secured second rank followed by R. Naveen Akshantha (3rd) and Tummaraja Shekhara Chakravarthy (4th). All of them are from Hyderabad. The 5th rank went to Potla Anand Paul from Gudlavalleru in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh. Candidates who appeared for the test can check their score and rank besides downloading their rank card and final answer key on ‘https://icet.tsche.ac.in’. The scores and ranks would be used for admission into MBA and MCA courses in the universities and their constituent and affiliated colleges in Telangana State for the academic year 2021-2022. Kakatiya University was entrusted with the job of conducting the test this year. Registrar Prof. Venkat Ram Reddy Byru, former conveners Prof. Om Prakash, Prof. Ch. Rajesham and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/icet-results-released/article36642262.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 247 COVID cases||There were 247 new positive cases of COVID and one death in the State on Thursday. As many as 51,251 samples were tested on Thursday, including 45,608 in government institutions and 5,913 in private. The number of recovered cases were 315. Reports for 1,355 samples were awaited, the media bulletin on COVID issued by the government said. The cumulative positive cases went up to 6,64,411 with the new cases. The highest number of 71 cases were detected in GHMC followed by 21 in Karimnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-247-covid-cases/article36642239.ece
24 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MoU to help students with mentorship||Vardhaman College of Engineering (VCE) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with MassMutual Global Business Services India that will help students to develop their entrepreneurial skills through a host of mentorship and internship programmes. MassMutual in India will also set up a Center of Excellence in the college to conduct hackathons, master classes and solutioning sessions. Rewarding career Subject matter experts will also help to strengthen the curriculum from the perspective of making a rewarding career. MassMutual India is an IT enabled services enterprise that has recently opened its first Global Capability Centre outside the US, in Hyderabad. Head of MassMutual Ravi Tangirala appreciated the Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship and opined that dynamic leadership of the management had fetched laurels to the college. Principal of the college JVR Ravindra said the MoU will prove to be an excellent opportunity for students to hone their technical and managerial skills. Chairman of the Vardhaman College of Engineering T. Vijender Reddy was also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mou-to-help-students-hone-entrepreneurial-expertise/article36642242.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Talasani echoes demand for merger||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Cinematography Talasani Srinivas Yadav has seconded the idea of merger of area under Secunderabad Cantonment with GHMC, and said this was the only way for development of the areas under Cantonment. He spoke after release of 168 double bedroom housing units for beneficiaries in Katta Maisamma Silver Compound at Krishna Colony in Rasoolpura, which comes under the Secunderabad Cantonment constituency. The Cantonment area remained far from development as it came under the Central government’s purview, and lacked funding. Welfare and development programmes would get a boost if it was merged with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Cororation and owing to annexation of 10,000 acres more, the housing scheme for the poor would receive a fillip, Mr. Srinivas Yadav said. The Minister’s statements came on the heels of Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao’s tweet a day ago favouring merger of Cantonment. Ministers Mohammed Mahmood Ali and Ch. Malla Reddy too were present at the launch of the housing complex built in eight blocks with ground plus three floor structures, and an estimated expenditure of Rs. 17.36 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talasani-echoes-demand-for-merger/article36642254.ece
24 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MSN Labs’ generic drug to treat renal cell carcinoma||MSN Labs has launched Cabolong, a branded generic of Cabozantinib, for the treatment of renal cell carcinoma. Cabolong is available in 20mg/40mg/60mg strengths at a pricing of below Rs. 10,000 for monthly treatment regimen with the highest strength. In contrast, the same therapy cost runs into lakhs (of rupees) with imported brands currently available in the market, the company said in a release on Thursday. MSN Labs said it has set up a dedicated oncology division, whose focus is on presenting a comprehensive range of affordable high quality, bio-equivalent generic oncology medicines to benefit patients in India. “Given the rising cancer incidence in our country and overwhelming treatment costs, launch of our dedicated oncology division demonstrates our unwavering commitment to patients’ health and economic well-being,” it said. Cabolong is manufactured at MSN Labs facility approved by global regulatory authorities such as US FDA and EU GMP, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/msn-labs-generic-drug-to-treat-renal-cell-carcinoma/article36642233.ece
24 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Campaign for tribal varsity in old Adilabad launched||A campaign to start a tribal university in erstwhile Adilabad district was held at the Government Junior College and Matrushree Degree Colleges, Asifabad, by the Tribal University Practice Committee on Wednesday. The government should set up a university, the Committee members said. However, the Central and State governments were neglecting the issue, they said. On Thursday, Tribal University Sadhana Kai Kumrambhim Students' Rally-Demonstration was organised at Asifabad, Kagaznagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/campaign-for-tribal-varsity-in-old-adilabad-launched/article36642511.ece
24 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||COVID-19 testing camp in govt. school||A COVID-19 testing camp was organised at the Government high school, Shanti Nagar, in the town on Thursday after a student of the school reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. According to sources, a student of the school contracted the coronavirus infection at his home and was subsequently diagnosed with COVID-19 after undergoing a test at a designated centre in the town on Wednesday. This has prompted the authorities to conduct a COVID-19 testing camp for the students and staff members of the school on Thursday. All of them have tested negative for COVID-19, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-testing-camp-in-govt-school/article36642265.ece
24 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Fast-track court will try rape-murder case’||Expressing shock over the rape and murder of a 54-year-old woman from Mushampally, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy said all measures would be taken to deliver justice to the family through a fast-track court. “It is very unfortunate. The case trial will be done through a fast-track court. The police too are collecting important evidence that will lead to conviction of the accused,” he said, speaking to media persons outside the district hospital on Thursday. Mr. Reddy, joined by local legislator K. Bhupal Reddy, visited the hospital and condoled the bereaved family. Huge protests by voluntary organisations and women wings of political parties marked the day, including bombarding Mr. Reddy with questions outside the hospital. According to leaders of the All India Democratic Women’s Association, liquor abuse in villages, even through unauthorised liquor vends and absence of inspection by the Excise department, was one of the contributing factors for the crime. As the victim hailed from the Arya Vysya community, and earned livelihood through a kirana store at Mushampally, several shopkeepers in the town downed their shutters on Thursday to protest the act. Scores of community elders and leaders, took out rallies in the town to condemn the crime. They later submitted a representation to Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath. Later in the evening, State Women’s Commission chairperson Sunitha Laxma Reddy visited the victim’s family at Mushampally. Meanwhile, the Nalgonda police produced the two accused in the rape and murder – 38-year-old Bakkathatla Lingaiah and 29-year-old Yerpujalla Shankar – before media They were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fast-track-court-will-try-rape-murder/article36642251.ece
24 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||The birds are their lifeline||Where there is a will there is a way! There are many ways to eke out a livelihood and if you have the will to rough it out, life becomes smooth sailing. Meet Rajender and Ganesh, both in their late 30s, who have come all the way from Dharmapuri district in Tamil Nadu, about 1,000 kilometres from here. On Tuesday morning, they were busy arranging the birds they had brought with them. The birds are cooped up in nets so that they will not fly or run away. They have put up nets on the upper side also so that birds have no escape route. The birds include Jenivala, Kadakanath, Giri Raja, country chicken (naatu kollu) and baby ducks. For each trip, they start their journey with about 1,000 birds and sell them across Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. The birds are transported in a van from one place to another, and they do business for a couple of days and depending on demand, it would be extended. The feed for birds is also carried by them so that it would not be a problem for them. “Every year we travel for about 10 months and do our business. These birds are our lifeline and we are making a living on this. We buy these birds from local farms at our native place. There is a good response from the public at several places,” Mr. Ganesh told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/the-birds-are-their-lifeline/article36642515.ece
24 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||WFP, ICRISAT to partner on climate-resilient food security||The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) will partner on programmes and research to improve food, nutrition security and livelihoods in India against the impacts of climate change. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed on Thursday between Mr. Bishow Parajuli, WFP India Representative and Country Director, and Dr. Jacqueline Hughes, Director General, International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics. “This is a strategic partnership between the WFP and International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics as both are aligned by their vision of food security, especially for the poorest and most vulnerable communities. It comes on the day that the pioneering United Nations Food Systems Summit kicks off in New York. The increasing/frequent climate crises and shocks such as the COVID-19 pandemic have worsened global hunger, threatening food security, nutrition and the livelihoods of millions,” Mr. Parajuli said. “This partnership strengthens efforts to bring together science, knowledge and implementation frameworks to bolster food security, nutrition and livelihoods that are resilient to climate change,” he added. “Climate-resilient food security, nutrition and livelihoods, especially for smallholder farmers and ecologically vulnerable communities, are focus areas for International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, and with this partnership, we aim to generate ideas and frameworks for policy positions relevant not just for India but regionally and globally,” Dr. Hughes said. “The latest IPCC report has sounded an alarm over the impact of climate change on agriculture and food security. A significant part of this partnership will be focused on vulnerability analysis at the state level in India and will be directed towards evolving a sustainable food systems approach,” she added. WFP in India and International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics will work jointly to promote research, advocacy and awareness-raising on traditional nutritious crops, undertaking food and nutritional security analysis, and adaptation strategies, among other engagements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wfp-icrisat-to-partner-on-climate-resilient-food-security/article36642245.ece
24 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sugarcane ryots apprehensive over milling prospects||The sugar cane farmers in Zaheerabad area are uncertain about their future. In the last one month they have organised protests for at least two times urging the authorities to see that milling is taken up at Trident Sugars Limited, a private industry located on the outskirts of the Revenue divisional headquarters. The farmers are alleging that Trident Sugars has been playing with their lives for the past two years by not clearing arrears for some time and then not taking up milling. The factory owed about Rs. 13 crore in arrears to the sugar cane farmers, and the families of farmers who are dependent on the amount are suffering. The government authorities were forced to approach the court seeking a direction to the factory management to pay the amount. Finally, after the intervention by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Collector M. Hanumantha Rao and auction of some movable assets, the factory management released the pending arrears in a phased manner. As the season commenced, the farmers started cultivating sugar cane, in an area of around 25,000 acres. “About 12,000 farmers have already sown sugar cane and the output will be around 12 lakh metric tonnes. Two years ago there was drought and so the crop was cultivated in a smaller area and the output was also less. But this time the situation has changed and farmers had already sown the crop,” said M. Pandu Ranga Reddy, a farmer from Zaheerabad, adding that Gayatri Sugars at Magi and Kamareddy have accepted to take 3 lakh metric tonnes of sugar cane followed by Ganapati Sugars 4 lakh metric tonnes and Krishnaveni Sugars at Kothakota to mill 3 lakh metric tonnes. However, farmers transporting sugar cane to far-off places will have to incur additional costs and they are demanding payment of transport charges. “We are in discussions with the management of Trident Sugars and lay off will be lifted in a day or two. They will overhaul the machinery and get ready for milling,” said an officer involved in the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sugarcane-ryots-apprehensive-over-milling-prospects/article36642263.ece
24 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Scanning QR Code can be harmful’||A malicious QR Code, if scanned through your smartphone, can be hacked, said Arun Soni, cybersecurity expert and certified ethical hacker, international author and speaker. Mr. Soni delivered a guest lecture in a webinar on ‘Cyber Security Awareness’ at GITAM University, on Thursday, which was jointly organised by Department of Electrical, Electronics & Communications Engineering, School of Technology and CYSEC Student Club. “The QR code could potentially hide dangerous malware that would be served up to your phone once scanned. Hackers can use a QR code for various malicious purposes. It can direct you to a malicious website, or malicious software like spyware. It can easily be installed on your smartphone through this,” he elaborated. He advised the public to maintain a separate bank account for linking to UPI apps. If one ever gets the wrong transaction done through UPI app, there is an option of ‘Raise Dispute’ in most of the apps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scanning-qr-code-can-be-harmful/article36642516.ece
24 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||45 packets of ganja seized, one arrested||The Siddipet police arrested one Ch. Anil and seized 45 packets of ganja. On a tip off, the police raided Anil’s house in Gundlacheruvu village and seized 550 grams of ganja. According to Circle Inspector Parashuram Goud and Task Force CI Prasad, the accused was bringing ganja from Dhulpet area and selling it. They urged people to call 100 to pass on any information regarding sale of ganja or gutka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/45-packets-of-ganja-seized-one-arrested/article36642264.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Aakashavaani’ movie review: Director Ashwin Gangaraju comes up with an endearing original tale||Original stories are rarely heard, forget about being made into cinema. Debut director Ashwin Gangaraju’s story comes as a breath of fresh air to Telugu cinema. Aakashavani has a sensible plot with a parable. The setting is an unpolluted agency area where a group of 40 people are born, raised and have lived all their lives without seeing a stranger. Their only God is a lingam-shaped stone which is replaced or upgraded by a discarded malfunctioning radio; the sound that comes now and then is presumed to be a talking God, the Aakashavaani. While the director completely relies on the story to work, Suresh Raghutu’s lens captures the beautiful Paderu area and the agency settlement in its greens and browns. This is not an easy film to write and execute. There are many newcomers along with a few familiar faces, but they all come together and do not let your mind wander. At the end of the film, you are reminded of the moral science class at school. On the other side of the settlement is a king, Dora (Vinay Verma), and his yes men who continue to live off the tribals who seem to be uncivilised in the conventional manner of speaking. The tribals are harassed, beaten and forced to consider the king as their God. Dora’s chieftain from the tribe, Sambhadu (Teja Kakamanu), makes life miserable for them. . Dora who has plenty of wealth but cannot protect his sick and dying son, tells Sambhadu, “Kill their dhairyam (courage) and daivam (God); they shouldn’t listen to Aakashavaani any more.” The chieftain passes a diktat: “gorrellaku kommulu undakoodadhu, goodaniki dammulu undakoodadhu ” (the goats shouldn’t have horns and the village shouldn’t have guts). The story explores what happens when a school teacher Chandram master (Samuthirakani) steps into this setting and tries to make the tribals see the true picture. A Hiranyakashyap-Prahlad story reference works as a catalyst and also a denouement giving the story a perfect closure. There is so much you can gather from the dialogues as well and the well-written screenplay. Initially the film keeps you guessing about where the story is headed, but the subtle entertainment creeps in by the interval. There’s a sprinkling of physics and a takeaway about faith. Newcomer Mime Madhu as the doting father Ranga does a fabulous job. Samuthirakani and Vinay Verma are apt for their roles. The film has a number of theatre actors who have mingled with the junior cast so well and have allowed the story to move forward seamlessly. The film has no loud soundtrack to heighten the atmosphere and the background score is good. Aakashavani is like a folklore, do watch it and the director will not disappoint you.  Aakashavaani  Cast: Samuthirakani, Vinay Varma, Madhu  Direction: Ashwin Gangaraju  Music: Kaalabhairava  Streaming on: Sony LIV||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aakashavaani-movie-review-director-ashwin-gangaraju-comes-up-with-an-endearing-original-tale/article36642247.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Cantonment denying development, welfare to people: KTR||The talk over merger of the Cantonment area in GHMC cropped up again during a press conference held by Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao here on Thursday, with the minister reiterating that it is necessary for the development of the area and convenience of people. Responding to a question, the minister stated that he did not propose the idea but it had come from the people of the area. With the GHMC area surrounding the Cantonment area, the minister said its administration not being in the control of GHMC was creating coordination and administrative issues. Stating that indiscriminate actions such as road closures was causing a lot of inconvenience to people living within Cantonment area as well as outside, the minister said the State government was unable to take up any development and welfare work there such as construction of flyovers and underpasses and running Annapurna outlets that offer Rs. 5 a meal. Nala encroachments On the removal of nala encroachments, which was leading to inundation of a large number of abutting localities, Mr. Rama Rao said the government was mulling over a legislation to make the encroachment removal hurdle-free. The government was also considering allotment of some houses from out of the 70,000 double-bedroom houses ready for occupation for the rehabilitation of those displaced in the nala encroachment removal. A detailed study was conducted on nala encroachments in the city by a few agencies engaged by the government including the details of type of structures, government and private lands, extent of encroachment of nalas as per the master plan, status of retaining walls of nalas and others. However, it would be possible only by taking people and elected representatives into confidence. He cited the example of Anandbagh area, where inundation of a locality was taking place every monsoon season. After talking to the residents and elected representatives of the area it was decided to remove 300 houses built on the nala encroachments, but later the residents changed their mind and told the civic body that that there was no need to displace 300 families for three days’ problem every year!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cantonment-denying-development-welfare-to-people-ktr/article36642256.ece
24 September 2021||Agartala,||Khowai ruckus: HC orders stay in probe against TMC’s Banerjee, 5 others till Nov. 11||The Tripura High Court on Thursday ordered an interim stay on the ongoing investigation against senior Trinamool Congress leaders, including party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee in connection with their visit at the Khowai police station on August 8 last. Chief Justice Akil Kureshi passed the order after hearing a petition filed on behalf of Mr. Banerjee and five other TMC leaders who were booked for allegedly creating ruckus at the Khowai police station and obstructing police officers from discharging duty. Other leaders Other leaders who were named in the FIR are West Bengal Education Minister Bratya Basu, MP Dola Sen, party’s West Bengal General Secretary Kunal Ghosh and two local leaders. The High Court of Tripura on September 2 admitted a petition that sought court’s order to quash the complaint bearing FIR No. 77 of 2021 registered with the Khowai police station for offence punishable under Section 186 (with sub section 34) of the Indian Penal Code. Mr. Kureshi held a hearing in the case on Thursday and issued an interim stay on the investigation till November 11 2021. “In the meantime there shall be no further investigation or issuance of the notices against the accused persons,” the order read. The Chief Justice also ordered the listing of the next hearing on November 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/khowai-ruckus-hc-orders-stay-in-probe-against-tmcs-banerjee-5-others/article36642129.ece
24 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Doctors’ shortage: pharmacists in Odisha allowed to prescribe drugs||In a bid to overcome difficult situations due to the absence of doctors, the Odisha government has allowed pharmacists to dispense drugs to patients for 12 diseases. “Many of the single doctor hospitals in the State are managed by the pharmacists in the absence of doctors due to some reason or other. It is difficult to manage the hospitals without any specific government orders entrusting the pharmacists for treatment of patients and list of ailments to be treated by them,” said the Department of Health and Family Welfare in a communication. It said, “In order to overcome the difficulties, the government after careful consideration has been pleased to decide that in partial modification to earlier department order, the pharmacists are entrusted to dispense the drugs for ailments for treatment in absence of doctors.” Pharmacists can dispense drugs to patients suffering from upper respiratory tract infection, malaria, fever, scabies, ring worm, helminthiasis, diarrhoea, minor injuries without medico legal cases, superficial burns, drainage of abscess and some disease control programmes. They cannot prescribe drugs that are not available in Niramaya — a free drug supply scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctors-shortage-pharmacists-in-odisha-allowed-to-prescribe-drugs/article36642127.ece
24 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||In Odisha, activists, front-line workers set up doorstep helpdesks for women||Activists, self-help groups and frontline workers in Odisha have joined hands to set up helpdesks near the doorsteps of women facing violence. With this initiative, such women will be able to narrate their issues before redressal of their grievances at appropriate forums. About 90 helpdesks have been created at Anganwadi centres in Koraput, Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj districts, where the awareness level pertaining to violence against women is low. The creation of the forums assumed significance in wake of the latest National Crime Record Bureau report stating a rise in crime against women, which rose in Odisha by 9.95% in 2020 in comparison to 2019. 25K cases of violence A total of 25,489 cases of violence against women were recorded in the State in 2020, 23,183 in 2019 and 20,274 in 2018. “While working with women in villages, we came across societal as well as familial pressures and ignorance among women about reporting violence against them. We thought about intervening and reducing the gender-based violence in the three tribal-dominated districts of Koraput, Mayurbhanj and Keonjhar through community involvement,” said Uppali Mohanty of Centre for Youth and Social Development (CYSD), a non-government organisation. Ms. Mohanty said Odisha ranked third in cases of acid attack, fifth in dowry death, and seventh in kidnapping and abduction cases. “Further, it ranks fifth in murder with rape cases and 11th in rape cases. The rate of child rape cases is 7.2, which are more than the national average of 4.2,” she said. Though the government has set up helpdesks for women and children at police stations, not all victims visit them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-odisha-activists-front-line-workers-set-up-doorstep-helpdesks-for-women/article36642348.ece
24 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Playing SC card is unlikely to be a game changer for Cong. in Punjab||The Congress party hopes for a surge in its popularity ahead of the 2022 Assembly election in Punjab following the selection of a Scheduled Caste (SC) Sikh as Chief Minister, but the electoral impact of the decision may be limited. In Punjab, the SC community has traditionally been with the Congress, alongside Hindus and Jat (farmers) Sikhs, and it may be optimisic to count on additional Dalit support for the party following Charanjit Channi’s elevation as CM. At 32%, Punjab has the highest proportion of SC population of all States. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is a ‘Panthic’ party of the Sikhs and also garners support from Jat Sikhs voters. In the 2017 Assembly election in the Doaba region, which is largely SC dominated, the Congress won as many as 15 seats of the 23, which is indicative of the Congress’s hold in the SC belt. So, garnering more support may not be an easy task although the party is likely to retain its vote bank following Mr. Channi’s elevation. All the major political parties in Punjab have been trying to win over the SC vote in the run-up to the Assembly election. The SAD has announced that it will appoint an SC Deputy Chief Minister, if voted to power. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) leaders have been talking about choosing an SC for the post of Chief Minister. But the ruling Congress has already taken the lead in appointing an SC Chief Minister. Mr. Channi, as the first SC to head the government in the State, has been socially welcomed and admired by the community, but that this will politically benefit the Congress with a huge mandate may be a far-fetched conclusion as the SCs in Punjab, with sharp divisions within, are not a homogenous group who vote en bloc for any one political party. Punjab is also the birthplace of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) founded by the late Kanshi Ram. SCs used as political plank The BSP’s steady decline in Punjab supports the view that SCs in Punjab hardly ever vote as one bloc. The BSP used SCs as a political plank for the first time in 1992 but since then, the party’s fortunes in the State have declined. In 1992, it secured over 16% votes, winning nine seats in Punjab, but this dropped to around 4% votes in the 2012 Assembly poll. In 2017, its vote share percentage hit a further low of 1.5%. Moreover, the impression among the SCs that Mr. Channi’s appointment is only a stopgap arrangement against the backdrop of the party’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat’s remark that the Congress would contest the Punjab Assembly poll under Navjot Singh Sidhu’s leadership has only added to uncertainty in the community. Although the All-Indian Congress Committee later announced that both Mr. Channi and Mr. Sidhu will be the faces of the party in the State, Mr. Rawat’s remark is likely to be exploited by the Congress’ opponents over the course of electoral canvassing. There are 39 SCs in the State, which are further divided into at least 64 ‘ dera ’ sects, segregated into different faiths and religions. Most of the dera s are politically aligned, and being immensely influential among their followers, they play a significant role during the elections in swaying votes. “I don’t think the Congress has played the SC card purposely. The move, in fact, seems to be borne out of compulsion. Firstly, Ambika Soni declined the offer of the Chief Minister’s post, then the party couldn’t arrive at a consensus on Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Randhawa. Mr. Channi’s name was not even in the contention. His name came up for discussion only after the party ran out of its primary options. Having said that, there’s no doubt that the decision has socially been accepted in the community, who are enthused, but I have my reservations over whether the SC votes will be transferred entirely to the Congress. Nonetheless, with this decision, the Congress is likely to keep its existing vote bank intact, which otherwise could have split on account of the anti-incumbency factor the government is facing. The decision will benefit the party but it’s not going to be something huge that will single-handedly impact the election results,” said Des Raj Kali, well-known Punjabi novelist and political analyst, whose work focuses on the Ghadar movement, SC issues, and the literature and culture of Punjab. “The impression that, if voted to power, the Congress will have a Jat Sikh in the shape of Navjot Singh Sidhu as its next Chief Minister, is already playing at the back of mind in the SC community. Mr. Channi’s selection seems merely a stopgap arrangement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-card-unlikely-to-be-a-game-changer-for-cong/article36642106.ece
24 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Rao Inderjit Singh calls for ‘Battle of Panipat’||Hinting at his plans to play a bigger role in Haryana politics, Gurugram Lok Sabha MP and Union Minister of State Rao Inderjit Singh on Thursday emphasised the need to step outside the Ahirwal region (Gurugram-Rewari-Jhajjar belt) and fight the “Battle of Panipat”. He also asserted that his self-respect and that of his people and region was “not negotiable”. Mr. Rao was speaking at a rally, “Shaheedi Diwas Samaroh”, to mark the martyrdom of Rao Tularam, one of the key leaders of Indian rebellion of 1857 in Haryana. Time to step up Taking a dig at the State leadership for the poor show in the Assembly elections in 2019, Mr. Rao said a slogan “Abki Baar, 75 Paar” came from nowhere during the elections and everybody became complacent, but when the results came they even lost a few seats in the Ahirwal region such as Rewari. He added that since the State leaders had failed to deliver what they had promised, it was now time for them to step outside the Ahirwal region and help them. “Will we confine ourselves to just fighting for the Ahirwals, or step outside the region to fight the ‘Battle of Panipat?,” asked Mr. Rao, a five-time MP. He, however, praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that it was the blessings of “Narendra Bhai” and the support of Ahirwal region that the BJP formed its first full-majority government in Haryana in 2014. “Congress was so popular in Ahirwal region, but they did not get even a single seat in this region in 2014. Why was it so? We have contributed to the formation of two successive BJP governments, but have we been rewarded enough? I don’t want an answer to it, and leave it your wisdom,” said Mr. Rao. Leader of masses Mr. Rao, who started his speech saying that he will speak his heart out in the last five minutes, said that he was the leader of the masses and not a “parachute leader”. He also cautioned his party that he did not want anything from it, but his self-respect and that of his people and region was not “negotiable”. Though Mr. Rao did not elaborate, his remarks are being seen in the context of ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ by newly-appointed Union Cabinet Minister Bhupender Yadav in the Ahirwal region, amid speculations that the BJP might give Mr. Yadav bigger responsibility in the State. Mr. Rao also advocated the need to resume talks with the farmers. The septuagenarian leader also announced that he had no plans to retire. “I was in dilemma, but thanks to my foes, who were constantly pushing me to retire, I have now decided not to retire,” said Mr. Rao, amid loud cheers. His daughter Arti Rao Singh, who was denied the BJP ticket last year due to the party’s policy, announced that she would contest election next time with the blessings of the people of the region. She, however, added that it was not clear as to how and from where she would contest the election. State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar, three Haryana Lok Sabha MPs, two State government Ministers and two MLAs from the region were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rao-inderjit-singh-calls-for-battle-of-panipat/article36642126.ece
24 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Rao Inderjit Singh calls for ‘Battle of Panipat’||Hinting at his plans to play a bigger role in Haryana politics, Gurugram Lok Sabha MP and Union Minister of State Rao Inderjit Singh on Thursday emphasised the need to step outside the Ahirwal region (Gurugram-Rewari-Jhajjar belt) and fight the “Battle of Panipat”. He also asserted that his self-respect and that of his people and region was “not negotiable”. Mr. Rao was speaking at a rally, “Shaheedi Diwas Samaroh”, to mark the martyrdom of Rao Tularam, one of the key leaders of Indian rebellion of 1857 in Haryana. Time to step up Taking a dig at the State leadership for the poor show in the Assembly elections in 2019, Mr. Rao said a slogan “Abki Baar, 75 Paar” came from nowhere during the elections and everybody became complacent, but when the results came they even lost a few seats in the Ahirwal region such as Rewari. He added that since the State leaders had failed to deliver what they had promised, it was now time for them to step outside the Ahirwal region and help them. “Will we confine ourselves to just fighting for the Ahirwals, or step outside the region to fight the ‘Battle of Panipat?,” asked Mr. Rao, a five-time MP. The septuagenarian leader also announced that he had no plans to retire. “I was in dilemma, but thanks to my foes, who were constantly pushing me to retire, I have now decided not to retire,” said Mr. Rao, amid loud cheers.  State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar, three Haryana Lok Sabha MPs, two State government Ministers and two MLAs from the region were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rao-inderjit-singh-calls-for-battle-of-panipat/article36642354.ece
24 September 2021||JAIPUR,||BJP’s brainstorming meet plots plans for 2023 Assembly polls||A two-day brainstorming meeting of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajasthan unit, held at Kumbhalgarh, addressed the issues of weaknesses as an Opposition party and internal differences, while discussing strategies for the 2023 Assembly election. The performance of all the 71 BJP MLAs was also evaluated on the occasion. Senior BJP leader and former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje was conspicuous by her absence. The party’s national general secretary, B.L. Santosh, presiding over the ‘Chintan Shivir’, reviewed organisational structure and activities and laid emphasis on ending the perception about “factionalism and infighting”. Power continuity The BJP’s State office-bearers and core group members discussed the plans for booth management to be carried out till the elections. The party sources said a consensus emerged in the meeting, which concluded on Wednesday, for highlighting the social welfare schemes of the Narendra Modi government without projecting any individual leader as the Chief Ministerial candidate. BJP State president Satish Poonia said after returning to Jaipur that the party would try to break the belief that power shifts alternately between the Congress and BJP after every five years. “We will ensure that the BJP returns to power in 2023 and forms the government each time. The party workers will be more vocal on political issues,” he said. No factionalism Mr. Poonia denied that factionalism was adversely affecting the BJP and said it was the ruling Congress that was witnessing infighting and contradictions because of “two power centres”. He affirmed that the BJP was following an ideology rather than an individual. The BJP has been giving importance to Ms. Raje’s detractors for the last several months and has even appointed some of them to important organisational posts. Senior leaders such as Mr. Poonia, Gulab Chand Kataria, Rajendra Rathore, Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Arjun Ram Meghwal are said to be nursing Chief Ministerial ambitions. The launch of an outfit in support of Ms. Raje – Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Rajasthan Manch – had created ripples in the political circles earlier this year amid speculations that it was floated at her own behest after her marginalisation by the party’s top leadership. Signals of internal feud have been coming from the remarks of Ms. Raje’s supporters, who have asked the top leadership to announce her as the party’s CM candidate for the 2023 polls, saying she was the “most popular face” of the BJP in the State. Ms. Raje’s absence at the ‘Chintan Shivir’ has only confirmed internal differences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjps-brainstorming-meet-plots-plans-for-2023-assembly-polls/article36642131.ece
24 September 2021||Kolkata,||W.B. govt. plans mass vaccination drive for students||To reopen colleges and universities across West Bengal, the government is planning to carry out mass vaccination of students. The move has been welcomed by both teachers and students. They institutions have remained shut since March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “With a view of possible restarting of offline instructions in colleges and universities, it has been decided to vaccinate all eligible students of such higher education institutions at the earliest possible,” the State’s Health and Family Welfare Secretary wrote to District Magistrates and medical officers on Wednesday. The letter stated: “This vaccination drive will be organised by the Health and Family Welfare Department in coordination with the higher Education Department. Accordingly, you are directed to hold necessary coordination meetings with all stakeholders, including representatives of colleges/universities for planning early COVID-19 vaccination of these students.”  Vaccination centres An officer said the drive could be carried out either at the existing vaccination centres or at the campuses of educational institutions. “We welcome the move as it is diffucult for majority of our students to afford the vaccinated. The government now appears to be contemplating opening up places without putting the students at risk. Hopefully it would, in the near future, extend the scope of this decision to apply for the middle and senior school levels also,” said Prof. Kingshuk Chatterjee of University of Calcutta. Maheshtala College principal Rumpa Das said: “The move is very relevant to ensure the health security of our youth. Higher education institutions in the State have been cooperating with the State’s health machinery. This is also a very happy move to welcome back students who have been away from their favourite campuses for a long time. It strengthens solidarity as well as highlights the symbiotic bond between society and education.” Some thought such a measure was easier on paper than in execution. “Carrying out the vaccination in the college campuses is an option but a challenging one. The campuses have been closed for more than one-and-a-half years. They will first have to be sanitised and many of them may need repairing works. Maintaining physical distancing and other COVID-related protocols will also be very difficult since we have a large number of students. So, it is a more difficult process than it seems,”said Anupama Maitra, assistant professor of English at Gour Mohan Sachin Mandal Mahavidyalaya near Kolkata. Students seem pleased with the idea. “We miss our canteen, college life and can’t wait to get back. Also, several of our classmates — almost 15 of them — could not get vaccinated due to many reasons. This step will benefit them,” said Aratrika Chaudhuri, third-year Psychology student at the Bethune College. Vaccinations began in West Bengal on January 16 this year and till date 5.2 crore people have been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wb-govt-plans-mass-vaccination-drive-for-students/article36642351.ece
24 September 2021||Mumbai,||Congress asks Fadnavis to withdraw BJP candidate||Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole and senior party leader Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday visited Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to urge BJP to withdraw its candidate from the October 4 Rajya Sabha by-election and ensure Congress candidate is elected unopposed. The by-poll was necessitated after the death of Congress MP Rajiv Satav due to COVID. The Congress, which is a part of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government along with Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party has fielded senior party leader Rajani Patil while the BJP has fielded Sanjay Upadhyay. Congress leaders have appealed to the BJP to not contest the seat, reminding that the vacancy is a result of the death of its MP. Mr. Thorat had said as per the State’s political culture, no party fields a candidate on a seat fell vacant due to the death of sitting representative. As per the party-wise strength, Sena (56), NCP (53) and Congress (43) enjoy majority. Apart from these parties, out of other smaller parties such as Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (3), Samajwadi Party (2), AIMIM (2), Prahar Janshakati Party (2), CPM (1), Swabhimani Party (1), RSP (1), Jansurajya (1), PWP (1) and independents (13) many are likely to extend support to Ms. Patil. One seat is vacant after the death of Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar. BJP despite being the single-largest party in the State Assembly with 106 MLAs is unlikely to get the necessary numbers to secure a victory in this by-poll. Mr. Fadnavis said no decision on withdrawing nomination has been made by BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congress-asks-fadnavis-to-withdraw-bjp-candidate/article36642345.ece
24 September 2021||Mumbai,||Woman found positive in Byculla jail||A senior citizen inmate was found COVID-19 positive in the same barrack as Sudha Bharadwaj and Shoma Sen at Byculla jail on Thursday. Deputy Inspector General Yogesh Desai said: “The senior citizen — who was given one dose of vaccination — has been shifted to a temporary COVID Center next to Byculla jail.” He said the woman was in the same barrack as Ms Sen and Ms Bharadwaj and they have tested negative on the RTPCR test. They are accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case. Twenty other inmates have are found to be COVID positive inside the prisons and have all been shifted out to the COVID center.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-found-positive-in-byculla-jail/article36642352.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rai asks neighbouring States to switch to CNG||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said that the Delhi government has suggested neighbouring States to shift their public transport in the National Capital Region to CNG and also promote electric vehicles to control air pollution Govt.’s online meeting “To tackle the problem of pollution in Delhi-NCR in the winters, the Union Environment Ministry organised an online meeting of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, and Rajasthan governments. Public transport in Delhi runs on CNG. We have requested the Union Minister to ensure that all public transport in NCR be run on CNG so that we can curb vehicle pollution, without which Delhi’s efforts are meaningless,” Mr. Rai said. He said that all industrial units in Delhi are operated on PNG and he appealed that industrial units operating in NCR also be operated on PNG so that increasing air pollution can be reduced. “This target has been given to other States as well, but due to loose monitoring and inefficient transferring of work between units, we have requested them to hurriedly work on this to curb industrial pollution,” Mr. Rai said. He also said that the neighbouring States need to ban crackers to curb pollution on Deepawali and air pollution hotspots of U.P., Haryana should institute on-ground task forces to manage the situation better  We have requested the Union Minister to ensure that all public transport in NCR be run on CNG so that we can curb vehicle pollution Gopal Rai Environment Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rai-asks-neighbouring-states-to-switch-to-cng/article36642113.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Government work, and then homework||Arun (name changed), a 38-year-old primary school teacher, wakes up around 6.30 a.m. every day so he can start preparing study material for his class by 8 p.m.. He even manages to get some household chores done before he leaves for work at 11 a.m. But he does not head for school. In fact, Arun has not been to school for the last one year. He was roped in for COVID-19 duty by the District Magistrate (DM) office in September last year and he has not been relieved since then. “Officially, we are relieved from school duty when we join COVID-19 duty at the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) office. But since no one replaced me at school, I have to manage teaching students too,” said Arun, who teaches at a municipal corporation school. “For the last one year, in addition to COVID-19 duties, I have been teaching and I am still the in-charge of a section in Class V, which has 38 students. We had asked the principal to tell the civic body about the situation, but the authorities do not care,” he added. Hundreds of teachers have been pressed into service by the government for work related to the pandemic, including conducting surveys and issuing challans, and many have been juggling both COVID-19 duties as well as teaching. ‘Pressure from school’ “About 90% of teachers who are on COVID-19 duty are still teaching, either online or offline. Officially, they don’t have to do it. But there is pressure from the school,” said Ajay Veer Yadav, general secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association (Delhi). A Delhi government spokesperson did not offer a comment. “Once teachers are attached to COVID-19 duty, it is not mandatory for them to do school-related work as they will be automatically relieved from the school as per the rules,” a Delhi government official said. Teachers said they never had to do two duties at one time, even when they were put on election or census-related duties. Arun started reporting for duty at the SDM office after getting an SMS from the DM office. “I had to do duty at the airport in March and then again in July, just after the second wave hit. We had to check whether passengers had a RT-PCR negative report. If they didn’t, then we had to take them for checking. We were not given face shields or PPE kits and we were coming in contact with a lot of international flyers. Every day, we would find out that five-six passengers from the previous day had tested positive for the virus,” he recalled, adding that all the people on duty used to worry about their families. “It used to be midnight by the time I reached home after airport duty. My daughters would be sound asleep. I would go to the washroom and take a shower straight away before meeting my family,” he said. At one point, around 25 of the 28 teachers in Arun’s school were attached to COVID-19 duty. “The principal asked me to handle my class. Unofficially, everyone is doing it. It has increased work pressure, but not to the level that we can’t handle it,” he said, adding, “We prepare worksheets for students and send them to parents over WhatsApp. The students send us the completed work, which we then evaluate. We also send videos and audio via WhatsApp, but I don’t take live classes.” Thirty-three-year-old Priya (name changed), who teaches primary students at a Delhi government school, said she was first attached to the DM office for COVID-19 duty in November last year and currently, she has been associated since July 1. “I am teaching my students now, and also last year when I was doing COVID-19 duty,” she said. In-charge of students While being on COVID-19 duty for the last 80 days, she has also been in-charge of 40 Class IV students. “Every day, after coming back from COVID-19 duty, I cook dinner and then prepare for the next day’s school work. I prepare the worksheet and make videos or audio to explain the material. I do this generally before dinner. Around 10 p.m., I sit down to correct the worksheets sent by students. If it is only a day’s worksheet then it takes around 40 minutes, but sometimes it goes on till midnight,” said Priya, who has a son. She said that five out of nine teachers in the primary section of her school are currently on COVID-19 duty. “Last year, when we were doing a door-to-door survey, we had to work on Sundays and public holidays. Throughout COVID-19 duty, I have been managing school work too.” Priya said that earlier, when they were put on election or any other duty, it was understood that they did not have to do school work, but the situation has changed. “Now, there is an environment where everything is online, so we have to manage both. If I say no, then the pressure on colleagues will increase,” she added. Most of the teachers are managing both duties but it is strongly affecting students’ studies. She also said that work pressure has increased. “But my husband has been really supportive and I have been able to manage both duties. The other teachers also complain about workload, but we have to do it; we can’t do anything about it. Also, I can’t just leave my students, right?” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/government-work-and-then-homework/article36642124.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police force mourns death of ex-chief||Former Delhi Police Commissioner Y.S. Dadwal breathed his last on Wednesday night at the age of 70 after a prolonged illness. He was the Delhi Police chief from July 2007 to November 2010 — till a month after India hosted the Commonwealth Games in the Capital. His former colleagues mourned his death in their own ways on Thursday. While some shared their thoughts as WhatsApp status, others took to Twitter and Facebook. Standing orders “He will always be remembered as the rare officer who had vision, integrity and knowledge,” said an IPS officer who worked closely with Dadwal when he was the police chief, adding that there can probably be no officer in the force who has all three qualities. Dadwal was very clear in his direction… precise with no ambiguity, the IPS officer said with a smile recalling his senior. “His knowledge of policing was phenomenal — be it field or administrative. As a result, he revised maximum standing orders. By the time he left the force, there was probably no standing order that was pending,” he said. His biggest achievement was the smooth arrangement for the Commonwealth Games, remembered all the officers, The Hindu spoke to. “The man had visited other such events during his earlier postings. He was the Commissioner at the time we hosted CWG and he made sure that everything was done in the right order. After CWG, enquiries were opened against so many departments but not Delhi Police. ‘You are finding it hard now but you’ll realise later how important it is’, he would say while putting down everything in detail on paper,” the officer said. Political demands Holding Dadwal in high regard, an IPS officer who had worked with him believed that Dadwal was the epitome of integrity and the closest to late IPS officer Kanwar Pal Singh Gill that the Delhi police has had in terms of “leadership, resolve and non-servility towards political masters”. “On various occasions, he had brushed aside political demands with an air of nonchalance — an attribute which had made him command respect from the force as against the demands for the same,” the officer said. Promoted merit Dadwal promoted merit, the officer recalled, and it was in his tenure that most of the then inspectors “who had never thought of being posted as SHOs in absence of ‘influence’ got their first chance to serve”. The officer remembered Dadwal as someone who almost never attended any official ceremonies post retirement as he disliked them for being pompous. “He was the least likely to be heard as having called up any of his former colleagues or subordinates seeking personal favours of any kind,” the officer said. IPS Chinmoy Biswal, 2008-batch officer, who is now Deputy Commissioner of Police joined as a young Assistant Commissioner of Police in 2010 during Dadwal’s tenure. “He has always been very proper,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-force-mourns-death-of-ex-chief/article36642109.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Over 500 CCTVs installed in Tihar jail||Tihar prison complex has stepped up security after a series of violent incidents in central jail number 3, a senior officer said. The senior officer said that in August, when an inmate, Ankit Gujjar, was murdered, CCTV cameras were still being installed across jail and now they’ve been fully installed and functional. “Over 500 CCTV cameras have been installed in jail number 3. This will invoke a sense of fear amid both inmates and jail staffers that they’re under surveillance,” the officer said, adding that there’s a control room where officials monitor it 24X7. Sources said that officials have been changed across ranks to ensure a healthy environment in the jail. Another step which has been taken is to increase the frequency of searches on inmates. “Whenever there is an input, inmates are checked for weapons. The number of surprise checks have also been increased,” the officer said. ‘Troublemakers’ shifted Sources said that inmates who are “troublemakers and notorious” have been identified and transferred to other jails as a measure to prevent violence in the jail. Two Tihar jail inmates were injured after they attacked each other with sharp-edged objects inside the cell on September 18 in jail number 3. This was the fourth such incident reported in Tihar jail this month. Clash between inmates On September 11, two inmates of Tihar jail number 3 were injured after a clash broke out between them. The inmates returned to the jail after treatment. The police had registered an attempt to murder case. On September 12 and 13, two undertrial prisoners sustained injuries when they were attacked with sharp objects by fellow inmates in separate incidents. On September 12, inmate Vikas Dhull was attacked by Vikas Chopra using a surgical blade. A day later, undertrial prisoner, Vijay was attacked by fellow inmate Dinesh. He suffered injuries and was shifted to DDU Hospital.  Whenever there is an input, inmates are checked for weapons. The number of surprise checks have also been increased Jail official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-500-cctvs-installed-in-tihar-jail/article36642114.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Sixth serosurvey to start today; 28,000 samples to be collected||The Delhi government will start the sixth serological survey on Friday to find out how much percentage of the population have antibodies against COVID-19, either through natural infection or vaccination, as per an official order. The government aims to collect 28,000 blood samples of random people from all 272 wards of the city for the survey. In April, the government had started the sixth serological survey, but due to the second wave it had to be cut short. The government never made public the result of the over 12,000 samples collected in April, despite the team submitting the results to the government. The current survey is actually the seventh such survey, but as per the government order, it is termed the “six round of serosurvey”. Meanwhile, the city on Thursday reported no new COVID-19 death in 24 hours for the sixth consecutive day and the total number of fatalities stood at 25,085, as per a bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sixth-serosurvey-to-start-today-28000-samples-to-be-collected/article36642120.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Over 19,000 electric vehicles registered since policy launch||Over 1,300 electric vehicles were registered in the Capital every month since the launch of the Delhi government’s ambitious Electric Vehicle Policy last year. Private e-rickshaws providing last-mile connectivity, two-wheelers and e-rickshaws functioning as goods carriers account for the majority of EVs registered in line with the government’s vision of boosting the city’s economy, reducing pollution levels and generating employment in the city’s transport sector, a senior Transport Department official said. According to departmental statistics, a total number of 19,007 EVs were registered in the Capital between the notification of the policy on August 7, 2020 and September 22 this year. While e-rickshaws account for the lion’s share of 9,369 of the total, 3,898 two-wheelers, 3,474 e-rickshaws with carts for goods carrying purposes, 1,222 cars and 772 three-wheelers were also registered during the period. “Two-wheelers account for the largest segment of vehicles on the streets of the city; so the fact that they constitute the second-most number of EVs in the Capital is a welcome development,” said Ashish Kundra, Secretary and Commissioner, Transport. “While 30 buses were registered during the period, we have worked out the modalities of transforming the entire bus fleet into an electric one in the near future,” Mr. Kundra added. Sources said the city government, which will soon receive 300 e-buses under the cluster scheme, is also going to float a tender for the engagement of 465 more such vehicles under this scheme in the coming days. Bus fleet At least 50% of Delhi’s public bus fleet, the source said, is being targeted as an exclusively EV one by the year 2025. On August 7, following the notification of the policy, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the government aimed to ensure that 25% of the newly registered vehicles across the city by 2024 were e-vehicles which, back in that month in 2020, was only 0.2%. “Delhi is making several strides to encourage the adoption of EVs in all segments. A major step in this direction is the creation of charging infrastructure,” Mr. Kundra added.  Two-wheelers which constitute the second-most number of EVs in the Capital is a welcome development Ashish Kundra Secretary and Commissioner, Transport||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-19000-electric-vehicles-registered-since-policy-launch/article36642111.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Highlight unsung heroes associated with freedom movement, says L-G||Unsung heroes and the significance of lesser-known monuments in the Capital associated with the freedom movement should be highlighted as part of the upcoming ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ programme being organised by the Delhi government, Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal said on Thursday. Mr. Baijal issued these instructions at a meeting held to review the ongoing programmes and plans in Delhi for the celebration of the 75th anniversary of Independence. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and senior government officials were present. According to Raj Niwas, the L-G was informed that a comprehensive plan has been drawn including theme-based events, information campaigns, and exhibitions in line with five themes — Freedom Struggle, Actions @75, Resolve @75, Achievements @75 and Ideas @75. “Advised the officers to highlight the contribution of unsung heroes of freedom struggle and focus on lesser known monuments in the city associated with the freedom movement for informing and inspiring the new generation” the L-G tweeted. The L-G added that he had directed that for maximum outreach and impact, a convergence approach may be adopted with effective use of technology to spread the message while complying with COVID-19 protocols. The L-G also reviewed the status of vacancies in the Department of Education and the Department of Training and Technical Education. According to Raj Niwas, the L-G advised the officials to ensure that vacant posts, both in the promotion and direct recruitment category, are filled up in a time-bound manner. “It was emphasised that necessary steps should be taken to amend the Recruitment Rules of various posts as required to remove anomalies and attract quality talent,” the L-G tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/highlight-unsung-heroes-associated-with-freedom-movement-says-l-g/article36642116.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Areas with poor groundwater quality to get RO plants||The Delhi government is planning to install reverse osmosis (RO) plants in areas where groundwater levels are shallow, but not usable due to high salinity and hardness, to solve the water shortage in the city, Water Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. The government also promised that every slum in the city will get a RO plant. “He (Mr. Jain) instructed officials to install small RO plants in the areas where water is supplied through tankers so that people don’t have to wait for water tankers to arrive. One small RO plant will be installed for every 500 households to ensure that drinking water is available round the clock. Additionally, every jhuggi will be given at least one RO plant and wherever the population is more than 2000, more than one RO plant will be provided,” a statement from the Minister’s office said. Private companies will bear a major share of the expenditure for setting up the RO plant and the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) will buy clean drinking water at a fixed rate from them, the government said. Authorities said that based on initial studies done by DJB officials, the cost of water, in this case, will be equal to the existing cost of water treatment through conventional means. In the first phase, RO plants with a total capacity of 363 million litres per day (MLD) will be installed in areas where surplus groundwater is available, the Minister said. Over 7.25 lakh households are expected to benefit from the project. “Raw water will be supplied from the groundwater to these RO plants, after which purified water will be supplied to the households. The Delhi government is targeting to install these RO plants only in those areas where surplus groundwater is available but its poor quality makes it unfit for use,” the statement said. Okhla, Dwarka, Nilothi-Nangloi, Chilla and Najafgarh will be targeted in the first phase of this project and is expected to be completed in a year. According to the Central Ground Water Board report, Delhi’s groundwater has over 22 lakh million gallons litres of saline water. This water can be converted into drinking water after RO treatment and can be supplied with the existing water supply of DJB, as per the Delhi government. DJB is currently supplying 4,230 MLD water against a demand of 5,130 MLD in the city. This project will augment an additional 363 MLD, hence reducing the deficit of 900 MLD to 540 MLD. DJB is also working on other initiatives such as extraction wells, groundwater recharge through lake rejuvenation, ammonia treatment plants etc. to augment the water supply. All these projects are part of the broader umbrella of the Delhi government aimed to achieve round-the-clock water supply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/areas-with-poor-groundwater-quality-to-get-ro-plants/article36642118.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||AAP accuses BJP of ‘lying’ about house tax, licence fees||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders are “lying” to people that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) has reduced house tax and several licence fees, but in fact the BJP increased many licence fees by 17-25 times. “The corporation hiked the factory licence fee by almost 20 times. In the pandemic, when everyone is rolling back such fees, they have the guts to enforce such an increase. Similarly, general trade licence fee was increased by 17 to 25 times,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. He said that on the one hand, people are stressed about the loss of business, while on the other, the BJP has “doubled” the property tax on commercial properties. “A year later, in August 2021, they got articles published saying all these fee hikes have been rolled back. They said they’ve rolled back all these licence fees and also house tax for plots up to 50 square yards,” the AAP leader said. Mr. Bharadwaj said that throughout North Delhi, the BJP has put up boards and advertisements and Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta is congratulating himself on reducing the taxes that he had increased one year ago. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor termed Mr. Bharadwaj’s allegations “politically immature conduct” allegedly seeking to mislead people on the withdrawal of hiked trade licence fees apart from a waiver on property tax. “NDMC’s general house and standing committee has already approved withdrawal of hiked charges and property tax waiver which are now awaiting notification by the administrative wing. Such notifications take a few weeks’ time and are likely to happen anytime next week,” Mr. Kapoor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-accuses-bjp-of-lying-about-house-tax-licence-fees/article36642122.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Five-year-old electrocuted while playing||A five-year-old boy died of electrocution and two minors sustained injuries after they came in contact with a live electric wire in South Delhi’s Neb Sarai, the police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the deceased and the injured boys, aged five and six respectively, are residents of a slum cluster in Khanpur. The police said that they were playing near the slum cluster when they came in contact with the live wire on Wednesday. “The three boys were rushed to Max Hspital where the five-year-old boy was declared brought dead while the two others are undergoing treatment. They are stated to be out of danger, he said. The police said that a case has been registered under Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and further investigation is under way. In another incident, a five-year-old boy died and his mother sustained minor injuries after a tree fell on an auto-rickshaw near IP Extension in East Delhi on Wednesday. The police said that the boy along with his parents and a relative was travelling in the autorickshaw when the incident happened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/five-year-old-electrocuted-while-playing/article36642110.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP condemns ‘controversial’ conduct of civil defence volunteers||BJP State president Adesh Gupta on Thursday wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal over the allegedly criminal and overall “controversial” conduct of civil defence volunteers in the Capital. According to the BJP, Mr. Gupta said that in view of reports of involvement of civil defence volunteers in crime and their “indecent behaviour”, it was important to verify their credentials and to change the colour of their uniforms. ‘Association with AAP’ “On one hand there are complaints of of these volunteers’ association with Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), while on the other there are a large number of complaints related to their behaviour with public,” Mr. Gupta said. Most enrolled volunteers, Mr. Gupta alleged, had a “very poor education level” and their “character background” too was “suspicious.” “It is believed that to monetarily strengthen the AAP cadre, they are being enrolled in civil defence as paid volunteers and the enrolment process lacks transparency,” Mr. Gupta alleged. ‘Extortion complaints’ During last one year, he said, there had been “hundreds of complaints” of extortion by civil defence volunteers misusing COVID-19 regulations while in addition to their reported involvement in heinous crimes as well. The Delhi BJP president urged the LG to order a departmental review of the enrolment process of the civil defence volunteers and the police re-verification of all enrolled volunteers in addition to modifying the colour of their uniforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-condemns-controversial-conduct-of-civil-defence-volunteers/article36642121.ece
24 September 2021||Pune,||Multi-member ward system a ploy to rig polls: Thackeray||Lashing out at both the Uddhav Thackeray-led tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the erstwhile Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray said the frequent changing of the ward structure was a ploy to rig civic body and municipal council polls in the State. Speaking in Nashik on Thursday, the MNS chief hit out at the MVA government’s re-introduction of the multi-member ward system for all municipal councils and corporations [barring the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)]. “From where did this bizarre [multi-member ward] system originate in Maharashtra? And why only here? The intent solely appears to be a ruthless power grab on part of the ruling politicos who want to indulge in wanton corruption…But then, why trouble the people? Why should they be forced to press three buttons to choose three corporators in a ward?” said Mr. Thackeray, accusing the MVA of making a mockery of the election process. He further urged the State Election Commission to take action on the frequent changing of the ward structure to allegedly suit the needs of the powers that be. The decision to re-introduce the multi-member ward system, which was approved during the MVA cabinet meeting on Wednesday, marks a reversal of the government’s previous decision of December 2019 of having a single-member ward system in municipal corporations and councils. The previous Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government had introduced a multi-member ward system for all municipal corporations in 2016, which was reversed when the MVA was formed in 2019. ‘Move the courts’ Chastising all the major political parties for holding the public hostage with such changes, Mr. Thackeray urged the people to move the courts and the Election Commission in this regard. “What is the aim of the government behind these changes? Earlier, it was a two-member ward system. Then it became a four-member system, from four it became a single-member system, and now, from one, it has become a three-member ward system. This game has been going on for the last ten years and yet, we keep watching it with open eyes instead of raising our voice,” he said. Mr. Thackeray observed that in a multiple-member ward, no corporator allowed the other to work properly and all tried to outdo one another. “One corporator proposes something and the other opposes it. If people want to meet a corporator tomorrow regarding a particular problem, who should they meet? The people must take this matter with the courts because if we [the MNS] go to court, a political colour will be given to our actions,” the MNS chief said. Crimes agaonst women Criticizing the MVA for failing to control the rising crime against women, Mr. Thackeray said there was a need to introduce a stringent Sharia-like law to check serious crimes against women. “I have said this earlier as well…there is a need to introduce a Sharia-like law to instill fear among criminals and would-be offenders… There is no fear anymore…thanks to this government, there is utter chaos everywhere,” he said.  From where did this bizarre system originate in Maharashtra? And why only here? The intent solely appears to be a ruthless power grab on part of the ruling politicos who want to indulge in wanton corruption.... Raj Thackeray MNS chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/multi-member-ward-system-a-ploy-to-rig-polls-thackeray/article36642347.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Motorway madness||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/motorway-madness/article36642350.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||China sends fighter jets towards Taiwan||China sent 19 aircraft towards Taiwan on Thursday amid rising tensions across the straits, in the latest messaging from Beijing to both Taipei and Washington on its posture on the Taiwan issue. Beijing has in the past used its air force as a form of signalling, for instance recently dispatching fighters to coincide with visits of U.S. diplomats to Taiwan. The latest show of force came as Taiwan said it had submitted an application to join the 11-nation CPTPP (Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership) trade deal, days after China said it had formally applied to join the Pacific pact. Air patrol forces Taiwan’s Ministry of Defence said on Thursday it had deployed air patrol forces in response to the 19 PLA aircraft that had entered the Air Defence Identification Zone. The PLA aircraft included 12 J-16s, two J-11s, bombers and anti-submarine aircraft, a statement said. China views Taiwan as its province, although both have been ruled separately since the end of the Chinese Civil War in 1949 when the Kuomintang (KMT) and Chiang Kai-shek fled to the island. Cross-straits ties have been strained in recent years with Beijing accusing the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) and President Tsai Ing-wen, who was re-elected for a second term last year, of pursuing “independence”. Prior to the DPP coming to power in 2016, ties had somewhat warmed under the KMT’s Ma Ying-Jeou, who held a landmark meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping in 2015 and backed an economic cooperation agreement that was signed in 2010. Beijing has increasingly sought to push back against Taiwan seeking a presence in international bodies, wean away the few remaining countries that still maintain diplomatic ties with Taiwan, and deploy its aircraft and vessels with growing frequency, particularly in response to the presence of U.S. vessels in the straits. ‘Unofficial delegation’ Taiwan is among the many issues that Beijing and Washington have recently clashed over, with the Biden administration, three months after taking office, sending an “unofficial” delegation to Taiwan in April this year as a show of support. The Chinese Foreign Ministry on Thursday hit out at the application to join the CPTPP. “There is only one China in the world, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. “The one-China principle is a universally recognised norm governing international relations and the consensus of the international community. China firmly opposes all official interactions with Taiwan, firmly rejects Taiwan's accession to any agreement or organisation of official nature. China's position on this issue is clear.” Meanwhile, the PLA's Eastern Theater Command said on Saturday it “dispatched naval and air forces to conduct joint patrols and combat exercises in the waters and airspace southwest of Taiwan after a U.S. warship transited the Taiwan Straits to provoke China concerning its sovereignty”. This followed the U.S. 7th fleet staying a missile destroyer had sailed through the Taiwan Straits on Friday. Senior Colonel Shi Yi said the PLA “organised troops to follow, supervise and monitor the U.S. ship throughout its passage in the Taiwan Straits”. He added that “the frequent provocations fully prove that the U.S. is undermining the peace and stability of the Taiwan Straits and creating risks in the region”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-sends-fighter-jets-towards-taiwan/article36641813.ece
24 September 2021||United Nations,||Gotabaya for reconciliation through domestic institutions||A meaningful reconciliation with the Tamil community through domestic institutions is essential to achieve lasting peace in Sri Lanka, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has said. Addressing the high-level UN General Debate here on Wednesday, he stressed that his government was ready to engage with all stakeholders and to obtain the support of its international partners in the process. In 2019, Sri Lanka experienced the devastation wrought by extremist religious terrorists in the Easter Sunday attacks that killed over 250 people. “Before that, until 2009” the country “had suffered from a separatist terrorist war for 30 years, he said, referring to the conflict with the LTTE. Global challenge “Terrorism is a global challenge that requires international cooperation, especially on matters such as intelligence sharing, if it is to be overcome,” Mr. Rajapaksa said. He said fostering greater accountability, restorative justice, and meaningful reconciliation through domestic institutions is essential to achieve lasting peace. Equitable participation “So too is ensuring more equitable participation in the fruits of economic development,” he said, adding it is his government’s firm intention to build a prosperous, stable and secure future for all Sri Lankans, regardless of ethnicity, religion, or gender. Mr. Rajapaksa stressed that Sri Lanka is ready to engage with all domestic stakeholders and to obtain the support of its international partners and the United Nations, in this process. The Sri Lankan leader said violence had robbed his country of thousands of lives and decades of prosperity in the past half a century and he expressed the commitment of his government “to ensure that such violence never takes place in Sri Lanka again. We are therefore acting to address the core issues behind it.” “However, history has shown that lasting results can only be achieved through home-grown institutions reflecting the aspirations of the people. Sri Lanka’s Parliament, Judiciary and its range of independent statutory bodies should have unrestricted scope to exercise their functions and responsibilities.” Mr. Rajapaksa’s comments came as the UN Human Rights Council last week announced in Geneva that they are in possession of some 120,000 pieces of evidence on alleged abuses committed by Sri Lankan troops during the final phase of the conflict with the LTTE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gotabaya-for-reconciliation-through-domestic-institutions/article36641816.ece
24 September 2021||UNITED NATIONS,||International community must engage with Taliban: Pakistan||Be realistic. Show patience. Engage. And above all, don’t isolate. Those are the pillars of an approach emerging in Pakistan to deal with the fledgling government that is suddenly running the country next door once again — Afghanistan’s resurgent, often-volatile Taliban. Pakistan’s government is proposing that the international community develop a road map that leads to diplomatic recognition of the Taliban — with incentives if they fulfil its requirements — and then sit down face to face and talk it out with the militia’s leaders. Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi outlined the idea on Wednesday in an interview with The Associated Press on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly’s meeting of world leaders. “If they live up to those expectations, they would make it easier for themselves, they will get acceptability, which is required for recognition,” he said. “At the same time, the international community has to realise: What’s the alternative? What are the options? This is the reality, and can they turn away from this reality?” He said Pakistan “is in sync with the international community” in wanting to see a peaceful, stable Afghanistan with no space for terrorist elements to increase their foothold, and for the Taliban to ensure “that Afghan soil is never used again against any country”. Realistic approach “But we are saying, be more realistic in your approach,” Mr. Qureshi said. “Try an innovative way of engaging with them. The way that they were being dealt with has not worked.” Expectations from the Taliban could include an inclusive government and assurances for human rights, especially for women and girls, Mr. Qureshi said. In turn, he said, the Afghan government might be motivated by receiving development, economic and recon- struction aid to help recover from decades of war. He urged the U.S., the International Monetary Fund and other countries that have frozen Afghan government funds to immediately release the money so it can be used “for promoting normalcy in Afghanistan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/international-community-must-engage-with-taliban-pakistan/article36641809.ece
24 September 2021||Port-au-Prince,||U.S. envoy to Haiti resigns, slams migrant deportations||The U.S. special envoy to Haiti resigned on Thursday two months after his appointment, denouncing the Biden administration’s deportation of Haitian migrants from the U.S.-Mexico border back to their poverty-stricken homeland. “I will not be associated with the United States inhumane, counterproductive decision to deport thousands of Haitian refugees and illegal immigrants to Haiti,” State Department envoy Daniel Foote said in a scathing letter of resignation. In the letter to U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Mr. Foote described Haiti as a place where U.S. diplomats “are confined to secure compounds because of the danger posed by armed gangs in control of daily life”. “Mired in poverty, hostage to the terror,” Mr. Foote wrote, the Haitian population “simply cannot support the forced infusion of thousands of returned migrants lacking food, shelter, and money without additional, avoidable human tragedy”. “More refugees will fuel further desperation and crime,” he wrote. The resignation came after the administration of President Joe Biden began last weekend loading Haitian migrants who crossed into the country from Mexico onto aircraft and flying them back to Haiti. Many of the thousands who crossed the border actually travelled from South America, where many fled years ago from the grinding poverty and violence of Haiti. It underscored the mounting challenge to Washington from the border, where nearly 209,000 people sought to cross illegally from Mexico in August, more than four times the figure from a year ago. Many are expelled under COVID-19 controls but an undisclosed number have been registered for court hearings on their status and then released into the country. Since Sunday, U.S. immigration officials have sent around 1,400 migrants, including hundreds of children, back to Haiti on 12 flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-envoy-to-haiti-resigns-slams-migrant-deportations/article36641904.ece
24 September 2021||Washington,||U.S. authorises Pfizer booster shot for elderly, high-risk adults||The United States on Wednesday authorized the use of boosters of Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine for people aged over 65, as well as adults at high risk of severe disease and those in high-exposure jobs. The announcement means a significant part of the population — amounting to tens of millions of Americans — are now eligible for a third shot six months after their second. “Today’s action demonstrates that science and the currently available data continue to guide the FDA’s decision-making for COVID-19 vaccines during this pandemic,” said Janet Woodcock, acting head of the Food and Drug Administration, in a statement. The decision was expected and came after an independent expert panel convened by the regulatory agency last week voted in favour of recommending the move. The panel, however, rejected an initial plan by the White House to fully approve Pfizer boosters to everyone aged 16 and over, in what amounted to a rare rebuke of President Joe Biden’s administration. The group of vaccinologists, infectious disease specialists and epidemiologists concluded that the benefit-risk balance differed for younger people, especially young males who are more susceptible to myocarditis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-authorises-pfizer-booster-for-elderly-and-high-risk-adults/article36641806.ece
24 September 2021||Geneva,||UN says Myanmar faces risk of escalating civil war||Myanmar is facing the alarming prospect of an escalating civil war as an uprising against the military junta widens, the UN’s human rights chief warned on Thursday. Michelle Bachelet told the United Nations Human Rights Council that time was running out for other countries to step up efforts to restore democracy and prevent a broader conflict. Myanmar has been in turmoil since Aung San Suu Kyi’s government was ousted by the military in February. Ms. Bachelet said the human rights situation had deteriorated significantly as the effects of the coup “devastate lives and hopes across the country”. “Conflict, poverty and the effects of the pandemic are sharply increasing, and the country faces a vortex of repression, violence and economic collapse,” she said. Faced with the “overwhelming repression of fundamental rights”, the armed resistance movement was growing. “These disturbing trends suggest the alarming possibility of an escalating civil war,” she said. Political process Ms. Bachelet urged countries to support a political process that would engage all parties, saying the ASEAN regional bloc and influential powers should use incentives and disincentives “to reverse the military coup and desperate spiral of violence”. “Myanmar’s stability and path to democracy and prosperity have been sacrificed over these last months to advance the ambitions of a privileged and entrenched military elite,” she said. “The national consequences are terrible and tragic — the regional consequences could also be profound. The international community must redouble its efforts to restore democracy and prevent wider conflict before it is too late.” Ms. Bachelet said more than 1,100 people had now reportedly died at the hands of the security forces since the coup, while more than 8,000 others, including children, had been arrested and more than 4,700 still in detention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-says-myanmar-faces-risk-of-escalating-civil-war/article36641805.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Former Gitmo detainees in key positions at Kabul||Two former high-profile detainees at the American prison in Guantanamo Bay have taken over the security structure of Afghanistan, which was under the Haqqani Network after the Taliban captured Kabul on August 15. Mullah Fazel and Abdul Haq Wasiq, who spent 14 years each in prison, have been given key intelligence and security responsibilities by Deputy Prime Minister Mullah Baradar, who reportedly had disagreed with the September 5 visit of the ISI chief to Kabul. In an order issued on Wednesday, Mullah Fazel was appointed as the Deputy Minister of Defence and Wasiq the Director of Intelligence of the Taliban administration. Released by Obama Mullah Fazel will work with Defence Minister Mullah Yaqub, said an Afghan source familiar with the changes. Mullah Yaqub is the son of the Taliban founder, Mullah Omar. Both Fazel and Wasiq were released in 2014 by the Obama administration as part of an exchange deal with the Taliban in which a group of five powerful Taliban figures, known as the “Gitmo-5”, were sent back to Afghanistan. The two were accused of atrocities during the previous Taliban rule and the war with the U.S., but got involved in the dialogue with the United States upon their return. Wasiq was the deputy intelligence chief and Fazel the head of the army during the Taliban regime between 1996 and 2001. Apart from these two, Sadar Ibrahim, who was a friend of Mullah Omar, has been made the Senior Deputy Interior Minister. Ibrahim is known to be anti-Pakistan and his appointment is seen aimed at checking Pakistan’s influence. He was close to the former Taliban leader Mullah Mansour, who was killed in a drone attack inside Pakistan while returning from Iran in May 2016. Ibrahim reportedly avoided Pakistani contacts after the assassination of Mansour. He had earlier spent several years in the custody of the ISI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/former-gitmo-detainees-in-key-positions-in-kabul/article36641814.ece
24 September 2021||Brisbane,||Boeing to make military drones in Australia||U.S. aerospace giant Boeing on Wednesday announced plans to build a new type of drone military aircraft in Australia. Boeing said it had selected Toowoomba city in Queensland State as the final assembly point for its unmanned Loyal Wingman planes. The first test flights were completed earlier this year. The announcement comes less than a week after the U.S., Britain and Australia announced a new security alliance that will supply Australia with nuclear-powered submarines. The deal was condemned by China and has heightened tensions in the Indo-Pacific region. Scott Carpendale, managing director of Boeing Defence Australia, said development of the new aircraft is going to plan. He said it uses artificial intelligence to operate in tandem with manned aircraft and was conceived, designed and developed in Australia. It’s the first military combat aircraft to be designed and manufactured in Australia in half a century.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/boeing-to-make-military-drones-in-australia/article36641807.ece
24 September 2021||TUNIS,||EU--Tunisia-President||Tunisian President Kaïs Saied issued presidential decrees bolstering the already near-total power he granted himself two months ago. Wednesday’s decrees include the continuing suspension of the Parliament’s powers and the suspension of all lawmakers’ immunity from prosecution.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-tunisia-president/article36641811.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Does NEET privilege the privileged?||With the Tamil Nadu government seeking to ‘dispense’ with the requirement for candidates to qualify in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to undergraduate medical courses in the State, the controversy over NEET is alive again. T.N.’s position is rooted in the conclusions of the Justice A.K. Rajan Committee report, which claims that NEET has undermined diverse social representation in MBBS admissions. J. Amalorpavanathan and Sumanth C. Raman discuss whether NEET has adversely affected the disadvantaged groups, in a conversation moderated by Ramya Kannan . Edited excerpts: T.N. has been opposing NEET since the inception of the test in 2013. While the other States that opposed NEET then have subsequently come to terms with the exam, T.N. continues its crusade. What is the reason for this? Is it simply a question of politicking or one of ensuring social justice? J. Amalorpavanathan:You are asking us what is unique about T.N. Let’s remember that the State (and even Madras, as it was then called earlier) has always been unique. It was the first to demand reservations based on caste and property rights for women. It introduced early on progressive legislation such as property rights for women. Therefore, T.N. is, and always will be, unconventional and progressive. The issue with NEET, too, is a case of the State seeking to assert its federal right on education, running its own medical institutions, and selecting candidates in the manner that it deems fit. So, I’m not surprised that T.N. took the issue of the erosion of federal rights seriously — and rightly so. If other States had commissioned a study on the impact of NEET on the State (like Tamil Nadu did with the Justice Rajan Committee), they might have come to similar conclusions. It is the dissenters who usher in progress — in politics, in science, or in any other field. Sumanth Raman:The reason for a common entrance test is that different States have different modes of education and all of them are not necessarily benchmarked against each other. While some States have stringent criteria, others do not. So, the thinking behind NEET is that for certain areas like professional courses — typically, medicine, engineering and law — there needs to be a common entrance test. The decision of having a common entrance exam was, in fact, taken by the UPA [United Progressive Alliance] government of which the DMK [Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam] was an integral part. Of course, the difference was that at that time, the modalities or the mandatory nature of this exam had not yet come into force. In fact, it was said that some States would adopt it and some States may not. The Justice Rajan Committee report is, in fact, an example of why an entrance test like NEET is probably necessary. I don’t think he [Justice Rajan] thought that a lot of the data that he put out as part of the report would actually support the pro-NEET arguments. Look, nobody is saying NEET is 100% fair. But you have to look at it in the context of the earlier system, which was grossly unfair and which was deemed as social justice, where 220 students would get admission from one school and close to 30% of the seats would be cornered by eight to 10 schools. The unfortunate part is that the Tamil Nadu government maintains that Class 12 exam results are infallible and are the right way of evaluating students. Unfortunately, NEET became a political issue. And once it became political, it has continued to be used for political objectives rather than economic ones. Both of you mentioned the A.K. Rajan Committee report. Its data point to a lower absorption of first-generation graduates, Tamil students, and rural students into MBBS courses. Do you think the report has been fair to the actual position in the State? SR: I’m not even very sure that he has applied his mind to the data, which he says was provided by the government. For instance, he says 99% of all students who got admission into MBBS underwent NEET coaching. The source of the data is not mentioned here. The government has a duty to explain where all the data came from. It has become apparent that there is cherry-picking of the data. The classic example of this is that for students who got admission into MBBS courses from government schools, the data are only given from 2014 and not from 2010, unlike all other data. The reason for that, which we subsequently found, is that the number of government school students had started dropping from 2010 itself, but there was no NEET then. The biggest concern is that the outlier data of 2017-18 have been used to justify preconceived conclusions. The previous AIADMK government had given 7.5% reservation for government school students, but the data had started to trend towards the pre-NEET levels from 2019-20, the year before the introduction of the 7.5% quota. The report says the CBSE students have now claimed 26.8% of all seats, whereas earlier they were claiming 0.11%. You will also have to look at the number of students who applied. In 2010-11, 489 CBSE students applied for MBBS courses compared to the 17,518 applicants from the State Board. In 2015-16, the number of CBSE applicants rose to 1,151 and the number of State Board applicants peaked at 30,777. In 2020-21, the number of CBSE applicants went up further to 7,808, whereas the number of State Board applicants almost halved from the 2015-16 figure, to 15,556. So, is it not logical that when the number of State Board students remains more or less constant or starts to go down, and the number of CBSE applicants goes up, the number of seats that CBSE students take up will also rise? JA:I must confess that I have not read the entire report, but I have read the data put out by The Hindu , culled from the Rajan report. The statistics may vary a little bit here and there. And according to the data you have shown, there is a serious problem in terms of a high percentage of students who repeat the tests and the proportion of first-generation learners, and Tamil medium students have dropped drastically. I would continue to oppose NEET because of the larger question of States’ rights being taken away: the right to run medical institutions and select students according to the healthcare needs of that State and according to the requirements of the State’s primary healthcare centres and district hospitals. I have data from two papers published — one in The New England Journal of Medicine and one in The Lancet . The NEJM paper talks about the checkpoints for a medical programme and how they affect diversity — namely, the class and race of selected students. It called for closing the gap and making school admissions more equitable. Medical schools can prepare the workforce to care for socio-economically divided, racially and ethnically diverse populations by redoubling their efforts to recruit applicants from under-represented groups. But to do so, however, schools will have to fundamentally change the way they evaluate the applicants.  The Lancet talks about a review of admissions to medical school. There is some evidence to support the contention that the marks required for entry into medical school can be lowered substantially, to ensure diversity, besides keeping students motivated. I would say that measuring merit alone is a very bad indicator for selecting students into medical schools. A key issue that has been raised repeatedly here is the standard of State Board education. The recommendation to State Boards is that they should up their game, and the poor quality of teaching in schools is attributed to children going to coaching centres. Is this a fair assessment? JA:This understanding that State Boards promote learning by rote, whereas CBSE encourages analytical thinking is superficial. This is not based on any scientific study. The best way to make an assessment is to do a random double-blind control study with medical students who graduate, drawn from the State Board and CBSE. Find out who has more analytical capacity and who has less. Until then, I won’t accept that the State Board is inferior. SR:I agree that we should do such a study. The government has proposed an exit test that can benchmark students, but that is also being opposed by those who oppose NEET. A number of State Board students who were getting MBBS seats before NEET were to a large extent from coaching institutions/coaching schools from one district, and they paid several lakhs for the schools. The school itself might have doubled up as a coaching institution. We need to look at the annual ASER reports. The 2017 report said that more than 50% of Class 5 students could not read Class 2-level Tamil texts. We need to ask ourselves whether the quality of education in the State Board is adequate or not. We can choose to ignore these figures, but if there is something that we need to correct, we have to accept it. Education is on the Concurrent list, allowing the Central government to legislate on it. That makes this a constitutional issue. So, are we at an impasse? If the Centre and T.N. stick to their stand, will there be a resolution at all? Do you see any possible scenarios that suggest a way out of this? SR:Honestly, I don’t see a possibility of this getting reversed. There has to be an extremely good reason for giving one State an exemption. But this is a land of possibilities. We have seen the Supreme Court change stance on an issue after a period of time, we have seen governments do political deals to facilitate assent. Former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa managed to push through 69% reservation and get constitutional protection for it. But do I think it is probable? No, I don’t think this will get presidential assent. And even if it does, will it stand the scrutiny of the court? This means that NEET is likely to continue, at least in the near term. But in the meantime, don’t make false promises to students saying that we will abolish it next year, until you get a written order saying that it is not going to be held. As long as NEET is there, ramp up the coaching in government centres for the exam. It is the duty of the government to make sure that as many students as possible, especially those from weaker sections, have the infrastructure and government support to crack the exam. Importantly, please do not politicise suicide and do not give compensation to the families of students who reportedly died due to NEET. This has to stop, and adequate counselling should be provided to students. If students don’t crack NEET this year, they have two more opportunities, and if they don’t crack it then, there are other career options available. JA:Yes, I have a strong belief that the President might give his assent because this is an extraordinary situation where two subsequent governments have passed the Bill. I think the Central government will accord consent. It is like what we achieved in the jallikattu issue. Exemption was given for this State alone. Ultimately, democracy has to accede to people’s genuine legal rights and legal demands within the framework of the Constitution. There is a High Court case demanding that education be brought back to the State list. Let us wait for the judgment. And even if the judgment goes against the plea, the parties can still go to the Supreme Court and agitate the matter. Therefore, there’s a long legal way ahead.  The issue with NEET is States’ seeking to assert their federal right on education, running their own medical institutions, and selecting candidates in the manner that they deem fit. J. Amalorpavanathan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/does-neet-privilege-the-privileged/article36641804.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A disease surveillance system, for the future||A defining moment in the history of epidemiology was the removal of the handle of a water pump. This is a spectacular story. In 1854, when a deadly outbreak of cholera affected Soho area of London, John Snow (1813-1858), a British doctor and epidemiologist, used the health statistics and death registration data from the General Registrar Office (GRO) in London, to plot on a map of the area, the distribution of cholera cases and deaths. He observed that a majority of cases and deaths were in the Broad Street area, which received supply from a common water pump, supporting his theory that cholera was a waterborne, contagious disease. The collection of health data and vital statistics by the GRO had improved over the previous decade-and-a-half due to untiring efforts put in by another medical doctor, William Farr (1807-1883). Based upon the data on the time, place and person distribution of cholera cases and deaths, supplemented by a map, Snow, on September 7, 1854, could convince the local authorities in London to remove the handle of the water pump, which they reluctantly did. The cholera outbreak was controlled in a few weeks. It started the beginning of a new era in epidemiology. John Snow is often referred to as the father of modern epidemiology and William Farr as founder of the modern concept of disease surveillance system. A nodal point In the years to follow, epidemiology became a key discipline to prevent and control infectious diseases (and in present context for non communicable diseases as well). The application of principles of epidemiology is possible through systematic collection and timely analysis, and dissemination of data on the diseases. This is to initiate action to either prevent or stop further spread, a process termed as disease surveillance. However, in the late 19th century, with the emergence of understanding that germs cause the diseases, and then in the early 20th century, with the discovery of antibiotics and advances in modern medicine, attention from epidemiology somewhat shifted. The high-income countries invested in disease surveillance systems but low- and middle-income countries used limited resources for medical care. Then, in the second half of Twentieth century, as part of the global efforts for smallpox eradication and then to tackle many emerging and re-emerging diseases, many countries recognised the importance and started to invest in and strengthen the diseases surveillance system. These efforts received further boost with the emergence of Avian flu in 1997 and the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak in 2002-04. Surveillance in India A major cholera outbreak in Delhi in 1988 and the Surat plague outbreak of 1994, nudged the Government of India to launch the National Surveillance Programme for Communicable Diseases in 1997. However, this initiative remained rudimentary till, in wake of the SARS outbreak, in 2004, India launched the Integrated Disease Surveillance Project (IDSP). The focus under the IDSP was to increase government funding for disease surveillance, strengthen laboratory capacity, train the health workforce and have at least one trained epidemiologist in every district of India. With that, between 2004 and 2019, nearly every passing year, more outbreaks were detected and investigated than the previous year. It was on this foundation of the IDSP (which now has become a full fledged programme) that when COVID-19 pandemic struck, India could rapidly deploy the teams of epidemiologists and public health experts to respond to and guide the response, coordinate the contact tracing and rapidly scale up testing capacity. The disease surveillance system and health data recording and reporting systems are key tools in epidemiology; however, these have performed variably in Indian States, as we know now from available analyses, be it seroprevalence-survey findings or the analysis of excess COVID-19 deaths. As per data from the fourth round of sero-survey, Kerala and Maharashtra States could identify one in every six and 12 infections, respectively; while in States such as Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, only one in every 100 COVID-19 infections could be detected, pointing towards a weak disease surveillance system. The estimated excess deaths are also higher in those States which have weak disease surveillance systems and the civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS) systems. In a well-functioning disease surveillance system, an increase in cases of any illness would be identified very quickly. An example is Kerala, arguably the best performing disease surveillance system amongst the India States, as it is picking the maximum COVID-19 cases; it could pick the first case of the Nipah virus in early September 2021. On the contrary, cases of dengue, malaria, leptospirosis and scrub typhus received attention only when more than three dozen deaths were reported and health facilities in multiple districts of Uttar Pradesh, began to be overwhelmed. The situation is not very different in States such as Madhya Pradesh and Haryana, where viral illnesses, most likely dengue, are causing hospitalisation but not being correctly identified or are being reported as mystery fever. This is a bit concerning as 18 months into the COVID-19 pandemic and a lot of political promises of strengthening disease surveillance and health systems, one would have expected a better performance. It raises the question: if the pandemic could not nudge the governments to strengthen the disease surveillance system, then what will? Or is it that difficult to strengthen the disease surveillance system? What should be done A review of the IDSP by joint monitoring mission in 2015, conducted jointly by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the Government of India and World Health Organization India had made a few concrete recommendations to strengthen disease surveillance systems. These included increasing financial resource allocation, ensuring adequate number of trained human resources, strengthening laboratories, and zoonosis, influenza and vaccine-preventable diseases surveillance. Clearly, it is time all these recommendations are re-looked and acted upon. At a more specific level, the following should be considered by health policy makers. First, the government resources allocated to preventive and promotive health services and disease surveillance need to be increased by the Union and State governments. Second, the workforce in the primary health-care system in both rural and urban areas needs to be retrained in disease surveillance and public health actions. The vacancies of surveillance staff at all levels need to be urgently filled in. Third, the laboratory capacity for COVID-19, developed in the last 18 months, needs to be planned and repurposed to increase the ability to conduct testing for other public health challenges and infections. This should be linked to create a system in which samples collected are quickly transported and tested and the reports are available in real time. Fourth, the emerging outbreaks of zoonotic diseases, be it the Nipah virus in Kerala or avian flu in other States as well as scrub typhus in Uttar Pradesh, are a reminder of the interconnectedness of human and animal health. The ‘One Health’ approach has to be promoted beyond policy discourses and made functional on the ground. Fifth, there has to be a dedicated focus on strengthening the civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS) systems and medical certification of cause of deaths (MCCD). These are complementary to disease surveillance systems and often where one is weak, the other is also functioning sub-optimally. Sixth, it is also time to ensure coordinated actions between the State government and municipal corporation to develop joint action plans and assume responsibility for public health and disease surveillance. The allocation made by the 15th Finance Commission to corporations for health should be used to activate this process. Check the right pump The emergence and re-emergence of new and old diseases and an increase in cases of endemic diseases are partly unavoidable. We cannot prevent every single outbreak but with a well-functioning disease surveillance system and with application of principles of epidemiology, we can reduce their impact. Sometimes, the control of a deadly disease could be as easy as the removal of a handle of a water pump. However, which handle it is to be can only be guided by coordinated actions between a disease surveillance system, a civil registration system and experts in medical statistics, and, finally, informed by the application of principles of epidemiology. Indian States urgently need to do everything to start detecting diseases, which will prepare the country for all future outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics. This is amongst the first things, which Indian health policy makers should pay attention to. Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a public policy and health systems expert and co-author of the book, ‘Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 Pandemic’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-disease-surveillance-system-for-the-future/article36641795.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A climate change narrative that India can steer||In a keynote speech on September 8 in a seminar organised by a think tank, R.K. Singh, Union Minister for Power, New and Renewable Energy stated, “Environment is something we are trustees of and have to leave behind a better environment for our children and great grand children.” However, a recent report, “Assessment of Climate Change over the Indian Region” by the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) reveals that India has warmed up 0.7° C during 1901-2018. The 2010-2019 decade was the hottest with a mean temperature of 0.36° C higher than average. Heatwaves continued to increase with no signs of diminishing greenhouse gas emissions despite lower activity since the novel coronavirus pandemic. Prolonged exposure to heat is becoming detrimental to public health, especially the poor unable to afford support for coping with the heat. Assessment by the MoES shows that India may experience a 4.4° C rise by the end of this century. India has also suffered two of the 10 most expensive climate disasters in the last two years. Super-cyclone “Cyclone Amphan” that hit India in 2020, cost more than USD13 billion even as the country was just recovering from “June-October Monsoon Flooding” that cost USD10 billion and around 1,600 lives. It was India’s heaviest monsoon rain in the last 25 years and the world’s seventh costliest. In early 2021, India suffered two more cyclones: Cyclone Tauktae hitting the west coast and Cyclone Yaas from the east. India’s rising IDPs According to the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre, India’s Internally Displaced Populations (IDPs) are rising due to damaging climate events. Uttarakhand residents began deserting their homes after the Kedarnath floods in 2013 due to heavy precipitation that increases every year. Within 2050, rainfall is expected to rise by 6% and temperature by 1.6° C. To make things worse, India lost about 235 square kilometres to coastal erosion due to climate change induced sea-level rise, land erosion and natural disasters such as tropical cyclones between 1990-2016. About 3.6 million out of 170 million living in coastal areas were displaced between 2008-2018. Recent figures are more alarming with 3.9 million displaced in 2020 alone, mostly due to Cyclone Amphan. India’s Deccan plateau has seen eight out of 17 severe droughts since 1876 in the 21st century (2000-2003; 2015-2018). In Maharashtra and Karnataka (the heart of the Deccan Plateau), families deserted homes in 2019 due to an acute water crisis. Hatkarwadi, a village in Beed district of Maharashtra State, had as few as 10-15 families remaining out of the previous population count of 2,000 people. Good policies, weak practices India held the top 10 position for the second year in a row in 2020’s Climate Change Performance Index (CCPI). The country received credit under all of the CCPI’s performance fields except renewable energy where India performed medium. India vowed to work with COP21 by signing the Paris Agreement to limit global warming and submitted the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) with a goal of reducing emissions intensity of GDP by 33%-35% and increasing green energy resources (non-fossil-oil based) to 40% of installed electric power capacity by 2030. India cofounded with France at COP21, in 2015, the International Solar Alliance (ISA) — a coalition of about 120 countries with solar rich resources— which aims at mobilising USD1 trillion in investments for the deployment of solar energy at affordable prices by 2030. Despite leading ISA, India performed the least in renewable energy according to the CCPI’s performance of India. The question is, are these global alliances and world-leading policies being practised or are merely big promises with little implementation? Experts agree that India can achieve the 2° C target of COP15 Copenhagen in 2009. But it also observes that the country is not fully compliant with the Paris Agreement’s long-term temperature goal of the NDCs and there are still risks of falling short of the 2° C goal. According to India’s carbon emission trajectory, the country is en route to achieve barely half of the pledged carbon sink by 2030. To achieve the Paris Agreement’s NDC target, India needs to produce 25 million-30 million hectares of forest cover by 2030 — a third of current Indian forestation and trees. Going by the facts, it seems India has overpromised on policies and goals as it becomes difficult to deliver on the same. Why COP26 matters The Glasgow COP26 offers India a great opportunity to reflect on the  years since the Paris Agreement and update NDCs to successfully meet the set targets. India is expected to be the most populated country by 2027, overtaking China, contributing significantly to the global climate through its consumption pattern. India is in a rather unique position to have a significant influence on global climate impact in the new decade. Alok Sharma, President of the COP26 met Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupender Yadav in August to persuade India to deliver a more ambitious NDCs for 2030 to which the Minister responded by stating, “India believes that climate actions must be nationally determined... UNFCCC and the Paris Agreement for developing countries should be at the core of decision-making....” Being one of the observer states of the Climate Vulnerable Forum (CVF) as well as an influential member of COP26, India has the ability to improve its global positioning by leading a favourable climate goal aspiration for the world to follow. The country has the opportunity to not only save itself from further climate disasters but also be a leader in the path to climate change prevention. Syed Munir Khasru is Chairman of the international think tank, The Institute for Policy, Advocacy, and Governance (IPAG), New Delhi, with a presence in Dhaka, Melbourne, Vienna and Dubai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-climate-change-narrative-that-india-can-steer/article36641797.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Make departments smart, first||As India grows more urban, the importance of effective governance and service delivery by city governments becomes central to the well-being of Indians. We hope to live in ‘smart cities’, where digital systems enable the use of data — generated by people living and working in the city itself — to continuously improve how the city functions. A smart city requires good data to inform decision-making. The only reliable way to get good data is to design ‘smart systems’ that generate such data by default. Given the complexity of our cities, and the various entities that are involved in their governance, this journey will have to be undertaken one step at a time. More precisely, it will be one function at a time, then one department a time, finally building up to the city as a whole. A department refers to a specific administrative entity, with the mandate to deliver a defined set of services, and the resources it is assigned for delivering them; a function is any such set of services and the people who deliver them. A smart city is a network of smart functions and departments. Digitisation What makes a department smart? In a recent white paper, we lay out a five-level framework for assessing where a given function, department, or city stands in its journey of e-governance. This framework looks at how the department has been able to apply digital technologies across three domains — processes, human resources, and citizen-centricity — in order to work more smartly. The core insight of our paper is that even the most advanced e-governance systems stand on the foundation of a simple behavioural change: when doing their work, local government employees have to switch from using pen and paper and records to using digital tools and systems. This is the first step in the e-governance journey. The reality in most local government offices in India is that records are kept on paper; if they do get digitised, it is as part of a post-facto data entry exercise. This creates scope for errors and manipulation. To ensure digitisation, city leaders must use a combination of expectation-setting and incentives. They can demonstrate the time saved and ease of work gained when digital tools automate away record creation and retrieval. In Andhra Pradesh, for instance, ULB employees reported saving an average of 11 hours every week after a digital system was adopted. At the same time, leaders can set phased targets for adoption of the new tools, and ensure adequate technical support and education for employees during the transition. These changes are reflected in the ‘process’ and ‘human resources’ levers of the framework. Citizen centricity lever In implementing such changes, however, administrators must ensure that e-governance is not reduced to an exercise in performance management alone. The framework incorporates a ‘citizen centricity’ lever to emphasise that urban local bodies are service delivery organisations, and that internal reforms have to reflect in better experience and empowerment for citizens. All the benefits we associate with e-governance — the ease of interaction, the gains in efficiency through both performance management and process reform, and the potential for data-driven preventive maintenance of infrastructure — hinge upon adoption of the system by local government employees and citizens themselves. In turn, adoption leads to the richer datasets that will bring various departments in a city to collaborate with each other — and indeed with non-governmental partners as well — to create a virtuous cycle of co-creation, learning, and efficiency. This is how smart cities emerge, not from the top down, but from organic collaboration between departments, employees, and citizens, who are simply looking to do their own jobs more effectively. Aditya Batra is Associate; Ameya Ashok Naik is Senior Manager; and Krishnakumar Thiagarajan is Vice President, eGovernments Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/make-departments-smart-first/article36641799.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Another grouping||In its first reaction to AUKUS, the new partnership between Australia, the U.S. and the U.K., India has made it clear that it does not welcome the announcement, nor does it wish to link AUKUS to Indian interests. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said that AUKUS, which was launched a week before the first in-person summit of leaders of the Australia-India-Japan-U.S. Quadrilateral, will not affect plans to strengthen the Quad. He called them two very different groupings, describing AUKUS as a security alliance, and indicating that security is not the Quad’s main focus. Brushing aside criticism from China and Iran on the plans within the partnership for the U.S. and the U.K. to develop nuclear-propelled submarines for Australia, he said that India does not see AUKUS as nuclear proliferation. But New Delhi has noticed the protests from others, especially France, that has lost a lucrative submarine deal in the bargain, prompting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to reach out to their French counterparts. France has recalled its Ambassadors to the U.S. and Australia, accusing them of betrayal by negotiating their defence partnership with the U.K., and without informing European allies. The EU and ASEAN countries have been reserved in their reactions. U.S. President Joe Biden and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson have now spoken to French President Emmanuel Macron, but it remains to be seen whether the damage to ties can be reversed. Given the different reactions and widespread impact of the AUKUS partnership, India’s non-committal note is not surprising. There are two sides to it. The promising possibilities of the alliance include strengthening the Quad’s agenda to keep the Indo-Pacific region free, open and inclusive. The alliance could also extend itself to bolstering the Quad’s efforts on maritime exercises, security and efforts in countering COVID-19, climate change, cooperating on critical technologies, and building resilient supply chains. More broadly, the U.S.’s three-fold messaging on AUKUS seems to be in line with India’s hopes: that “America is back” after four years of retrenchment from global issues; is as engaged with its Indo-Pacific flank as it is with its Transatlantic flank, and is focused on partnerships with fellow democracies in particular. But the concerns over AUKUS are considerable too: that the timing of the announcement of the deal just before the Quad leaders meet could overshadow the latter, and also signal that the U.S. is relegating the Quad to less substantive issues in the Indo-Pacific. With the sudden announcement of AUKUS, a worry for New Delhi is that the U.S. is now promoting a security partnership with its “Anglo-Saxon” treaty allies that it is excluded from, possibly upsetting the balance of power in the region, and setting off new tensions to India’s east, adding to the substantial turbulence in India’s west caused by the developments in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/another-grouping/article36641790.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Vital relief||It took an assertive Supreme Court to persuade a reluctant Centre, and in a welcome turn of events, families of those who died of COVID-19 are to get ex gratia financial relief of Rs. 50,000 per deceased individual within 30 days of submitting the necessary documents. The staggering impact of the pandemic cannot be meaningfully addressed with a token sum, but it nevertheless provides immediate succour to families that have lost breadwinners and productive members. No other scourge in living memory has taken a toll of tens of thousands of lives in 18 months, although India has high chronic and invisible mortality due to disease and road traffic accidents. As of September 13, WHO recorded 4,45,768 COVID-19 deaths in India and 3,35,31,498 confirmed cases, indicating that the current ex gratia outlay would be of the order of Rs. 2,300 crore. The relief amount proposed by the National Disaster Management Authority is to be paid out of the State Disaster Response Fund, which represents a dedicated facility to deal with notified disasters, including COVID-19; State authorities will create a people-friendly claims mechanism. Fresh audits and recertification of deaths have become an important factor, given the move by several States to keep virus mortality numbers low, attribute a significant number of deaths to co-morbidities rather than the infection, and the indisputable undercounting of lives lost in the two phases of the pandemic. The ex gratia payment decision puts the issue of compensation on a sound footing, and provides clarity for future cases, but the task before the States is to ensure that the process is easy, accurate and empathetic. It should be possible for such claimants to submit a simple form electronically. More challenging will be the issue of resolving cases where the medical certification of cause of death has not acknowledged it as COVID-19. In fact, such disputes have already entered the realm of litigation, with families seeking judicial relief, because doctors refuse proper certification and cite underlying conditions of patients based on Government instructions. Also, the Centre must consider providing additional compensation in the future, treating COVID-19 on a par with other disasters such as cyclones, major accidents, building collapses and industrial mishaps, where the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund has been sanctioning Rs. 2 lakh for death and Rs. 50,000 for serious injury. In a positive move, the demand for inclusion of COVID-19 cases for compensation where people took their own lives due to mental agony has been accepted. Going forward, the Centre must now quickly set up risk insurance for disasters as suggested by the XV Finance Commission, to which States will readily contribute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/vital-relief/article36641791.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Mao portraits vanish from streets||Though not a single shred of direct evidence has emerged from China so far to prove that Mr. Mao Tse-tung is dead or that his name is being denigrated, one cannot also ignore the number of bits of circumstantial evidence which simply cannot be without meaning or be sheer cases of coincidence. For one thing, reports from Peking have noted how portraits of Mr. Mao have been quietly disappearing from different parts of the city. In Hong Kong a big neon sign atop the Bank of China building which carried a well-known Maoist saying for many years has been mysteriously removed without any explanation. Monitors of Chinese broadcasts in Japan reported to-day [Tokyo, Sept. 23] that for the first time in many years this morning’s nationwide domestic broadcast from Peking in the Chinese language did not open with the usual sayings of Mr. Mao. One point seems to be becoming fairly clear that whatever the conflicts that might have possibly developed within Chinese leadership hierarchy or whatever turmoil or disturbance may be rocking the country for some reason, which still remains to be determined, China has decided to denigrate Mr. Mao’s name and to eliminate his personality cult which had been so assiduously built up over the years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mao-portraits-vanish-from-streets/article36641798.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Infosys acknowledges some I-T portal users still facing issues||The new income tax portal’s developer Infosys said on Thursday it was making ‘steady progress’ on resolving the glitches that have dogged the portal since its unveiling in early June, even as the firm acknowledged that some users continued to face difficulties that it was seeking to fix expeditiously. In a statement issued eight days after the September 15 deadline set by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for the firm to resolve all the problems plaguing the portal’s ‘current functionalities’, Infosys said there had been a steady increase in usage on the portal in the last few weeks, with ‘taxpayers’ concerns being progressively addressed’. Tax practitioners had listed out multiple problems that persisted or had cropped up afresh on the eve of that deadline. In September, on average so far, more than 15 lakh unique taxpayers had logged into the portal every day, and more than 1.5 crore returns had been filed to date, the firm said. Over 750 resources had been dedicated to ‘complete significant portions of work’ in tandem with the Income Tax Department, it added. “Thus far, over 3 crore taxpayers have logged into the portal and successfully completed various transactions,” Infosys said. More than 16.6 lakh e-PANs had been allocated, 4.3 lakh digital signatures had been registered and more than 3.44 lakh e-proceeding responses to notices had now been completed. “Over 85% of taxpayers who have filed their returns have also completed their e-verification, largely through Aadhaar OTP authentication,” the company added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-acknowledges-some-i-t-portal-users-still-facing-issues/article36641786.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Accounting regulator raps EY arm’s audit of IL&FS firm||The National Financial Reporting Authority (NFRA) has rapped EY group firm SRBC & Co. LLP for failing to detect several problems in the IL&FS group’s transport venture while undertaking its statutory audit in 2017-18. The auditor’s lapses had led to losses being understated by more than Rs. 2,000 crore, incorrect treatment of letters of comfort of Rs. 2,654 crore and improper valuation of the firm’s financial exposure to its associates, subsidiaries and joint ventures amounting to Rs. 3,346 crore, the accounting and audit regulator said. In its audit quality review report (AQRR) released on Thursday, the NFRA also held that SRBC’s appointment to undertake the audit of IL&FS Transportation Networks Ltd. (ITNL) was ‘illegal’ as EY group firms had separately taken up other assignments with ITNL. Responding to the NFRA report, the audit firm in a statement said: “We are disappointed with the conclusions in the Audit Quality Review report of ITNL for FY2017-18. SRBC had performed the audit as per the applicable standards and highlighted the issue relating to going concern in our limited review report for the June 2018 quarter. We are presently doing a detailed review of the report”. “The company’s losses during 2017-18 were understated by at least Rs. 2,021 crore,” the NFRA highlighted in its AQRR of ITNL. The NFRA also said the initial appointment of SRBC and its continuation as statutory auditor, was ‘prima facie illegal and void’ but that it had examined the firm’s audit performance ‘without prejudice’ to this finding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/accounting-regulator-raps-ey-arms-audit-of-ilfs-firm/article36641479.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will meet 2022 deadline for CEPA, says UAE minister||As formal negotiations for the India-UAE Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) kicked off on Thursday, the UAE’s foreign trade minister Thani bin Ahmed Al Zeyoudi said the pact was a natural extension of traditionally strong bilateral ties, and exuded confidence about meeting the March 2022 deadline for the CEPA. “Our relation is beyond the timeline and those agreements. The agreements for us are formalities, a showcase to the whole world,” he told The Hindu . The pact with India is among the first of several that United Arab Emirates (UAE) is exploring, as it completes 50 years and makes a bid to reorient its economic future. The UAE is pursuing similar trade and economic partnership deals with countries such as the U.K., Turkey, Kenya and South Korea, he said . The high-level joint task force on investments, which will meet next week, had already managed to sort out many barriers, he said. The UAE is hopeful that the CEPA, combined with easier investment flows, will enable the two countries’ businesses to tap global opportunities together, given their synergies and complementarities in different sectors. “We want to be part of the 1 trillion dollar exports target that India’s Commerce Ministry has set,” the minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/will-meet-2022-deadline-for-cepa-says-uae-minister/article36641780.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. notifies SEIS rates for 2019-20, sets ceiling||Bringing some relief to services exporters, the government on Thursday notified the benefits to be given for exports undertaken in 2019-20, but capped entitlements at Rs. 5 crore per exporter under the Service Exports from India Scheme (SEIS). The flow of SEIS benefits from 2018-19 and 2019-20 will ease the credit burden of such firms, especially for players in the travel, tourism and hospitality sectors that have been hit hardest in the pandemic. However, the Rs. 5-crore ceiling needs a rethink, exporters said. “The service-export industry was waiting for the rates to be notified for SEIS benefit since a long time,” said Abhishek Jain, tax partner at EY, adding the value cap ‘seems to be quite upsetting’ for the industry. FIEO president A Sakthivel said the exporters’ body would take up the issue of cap with the government. “Services sectors have been impacted much during the pandemic and require a little more support,” he told The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-notifies-seis-rates-for-2019-20-sets-ceiling/article36641481.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||DFC rejigs PPP model for 374-km freight corridor||To attract bidders for the Rs. 12,000-crore project to develop a 374-km stretch between Sonnagar (Bihar) and Andal (West Bengal), the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India (DFCCIL) has reworked the proposal to de-risk the private concessionaire. The project, which is the first public private participation (PPP) project for the DFCCIL, is now proposed to be developed via a design, finance, build, operate and maintain and transfer (DFBOT) model. “This stretch is important as it will cover major hubs for coal mining and steel industries,” said MD R.K. Jain. Mr. Jain added that during discussions on earlier proposed PPP models, stakeholders had expressed apprehension over risks related to construction, finance and revenues. “All the bidders were very apprehensive about the traffic projections which we were giving over the 30-year contract period,” Mr. Jain said. “So, it has now been decided that we will make payment not on the basis of traffic run in that section, but on the services of the rail system developed by them,” he added. “So, if the private concessionaire offers an uptime of 20 hours/day, full payment will be given irrespective of the number of trains run by us or Indian Railways,” he added.  If the private concessionaire offers an uptime of 20 hours/day, full payment will be given||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dfc-rejigs-ppp-model-for-374-km-freight-corridor/article36641781.ece
24 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||FADA seeks govt. help on compensation from Ford||Alleging ‘coercive efforts’ by Ford to get their channel partners to sign a non-disclosure agreement, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (FADA) has sought government intervention in the ongoing negotiations with Ford India. FADA urged Heavy Industries Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey to establish a task force to monitor the compensation structure being worked out by Ford for its dealer partners in the country, and asked that a formal discussion be initiated on an ‘Automobile Dealers’ Protection Act’. The dealers’ body alleged that the Ford unit was forcing dealers to first sign a non-disclosure agreement (NDA) before any compensation package could be worked out. “Such coercive efforts on Ford’s part to get their channel partners to sign an NDA with an imposition of unreasonably tight timelines, under economic duress is not the right approach and adversely impacts dealer interests,” FADA president Vinkesh Gulati said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fada-seeks-govt-help-on-compensation-from-ford/article36641783.ece
24 September 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI to buy, sell G-secs on Sept. 30||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said it would conduct open market purchase of government securities under the Government Securities Acquisition Programme 2.0 for Rs. 15,000 crore on September 30, 2021. On review of current liquidity conditions, the RBI also decided to conduct simultaneous sale of government securities under Open Market Operations for Rs. 15,000 crore on the same day, it said in a circular. It will purchase three securities that mature in 2029, 2031 and 2035, and sell three having different maturity dates in 2022.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-to-buy-sell-g-secs-on-sept-30/article36641474.ece
24 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Financial stocks spur Sensex, Nifty||The benchmark stock indices on Thursday touched all-time highs in intraday trade spurred by strong buying support in banking and financial stocks. The S&P BSE Sensex surged to a record high of 59,957.25 before closing at 59,885.36, with a gain of 958.03 points or 1.63%. Top Sensex gainers included Bajaj Finserv which rose 5.15%, L&T (3.46%), HDFC (3.11%), Axis Bank (3.04%) and State Bank of India that gained 2.46%. The NSE Nifty 50 index also gained 276.30 points or 1.57% to close at 17,822.95. Intraday, the Nifty 50 index had touched its all-time high of 17,843.90.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/financial-stocks-spur-sensex-nifty/article36641475.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Veranda buys Edureka for Rs. 245 crore||Veranda Learning Solutions on Thursday announced 100% acquisition of Bengaluru-based edtech firm Edureka for Rs. 245 crore. As part of its strategy to accelerate its foray into the edtech space, the Kalpathi AGS Group-owned firm said it had set aside $100 million for buyouts over the next six months. “Veranda is planning an outlay of about $100 million for acquisitions over the next 6 months to seize opportunities in the edtech space,” said executive chairman Kalpathi Suresh. “With the current acquisition, we are poised to expand our footprint in the Europe and North American markets,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/veranda-buys-edureka-for-rs-245-crore/article36641483.ece
24 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Volkswagen introduces Taigun starting Rs 10.49 lakh||Volkswagen Passenger Cars India has unveiled mid-sized sport utility vehicle (SUV) Taigun at an ex-showroom price of Rs. 10.49 lakh for the Dynamic Line (1.0L TSI) variant and Rs. 14.99 lakh for the Performance Line (1.5L TSI EVO). This is the first product offering developed on MQB A0 IN platform under the India 2.0 project with a localisation level of up to 95%, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/volkswagen-introduces-taigun-starting-rs-1049-lakh/article36641477.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Google takes CCI to court over investigation report leak||Google on Thursday said it had filed a writ in the Delhi High Court against the Competition Commission of India (CCI), following the leak of a ‘confidential report’. On September 18, an interim fact-finding report submitted by the Director General’s office to CCI relating to an ongoing probe into Google’s Android smartphone agreements was leaked to the media, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-takes-cci-to-court-over-investigation-report-leak/article36641784.ece
24 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Casagrand ipo||Real estate developer Casagrand said it aims to raise about Rs. 800 crore next year via an initial public offering (IPO). The proposed IPO will lead to dilution of 15% stake, the company said. Motilal Oswal and JM have been appointed as bankers for the IPO. Recently, Casagrand received a funding of Rs. 1,200 crore from international investors Apollo Global and KKR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/casagrand-ipo/article36641482.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||OYO to file for up to $1.2 billion-IPO next week||Hospitality firm OYO is planning to raise up to $1.2 billion (about Rs. 8,000 crore) through an initial public offering and is likely to file the draft red herring prospectus with SEBI next week, sources said. OYO has appointed investment banks such as JPMorgan, Citi and Kotak Mahindra Capital, they added. Comments from OYO could not be obtained at the time of filing the story.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oyo-to-file-for-up-to-12-billion-ipo-next-week/article36641787.ece
24 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Men’s Junior WC in Bhubaneswar||Odisha was on Thursday named the host of this year’s FIH men’s hockey Junior World Cup. The event will be staged at the Kalinga Stadium here from November 24 to Dec. 5. Both Odisha and Uttar Pradesh had expressed interest in hosting the tournament but the former was selected as it is the national team’s title sponsor as well. Lucknow had hosted the tournament’s last edition in 2016 where India claimed the honours. At the upcoming event, 16 nations will vie for the title. The state has earlier hosted the senior World Cup in 2018, the FIH World League in 2017 and the Champions Trophy in 2014. “It is a short notice for making the arrangement for such an event, especially during the pandemic period. However, since the country’s prestige is at stake, we have readily agreed to host it,” Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik said during a programme to announce the host city. “I hope the Indian team will take advantage of the home condition and emerge victorious again,” he added. Logo and trophy Patnaik also unveiled the logo and trophy. The official announcement was made in the presence the Odisha Sports and Youth Services Minister Tusharkanti Behera, FIH president Dr. Narinder Batra and Hockey India secretary-general Rajinder Singh. The participating teams are India, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, South Africa, Egypt, Belgium, England, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain, USA, Canada, Chile and Argentina. Odisha is also set to host the 2023 FIH senior men’s World Cup in Bhubaneswar and Rourkela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mens-junior-wc-in-bhubaneswar/article36641948.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Venkatesh, Tripathi pulverise MI after KKR bowlers set it up||Venkatesh Iyer (53, 30b, 4x4, 3x6) and Rahul Tripathi (74, 42b, 8x4, 3x6) made light of a target of 156 with some bold and brutal hitting to take Kolkata Knight Riders to a seven-wicket win over Mumbai Indians at Abu Dhabi on Thursday. The victory, with 4.5 overs to spare, took Eoin Morgan’s team to the top four. Earlier, Rohit Sharma, donning the Mumbai Indians jersey for the first time in the second leg, gave his team a perfect start along with opening partner Quinton de Kock. Kieron Pollard played a cameo at the fag end. Still, the Kolkata Knight Riders bowling unit ensured its superlative performance against Royal Challengers Bangalore earlier in the week wasn’t a fluke, restricting Mumbai Indians to 155 for six. As a result, Eoin Morgan’s men would have been the happier lot at the break, especially after the manner in which Rohit and de Kock got off the blocks. With MI having started the United Arab Emirates leg with a lacklustre batting display, it didn’t come as a surprise when Morgan opted to unleash his bowlers against the defending champion at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium, Abu Dhabi, on Thursday. However, Rohit and de Kock — both having been troubled by the mystery spin duo of Sunil Narine and Varun Chakravarthy in the recent past — took the fizz out of both the spinners with panache. When pace was introduce in the fifth over, de Kock tonked three sixes off Lockie Ferguson and Prasidh Krishna to help MI race to 56 for no loss at the end of the PowerPlay. The spinners then tightened the noose, which resulted in Rohit holing out in the deep off Narine in the 10th over. With neither Suryakumar Yadav nor Ishan Kishan getting his act together and de Kock being unable to time the ball sweetly off a softer ball on a slowing surface, MI appeared to have lost the plot. Having conceded just 65 runs off the 11 overs after the PowerPlay, Knight Riders had to keep Kieron Pollard — who walked in with 31 balls to spare — in check to sign off on a perfect note.  Rohit, when on 18, became the first batter to score 1,000 runs against an IPL team    KKR 120 for one  Knight Riders were 120 for one in 13 overs, with Morgan (20) and Karthik (15) at the crease||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/venkatesh-tripathi-power-knight-riders-to-thumping-win/article36641893.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||RCB will look to turn it around against CSK||After being shot out for 92 against Kolkata Knight Riders, a lot is riding on Royal Challengers Bangalore’s explosive batting line-up to come good when it takes on Chennai Super Kings at Sharjah on Friday. Last year, the venue saw some of the high scores scored in the tournament with its short boundaries and the Royal Challengers batters will hope to find their groove on what could be helpful batting conditions. On Wednesday, Virat Kohli was hard at work having an extended net session and coach Mike Hesson sounded confident that the skipper has found his rhythm back. With A.B. de Villiers not donning the gloves, it will be interesting to see if Royal Challengers tries out Kerala wicketkeeper-batter Mohammed Azharuddeen, who is known for his power-hitting, to give more depth to its line-up. Super Kings will be buzzing, coming from a 20-run win over defending champion Mumbai Indians after being reduced to 24/4 batting first on Sunday, thanks to opener Ruturaj Gaikwad’s unbeaten 88. But last year, Super Kings struggled at Sharjah, losing all its three matches and will be wary of that fact. All-rounder Sam Curran will be available for Friday’s game after completing his quarantine and could give the team an option to swap him for Moeen Ali, if needed. Another piece of good news is that both Ambati Rayudu, who took a blow on his arm, and Deepak Chahar, who suffered cramps against MI, are fit and available. With a settled line-up, Super Kings will hope to get their seventh win of the season that will take it one step closer to the playoffs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-will-look-to-turn-it-around-against-csk/article36641887.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||Formidables faces Texan Aces in final||Formidables lived up to its name as it beat Solaris by 48 IMPS for a berth in the final of the Team of four Gold event in the 18th HCL International bridge championship played virtually on the Real Bridge platform. In the final to be played on Friday, Formidables will be challenged by Texan Aces which also recorded its victory by an identical margin of 48 IMPs against Shree Cement. While Texan Aces gradually emphasised its supremacy after a strong start, Formidables played vibrant in the second half after having led by a solitary IMP at the end of the first two sessions. Formidables led by Kiran Nadar, has Bachiraju Satyanarayana, Rajeshwar Tewari, Keyzad Anklesaria, Sumit Mukherjee, Debabrata Majumdar, Jaggy Shivdasani and Sandeep Thakral in the team. Texan Aces comprises Sunit Choksi, G Venkatesh, Anil Padhya, Padmanabhan Sridharan, S Sunderam, Ajay Khare, Milind Athavale and Raju Tolani. In the silver event, Ganga Gomti overcame a tough start to prevail over Prayas by 37 IMPS. The team asserted itself in the third set when it took a 32 IMPs lead, and stretched it by five more points in the last session.   The results (semifinals): Team of four Gold: Formidables bt Solaris 111-63; Texan Aces bt Shree Cements 85-37; Team of four Silver: Ganga Gomti bt Prayas 137-100; Dr. SSMC bt Dr. Sanghi 100-85 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/formidables-faces-texan-aces-in-final/article36642089.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||State swimming — Rawat pips Vishal in 200m freestyle||Kushagra Rawat pipped Vishal Grewal by one hundredth of a second to win the men’s 200-metre freestyle gold with a time of 1 minute 54.38 seconds in the 56th Delhi State Swimming Championship at the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee swimming pool here on Thursday. Kushagra also won the 1500-metre freestyle gold to add to the 800-metre gold he had won on the opening day.  The results:   Men: 200m freestyle: 1. Kushagra Rawat 1:54.38; 2. Vishal Grewal 1:54.39; 3. Anurag Dagar 1:56.32.   1500m freestyle: 1. Kushagra Rawat 15:59.45; 2. Parth Lakhina 19:37.57; 3. Yashvardhan Bishnoi 20:10.76.   50m backstroke: 1. Siddhant Sejwal 27.13; 2. Tanmay Das 27.15; 3. Anurag Dagar 27.35.   100m breaststroke: 1. Aditya Dubey 1:07.56; 2. Kartik Sharma 1:16.79; 3. Gurpreet Singh 1:20.82.   100m butterfly: 1. Sameer Sejwal 57.01; 2. Vinayak Parihar 58.83; 3. Nischay Malik 1:00.13.   200m individual medley: 1. Vishal Grewal 2:14.00; 2. Tanmay Das 2:19.52; 3. Sanskaar Tokas 2:20.74.   Boys: Group-1: 200m freestyle: 1. Pratham Sharma 2:05.60; 2. Rakshit Chitkara 2:06.69; 3. Aditya Kumar 2:13.23.   1500m freestyle: 1. Divyansh Arora 18:28.42; 2. Mayank Solanki 18:37.03; 3. Tejasvi Arora 18:38.15.   50m backstroke: 1. Madhur Agarwal 28.67; 2. Aryaman Jain 29.67; 3. Arjun Tokas 31.63.   100m breaststroke: 1. Utkarsh Sarkar 1:18.72; 2. Gaurav Chauhan 1:19.68; 3. Abhinav Gogoi 1:25.61.   100m butterfly: 1. Pratham Sharma 56.05; 2. Divyansh Arora 1:02.32; 3. Lakshay Vashisht 1:03.82.   200m individual medley: 1. Neerav Kumar 2:31.43; 2. Ishaan Rathi 2:37.33; 3. Utkarsh Sarkar 2:39.60.   Group-2: 200m freestyle: 1. Yuvraj Singh 2:19.08; 2. Prateek Singh 2:22.52; 3. Avinash Issar 2:30.61.   1500m freestyle: 1. Yuvraj Singh 19:14.57; 2. Ravit Kharb 21:46.70; 3. Aryan Joon 22:59.57.   50m backstroke: 1. Robin Sen 32.50; 2. Mihir Ramchandani 32.58; 3. Pranav Singh 32.65.   100m breaststroke: 1. Dhruv Sejwal 1:16.72; 2. Akshat Kumar 1:17.40; 3. Bhhagya Gahlaut 1:20.80.   100m butterfly: 1. Robin Sen 1:08.00; 2. Prakhyat Mohan 1:11.64; 3. Mihir Ramchandani 1:13.02.   200m individual medley: 1. Bhhagya Gahlaut 2:33.48; 2. Dhruv Sejwal 2:33.50; 3. Soham Malik 3:02.75.   Women: 200m freestyle: 1. Prachi Tokas 2:15.18; 2. Surbhi Sharma 2:31.71; 3. Pallavi Sejwal 2:37.48.   1500m freestyle: 1. Prachi Tokas 18:10.12; 2. Pragya Shokeen 28:28.67.   50m backstroke: 1. Rinki Bardoloi 33.23; 2. Yashwani Suhag 33.58; 3. Simran Badhwar 34.26.   100m breaststroke: 1. Yashwani Suhag 1:24.80; 2. Vaishali Grewal 1:30.10; 3. Mehak Hasija 1:36.91.   100m butterfly: 1. Vanshika Sharma 1:15.29; 2. Rinki Bardoloi 1:15.49; 3. Deepali Malhotra 1:37.03.   200m individual medley: 1. Simran Badhwar 2:48.07; 2. Pallavi Sejwal 3:00.00; 3. Mehak Hasija 3:08.55.   Girls: Group-1: 200m freestyle: 1. Bhavya Sachdeva 2:17.39; 2. Ananya Bisht 2:25.38; 3. Muskan Kaur 2:25.72.   1500m freestyle: 1. Bhavya Sachdeva 18:55.05; 2. Simran 24:24.42; 3. Vanshikaa Chowdhary 25:43.52.   50m backstroke: 1. Utsav 33.32; 2. Saanvi Sood 33.50; 3. Ananya Bisht 34.74.   100m breaststroke: 1. Saisha Sehrawat 1:27.55; 2. Koushiki Singh 1:33.06; 3. Prajna Jadhav 1:38.78.   100m butterfly: 1. Hema 1:09.19; 2. Utsav 1:17.24; 3. Nandani Sharma 1:32.27.   200m individual medley: 1. Saanvi Sood 2:41.15; 2. Hema 2:46.46; 3. Khawish Dabas 2:52.25.   Group-2: 200m freestyle: 1. Ananya Rawat 2:24.87; 2. Titiksha Rawat 2:33.41; 3. Manya Bisht 2:38.11.   1500m freestyle: 1. Ananya Rawat 19:32.35; 2. Sanya Zutshi 22:06.55; 3. Harshita Lakhina 23:11.08.   50m backstroke: 1. Ananya Chauhan 34.34; 2. Manya Bisht 36.38; 3. Titiksha Rawat 36.44.   100m breaststroke: 1. Suhani Sharma 1:29.79; 2. Unnati Garg 1:46.97; 3. Amandhaa Singpo 1:47.20.   100m butterfly: 1. Nitika Saini 1:12.07; 2. Yajusha Dahiya 1:23.39; 3. Garishma Kataria 1:34.21.   200m individual medley: 1. Nitika Saini 2:53.25; 2. Suhani sharma 2:54.18; 3. Yajusha Dahiya 3:11.21 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-swimming-rawat-pips-vishal-in-200m-freestyle/article36642090.ece
24 September 2021||KOCHI,||Exciting talent Priya Mohan’s stunning new goal||She is the country’s fastest quartermiler this year and came close to a 400m medal at the recent Nairobi under-20 Worlds. Priya H. Mohan is now eyeing a bigger goal. “I want to break 50 seconds in the 400m but it depends on the training and how I execute the race,” Priya told The Hindu from Bengaluru. That made one’s head spin. For it would not just mean breaking Hima Das’ National record 50.79s, still considered a jaw-dropping time that came with the 2018 Asian Games silver, but going nearly a second faster!  “Her ultimate goal is to become the first Indian to run under 50s but we’re taking it step by step. Next year, before the Asiad, she can do something like 51s,” said Arjun Ajay, her coach since 2018. “She can run 51s since she has done 300m in 36.7s but she needs international meets to do that.” Priya is an exciting talent but timings can’t be improved magically. Still, the story so far has been stunning. When Arjun first saw her at the ICSE Nationals in October 2018, she was second in the 400m in 1:03.50s. By December, it went to 57.81s, another four seconds vanished in 2019 (53.62s). This year, with some of the top quartermilers either injured or in poor shape, Priya won the inter-State Nationals in June in 53.29s but missed the Olympics mixed relay team as she was not a national camper. “I could not attend the camp in Patiala as I had exams,” said the 18-year-old who hails from Tumkur and is settled in Bengaluru. But she clocked a life best 52.77s while finishing fourth in the under-20 Worlds last month after helping India to the 4x400m mixed relay bronze. Her stunning progress and reluctance to join the national camp before Tokyo raised many eyebrows. With 2022 loaded with Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and junior and senior Worlds, many are keen to know whether Priya will join the camp. “I’ll attend camps only before competitions and with my coach. I’m doing B.Com, if I go for (long) camps I won’t be able to attend college. If they want to do any (dope) test, I’m ready for it, they can come home any time,” said Priya.  Watchful eye Priya’s father H.A. Mohan, a district judge in Belagavi, wants a situation that would be fair to all. “Since I’m in a responsible position, it is not necessary for us to adopt any shortcuts. “I have told her coach about it and also my daughter to be cautious before taking anything,” said Mohan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/exciting-talent-priya-mohans-stunning-new-goal/article36642300.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Took my medal to meet its elder sibling’||Neeraj Chopra on Wednesday met fellow Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra. The five-time Olympian presented Tokyo Olympic gold medallist Neeraj with a puppy named ‘Tokyo’. The 23-year-old javelin thrower also thanked Beijing 2008 gold medallist Abhinav for the warm hospitality. Neeraj also added that he will cherish ‘Tokyo’ forever. Warm hospitality “Took my Olympic medal to meet its elder sibling from Beijing today. Thank you @Abhinav Bindra sir for your family's warm hospitality and for ‘Tokyo’ who I will cherish forever!" Neeraj tweeted. Bindra was quick to reply to Neeraj's post as he wrote that both the Olympic champions agree that process is the goal and gold. Process is the goal “The two of us agree that the process is the Goal. The process is the Gold. And the Process is most rewarding. Happy to have spent the afternoon with this young Gold Medalist,” Abhinav Bindra replied to Neeraj. Bindra also hoped that the new puppy will motivate Neeraj to get him a sibling named ‘Paris’ in the 2024 Olympics. As he earlier wrote: “Was a pleasure to meet and interact with India's golden man @Neeraj_chopra1! I hope that “Tokyo” will be a supportive friend and motivate you to get a sibling named Paris for him in 2024!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/meeting-to-remember/article36641951.ece
24 September 2021||Kohler (USA),||USA on a mission to reclaim trophy||An American squad featuring nine of the world’s 11 top-ranked golfers tries to reclaim the Ryder Cup from Europe this weekend, aided by 40,000 loud supporters and a home course edge. The European side, however, has won nine of the past 12 editions of the biennial team matches, including three of the past six on US soil, and brings an experienced line-up to face a US team with six rookies on its 12-man roster. Underdogs “Everything is stacked against us,” said European talisman Ian Poulter, who has never lost a Ryder Cup singles match. “When you have that, when you can go in as underdogs, when you can turn the tide and actually come out victorious, it means a little bit more,” he said. Four-time Major winner Rory McIlroy of Europe says a win “would be massive”. Brisk winds Brisk winds at Whistling Straits along the Lake Michigan shoreline promise to make the layout, tucked among cliffs and hillsides, formidable for everyone when play starts on Friday. The US line-up boasts of 2020 Masters winner Dustin Johnson, Tokyo Olympic champion Xander Schauffele, British Open champion Collin Morikawa and US PGA Tour play-off winner Patrick Cantlay — all ranked in the top five, even if the last three are Ryder Cup newcomers. Friday and Saturday feature morning foursomes and afternoon four-ball matches ahead of Sunday’s 12 final singles matches. Spectators About 40,000 spectators are expected each day, mostly US supporters due to COVID-19 travel restrictions after the event was delayed from 2020 by the pandemic. It’s the first time in 60 years that Europe will have four players over age 40 while the Americans field one of their youngest line-ups.  The teams: USA: Steve Strickler (Capt.), Phil Mickelson (Vice-Capt.), Fred Couples, Collin Morikawa, Dustin Johnson, Bryson DeChambeau, Brooks Koepka, Justin Thomas, Patrick Cantlay, Daniel Berger, Harris English, Tony Finau, Xander Schauffele, Scottie Scheffler and Jordan Spieth.   Europe: Padraig Harrington (Capt.), Paul Casey, Matt Fitzpatrick, Tyrrell Hatton, Tommy Fleetwood, Rory McIlroy, Viktor Hovland, Jon Rahm, Lee Westwood, Bernd Wiesberger, Sergio Garcia, Shane Lowry and Ian Poulter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/usa-on-a-mission-to-reclaim-trophy/article36641952.ece
24 September 2021||Madrid,||Real Madrid wallops Mallorca||Marco Asensio scored his first hat-trick for Real Madrid on Wednesday against Mallorca, his boyhood club, as Madrid cruised to a 6-1 win to go top of La Liga. Karim Benzema capitalised on an early Mallorca mistake at the Santiago Bernabeu before three goals in five minutes put Madrid 3-1 ahead, two Asensio strikes coming either side of a curling effort from Mallorca’s Lee Kang-in. Asensio completed his treble with a bending shot of his own in the second half. In Serie A Juventus won its first match of the season at the fifth attempt, 3-2 at Spezia. Achraf Hakimi’s dramatic injury-time winner rescued PSG a 2-1 victory at bottom club Metz in Ligue 1.  The results: LaLiga: Sevilla 3 (Gomez 1, Montiel 15, Mir 22) bt Valencia 1 (Duro Perales 31); Espanyol 1 (Tomas 54-pen) bt Alaves 0; Real Madrid 6 (Benzema 3, 78, Marco Asensio 24, 29, 55, Isco 84) bt Real Mallorca 1 (Lee 25); Villarreal 4 (Pino 5, Trigueros Munoz 39, Groeneveld 60, Moreno 90+4) bt Elche 1 (Mojica 19).   Serie A: AC Milan 2 (Diaz 67, Hernandez 82) bt Venezia 0; Cagliari 0 lost to Empoli 2 (Di Francesco 29, Stulac 69); Salernitana 2 (Gondo 45+2, Coulibaly 76) drew with Verona 2 (Kalinic 7, 29); Spezia 2 (Gyasi 33, Antiste 49) lost to Juventus 3 (Kean 28, Chiesa 66, De Ligt 72).   Ligue 1: Metz 1 (Kouyate 39) lost to PSG 2 (Hakimi 5, 90+5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/real-madrid-wallops-mallorca/article36641954.ece
24 September 2021||Chennai,||MRF Formula 1600 class makes a comeback||The MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship will begin on Saturday at the MMRT behind closed doors with a card of nine races and 76 competitors in the fray. Returning to the championship after a season’s break due to the pandemic, is the MRF Formula1600 class which will headline the two-day programme with a 12-car grid. Saloon cars The other categories are the ever-popular saloon cars in three categories — the top-end Indian Touring Cars, Indian Junior Touring Cars and Super Stock. Also in the mix is the Formula LGB 1300 which boasts of a huge grid of 25 cars. Volkswagen will run its one-make championship with a grid of 22 VW Polo cars, all kitted with 1.8-litre turbo engine putting out 235 bhp and a six-speed gear box operated by paddle-shift levers besides a push-to-pass mechanism, which is a first in Indian racing. Lining up on the grid are four racers from Bangladesh and a lone female entry — Diana Pundole from Pune — a mother of two. The field for the JA Motorsport-prepared MRF F1600 includes experienced drivers such as Ashwin Datta, Deepak Ravikumar and Nikanth Ram among others. In the saloon car category, Coimbatore veteran Arjun Balu, driving a Race Concepts-prepared Honda City VTec, will look forward to defending his National title in the Indian Touring Cars class. The IJTC also returns to the championship after missing out two seasons, while the Super Stock, among the most competitive, is expected to dish out close battles as in the previous years. In the Formula LGB 1300 category, an incentive by way of a Rookie Cup for the highest placed first-timer in each of the races is on offer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mrf-formula-1600-class-returns/article36642003.ece
24 September 2021||Yankton (USA),||Jyothi Surekha delights as India reaches two finals||V. Jyothi Surekha shone brightly as India reached the finals of the compound women’s and mixed team events at the World archery championships here. The seventh-ranked Indian women’s trio of Surekha, Muskan Kirar and cadet World champion Priya Gurjar ensured a medal by reaching the final. Then Jyothi combined with Abhishek Verma to book a berth in the mixed team title clash. India, which has never won a gold medal in the event, will meet Colombia, ranked first and second in the women’s and mixed events, in both finals on Friday. The Indians beat Denmark 226-225, second-ranked Great Britain 230-230 (30-28) and host USA 226-225 in the semifinal. The mixed duo of Jyothi and Abhishek, ranked fifth, beat Russia 157-150, the Netherlands 157-155 before getting the better of the Koreans 159-156 to reach the final. Surekha has the unique distinction of being a member of all the Indian compound teams which have won medals — team silver in Mexico in 2017 and team bronze in the Netherlands in 2019 — in the World championships so far. She is the only Indian woman archer to bag an individual bronze (achieved the feat in the Netherlands two years ago).  The men’s compound team of Abhishek, Sangampreet Singh Bisla and Rishabh Yadav went down fighting to Austria 238-235 in the third round. The recurve archers were unable to make the medal rounds. The men’s team of Parth Salunkhe, Aditya Choudhary and Atul Verma lost to Chinese Taipei 5-3 in the second round. The women’s side, including Ankita Bhakat and Ridhi and Komalika Bari, was beaten by Mexico 6-2 in the third round. The mixed team of Salunkhe and Ankita was ousted by Korea 5-1 in the second round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jyothi-surekha-delights-as-india-reaches-two-finals/article36641883.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Pressure brings the best out of me: Shreyas||For Shreyas Iyer, the man who led Delhi Capitals to the 2020 IPL final, “the hunger (to perform) has grown and the appetite (for runs) keeps increasing every match you play.”  Back in the mix after missing the first part of the season due to injury, Shreyas finished the job for DC with a six in its eight-wicket triumph over Sunrisers Hyderabad on Wednesday. Addressing mediapersons following his unbeaten 41-ball 47 on Wednesday, Shreyas said, “It’s a really good feeling. I wanted to be positive when I went in to bat and I wanted to back my instincts. “I looked to bat till the end and finish the game. I gave myself some time in the middle and after a while, I was able to pick the lengths of the deliveries.” Asked about how he coped with injury, he said: “I have a very close-knit family and friends and they never made me feel I was going through an injury. “At first it was really difficult for me to adapt to the fact that I was injured. But family and friends kept me busy and in a positive frame of mind.” As he gained strength during rehab his confidence that he could come back positive and strong grew, Shreyas said. He loves to perform under pressure. “I feel, the pressure-situation brings the best out of me. “Even today, when I walked in, there was a bit of pressure. I want to be in that kind of situation and perform.”  I gave myself some time in the middle and after a while, I was able to pick the lengths Shreyas||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pressure-brings-the-best-out-of-me-shreyas/article36641895.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Das backs India to fire||India’s batting may not have clicked in the opening women’s ODI against a rampaging Australia, but batting coach Shiv Sundar Das is hopeful of a better show in the second match at Mackay on Friday. He expressed faith in India’s dashing duo at the top of the order, Smriti Mandhana and Shafali Verma, though neither spent much time in the middle on Tuesday. “Obviously, (in the) last few games we didn’t have a good start, (but) I am very positive as the batting coach,” he said. “(I hope) they’ll put up a good start... of about 60-70. We can then carry the momentum into the middle overs.” In the first match, India was troubled by the short-pitched balls from Australia’s 18-year-old pacer Darcie Brown, who took four wickets, in only her second ODI. Das said the batters had worked on that in the nets over the last couple of days. “We have identified a few areas,” he said. “All the top-order batters have a plan and I have had one-to-one chats with them. “Running between the wickets is another area we are working on,” Das said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/das-backs-india-to-fire/article36641897.ece
24 September 2021||DOHA,||Archana’s stunning run continues||Archana Kamath became the lone Indian to progress to the quarterfinals of the World Table Tennis Star Contender on Thursday, coming back from a 0-2 deficit to beat Miyu Nagasaki of Japan 11-13, 6-11, 11-8, 12-10, 11-8. However, Sreeja Akula’s run came to an end as she lost to Bruna Takahashi of Brazil 7-11, 4-11, 10-12. Earlier, Sreeja and Archana had registered stunning wins over higher-ranked opponents in the second round. Sreeja, ranked World No. 143, pulled off one of the biggest wins of her career with a sensational 11-5, 7-11, 11-9, 11-7 victory over World No. 21 Suh Hyowon of Korea. Archana, ranked 132, outclassed the 39th-ranked Mo Zhang of Canada 11-8, 15-13, 11-7.  Other result: Men (round-of-32): Andrej Gacina (Cro) bt G. Sathiyan 11-6, 11-6, 11-7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archanas-stunning-run-continues/article36641902.ece
24 September 2021||Mackay,||Indian women battle to stay in series||The Indian women’s cricket team desperately needs its top order to strike form and its bowlers to show some spark against an in-form Australia in the second One-Day International here on Friday. Australia won the opening match of the three-ODI series by nine wickets. Shafali Verma and Smriti Mandhana have the ability to take on the rival attack and they need to ensure that Ellyse Perry and Darcie Brown do not dominate them the way they did in the series-opener. The pace duo set the tone for the hosts in the warm-up game in Brisbane as well as in the first ODI here on Monday by cleaning up the Indian top-order as Australia recorded its 25th straight triumph in the format, a world-record winning streak. The middle-order, led by skipper Mithali Raj, also has to show more intent. Flamboyant vice-captain Harmanpreet Kaur, who missed the opening game due to a thumb injury, is still unavailable and in her absence the team needs Deepti Sharma to step up. Batting coach Shiv Sunder Das confirmed that Harmanpreet had not yet recovered. “Right now she (Harmanpreet) is not fit. She’s not available for the next game, that’s the current status,” the coach said at the pre-match press conference. The 21-year-old southpaw Yastika Bhatia gave a good account of herself on debut and the confidence of having scored against a world-class attack should help her continue in the same vein. The Indian bowlers, led by veteran Jhulan Goswami, need to make early inroads. Another defeat on Friday would mean a third straight series loss for India.  The teams (from):   India: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Smriti Mandhana, Shafali Verma, Punam Raut, Jemimah Rodrigues, Deepti Sharma, Sneh Rana, Yastika Bhatia, Taniya Bhatia (wk), Shikha Pandey, Jhulan Goswami, Meghna Singh, Pooja Vastrakar, Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Poonam Yadav, Richa Ghosh and Ekta Bisht.   Australia: Meg Lanning (Capt.), Rachael Haynes (Vice-Capt.), Darcie Brown, Maitlan Brown, Stella Campbell, Nicola Carey, Hannah Darlington, Ashleigh Gardner, Alyssa Healy, Tahlia McGrath, Sophie Molineux, Beth Mooney, Ellyse Perry, Georgia Redmayne, Molly Strano, Annabel Sutherland, Tayla Vlaeminck and Georgia Wareham.   Match starts at 10.40 a.m. (IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-battle-to-stay-in-series/article36641899.ece
24 September 2021||Mysuru:,||Yashas excels||Yashas S. Rao (69 & four for 26) enabled The Mysore Gymkhana to register a facile eight wicket win over FUCC in the KSCA Mysore zone U-16 inter-club tournament 2021-22, here on Thursday.  The scores: FUCC 164 in 34 overs (Krish Kedia 61, Yashas S Rao 4/26, Samarth Bharadwaj 3/28). Garner CC 129 in 33.2 overs ( Shivam Gowda 46, M. S. Ranjan 3/28, B. Narain 3/19) lost to Navajyoti CC 133 for two in 27.5 overs ( R.Likith 59, J.Yashas 31); RBNCC 232 for eight in 49.2 overs (S. R. Chiranthan 74, K.L. Taran Kumar 37) bt Star Cricketers 165 in 42.2 overs (Vismay R Raj 44, Balaji 50, K.L.Taran Kumar 4/19). Lucky Boys CC 165 in 50 overs (Srujal 36, R. Chandan 4/30, Himesh 3/15) lost to Jaihind CC 169 for five in 33.2 overs (Sachin Nayak 52, Charan 30) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashas-excels/article36642377.ece
24 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Abdurahiman chosen KSF chairman||Kerala Sports Minister V. Abdurahiman has been chosen as the chairman of the Kerala Sports Foundation (KSF), the public sector company floated by the Government to supervise the construction and maintenance of sports infrastructure in the State. At the first director board meeting of the KSF held here on Thursday, Sports Secretary Sharmila Mary Joseph was chosen as the vice-chairperson while Jeromic George, Director, Department of Sports and Youth Affairs, was chosen managing director. The other board members of KSF will be decided later. The engineering wing, now working under Youth and Sports Affairs, has been merged with KSF. The KSF will supervise the ongoing construction projects undertaken by the engineering wing of Department of Sports and Youth Affairs and also the projects sanctioned under KIIFB funds. The foundation will look after the functioning and maintenence of the shooting range in Vattiyoorkavu, Jimmy George indoor stadium, Sports Hub, Fitness centre, Vattiyoorkavu and Ramanathan Krishnan Tennis Centre, Kumarapuram. G.V. Raja Sports School, Kannur Sports Division and Thrissur Sports Division will now function under KSF. The other functions include organising sports events and coaching camps, conducting refresher courses for coaches and organising physical fitness programmes for general public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abdurahiman-chosen-ksf-chairman/article36642297.ece
24 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Md. Sporting knocks out Gokulam||Mohammedan Sporting Club knocked defending champion Gokulam Kerala FC out of the 130th edition of the Durand Cup football with a solitary goal quarterfinal win at the Salt Lake Stadium here on Thursday. Marcus Joseph, a former Gokulam Kerala forward, found the net late in the opening half to decide the match in favour of Mohammedan Sporting, which will now meet FC Bengaluru United in the first semifinal on September 27. The Second Division outfit, which was scheduled to play its quarterfinal on Friday, received a bye after its opponent Army Red pulled out following multiple COVID-19 positive cases in the team. Fan attendance Thursday’s match was also significant on another count as a limited number of fans were allowed for the first time since the pandemic shut the doors on spectator attendance. The local organising committee has now decided to open 50 percent of the seats to spectators for the semifinals and the final.  The result: Quarterfinal 1: Mohammedan Sporting 1 (Marcus Joseph 44) bt Gokulam Kerala FC 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/md-sporting-knocks-out-gokulam/article36641944.ece
24 September 2021||Biel (Switzerland),||Ramkumar in quarterfinals||Ramkumar Ramanathan defeated Mats Moraing of Germany 6-2, 6-3 to reach the €44,820 Challenger tennis quarterfinals here on Thursday.  The results: €44,820 Challenger, Biel: Pre-quarterfinals: Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Mats Moraing (Ger) 6-2, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo: Pre-quarterfinals: Edorado Lavagno (Ita) bt Rishab Agarwal 6-2, 7-5; Francesco Passaro (Ita) bt Atharva Sharma 6-2, 6-0.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir: Pre-quarterfinals: Zeel Desai bt Anouk Koevermans (Ned) 5-7, 6-1, 6-1; First round: Zeel Desai bt Weronika Baszak (Pol) 4-6, 7-6(2), 6-3; Marie Villet (Fra) bt Sravya Shivani 6-3, 6-2.   Doubles (quarterfinals): Honoka Kobayashi (Jpn) & Jennifer Luikham w/o Beatrice Ricci (Ita) & Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-in-quarterfinals/article36641949.ece
24 September 2021||MIAMI,||F1 — Miami GP to make debut in 2022||The first Formula 1 Grand Prix in Miami will take place at Miami Gardens on May 8, 2022, organisers said in a statement Thursday. USA has hosted a GP in Austin, Texas since 2012, but F1 is looking to gain more of a foothold in the land of IndyCar and NASCAR. Miami will be the 11th US F1 site after Sebring, Riverside in Los Angeles, Watkins Glen in New York State, Long Beach in California, Las Vegas, Detroit, Dallas, Phoenix, Indianapolis and Austin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/f1-miami-gp-to-make-debut-in-2022/article36642002.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||SRM women triumph||SRM IST won the women’s title in the first Kancheepuram District basketball championships for clubs and colleges with a 51-23 victory over Vels University in the final.     The Appaswamy Open tennis tournament for men and women (singles and doubles) will be conducted by Tamil Nadu Tennis Association at MatchPoint Tennis Academy from September 27 to October 2. The tournament, sponsored by Appaswamy Real Estates, carries a prize money of Rs. 5 Lakh, according to a press release from TNTA. The men’s and women’s singles champions will receive Rs. 31,250 each and 40 AITA points. The qualifying matches will be held on September 25 and 26. TNTA president Vijay Amritraj said, “It is a matter of pride that we are to conduct the highest prize money clay-court tournament for men and women in the country during the same week at the same venue. “I express my immense gratitude to Appaswamy Real Estates for supporting the event. I look forward to players in the country and the State participating and using this privileged opportunity to move up to higher levels.”     S. Karthik’s five for 16 enabled Air Warriors defeat Dev by 43 runs in the CDCA first division league on Thursday.  The scores: Air Warriors 162/8 in 38 overs (B. Rishkanth 36, A. Aasrit 32, T. Tejeshwara 30, R. Raj Kumar 4/31) bt Dev 119 in 32.1 overs (R. Raj Kumar 34, S. Karthik 5/16, A. Aasrit 3/26) .    Tamil Nadu Table Tennis Association will conduct its first state-ranking (boys and girls) tournament at SRM Institute of Science & Technology, Kattankalathur, on October 2 and 3 in the following categories — u-11 (hopes), u-13 (cadets), u-15 (sub-juniors), u-17 (juniors), u-19 and men, women, veterans, and corporates. Entries close on Sept. 27 with tnttaentries@gmail.com .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srm-women-triumph/article36642008.ece
24 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA:,||Ravi Teja scalps five||P. Ravi Teja (five for 23) helped United XI score a 115-run win over Jagruthi Cricket Academy in the Bezawada T20 invitation cricket tournament, organised by GoSports Cricket Academy.  The scores:   United XI 215/7 in 20 overs (Junaid 55, Rizwan 42, Shai Zubair 38, B.N. Harikishore 3/24) bt Jagruthi CA 100/9 in 20 overs (P. Ravi Teja 5/23).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ravi-teja-scalps-five/article36642414.ece
24 September 2021||New Delhi,||AICF suspends joint secretary Lahiri||The All India Chess Federation has suspended its joint secretary Atanu Lahiri for three years for anti-federation activity. The decision was taken in the Annual General Body Meeting in Jaipur on Thursday. Lahiri was issued a show-cause notice in June following allegations of financial malpractices as a former office-bearer of Bengal Chess Association. Lahiri’s response to the show-cause notice could not satisfy the members of the three-member inquiry committee. MPCA disaffiliated In another major decision, the Madhya Pradesh Chess Association was disaffiliated and a five-member ad-hoc committee was set up to run its affairs. Deliberations were also held on inviting sponsorship support, holding of Indian Chess League, issues related with National online chess championships and implementation of Sports Code by State Associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aicf-suspends-joint-secretary-lahiri/article36641943.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Pull of the Ramayana||The Ramayana has a pull, which has remained undiminished over centuries, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. It is perhaps one of the few stories where the hero Himself enjoyed hearing the story. Bhavabhuti, in his Uttara Rama charita, says that in Rama’s palace in Ayodhya, scenes from the Ramayana were painted on the walls, and Rama, Sita and Lakshmana enjoyed looking at the paintings. Lava and Kusa had been trained by Valmiki to narrate all the verses of the Ramayana. Their speech itself was sweet, and when they sang the verses before Rama people listened, their attention unwavering. Rama too left His throne and sat among the people. The story continued to be a big draw even after the Rama avatara ended. While it is common knowledge that Srimad Bhagavatam contains many exploits of Krishna, significantly, it also has Suka talking about Rama’s story. When Kulasekara Azhvar heard about Rama preparing to fight Ravana, he forgot that it was a story about the past. He ordered his army to go to the aid of Rama! Parasara Bhatta, wrote a commentary for the Vishnu Sahasranama, called Bhagavadguna Darpana. Here, before he talks about names referring to Rama, he says that he is going to talk about the name which is like nectar to the dying. The name ‘Rama’ offers consolation when we are unhappy. It is evident from Nammazhvar’s works that Krishna was his favourite deity. And yet, even he remarked in a verse that if at all one wanted to learn something, it should be the story of Rama, for by His very presence, Rama granted moksha even to blades of grass in Ayodhya. Nampillai explained Nammazhvar’s Thiruvaimozhi in his discourses. In these explanations, Nampillai gave references from Valmiki Ramayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/pull-of-the-ramayana/article36641845.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 07:29 IST,||Sudoku — September 24, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-24-2021/article36642653.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hit the road||After travelling a large part of the country on a motor bike with her husband, Nagpur-based Neha Soman, decided to buy a caravan. It would be more comfortable, and also novel, she thought. In 2016 she bought a caravan from a manufacturer in Delhi, and decided to also rent it out to other intrepid travellers. She called it Wacation On Wheels. Neha and her husband are still waiting to take a long-planned trip to Leh in their caravan. “My holidaying has reduced since I bought it,” she laughs, adding that it is booked for most of the year. The number of caravans in the country is certainly growing as a result of the pandemic, says Neha who has two of her own and manages three others that belong to other owners in Bhopal/Indore, Mumbai, and Jaipur. Enquiries at Wacation On Wheels have doubled this year, with 14-15 calls per day and the vehicles are out 14 days a month on an average, says Neha. Last year, this Nagpur-based outfit saw about 5% of tourism-based travel in their caravans. The remaining 95% of business was from people who required assistance getting from one city to another. This primarily included infants and senior citizens who did not want to risk a train or flight. Carvaa Travelers, started last October, and Carawander by Siddharth Arya Jolly in April this year, are among the new players in the market. Jigyasu, along with his friends Himanshu Jangid, Yogesh Kumar, and Pranav Sharma, set up operations for Carvaa Travelers in Delhi. Even with the demand going through the roof, Jigyasu was tentative about the success and future of the business, putting the bookings down to clients’ whims or one time experience. Revving up In the months to come, he and his friends discovered that this mode had become more of a necessity than something experiential. “It was revenge travel, revenge consumption,” Jigyasu laughs over a call from the capital. Currently operating with two caravans, the team plans to add a few more to their fleet. Unlike Carvaa Travelers, Carawander had a bumpy ride in the beginning. “We launched in April and five days later the second wave started so we had to suspend operations,” says 22-year-old Siddharth. He commenced services in August, but before that his vehicles — a motorhome and a campervan — had to undergo repairs as they were parked for four months. The novelty, privacy, flexibility, and sense of being in a bubble is what greatly works in the favour of caravans, even though they may not exactly be pocket-friendly. Operators price them anywhere between Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 27,000 or more a day, depending on the size and facilities. The additional costs include fuel, toll tax and State tax that vary from Rs. 200 per day to as high as Rs. 15,000 for a month, even if it means one is driving through a State for a day to get to another. Some caravans can sleep nine people, some six and a few just three. These leisure vehicles have beds, an attached bathroom, well-stocked kitchenette, entertainment units, camping kits, barbecue equipment, and a chauffeur and cleaner. This is also a great way for holidaymakers to explore lesser known destinations. Some governments, such as Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka, have taken note of this and introduced policies and services that will aid tourism in their states. Luxe Camper has tied up with the Karnataka Government and uses the State-owned Jungle Lodges and Resort, to park their campervans in 15 locations. This includes a mix of well known destinations such as Kabini and Bandipur, as well as offbeat ones such as Sakrebyle and Aanejari. “Sakrebyle near Shimoga has a beautiful elephant interpretation centre,” says Tiger Ramesh who started Luxe Camper last June. Caravaners can park there and in the daytime go on a guided tour to see about 25 elephants in water bodies, along with their mahouts, explains Tiger. Other than these, the company also has its own camp site in Sakleshpur. “Our goal is to have 100 vehicles. Few of them will be in Cochin, Goa, Chennai, Nagpur, and Meghalaya,” says Tiger who says he has been approached by the West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments to promote caravan tourism in their states and highlight more destinations. With caravans one has the advantage to choose where they want to sleep or dine, even if there are no hotels or restaurants in the vicinity. “If a tourist wishes to have breakfast by the waterfall, a traditional lunch amid paddy fields, dinner on the mountain side or enjoy the meals at a five star hotel, he/she will be chauffeur driven to these specific locales in a luxury caravan,” says VR Krishna Teja, Director Tourism, Government of Kerala, which is pitching caravan tourism as its latest product, set to unroll on January 1, 2022. Places like Vagamon and parts of North Kerala and Kollam will be included in the caravan circuit. The caravans will be serviced at the caravan parks. This will promote hyper local tourism and help the communities around these parks. “Caravans will have toilet facilities and waste disposal fittings. Each caravan park will have Sewage Treatment Plants (STP), which is compulsory. There will be segregation of waste and compost pits,” he says. Busy routes Popular caravan routes for now are Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Rajasthan and Karnataka. Since India does not have caravan parks yet, some operators have tied up with camping sites. “The caravans can park there for the night and the travellers can use their facilities like restaurants, restrooms, electricity, water drainage system among others,” says Siddharth who collaborates with farm houses and camping sites in Rajasthan, where he currently operates. With each operator issuing a different policy, caravans are being rented out anywhere between a day to even a month. Carvaa Travelers’ longest booking so far has been for 40 days, when a young man set out to travel the Konkan coast with his best friend: his dog. Neha observes that there has been a significant increase in enquiries about travelling with pets. “There are restrictions on aircraft and trains, but here the pet owner and pet can travel together,” she says, adding that she sees this demographic becoming a huge market for caravans. “We ferried three cats along with two of their owners, from Mumbai to Bengaluru. This commute cost Rs. 1.3 lakh. After that, we drove a mother and daughter and their two dogs as they were relocating from Mumbai to Bareilly,” she adds. The single day bookings are sought after by families and friends who want to celebrate an occasion: Birthdays, bachelorette, bachelor parties. It is also popular among those ready to test something new. Plus, there’s always the quest to upload something trendy on the Gram. #caravans #yousawitherefirst #goexplore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hit-the-road/article36641694.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Breaking stereotypes, on and off screen||Sruthi Hariharan has always stunned us with her choice of films and her bold and unconventional roles. Then she got caught in the web of the #metoo movement and went off the radar, only to emerge in a new avataar as a wife and mother. That is not all, the actor was soon winning fans with her powerful portrayal in the Tamil webseries, Vadham ( on MX player). Sruthi plays a police inspector who is obsessed with justice. She is also acting in the Kannada film, Head Bush . Directed by Dhananjay, the film is the biopic of a gangster Jayaraj, written by Agni Sridhar. It also features Vasishta Simha. It is said to be a pan-Indian film, set in the late 60s and 70s. Sruthi, who started off with films like Lucia , went on to win the National award for Naathicharami . She talks to MetroPlus about marriage, motherhood, cinema and more. Edited excerpts: How does it feel to be back after a two-year hiatus, marriage and motherhood? Nothing has changed for me as a woman and I am not just defined by being a wife and a mother. Professionally too, it was heartening to see quite a few offers come my way once the second lockdown was lifted. In the interim, I worked in an independent film called Saanugaara . It was fun working in this film as my daughter Jaanki accompanied me to the set. Trying to care for another human being that is a part of you and also finding the space to work was an interesting balance to discover. Now you are a part of the Kannada film Head Bush ... Yes. I was elated as I always wanted to be part of a biopic. It is interesting when you play a true-to-life character on screen. You are not only tapping into your imagination to build the character, but also are trying to get your facts right. Tell us about your roles in Saanugaara and Head Bush...  In Saanugaara I play a movement artiste. A woman who is love with the pivotal character and how by just being herself, manages to steer him in the right direction. Cliched as it may sound, the story is beautiful and the character I play, Maya, has many layers. The film is directed by debut director Surya Vashishta, whom I have known from my Lucia days. In Head Bush , I play a woman from the ‘70s. It was a time when patriarchy was at its peak, spear heading every single field, including politics. My character, lived in such a time and yet managed to be heard, made her presence felt and commanded respect. For this role, we are styudying how the women dressed and behaved back then and it makes for an interesting journey. You said you see a lot more women in the industry today... Yes, there are a lot many women in the film industry today. We see them not just as costume designers anymore but as writers, directors, and DOPs. I believe streaming platforms have opened a whole new world for many of us. You encountered a serious problem (#me too experience) in the Tamil industry. Yet, you started off your comeback there with the web series called Vadham . How was it to start again with the same industry? We cannot hold one incident against the entire industry and vice versa. There are people who do understand why a person speaks out about certain incidents. In fact, I found the Tamil industry very welcoming of me. It is not entirely misogynistic, and has provided me with a beautiful place to begin work in. I look forward to working in Tamil cinema as I am a Tamilian raised in Bengaluru. When Vadham came, I was thrilled. Is there a difference in the workings of cinema and a web series? Web series is more an in-depth depiction of emotions or the narrative. It also gives you a lot more creative liberties. Even the writing in a web series takes precedence, as every episode has to capture the viewer’s attention. In cinema you look for that one cliffhanger moment... As an actor, there is not much difference when it comes to emoting on screen, except that OTT breaks stereotypes. All your roles have been very unconventional, some even with an element of shock to a certain section of the audience. Is that a conscious decision? Most roles that have come my way have been interesting. I have done the run-of-the-mill kind of cinema too to make money. So I am guilty of running around the trees too. On the other hand, I got to work in films such as Naathicharami and Beautiful Manasugalu... I believe I am lucky to have roles such as these come my way. I believe Lucia sent out the message that I was here to act. That paved the way for me for getting roles that were not always about a damsel in distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/breaking-stereotypes-on-and-off-screen/article36641675.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet this Sultan of a different string||Pop culture has conditioned us to think of harps and chubby, little cherubs together — not many music stores in India stock harps in the string section. An upcoming online session with Dutch harpist Joost Willemze, hosted by Bengaluru-based Indian Music Experience Museum (IME) on September 25 could serve as an introduction to the instrument. Joost Willemze, however, believes his initiation to the world of harps was meant to be. “It was Open Day at a music school in my home town; instruments were arranged in every room for the benefit of visitors. The very first room I entered had harps of different shapes and sizes. I picked one up, registered for the course and never looked back. I was seven years old,” says Joost, adding, “By the age of 11, I had progressed to playing a pedal harp which is bigger and more complex as it allows for changes in pitch and can play pieces written in any key.” Today, Joost (25) has performed all over the world including the Schiermonikoog Festival, the Rio Harp Festival in Brazil and for the Italian minister of Culture and Education in Rome, apart from his regular appearances with Patrick van der Linden’s Ars Musica, as an orchestra musician. As with any instrument, passion alone is not enough if one wants to excel. “One has to practice regularly,” he says, admitting there were times as child when he did not feel like. Despite that, Joost says four to five hours of daily practice should suffice. “Any more time than that questions the ‘quality’ of your practice. Those who say they practice for six hours or more are just playing music.” Talking about his upcoming session with IME, Joost says, “The idea is to engage as many people who could be interested in this instrument without making it too technical or specific. This way, a wider audience can be a part of the session, especially first timers.” “Though I have never visited India I would love to someday. The Dutch embassy in India contacted me for this event and made it possible for me to collaborate with IME.” The session is part of IME’s initiative to foster partnerships between Indian artistes with international counterparts in areas of culture, visual and performing arts and sustainable urban environments. Log on to https://indianmusic experience.org/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/meet-this-sultan-of-a-different-string/article36641707.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Toying with perceptions||Paula Hawkins has watched the Hindi version of The Girl on the Train based on her bestselling 2015 novel. Directed by Ribhu Dasgupta, the film features Parineeti Chopra and Aditi Rao Hydari. Speaking from Edinburgh on a video call, the British author says, “The story has been changed, which is fine because, it is somebody else’s interpretation.” Hawkins says she enjoyed seeing the London locations, as the 2016 Hollywood version starring Emily Blunt, was set in America. “It was interesting that they changed it from her not being able to have a child to losing a child in a much more traumatic way. It made it even more likely that she was turned to alcohol for having been bereaved in that way.” Mamma mia Each of Hawkins’ books, from The Girl on the Train and Into the Water to the latest, A Slow Fire Burning (Penguin Random House) deals with different aspects of motherhood. “I do not have children; I may have a slight fear of parenthood. In my novels parenthood does not seem to be a very happy experience. It may come from my neuroses; I am interested in the way in which motherhood is portrayed as the acme of female existence. ” For the Harare-born author, books always start with a character and in the case of A Slow Fire Burning ,  it started with the character of Laura. “I heard a story about somebody who had been in an accident and suffered long-term behavioural changes because of it. I had been thinking about writing about someone like that but did not know what story I wanted to tell. I was living in London at the time, near where the novel is set. I was looking at house boats and wondering about the people who lived on them and imagining what might be inside them.” Preferring the classification of her books as domestic noir rather than grip lit, Hawkins says categorisations are mainly for people who write about books, and possibly for booksellers. While there is a murder in A Slow Fire Burning , Hawkins would like to describe it as a murder mystery as well as a character-driven novel. “It is a story about these three women, Laura, who is damaged by a childhood accident and suspected of murder, Miriam, the victim’s neighbour and Carla, the victim’s aunt. The novel looks at what they are prepared to do in order to right the wrongs that have been done to them.” Revenge is an important motif in the novel. “The desire for revenge can be something which keeps people going. People obsess about getting their own back... it is a powerful driving force. Finding a way wreak vengeance is almost like a project for Miriam.” Work or play While commenting that writing for her is mostly work, Hawkins hopes A Slow Fire Burning is a slightly more playful book. “There is more lightness in this book, although it deals with dark subjects. One of the interesting things about crime fiction is the idea of solving the puzzle and for me, of constructing the puzzle. Thinking about the kinds of people, or the kinds of situations in which terrible things might happen is interesting from a psychological point of view.”  The Girl on the Train was a phenomenal success and Hawkins had discussed the pressure of following up on that in an earlier interview with this writer. Hawkins says the pressure has eased. “ Into the Water was not such a big book. There were quite a lot of critical reviews. It was a difficult place for me, the thought of writing a new novel, when I just had a lot of negative criticism. I am happy with A Slow Fire Burning . I feel like I achieved what I set out to do.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/toying-with-perceptions/article36641680.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A bite of Bannur mutton||The pandemic has helped turn culinary fervour inwards, with home chefs experimenting with Dalgona coffee and artistic focaccia. The most heartening trend to be born out of the successive lockdowns is the popularity of the home catering business. Across cities, home chefs have delivered fresh, local cuisine offering respite to families. Impresario Handmade Restaurants, which runs popular chains such as Smoke House Deli, Salt Water Cafe and SOCIAL among others, is celebrating home chefs with its new initiative Local Heroes. The first instalment runs till September 28 at all Bengaluru SOCIAL locations, with home chef Kalyan Gopalakrishna, of Karnivore Kitchen in collaboration with SOCIAL’s City Chef Saurabh Arora. Gopalakrishna specialises in Naati (country/homestyle) cuisine native to Karnataka, with a focus on its non-vegetarian carnivorous offerings. The provenance of Karnivore Kitchen in April 2020, was an act of providence, when Chef Kalyan was forced to close down his Balanced Plate Café in Bengaluru, and had over eight kilograms of meat sitting in his freezer. He started a simple menu offering local recipes, cooking over 30 kilograms a week. He now offers a smorgasbord of local meaty delicacies celebrating lamb, chicken and pork. “I have followed my mother’s culinary footsteps and picked up local recipes from Mysuru and Bengaluru. I do not use any oil, and only cook with rendered fat from the meat. The spice mix we use in our recipes is packed with more pepper (from Malnad) and whole garam masala (from Delhi). I focus on Bannur mutton: a local breed of sheep that is rich in fat and flavour.” The dishes on offer at SOCIAL are the Bannur mutton chops fry, Bannur mutton palav, Bannur mutton pepper roast, karnivore chilli chicken and chilli pork, and pork belly fry. The chops are fall-off-the bone tender, having been marinated with a pepper-forward wet rub and then cooked on the stove top. The Bannur mutton palav has short grain rice that soaks up the fat rendered from the mutton, and the spice builds with every bite. “Bannur sheep are bred with a rich diet of milk bread, green channa and grain, and at six months they weigh thrice as much as regular lambs,” the chef explains. For the month-long collaboration with SOCIAL, all the naati chicken, pork and lamb have been sourced from the same butcher the home chef uses, and all the spice mixes have been prepared by Chef Kalyan. A curated cocktail menu by SOCIAL complements the spicy meat offerings with sour-sweet notes, and local ingredients. ‘Don’t Aam Yourself’ is an extra dry martini , fashioned with a raw mango flavoured vodka. The chilli pork packs quite a punch, leaving you looking to the gin fizz cocktail for respite. The drink accommodates a panaka of jaggery, pepper, cardamom, saffron, sonth, and lime juice. City Chef Saurabh Arora says the drink and food pairing has worked well. He trained with Chef Kalyan for three weeks, to get a uniform taste across six locations, “We also helped the chef standardise his recipes,” adds Chef Arora. Karnivore Kitchen is the first of many collaborations both in Bengaluru and across SOCIAL locations adds Ranveer Sabhani, Business Head - South, Impresario Handmade Restaurants. “This is a litmus test for us and our next offering in Bengaluru will be Bohri cuisine.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-bite-of-bannur-mutton/article36641689.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Jallikattu gets a docu-series||It has been three years since Malayalam filmmaker Lijo Jose Pellissery came up with an exhilarating cinematic experience with Jallikattu (2019),  India’s official entry for theOscars 2021. Bringing home all the action behind the making of this globally-acclaimed movie is an eight-part documentary series, Molten Mirror , directed by Vivian Radhakrishnan. A 14-minute “introductory episode” has been released on YouTube to give a sneak peek into the series. Featuring behind-the-scenes footage and interviews of technicians, the series hopes to be useful for budding filmmakers and technicians. Athira M.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/jallikattu-gets-a-docu-series/article36641682.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Man of the moment||D Sathya Prakash is holed up in the studios racing against time to finish his next film Man of the Match. “The film has nothing to do with cricket,” he begins. “It is about the common man and the havoc technology has created havoc in our lives.” Everything is available online about everyone, the director comments. “This has led to so many issues and conflicts. People have become obsessed with other people’s lives. For instance, if someone sees me in a street brawl, a random person, records and posts it on his social media platform and it goes viral, making my life hell. Neither does the person, who has made the video know me nor do those who like and share it. This film, deals with the complications of social media in our life.” Sathya, who won the Karnataka State Award for Rama Rama Re and the National Award for Ondalla Eradalla says: “We have used the title Man of the Match for the film, because everyone has to cross hurdles every day. At the end of the day he is left a winner or a loser. He has to run through his day and become the man of the match in his own life.” The young director, has collaborated with Puneeth Rajkumar’s production house for this film, which they plan to released on a streaming platform. “The reason for going with subtitles and not multi-lingual dubbing is because the film will reach all over the world. The text will help them understand the story and this way they will also get to hear how Kannada sounds.” The film stars Dharmanna and Nataraj Bhat ( Rama Rame Re fame ). “Besides them, every one else is a new comer. Even the technical crew is the same as that of my previous two films.” The film was shot between the lockdowns in Kanteerava Studio. “It will be a story where you will see things, lights and sets, as real as the things you see around you.” Sathya reveals that the last two years have been extremely stressful due to the pandemic and lockdowns. “We had to shoot with all the safety protocols in place. We could not use air-conditioning and worked in extreme heat and discomfort. Thanks to Puneeth sir, because he loved the script and stood by us, we were able to complete the films despite the challenges.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/man-of-the-moment/article36641672.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Line them up||English novelist and playwright Edward Bulwer-Lytton said a pen is more powerful than a sword. “What about pencils, then?” political cartoonists might ask him, perhaps drawing a caricature with an eye raised and arms akimbo. The Indian Institute of Cartoonists (IIC) in Bengaluru, established in 2001, promotes cartooning, recognises works of senior cartoonists, and trains upcoming ones. It also works on creating a national cartoon archive. IIC had recently organised the 13th International Maya Kamath Memorial Awards (MKMA) 2020 competition. It received 125 entries from cartoonists across India. Fifty-eight of those, will be displayed at an exhibition as a part of the Indian Cartoon Gallery’s 15th anniversary. The jury, comprising artist and sculptor Balan Nambiar, writer Vivek Shanbhag, journalist and documentary filmmaker Nupur Basu, and cartoonist BG Gujjarappa, said the entries were “diverse and critical of the system”. Cartoonist VG Narendra, IIC's managing trustee, reckons acknowledgement and appreciation are essential for current and upcoming cartoonists. "There are more avenues and tools today to create cartoons. But to get them published in a reputed publication is a challenge,” he says.  The exhibition at Indian Cartoon Gallery starts on September 25 and is on till October 23. Call 9980091428.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/line-them-up/article36641709.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Straight from the heart||Ever since Uma Sudhindra founded Call of the Mountains, a musical event for members of the Armed Forces at Leh  in 2017, Bengaluru-based musician Prakash Sontakke and his troupe have been regulars at the fest. This year however, they were invited by the Indian Army to perform in Kargil and Siachen on the occasion of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, a Government of India initiative that celebrates 75 years of India’s Independence. “Every year, Call of the Mountains is held at Leh and one other location as identified by the Army. This year, it was at Kargil, Siachen base camp, Durbuk and Nyoma, with a grand finale at Leh. Prakash and his team became the first to conduct a live concert at the Siachen base camp,” says Uma Sudhindra. “This year, when we were asked to perform at the base, I was thrilled because I believe it is the least we can do as civilians for those who keep us safe. It was a privilege as well as a bit nerve-racking to set foot in such high-security surroundings,” says Prakash. “It was incredible feeling and we curated a special list of songs to cater to the troops. In order to ensure there was something for everyone, there was a mix of Bollywood, folk and fusion. We added our special touch by changing a little of the formatting and adding our own background music to songs people already knew. We also composed an original song titled, ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ as a tribute on this special occasion.” Prakash who played the slide guitar was accompanied by his team comprising vocalist Kartik Raman, Colonel VD Singh on the bass, drummer Aniket Ashok, Karthik Bhat on the tabla, Vishal Naidhruv on the keyboard and Anurag Sontakke on the acoustic guitar. Together they performed some popular songs such as Mere Desh Ki Dharti, Mast Kalandar, Vande Mataram, Mitwa and more. “It is a very humbling experience to be in the midst of people who are willing to sacrifice their lives so we can go about our lives with an absolute lack of fear. It is something we should remind ourselves to be grateful for every single day,” he says. “My team and I had a few days to get acclimatised to the extreme weather — just being at such high altitudes causes breathlessness and puts your body to the test. It is amazing that our soldiers not only safeguard our borders, but do so under such harsh conditions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/straight-from-the-heart/article36641696.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Ajith’s Valimai for Pongal||Ajith Kumar’s upcoming Tamil family-action drama Valimai is set to release in January 2022, during the Pongal season. The film was widely expected to release for Deepavali this year and clash with Rajinikanth’s Annaatthe , but the makers seem to have postponed the release to work on the post-production of the film. A motion picture and first-look for Valimai was revealed recently, after a year of fans asking for updates and trending the hashtag #ValimaiUpdate. Ajith Kumar apears to be playing a police officer in the film. Having been in the making for close to two years now, Valimai is being directed by H Vinoth, who had previously worked with Ajith Kumar in Nerkonda Paarvai, and is known for films such as Sathuranga Vettai and Theran Adhigaram Ondru . Produced by Boney Kapoor, Valimai also stars Bollywood actor Huma Qureshi, Kartikeya Gummakonda, Pearle Maaney and Yogi Babu in important roles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ajiths-valimai-for-pongal/article36641677.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hit the road||After covering a large part of the country on a motor bike with her husband, Nagpur-based Neha Soman, decided to buy a caravan. It would be more comfortable, and also novel, she thought. In 2016 she bought a caravan from a manufacturer in Delhi, and decided to also rent it out to other intrepid travellers. She called it Wacation On Wheels. Neha and her husband are still waiting to take a long-planned trip to Leh in their caravan. “My holidaying has reduced since I bought it,” she laughs, adding that it is booked for most of the year. The number of caravans in the country is certainly growing as a result of the pandemic, says Neha who has two of her own and manages three others that belong to owners in Bhopal/Indore, Mumbai, and Jaipur. Enquiries at Wacation On Wheels have doubled this year, with 14-15 calls per day and the vehicles are out 14 days a month on an average, says Neha. Last year, this Nagpur-based outfit saw about 5% of tourism-based travel in their caravans. The remaining 95% of business was from people who required assistance getting from one city to another. This primarily included infants and senior citizens who did not want to risk a train or flight. Carvaa Travelers, started last October, and Carawander by Siddharth Arya Jolly in April this year, are among the new players in the market. Jigyasu Joshi, along with his friends Himanshu Jangid, Yogesh Kumar, and Pranav Sharma, set up operations for Carvaa Travelers in Delhi. Even with the demand going through the roof, Jigyasu was tentative about the success and future of the business, putting the bookings down to clients’ whims or one time experience. Revving up In the months to come, he and his friends discovered that this mode had become more of a necessity than something experiential. “It was revenge travel, revenge consumption,” Jigyasu laughs over a call from the capital. Currently operating with two caravans, the team plans to add a few more to their fleet. Unlike Carvaa Travelers, Carawander had a bumpy ride in the beginning. “We launched in April and five days later the second wave started so we had to suspend operations,” says 22-year-old Siddharth. He commenced services in August, but before that his vehicles — a motorhome and a campervan — had to undergo repairs as they were parked for four months. The novelty, privacy, flexibility, and sense of being in a bubble is what greatly works in the favour of caravans, even though they may not exactly be pocket-friendly. Operators price them anywhere between Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 27,000 or more a day, depending on the size and facilities. The additional costs include fuel, toll tax and State tax that vary from Rs. 200 per day to as high as Rs. 15,000 for a month, even if it means one is driving through a State for a day to get to another. Some caravans can sleep nine people, some six and a few just three. These leisure vehicles have beds, an attached bathroom, well-stocked kitchenette, entertainment units, camping kits, barbecue equipment, and a chauffeur and cleaner. This is also a great way for holidaymakers to explore lesser known destinations. Some governments, such as Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka, have taken note of this and introduced policies and services that will aid tourism in their states. Luxe Camper has tied up with the Karnataka Government and uses the State-owned Jungle Lodges and Resort, to park their campervans in 15 locations. This includes a mix of well known destinations such as Kabini and Bandipur, as well as offbeat ones such as Sakrebyle and Aanejari. “Sakrebyle near Shimoga has a beautiful elephant interpretation centre,” says Tiger Ramesh who started Luxe Camper last June. Caravaners can park there and in the daytime go on a guided tour to see about 25 elephants in water bodies, along with their mahouts, explains Tiger. Other than these, the company also has its own camp site in Sakleshpur. “Our goal is to have 100 vehicles. Few of them will be in Cochin, Goa, Chennai, Nagpur, and Meghalaya,” says Tiger who says he has been approached by the West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments to promote caravan tourism in their states and highlight more destinations. With caravans one has the advantage to choose where they want to sleep or dine, even if there are no hotels or restaurants in the vicinity. “If a tourist wishes to have breakfast by the waterfall, a traditional lunch amid paddy fields, dinner on the mountain side or enjoy the meals at a five star hotel, he/she will be chauffeur driven to these specific locales in a luxury caravan,” says VR Krishna Teja, Director Tourism, Government of Kerala, which is pitching caravan tourism as its latest product, set to unroll on January 1, 2022. Places like Vagamon and parts of North Kerala and Kollam will be included in the caravan circuit. The caravans will be serviced at the caravan parks. This will promote hyper local tourism and help the communities around these parks. “Caravans will have toilet facilities and waste disposal fittings. Each caravan park will have Sewage Treatment Plants (STP), which is compulsory. There will be segregation of waste and compost pits,” he says. Busy routes Popular caravan routes for now are Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Rajasthan and Karnataka. Since India does not have caravan parks yet, some operators have tied up with camping sites. “The caravans can park there for the night and the travellers can use their facilities like restaurants, restrooms, electricity, water drainage system among others,” says Siddharth who collaborates with farm houses and camping sites in Rajasthan, where he currently operates. With each operator issuing a different policy, caravans are being rented out anywhere between a day to even a month. Carvaa Travelers’ longest booking so far has been for 40 days, when a young man set out to travel the Konkan coast with his best friend: his dog. Neha observes that there has been a significant increase in enquiries about travelling with pets. “There are restrictions on aircraft and trains, but here the pet owner and pet can travel together,” she says, adding that she sees this demographic becoming a huge market for caravans. “We ferried three cats along with two of their owners, from Mumbai to Bengaluru. This commute cost Rs. 1.3 lakh. After that, we drove a mother and daughter and their two dogs as they were relocating from Mumbai to Bareilly,” she adds. The single day bookings are sought after by families and friends who want to celebrate an occasion: Birthdays, bachelorette, bachelor parties. It is also popular among those ready to test something new. Plus, there’s always the quest to upload something trendy on the Gram. #caravans #yousawitherefirst #goexplore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hit-the-road/article36641739.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Follow the wind||A little girl speaks freely with the wind, flows gently with the river, has conversations with birds and wonders if clouds are changing shapes for her. She discovers Nature at its purest form. ‘Kaatre’, the recently-released independent single by Chennai-based Carnatic violinist Shreya Devnath tells the simple story of a little girl who discovers the joys of interacting with Nature. Almost two-and-a-half minutes long, this Tamil track, sung and composed by Shreya, ebbs and flows gently. A performing Carnatic violinist, Shreya has always been recording small songs that ended up on her phone and were never produced. “The pace of life was very different before the pandemic. I just thought I’ll get to it when I get to it,” she says, adding, “With the pandemic, there was a lot more scope and time to indulge in different creative processes.” This is when she dove back to her original compositions in an attempt to revive them. ‘Kaatre’ was one of them. “In my mind, this melody seemed like it was about a little girl discovering Nature. It was very instinctive and immediate. That led me on this path to creating what stands today as a song and its visuals,” says Shreya. After composing, the next step for the melody was to find its lyrics — Shreya put out an open call for a Tamil lyricist on social media and Prem Chand joined the crew. “I have always been drawn to quieter moments of happiness and that sort of found its expression through ‘Kaatre’,” says Shreya, adding, “I did not draw consciously from classical or folk influences. But it sort of ended up sounding ‘folk-sy’. It is just a very South Indian-sounding melody.” The single experiments with sounds that are very characteristic of the times. Says musician Praveen Sparsh who produced and arranged the song, “In the process of creating something, I didn’t want to morph the basic emotion that we are trying to convey. But I had to make it relevant in terms of its sonic identity.” Stating that he experimented with a tight mix for the melody, Praveen adds, “It was a revealing process for me as well.” The video was animated by visual artist Susha. Shreya says, “The idea of an animated video appealed to me in this case, to follow the thought of creating something completely from imagination. Rather than making it too literal or real.” Shreya’s journey in music began with singing when she was about eight or nine. “Three-four years down the line, I developed severe problems with my vocal chords. I had to go completely quiet for a few years. I was so miserable that I couldn’t sing, and that’s how the violin happened.. To let the music continue even if the singing can’t,” says Shreya who is a disciple of violinist Lalgudi Jayaraman. “A few years back, I wanted to pick up singing again. I started voice training and tried to build my voice back up.” But as far as practice sessions and creative processes are concerned, violin and vocals are incomparable, says Shreya, adding however that “the involvement is the same”.  ‘Kaatre’ is currently streaming on Spotify and YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/follow-the-wind/article36641726.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Finally, the Catamaran launches||The air is tense with anticipation and malt. Amid hulking, shiny new equipment, Rangaraju Narayanaswamy and his master brewer, Suryakant Singh, test a freshly made ale, quietly appreciating its sparkle and heady scent. They are justifiably proud of the result: It has been a long, challenging road, with hurdles at every turn. The Catamaran Brewing Company finally opens this weekend in Puducherry. As the first microbrewery in the Union Territory, and the closest one to Chennai, there is a lot riding on this launch. As he walks through its spacious, shadowy interiors — a cool respite from the blazing tropical heat and tangled traffic outside — Rangaraju explains how he and his business partner Durgaprasad Radhakrishnan began working on the project in 2017. “With Pondy being a touristy place, we felt that it would be good for the town to have this. We began to apply for licenses, and were given a go ahead in 2019.” They brought in Oliver Schauf, credited with being one of the catalysts of the craft beer revolution in India, as a brewing consultant and began work on the blends. Then, the pandemic struck. Nevertheless, between lockdowns and at their homes, brainstorming continued, and slowly things began to fall into place. Suryakant, who moves between the brewing equipment with practised ease in practical blue Crocs, points out that while they use imported malt and hops, to get the structure of the ales right, they also add fresh ingredients from the local market, from oranges to coriander. Right now, the 6,500 square foot brewery offers five beers on tap, all freshly made. The best of these is their Indian Summer, which has a refreshing sweetness zesty with flavours of citrus, and an echo of chamomile. They also offer a light bodied Pondi Pilsner, which has a grassy aroma and sweet malty character. If you are in the mood for something stronger, try their dark lager, the Vox Populi, crisp with notes of caramel and toffee. The smoky Yuri G’s drink pays tribute to a London brewer, who in 1722 created a fresh brewed ale which quickly became known as the ‘working man pint of choice’ for its familiar flavours of caramel, molasses and coffee. As he pours out the final sample, a cider, Rangaraju explains how their brewing consultant Oliver popularised apple cider in India in 2009, after he set up Doolally in Pune. After multiple trials, Oliver tweaked his recipe for the Indian palate, creating a hard apple cider. The version at Catamaran Brewing is surprisingly heady, for a cider, exuberant with the aroma of apple orchards. Targeted at tourists and locals alike, the menu attempts to offer a little bit of everything from Pan Asian food to ‘modern South Indian’: chilli cheese wontons, podi fried idlis, chicken ghee roast with neer dosa, pulled pork with pita… Of course, in keeping with the theme, there will also be beer bread, beer cheese dips and even a ‘beer rasam pani puri.’ Is this likely to trigger a craft beer revolution in our neck of the woods? Rangaraju shrugs, “Well, I have heard that two more places are being planned, but it takes so long to put it together…” He adds, fingers crossed, “for this year at least, in this part of the country, we will be the only one.”  The Catamaran Brewing Company is at 35 Anna Salai, Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/finally-the-catamaran-launches/article36641738.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Right phase, right time||Raame Aandalum Raavane Aandalum ( RaRa ), more than anything, is a coming together of people who have been through a journey of their own, starting with its director Arisil Moorthy. Arisil’s stint as assistant director includes films such as En Swasa Kaatre (1999). In the 20-odd years that transpired in between, he worked with filmmaker Jayendra Panchapakesan in ad films, started his own advertisement company and then assisted in Telugu films. But the fear of settling as an assistant set in, says Moorthy. He soon came under the wing of filmmaker Sudha Kongara during the making of Suriya-starrer Soorarai Pottru . “That is how I became associated with 2D Entertainment [Jyotika and Suriya’s production house],” he says, over a roundtable interaction along with RaRa ’s lead actors, Ramya Pandian and Mithun Manickam. Slice of life  RaRa , too, is about a journey: of Kunnimuthu (Mithun) and Veerayi (Ramya) in search of their missing cattle. Though the film appears to be an exploration of a man-animal relationship, Moorthy, while agreeing to that, says he wanted to make a political satire with a village backdrop. The image that came to him first was of his neighbour and his cattle, and how his entire life revolved around the animal. “He used to talk to the animal and also sing songs. That strong memory made me realise this project,” says Moorthy, who clarifies that RaRa was not made for a digital platform. “We had completed 50% of the post-production when we got the news that it is going to release on OTT. So, we didn’t make any changes for the platform as such, as it was planned for a theatrical.” It is an equally roller coaster ride for Ramya Pandian: from delivering a much-appreciated performance in Joker (2016) to earning a sizeable following on social media post her Bigg Boss Tamil appearance last year. She felt RaRa came to her at a time when she wanted to scale new heights as an actor. “Veerayi, my character here, is quite opposite to what I played in Joker . She is bold and assertive, and I felt the film would show me in a new dimension,” says Ramya. She observes that the industry bifurcates artistes’ selection into two categories: new faces or preferably someone with a ‘reach’. “Even though my performance in Joker was appreciated, it didn’t give me the reach. So, when I got RaRa , I fell into the second category.” That image turn over, Ramya says, happened due to Bigg Boss . “If you walk out of Bigg Boss and are offered 10 films, it’s a good thing to hear...but only time will tell if they are of good quality. That is why I won’t go for quantity but quality,” she says, “I am at a crucial stage of my career, thanks to the fame I got through Bigg Boss . So, I don’t mind slowing down a bit since my next opportunity depends on the current film.” But the most interesting journey of all has to be Raame ... lead actor Mithun Manickam’s. He joined 2D Entertainment for marketing and promotions following a bad directorial debut in 2015. Rajsekar Pandian, director and co-producer of the producton house, asked Mithun to meet Arisil Moorthy for a role. “For three months, I was trained under Kalairani [theatre practitioner] at Spaces in Besant Nagar. Then, we had Anandsami [theatre actor] training the crew for 10 days.” Throughout the shoot, Mithun was only left with questions. “I feared while I was acting. I am in fear, now that I’m done with it. As a newcomer, I am worried if audiences will accept me.” Raame Aandalum Raavane Aandalum releases on Amazon Prime Video today.   I am at a crucial stage of my career, thanks to the fame I got through Bigg Boss . So, I don’t mind slowing down a bit since my next opportunity depends on the current film.   Ramya Pandian||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/right-phase-right-time/article36641711.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Toying with perceptions||Paula Hawkins has watched the Hindi version of The Girl on the Train based on her bestselling 2015 novel. Directed by Ribhu Dasgupta, the film features Parineeti Chopra and Aditi Rao Hydari. Speaking from Edinburgh on a video call, the British author says, “The story has been changed, which is fine because, it is somebody else’s interpretation.” Hawkins says she enjoyed seeing the London locations, as the 2016 Hollywood version starring Emily Blunt, was set in America. “It was interesting that they changed it from her not being able to have a child to losing a child in a much more traumatic way. It made it even more likely that she turned to alcohol for having been bereaved in that way.” Mamma mia Each of Hawkins’ books, from The Girl on the Train and Into the Water to the latest, A Slow Fire Burning (Penguin Random House) deals with different aspects of motherhood. “I do not have children; I may have a slight fear of parenthood. In my novels parenthood does not seem to be a very happy experience. It may come from my neuroses; I am interested in the way in which motherhood is portrayed as the acme of female existence. ” For the Harare-born author, books always start with a character and in the case of A Slow Fire Burning ,  it started with the character of Laura. “I heard a story about somebody who had been in an accident and suffered long-term behavioural changes because of it. I had been thinking about writing about someone like that but did not know what story I wanted to tell. I was living in London at the time, near where the novel is set. I was looking at house boats and wondering about the people who lived on them and imagining what might be inside them.” Preferring the classification of her books as domestic noir rather than grip lit, Hawkins says categorisations are mainly for people who write about books, and possibly for booksellers. While there is a murder in A Slow Fire Burning , Hawkins would like to describe it as a murder mystery as well as a character-driven novel. “It is a story about these three women, Laura, who is damaged by a childhood accident and suspected of murder, Miriam, the victim’s neighbour and Carla, the victim’s aunt. The novel looks at what they are prepared to do in order to right the wrongs that have been done to them.” Revenge is an important motif in the novel. “The desire for revenge can be something which keeps people going. People obsess about getting their own back... it is a powerful driving force. Finding a way wreak vengeance is almost like a project for Miriam.” Work or play While commenting that writing for her is mostly work, Hawkins hopes A Slow Fire Burning is a slightly more playful book. “There is more lightness in this book, although it deals with dark subjects. One of the interesting things about crime fiction is the idea of solving the puzzle and for me, of constructing the puzzle. Thinking about the kinds of people, or the kinds of situations in which terrible things might happen is interesting from a psychological point of view.”  The Girl on the Train was a phenomenal success and Hawkins had discussed the pressure of following up on that in an earlier interview with this writer. Hawkins says the pressure has eased. “ Into the Water was not such a big book. There were quite a lot of critical reviews. It was a difficult place for me, the thought of writing a new novel, when I just had a lot of negative criticism. I am happy with A Slow Fire Burning . I feel like I achieved what I set out to do.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/toying-with-perceptions/article36641723.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Director Sekhar Kammula on addressing caste and gender discrimination in ‘Love Story’, starring Naga Chaitanya and Sai Pallavi||Following the second wave of COVID-19, no Telugu film has managed to generate as much anticipation for its theatrical release (on September 24) as director Sekhar Kammula’s Love Story . It brings back the hit combination of Kammula and Sai Pallavi after Fidaa (2017), accompanied by Naga Chaitanya. Excerpts from an interview with the filmmaker: You stated that Love Story addresses gender and caste issues. Did the story emerge from social observations over time? I have been wanting to discuss caste and gender and Love Story gave me the scope to do it. When there’s an incident such as Nirbhaya, Disha or the recent case of a six-year-old girl in Hyderabad, we react emotionally. Then life goes on. After Nirbhaya, I started the ‘I care, I react’ campaign. I visited colleges and spoke about the need to respect women — no catcalls for girl students, say no to dowry, don’t comment on what women wear, etc. Then I realised that unless I continue to make films and stay popular, no one would listen to me. Through Love Story , I intend to focus on conflicts in society.  Naga Chaitanya plays a character who hails from an oppressed community. What went into making him look realistic? We watched earlier films of Chaitanya and Nagarjuna, studied their mannerisms to undo the starry part of it. Chaitanya submitted himself to be moulded for the character. We worked on his demeanour and made him wear shirts costing a few hundred rupees. His character does everything a star doesn’t normally do on screen. Is there a noticeable evolution in Sai Pallavi from Fidaa to Love Story?  She had the same professional approach. The work atmosphere was almost the same; things have changed only for viewers since they have seen her in many films now. We worked on Pallavi to remove the hangover of her character Bhanumathi in Fidaa . Mounica, her role in Love Story , is complex with internal conflicts.  Love Story is also about small town aspirations. How does it address issues faced by those who migrate to cities? Those who are new to the city experience insecurities in the way they dress, their language and economic strata. We talk about all this subtly and how they stand up for themselves. What can you tell us about your next film with Dhanush?  It’s a socio-political thriller. I am looking forward to it, but before that, I need some time off. I feel drained with the making and promotion of Love Story . The pandemic has been tough; I hope people take precautions when they come to the theatres.  When people discuss issues I raise in my films, it is as though all my writing madness at midnight has paid off||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/director-sekhar-kammula-on-addressing-caste-and-gender-discrimination-in-love-story-starring-naga-chaitanya-and-sai-pallavi/article36641716.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Ajith’s Valimai for Pongal||Ajith Kumar’s upcoming Tamil family-action drama Valimai is set to release in January 2022, during the Pongal season. The film was widely expected to release for Deepavali this year and clash with Rajinikanth’s Annaatthe , but the makers seem to have postponed the release to work on the post-production of the film.A motion picture and first-look for Valimai was revealed recently, after a year of fans asking for updates and trending the hashtag #ValimaiUpdate. Ajith Kumar apears to be playing a police officer in the film. Having been in the making for close to two years now, Valimai is being directed by H Vinoth, who had previously worked with Ajith Kumar in Nerkonda Paarvai, and is known for films such as Sathuranga Vettai and Theeran Adhigaram Ondru . Produced by Boney Kapoor, Valimai also stars Bollywood actor Huma Qureshi, Kartikeya Gummakonda, Pearle Maaney and Yogi Babu in important roles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ajiths-valimai-for-pongal/article36641712.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Stepping out||The Last Minute is a cover band formed at the last minute in order to herald the return of live music in Chennai. The band consists of favourites from the city’s music scene: Harini Iyer on vocals, Vikram Vivekanand on guitar, Siddharth Kumar on keyboard, Siddhartha Ramanathan on bass and Vishnu Reddy on drums. The band plays a wide variety of covers spanning multiple generations and genres, paying tribute to the classics and contemporaries alike. There is an entry fee of Rs. 1,500 per person. @Black Orchid, RA Puram. September 24, 7 pm.91764 7764   Laugh off: Second Wave, is a live standup show featuring three comedians: Soda aka Sudarshan Ramamuthy, Aaquib Jaleel, and Aamer Peeran. The only infectious thing allowed here is laughter; Backyard has been cautious about hosting events throughout the pandemic, and this latest show is no different. Masks are mandatory, and those with a cold or showing symptoms of COVID-19 will not be allowed entry. A solo pass costs Rs. 300, and a dual pass is for Rs. 500. Passes are available onwww.bookmyshow.com @Backyard, Adyar. September 25, 7 pm. 7358458117   After livestream gigs with city studios and event venues, and a string of independent lockdown releases, city-based singer-songwriter Alvin Presley is set for his first live performance in a long time, this weekend. The artiste known for intriguing, soft and ambient compositions released his most recent solo track in July, a Tamil number called ‘Manathil Aasaigal’. @The Republik Beer Cafe, Adyar. September 25, 7 pm onwards. 9962988477    Gandhigram presents hand block printed khadi textiles for the upcoming festival season. On display are resist dyed batik-printed and hand-painted fabric, mud resist bagru printed fabric and hand-block printed kalamkari fabrics, along with muslin saris. @Sarangi, Alwarpet. From September 24 to 26, 10 am to 8 pm.095000 16019    Shweta Mahtani the founder of www.elementalstories.com, an online market place for all things sustainable hosts a pop-up for all things sustainable. About 25 sustainable brands from Chennai and pan India will showcase their products across categories such as fashion, skincare, accessories, home decor and kids’ products. The Real B, Studio Rigu, Doodlage, The Rewrap Company, Dhawani Bansal accessories and Recharkha Bags are some of the brands participating. @The Folly, Amethyst, Royapettah, September 25, 11 am to 8 pm. 9176620230.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/stepping-out/article36641732.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hit the road||After covering a large part of the country on a motor bike with her husband, Nagpur-based Neha Soman, decided to buy a caravan. It would be more comfortable, and also novel, she thought. In 2016 she bought a caravan from a manufacturer in Delhi, and decided to also rent it out to other intrepid travellers. She called it Wacation On Wheels. Neha and her husband are still waiting to take a long-planned trip to Leh in their caravan. “My holidaying has reduced since I bought it,” she laughs, adding that it is booked for most of the year. The number of caravans in the country is certainly growing as a result of the pandemic, says Neha who has two of her own and manages three others that belong to owners in Bhopal/Indore, Mumbai, and Jaipur. Enquiries at Wacation On Wheels have doubled this year, with 14-15 calls per day and the vehicles are out 14 days a month on an average, says Neha. Last year, this Nagpur-based outfit saw about 5% of tourism-based travel in their caravans. The remaining 95% of business was from people who required assistance getting from one city to another. This primarily included infants and senior citizens who did not want to risk a train or flight. Carvaa Travelers, started last October, and Carawander by Siddharth Arya Jolly in April this year, are among the new players in the market. Jigyasu Joshi, along with his friends Himanshu Jangid, Yogesh Kumar, and Pranav Sharma, set up operations for Carvaa Travelers in Delhi. Even with the demand going through the roof, Jigyasu was tentative about the success and future of the business, putting the bookings down to clients’ whims or one time experience. Revving up In the months to come, he and his friends discovered that this mode had become more of a necessity than something experiential. “It was revenge travel, revenge consumption,” Jigyasu laughs over a call from the capital. Currently operating with two caravans, the team plans to add a few more to their fleet. Unlike Carvaa Travelers, Carawander had a bumpy ride in the beginning. “We launched in April and five days later the second wave started so we had to suspend operations,” says 22-year-old Siddharth. He commenced services in August, but before that his vehicles — a motorhome and a campervan — had to undergo repairs as they were parked for four months. The novelty, privacy, flexibility, and sense of being in a bubble is what greatly works in the favour of caravans, even though they may not exactly be pocket-friendly. Operators price them anywhere between Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 27,000 or more a day, depending on the size and facilities. The additional costs include fuel, toll tax and State tax that vary from Rs. 200 per day to as high as Rs. 15,000 for a month, even if it means one is driving through a State for a day to get to another. Some caravans can sleep nine people, some six and a few just three. These leisure vehicles have beds, an attached bathroom, well-stocked kitchenette, entertainment units, camping kits, barbecue equipment, and a chauffeur and cleaner. This is also a great way for holidaymakers to explore lesser known destinations. Some governments, such as Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka, have taken note of this and introduced policies and services that will aid tourism in their states. Luxe Camper has tied up with the Karnataka Government and uses the State-owned Jungle Lodges and Resort, to park their campervans in 15 locations. This includes a mix of well known destinations such as Kabini and Bandipur, as well as offbeat ones such as Sakrebyle and Aanejari. “Sakrebyle near Shimoga has a beautiful elephant interpretation centre,” says Tiger Ramesh who started Luxe Camper last June. Caravaners can park there and in the daytime go on a guided tour to see about 25 elephants in water bodies, along with their mahouts, explains Tiger. Other than these, the company also has its own camp site in Sakleshpur. “Our goal is to have 100 vehicles. Few of them will be in Cochin, Goa, Chennai, Nagpur, and Meghalaya,” says Tiger who says he has been approached by the West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments to promote caravan tourism in their states and highlight more destinations. With caravans one has the advantage to choose where they want to sleep or dine, even if there are no hotels or restaurants in the vicinity. “If a tourist wishes to have breakfast by the waterfall, a traditional lunch amid paddy fields, dinner on the mountain side or enjoy the meals at a five star hotel, he/she will be chauffeur driven to these specific locales in a luxury caravan,” says VR Krishna Teja, Director Tourism, Government of Kerala, which is pitching caravan tourism as its latest product, set to unroll on January 1, 2022. Places like Vagamon and parts of North Kerala and Kollam will be included in the caravan circuit. The caravans will be serviced at the caravan parks. This will promote hyper local tourism and help the communities around these parks. “Caravans will have toilet facilities and waste disposal fittings. Each caravan park will have Sewage Treatment Plants (STP), which is compulsory. There will be segregation of waste and compost pits,” he says. Busy routes Popular caravan routes for now are Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Rajasthan and Karnataka. Since India does not have caravan parks yet, some operators have tied up with camping sites. “The caravans can park there for the night and the travellers can use their facilities like restaurants, restrooms, electricity, water drainage system among others,” says Siddharth who collaborates with farm houses and camping sites in Rajasthan, where he currently operates. With each operator issuing a different policy, caravans are being rented out anywhere between a day to even a month. Carvaa Travelers’ longest booking so far has been for 40 days, when a young man set out to travel the Konkan coast with his best friend: his dog. Neha observes that there has been a significant increase in enquiries about travelling with pets. “There are restrictions on aircraft and trains, but here the pet owner and pet can travel together,” she says, adding that she sees this demographic becoming a huge market for caravans. “We ferried three cats along with two of their owners, from Mumbai to Bengaluru. This commute cost Rs. 1.3 lakh. After that, we drove a mother and daughter and their two dogs as they were relocating from Mumbai to Bareilly,” she adds. The single day bookings are sought after by families and friends who want to celebrate an occasion: Birthdays, bachelorette, bachelor parties. It is also popular among those ready to test something new. Plus, there’s always the quest to upload something trendy on the Gram. #caravans #yousawitherefirst #goexplore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hit-the-road/article36641745.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Finally, the Catamaran launches||The air is tense with anticipation and malt. Amid hulking, shiny new equipment, Rangaraju Narayanaswamy and his master brewer, Suryakant Singh, test a freshly made ale, quietly appreciating its sparkle and heady scent. They are justifiably proud of the result: It has been a long, challenging road, with hurdles at every turn. The Catamaran Brewing Company finally opens this weekend in Puducherry. As the first microbrewery in the Union Territory, and the closest one to Chennai, there is a lot riding on this launch. As he walks through its spacious, shadowy interiors — a cool respite from the blazing tropical heat and tangled traffic outside — Rangaraju explains how he and his business partner Durgaprasad Radhakrishnan began working on the project in 2017. “With Pondy being a touristy place, we felt that it would be good for the town to have this. We began to apply for licenses, and were given a go ahead in 2019.” They brought in Oliver Schauf, credited with being one of the catalysts of the craft beer revolution in India, as a brewing consultant and began work on the blends. Then, the pandemic struck. Nevertheless, between lockdowns and at their homes, brainstorming continued, and slowly things began to fall into place. Suryakant, who moves between the brewing equipment with practised ease in practical blue Crocs, points out that while they use imported malt and hops, to get the structure of the ales right, they also add fresh ingredients from the local market, from oranges to coriander. Right now, the 6,500 square foot brewery offers five beers on tap, all freshly made. The best of these is their Indian Summer, which has a refreshing sweetness zesty with flavours of citrus, and an echo of chamomile. They also offer a light bodied Pondi Pilsner, which has a grassy aroma and sweet malty character. If you are in the mood for something stronger, try their dark lager, the Vox Populi, crisp with notes of caramel and toffee. The smoky Yuri G’s drink pays tribute to a London brewer, who in 1722 created a fresh brewed ale which quickly became known as the ‘working man pint of choice’ for its familiar flavours of caramel, molasses and coffee. As he pours out the final sample, a cider, Rangaraju explains how their brewing consultant Oliver popularised apple cider in India in 2009, after he set up Doolally in Pune. After multiple trials, Oliver tweaked his recipe for the Indian palate, creating a hard apple cider. The version at Catamaran Brewing is surprisingly heady, for a cider, exuberant with the aroma of apple orchards. Targeted at tourists and locals alike, the menu attempts to offer a little bit of everything from Pan Asian food to ‘modern South Indian’: chilli cheese wontons, podi fried idlis, chicken ghee roast with neer dosa, pulled pork with pita… Of course, in keeping with the theme, there will also be beer bread, beer cheese dips and even a ‘beer rasam pani puri.’ Is this likely to trigger a craft beer revolution in our neck of the woods? Rangaraju shrugs, “Well, I have heard that two more places are being planned, but it takes so long to put it together…” He adds, fingers crossed, “for this year at least, in this part of the country, we will be the only one.”  The Catamaran Brewing Company is at 35 Anna Salai, Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/finally-the-catamaran-launches/article36641746.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Adventures with Amaravathi||At Camp Splendour, you can dive into Thirumurthy Dam. Or paddle across it. “Halfway through, I really didn’t think I could go any further,” says Ramya Vikas, a social media marketing consultant. She was trying stand up paddling for the first time in the clear blue waters of the dam in Udumalpet near Coimbatore. “But I mustered my remaining strength and gave it a final go. It was one of the most thrilling experiences of my life,” beams Ramya. After staying indoors for over a year, travellers are set to hit the outdoors, take risks, and live in the moment. And, they are turning to fast-paced, action-packed options for adventure — from jet skiing to rappelling. Adventure tourism has picked up in the State, especially after the tourism department eased travel restrictions to hill stations like Yercaud, Nilgiris and Kodaikanal. “There has been 30 to 40 per cent increase in tourists visiting from Tamil Nadu. Most families encourage children to take part in zip line, where tied on a wire rope, they travel from one point to another,” says K Dhananjayan, CEO of Eagles Dare Adventure (P) Limited, located near Doddabetta Peak in Udhagamandalam. Abrar Khan, an IT employee from Hyderabad, embarked on his first rock-climbing adventure at Eagles Dare. “Throwing myself into climbing was the best way to release all the built-up tension from being cooped up at home during the pandemic for over a year,” says Abrar. “Views of misty Doddabetta, the highest peak in South India, after the climb made it extra special.” Views from a tightrope “A sense of achievement triggers dopamine release from the brain and they will remember the experience. The self-confidence stays. There is a surge in families travelling in small groups with children to enjoy adventure sports,” says Seshadri Venkatesan, director of National Adventure and Leadership Skills (NALS) Private Limited based at Manjacombai in Udhagamandalam. While zip lining and rappelling are popular, rope walking, where people walk on ropes tied at about 30 feet between trees is a survival training process, he explains. “Everyone goes through some form of fear in their lives and people should stand up to those challenges. This discovery is possible on a rope walk. There are different methods: we call it Burma bridge, sloth walk and so on. We harness them to a mobile anchor and they get a real sense of walking at 40 feet without anything to support them.” At Eagles Dare, which also has a tea museum and tea factory, bungee swinging is another great attraction. “After a free fall, they land on a swing,” says L Varadarajan, general manager. “Sky cycling is like cable car where people can pedal as they move on a rope enjoying the view. We also have a 100-feet wall for rock climbing.” While there are several physical health benefits to adventure travel, it also contributes to mental wellness. Nature and fresh oxygen is rejuvenating, says Ruchi Mohunta, a Chennai-based experiential educator whose company Nature Diaries has organised over 100 camps for women and children. “Nature therapy helps children get rid of gadget addiction, and enhances their communication and leadership skills.” Never too late Gokul Bhirman of Go Kotagiri Tourism says the adventure bug has bitten those above 50 too, especially after the pandemic. “We had an all-girls team (who acted as football players in Vijay’s film Bigil ) along with their parents participating in rock climbing, ridge walking and and trekking with gusto. They enjoyed a shower at a pond in the forest territory, then made visits to strawberry farms. They called it a day after watching a beautiful sunset view of Coimbatore-Kallar.” Another noticeable trend is a renewed interest in water sports in the Udumalpet belt, which covers rivers Aliyar, Amaravathi, Bhavani, as well as Thirumurthy Dam. Be it kayaking, canoeing, or stand up paddling, any water sport teaches you a new skill, declares group captain Jayashankar of the National Adventure Foundation, which runs Camp Splendour. “A 30-minute trek takes them to Panchalinga waterfalls. This adventure circuit, starting from Munnar to Thirumurthy dam and Valparai to Athirapally falls in Kerala and is a big hit among tourists.” Meanwhile, Pravin Shanmughanandam, a travel expert from Pollachi Papyrus, points to a trend where travellers want to take it slow. He manages By the Riverside, a boutique resort at Sethumadai, the foothills of Top Slip. “They don’t want to do a million things. The perceptible change I see is that domestic travellers are now looking at local tours. They go for Nature walks, and enjoy pristine views of mountains and groundnut and coconut fields, a cool breeze and a nice sunset where the birds are vocal,” he says. Pravin adds, “These are often followed by barbecue nights, morning visits to organic farms, and lazing around before heading back, recharged.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/adventures-with-amaravathi/article36641744.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Toying with perceptions||Paula Hawkins has watched the Hindi version of The Girl on the Train based on her bestselling 2015 novel. Directed by Ribhu Dasgupta, the film features Parineeti Chopra and Aditi Rao Hydari. Speaking from Edinburgh on a video call, the British author says, “The story has been changed, which is fine because, it is somebody else’s interpretation.” Hawkins says she enjoyed seeing the London locations, as the 2016 Hollywood version starring Emily Blunt, was set in America. “It was interesting that they changed it from her not being able to have a child to losing a child in a much more traumatic way. It made it even more likely that she turned to alcohol for having been bereaved in that way.” Mamma mia Each of Hawkins’ books, from The Girl on the Train and Into the Water to the latest, A Slow Fire Burning (Penguin Random House) deals with different aspects of motherhood. “I do not have children; I may have a slight fear of parenthood. In my novels parenthood does not seem to be a happy experience. I am interested in the way in which motherhood is portrayed as the acme of female existence. ” For the Harare-born author, books always start with a character and in the case of A Slow Fire Burning ,  it started with the character of Laura. “I heard a story about somebody who had been in an accident and suffered long-term behavioural changes because of it. I had been thinking about writing about someone like that but did not know what story I wanted to tell. I was living in London at the time, near where the novel is set. I was looking at house boats and wondering about the people there and imagining what might be inside them.” Revenge is an important motif in the novel. “The desire for revenge can be something which keeps people going. People obsess about getting their own back... it is a powerful driving force. ” Work or play While commenting that writing for her is mostly work, Hawkins hopes A Slow Fire Burning is a slightly more playful book. “There is more lightness in this book, although it deals with dark subjects. One of the things about crime fiction is the idea of solving the puzzle and for me, of constructing the puzzle. Thinking about the kinds of people, or the kinds of situations in which terrible things might happen is interesting from a psychological point of view.”  The Girl on the Train was a phenomenal success and Hawkins had discussed the pressure of following up on that in an earlier interview with this writer. Hawkins says the pressure has eased.“ Into the Water was not such a big book. There were quite a lot of critical reviews. It was a difficult place for me, the thought of writing a new novel, when I just had a lot of negative criticism. I am happy with A Slow Fire Burning . I feel like I achieved what I set out to do.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/toying-with-perceptions/article36641747.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Crime and cricket||“Lunchtime during my school days in the 1990s was extra special because of cricket,” says S Vijay Karthikeyan, currently serving as Secretary of Human Rights Commission, Chennai. His latest book Mafia Premier League (Rupa) is a crime-thriller that captures stories of cricket and crime, in the backdrop of T20 matches set in Mumbai. “Along with my lunch, my mother would send a note on cricket scores, and if Sachin Tendulkar was batting, the runs he has scored, etc. My love for the game goes a long way.” Cricket was a natural choice when he wanted to write a sports-thriller. Though cricket, underworld, and match fixing have always been intertwined, this book, he says, gives a different take on crime from close quarters.“While it is packed with action and thriller elements, it also sets out to tell the story of an underdog making it big. It is not preachy but there is a subtle positive message.”  Mafia Premier League is his 10th book as an author, known for his fiction in English including Once Upon an IAS Exam and Heart Quake (both by Rupa)  and non-fiction works in Tamil such as Ettum Thoorathil IAS (Vikatan Publications) and Adhuvum Idhuvum (Vijaya Pathippagam). “I started writing my first Tamil book — Ettum Dhoorathil IAS — after seeing a lot of kids in Kovilpatti, Tamil Nadu having the desire and motivation but no proper guidance to clear competitive exams,” says Vijay, who served as the Commissioner of Coimbatore Corporation and later as the Collector of Tiruppur. The medico-turned-bureaucrat also plays for the TN IAS Cricket team. He sticks to a simple writing style to reach out to readers of all age groups in both English and Tamil. “Fiction gives me the space to tell a story as well as convey a social message.”  Mafia Premier League also turns the spotlight on good lifestyle, staying fit, setting your goals and achieving them one by one. “I have done my MBBS, cleared the services and still pursue my love for writing. With proper planning, one can always find time to follow their passion,” he says and recalls watching the India-West Indies match at Chepauk Stadium in Chennai during 2011. “Yuvaraj Singh scored a century. It was such a happy moment to catch it live. Twenty days later, I gave my UPSC interview.”  The book can be purchased online.   While the story has action and thriller elements, it also sets out to tell the story of an underdog making it big||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/crime-and-cricket/article36641750.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||In ‘Ashvamithra’, director Earthling Koushalya views life from a child’s perspective||“A child’s perspective matters. I respect that,” declares Earthling Koushalya. Her film Ashvamithra released on Neestream highlights an adult’s understanding of a child’s world through a relationship between a speech therapist and a speech-impaired child. “I never underestimate a child’s understanding of their surroundings and their parents. They take things in a light-hearted manner and warm up to adults who respect their emotional intelligence.” Earthling’s volunteering experience at hospice care centres in the US helped develop her script. “I spent a lot of time with the elderly and children. I used to do clowning activities too at orphanages. When I sat down to write this script, I finished it in three hours straight. It was a surge of creativity.”  Ashvamithra, filmed in Puducherry, won the Cinema Paradiso award at Auroville International Film Festival in 2020. While actor Harish Uthaman plays the therapist along with child actor Tareetha ET, Earthling mentions that the rushing waves of the ocean also play a vital role. The ocean, she says, is symbolic of the relationship between the two and how they derive strength from each other. “The therapist who suffers from a traumatic childhood stammers while interacting with adults. He opens up when he enters the child’s life and heals himself while trying to help the child regain her ability to speak.” Earthling assures that the film shows actor Harish in a new light who has been typecast as cop or villain in commercial films. “He encourages independent filmmakers and with Ashvamithra , I have changed the perspective of audience with regard to his performance.” The film produced by Earthling’s Accessible Horizon Films has a run time of 79 minutes and can be watched on Neestream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-ashvamithra-director-earthling-koushalya-views-life-from-a-childs-perspective/article36641753.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Director Sekhar Kammula on addressing caste and gender discrimination in ‘Love Story’, starring Naga Chaitanya and Sai Pallavi||Following the second wave of COVID-19, no Telugu film has managed to generate as much anticipation for its theatrical release (on September 24) as director Sekhar Kammula’s Love Story . It brings back the hit combination of Kammula and Sai Pallavi after Fidaa (2017), accompanied by Naga Chaitanya. Excerpts from an interview with the filmmaker: You stated that Love Story addresses gender and caste issues. Did the story emerge from social observations over time? I have been wanting to discuss caste and gender and Love Story gave me the scope to do it. When there’s an incident such as Nirbhaya, Disha or the recent case of a six-year-old girl in Hyderabad, we react emotionally. Then life goes on. After Nirbhaya, I started the ‘I care, I react’ campaign. I visited colleges and spoke about the need to respect women — no catcalls for girl students, say no to dowry, don’t comment on what women wear, etc. Then I realised that unless I continue to make films and stay popular, no one would listen to me. Through Love Story , I intend to focus on conflicts in society.  Naga Chaitanya plays a character who hails from an oppressed community. What went into making him look realistic? We watched earlier films of Chaitanya and Nagarjuna, studied their mannerisms to undo the starry part of it. Chaitanya submitted himself to be moulded for the character. We worked on his demeanour and made him wear shirts costing a few hundred rupees. His character does everything a star doesn’t normally do on screen. Is there a noticeable evolution in Sai Pallavi from Fidaa to Love Story?  She had the same professional approach. The work atmosphere was almost the same; things have changed only for viewers since they have seen her in many films now.  Mounica, her role in Love Story , is complex with internal conflicts. What can you tell us about your next film with Dhanush?  It’s a socio-political thriller. I am looking forward to it, but before that, I need some time off. I feel drained with the making and promotion of Love Story . The pandemic has been tough; I hope people take precautions when they come to the theatres.  When people discuss issues I raise in my films, it is as though all my writing madness at midnight has paid off||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/director-sekhar-kammula-on-addressing-caste-and-gender-discrimination-in-love-story-starring-naga-chaitanya-and-sai-pallavi/article36641754.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Director Sekhar Kammula on addressing caste and gender discrimination in ‘Love Story’, starring Naga Chaitanya and Sai Pallavi||Following the second wave of COVID-19, no other Telugu film has managed to generate as much anticipation for its theatrical release (on September 24) as director Sekhar Kammula’s Love Story . It brings back the hit combination of Kammula and Sai Pallavi after Fidaa (2017), accompanied by Naga Chaitanya. The director settles down for a chat at the Asian Cinemas corporate office in Hyderabad, to discuss the film and his own journey that has not been conventionally mainstream. Excerpts from the interview: You recently stated that Love Story addresses gender and caste issues. Did the story emerge from social observations over time? Incidents of caste and gender discrimination have become a constant. Leader (2010) was about a crusade against corruption but I also touched upon caste. I have been wanting to discuss caste and gender and Love Story gave me the scope to do it. When there’s an incident such as Nirbhaya, Disha or the recent case of a six-year-old girl in Hyderabad, we react emotionally. Then life goes on. After Nirbhaya, I started the ‘I care, I react’ campaign. I visited colleges and spoke about the need to respect women — no catcalls for girl students, say no to dowry, don’t comment on what women wear, etc. Then I realised that unless I continue to make films and stay popular, no one would listen to me. Through Love Story , I intend to focus on conflicts in society. I am no expert, but my intention is honest. Naga Chaitanya plays a character who hails from an oppressed community. What went into making him look realistic for that part? It helped that I have a team that questions me. We watched earlier films of Chaitanya and Nagarjuna, studied their mannerisms to undo the starry part of it. Chaitanya submitted himself to be moulded for the character. He plays a guy who comes from Armoor in Telangana. So we coached him on the Telangana dialect. We worked on his demeanour and made him wear shirts costing a few hundred rupees. His character does everything a star doesn’t normally do on screen. Sai Pallavi is probably the only female lead you have repeated in consecutive films, after Kamalinee Mukherjee in Anand and Godavari . Was there a noticeable evolution in her from Fidaa to Love Story ? She had the same professional approach. The work atmosphere was almost the same; things have changed only for viewers since they have seen her in many films now. We worked on Pallavi to remove the hangover of her character Bhanumathi in Fidaa . Mounica, her role in Love Story , is complex with internal conflicts.  Love Story is also about small town aspirations. How does it address issues faced by those who migrate to cities? Those who are new to the city experience insecurities in the way they dress, their language and economic strata. We talk about all this subtly and how they stand up for themselves.  Fidaa had the woman choosing to live in her hometown, with her family, after marriage. Have you had people sharing their thoughts on this? When people tell me they liked Fidaa , I wait to see if they go beyond mentioning the music, Sai Pallavi’s dance and the romantic portions. A few told me they liked how Bhanu, hailing from a village, refuses to do errands in the US. She isn’t the submissive small town cliche. Three parents told me they liked the idea of daughters choosing to live in their hometowns. I find that men become more respectful of women’s choices when they have daughters; I am tempted to ask if they accord the same respect to their wives. Maybe certain things don’t change; it’s a male phenomenon and I am no exception. But when people discuss issues I raise in my films, it is as though all my writing madness at midnight has paid off. I am conscious that a film has to be entertaining and profitable for the producer. But my social consciousness also comes in naturally while writing. When you held a press conference prior to the release of Anand (2004), barely a few people turned up. You stated that once the film is out, your voice will be heard. Today, your films are eagerly looked forward to; do you feel vindicated? Even during Dollar Dreams (1999; the film won him the National Award for best debut director) I used to say that I am waiting for the day when people eagerly buy tickets to watch my film. I narrated the story of Anand to more than 15 producers and they rejected it; subsequently we did it ourselves. It has been a good journey ( laughs ). I feel happy, but I won’t say vindicated. I make a film, retreat to my space (Secunderabad residence and office) and write my next project.  When people discuss issues I raise in my films, it is as though all my writing madness at midnight has paid off||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/director-sekhar-kammula-on-addressing-caste-and-gender-discrimination-in-love-story-starring-naga-chaitanya-and-sai-pallavi/article36641773.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Conversations for Sotheby’s||Hyderabad artist Harsha Durugadda’s sculpture Conversation has been selected to be part of Boundless Space: The Possibilities of Burning Man an online charity auction organised by Sotheby’s and Burning Man Project. Bidding opens on September 30 and closes on October 8. Jayeti Bhattacharya and Shilo Shiv Suleman are the other Indian artists whose works have been chosen for the auction. Harsha’s sculptures have earned him international recognition. His installation Column of Sound, exploring the visual dynamics of an audio wave, clinched him the Rio Tinto Sculpture Award at the 2017 Sculpture by the Sea, Cottesloe exhibition in Australia. An installation titled Selfish Love won him the Biafarin Award at NordArt 2018 in Germany. The selection for Boundless Space is a new feather in his cap. The opportunity came through Emergent Art Space, a non-profit organisation in Portland, USA, where he had exhibited in 2013. “Emergent Art Space suggested my work for Boundless Space. The online auction is raising funds for the Burning Man Project and support Burning Man Arts and Civic Engagement programmes. Earlier, Burning Man was not known for its diversity. This time, the focus is on inclusivity,” says Harsha. Sotheby’s website mentions the Burning Man Project’s commitment to diversity and adds that the organisation is leveraging Sotheby’s platform to foster new relationships by inviting work by Black, Indigenous, and Persons of Colour (BIPOC) artists through this auction. Conversation with self The sculpture Conversation was designed by Harsha in 2019 when he held a solo exhibition at Kalakriti art gallery, Hyderabad. Two juliflora wooden heads placed on two ends of a semicircle tyre, is Harsha’s attempt to focus on the idea of ‘conversation with self’. “I wanted to look beyond conversation as a sound or audio byte and instead, focus on conversations we have with ourselves.” He believes that art can be a tool to challenge perceptions. “For instance, the concept of virtual world was an idea long before it became reality,” he says, referring to a scene from the iconic Telugu film Maya Bazar (1957) where Savitri gazes into a tablet-like structure to see Abhimanyu (Akkineni Nageswara Rao). The selection of Conversation for Boundless Space, he hopes, will help him exhibit at the Burning Man event shortly and further his quest to make public art installations. Modernist approach Harsha was born in Kurnool, raised in Hyderabad and studied Art and Aesthetics at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. He wanted to think beyond the confines of showcasing within the art gallery premises: “I was fascinated by traditional temple art and architecture. They did so much without the technological innovations we have. I wanted to step away from the rat race of looking at art as a conventional business and take a modernist, avant-garde approach.” He worked on a few large-scale installations in Delhi and it dawned on him that many well-known galleries did not have space to exhibit them. He then began to apply to international events and got selected for Sculpture by the Sea and NordArt. Things are changing today, he points out, in the context of biennales and art fairs encouraging artists to think out of the box: “Some of my colleagues in Baroda have begun to establish their own studios that are different from galleries inside homes. We need to have Government and private entities working together to convert old industrial spaces into zones where public art can be displayed.” Harsha’s sculpture studio in Chilkur in the outskirts of Hyderabad was set up in late 2020. His interest in sustainable farming also led him to open Oorna Permaculture Farm where he occasionally conducts workshops on sustainable farming and housing practices: “I intend to apply mindfulness to art and life.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/conversations-for-sothebys/article36641761.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Love has a destination||As the Telugu audience looks forward to seeing Naga Chaitanya and Sai Pallavi in Love Story releasing today, Prema Nagar that  established ANR and Vanisri as one of the successful pairs in Telugu cinema released 50 years ago on this day. An epitome of glamour and substance, Vanisri, charmed a generation of movie buffs with her style and verve. A modest beginning notwithstanding, she reached the pinnacle of her career portraying roles on a par with the Telugu heroes of the ‘70s. When Koduri Kausalya Devi’s popular novel Prema Nagar was planned for celluloid, producer D Ramanaidu and director K Prakash Rao did not look beyond Vanisri for the female lead. Acting in her first full-length colour film, she played the feisty and independent Latha opposite Akkineni Nageswara Rao (ANR) for whom playing the rich and spoilt lover-boy Kalyan was a cakewalk. Released under the Suresh Productions banner on September 24, 1971, Prema Nagar ran for 750 days. Vanisri plays Latha an air hostess who is the sole breadwinner of her family. She meets the alcoholic happy-go-lucky Kalyan during one of her flights and later, after quitting her job, lands the job of his secretary. She makes him give up drinking and love blossoms between them, much to the chagrin of Kalyan’s zamindar family. Many misunderstandings and heartbreaks later, the reconciliation leads to a happy ending. Speaking to us over the phone from Chennai, Vanisri who played the role with elan, attributes the film’s success to writer Acharya Atreya and Prakash Rao. “They were veterans, and confident of their work; they did not have to prove anything to anyone. Whereas for Ramanaidu, who had faced a few flops earlier, as well as for cameraman Venkatratnam and I, it was a challenge; we had to prove ourselves. With the success of the film, we felt like we had earned a PhD,” laughs Vanisri. A year later, she went on to reprise her role in the Tamil version Vasantha Maligai with Sivaji Ganesan. Scene to remember A particularly striking performance from Vanisri is a scene where she is accused and humiliated for stealing a gold necklace from the zamindar’s house. Kalyan shows everyone that the necklace is with him and takes her away from there. While escorting her to the car, he asks, “Why did you do it Latha?” A stunned Latha turns to look at him. Vanisri’s brilliance comes to the fore then — the hurt, pain and disbelief that the man she loves does not believe her either — all expressed through her eyes. “That is my favourite scene. I felt Latha’s pain; she could tolerate it when others accused her but when her lover asks her that question, her heart breaks. I continued to weep even after that shot ended. Prakash Rao garu, a man of few words, came up and patted my shoulder,” recalls Vanisri adding, “When I repeated the scene for Vasantha Maligai , the raw emotion was missing, it was more of enacting a role well for the scene.” Vanisri was also convincing when playing the veena for the melancholic ‘ Evaro Raavali ...’. Vanisri recalls, “I did not know how to play the veena. An artist would sit in front of me with another veena while the camera rolled and I would follow her hand movements for the shot.” Style icon A diva in her heyday, Vanisri set many a trend with her sari-draping styles and hairdos. As an air hostess in Prema Nagar , her exaggerated hair bun became the talk of the town. “The England-returned hairstylist Aspi, specially brought in for my hair styling, backcombed my hair and created this huge bun that was typical for air hostesses those days. My mother would get upset seeing my hair becoming a mess in the process,” she laughs. She also shares that she became slimmer during the shoot of Vasantha Maligai and with improved makeup, looked more glamorous. “I think even the colour technology had got upgraded by then, so the overall look improved in the Tamil version.” Admitting to being a bit overwhelmed acting with ANR and Sivaji, Vanisri says she felt like a kindergartner in their presence. “Acting with ANR, who had already acted in more than a hundred films by then was a learning experience. It was the same with Sivaji, just by interacting with him I would feel encouraged to give my best.” Vanisri belongs to the generation of heroines after Savitri, Jamuna and Krishna Kumari, who had all acted with ANR and NTR. It did not bother her that her heroes were much older than her, “My role was more important for me; I used to feel privileged to be cast opposite these legends.” Prema Nagar was remade into Hindi with Rajesh Khanna and Hemamalini. “I am happy that Prema Nagar became a milestone for me, ANR, Sivaji and Ramanaidu.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/love-has-a-destination/article36641768.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A room with a view||In Hyderabad, families are out for sunshine, picnics and revenge. A wave of ‘revenge tourism’ is keeping resorts outside the city busy. After months of lockdown, often spent in compact city apartments, families are finding safe ways to relax and meet, despite the pandemic. The work from home culture, which has grown to be the norm in many offices, has moved workspaces from offices to home, cafes and any place with good internet connectivity. With post-lockdown restrictions eased and life limping back to normal, cafes and working spaces are getting crowded. Also, after more than a year with no outings and vacations, people are looking for getaways that are a short drive away. Farm stays, resorts with tents, jungle retreats, places that offer trekking, hiking and bird-watching or anything that engages the outdoors are much sought after. The cost at these spots can range from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 6,000 per night. It includes treks and farm walks. Safety  first Back to business after the lull, resorts are noticing a change in the customer profile and pre-booking enquiries. Grasswalks, a getaway in Vikarabad (70 kilometres from Hyderabad), is a hot pick as it offers stunning views of the Vikarabad jungle. Syed Mohammed Najmuddin, owner of Grasswalks, says that he had to make quick arrangements for working desks and chairs in all the rooms and tents. Reason: Most bookings came with a request for a comfortable workspace. Syed adds, “Unexpectedly, we saw a lot more families that were keen on their children experiencing the outdoors and connecting with Nature. With the steady flow of requests for a working desk, we made arrangements for it in almost all our tents and rooms.” As enquiries for bookings and reservations steadily go up, the staff is rushing to sanitise and prepare rooms for their guests. While business is good, it is also important for everyone to remain safe, says a housekeeping staff at Trance, a resort in Moinabad. The last couple of months have been busy with wedding events there. Outdoor experience Resorts on the outskirts are making all efforts to ensure families return as repeat guests. Chaitanya Dantuluri, the proprietor of Gamya at Vikarabad, says, “In an experiential break, children learn even while they are holidaying; they go back talking about it and sometimes it helps them understand what they read. Here, at Gamya, which is still under construction, we have tractor rides, fishing and a canal with which we show how irrigation happens.” Explaining why families are choosing experiential getaways on the outskirts, Mahati Chittem, a parent and professor with IIT-Hyderabad, says, “After being cooped up in our apartment for fear of COVID-19 last year, I couldn’t think of a hotel for a staycation. I wanted my daughters to roam free and learn to respect Nature. Online classes only made it easier to decide on taking them to a muddy place, where we can see a clear sky and not have to look at another building for a view.” Mahati chose The Getaway, an organic farm in Godamguda because she wants her daughters to grow up being aware of where we get our food from. Activities at Nature-driven getaway spots like Neeraja Farm Stay, Hornbill Farm Stay, Farmville Stay and Grasswalks include treks and understanding farming. Syed adds, “Rather than parents, it is the children’s curiosity and enthusiasm that motivates the elders.” Such treks and Nature-centric activities are planned to fit into school and work schedule, so that everyone gets back to their tents/ rooms to resume their work and school-work online.” Prem Anand of The Hidden Castle in Siddipet has a different experience. Designed as a replica of Takeshi’s Castle (the popular Japanese wipeout game show), his resort was a popular destination for corporate team-building outings. This four-year-old resort is set in a medieval-style castle, complete with a moat. Anand says, “Schools and colleges, apart from a corporate crowd, were my biggest clients, largely because of the games we tried to replicate from the Takeshi’s Castle game. Now there is a shift in clientele. The family category is our biggest revenue generator. Since we are not too far away from the city, crowds come during the weekdays as well. In the evenings, when the resort is lit, children feel it is like a real castle.” Occupancy at The Hidden Castle is 70% during the week and goes up to 90% on weekends. Organo Nandi, a collective farming community in Moinabad, houses 73 villas that serve as weekend/holiday homes and activities like workshops on permaculture, slow cooking on firewood, gardening and talks on snakes and wildlife. A net-zero energy community, with organic farming, a goshala, earth air tunnel draft system, zero disposal of organic waste, zero wastewater discharge, in-house production of natural fertilisers and pesticides, usage of local materials and bamboo for construction, 15 acres of afforested land, along with many other closed-loop systems. Rakesh Koti, head of sustainability at Organo says, “Guests treat Organo Nandi as a holiday home. Low occupancy and a community kitchen makes it easy for them. Families are also staying back for weeks before they return rejuvenated.”  Resorts on the outskirts are making all efforts to ensure that families return as repeat guests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-room-with-a-view/article36641776.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The French filmmaker’s ball||Directing oneself sounds like an out-of-body experience but actor-filmmaker-musician Mélanie Laurent revelled in it. Despite a busy virtual press tour for her French-language film The Mad Women’s Ball ( Le Bal Des Folles ), she looks at ease as she talks about the themes of the book-to-screen adaptation. Set in the 1880s, The Mad Women’s Ball follows Eugénie Cléry (Lou de Laâge), an upper-class woman forced by her family into Pitié-Salpêtrière, a neurological clinic in Paris. Why? Because Eugénie confided in her grandmother that she sees spirits. The institution, a seemingly cold and run-down place, is supervised by head nurse Geneviève (Laurent) who takes an interest in Eugénie. Amid the darkness, the women in the clinic look forward to the annual ball for which they get to dress up and dance.  Le Bal Des Folles is a Prix Stanislas and Prix Renaudot des Lycéens-winning novel by Victoria Mas that tells of the real horrors women went through in the name of modern psychiatry during the 1880s, a time clouded by rising tensions between religion and science. The first French Amazon Prime original has been generating a lot of buzz given its world premiere at Toronto International Film Festival 2021. With more than 25 industry years under her belt, Laurent is one of French cinema’s most respected contemporary creatives, often seen on the international festival circuits. Many would clock her as Shoshana / Emmanuelle from Quentin Tarantino’s Inglourious Basterds (2009) and in Michael Bay’s 6 Underground (2019). Her next directorial role is the 2022 drama film The Nightingale , an adaptation of a novel by Kristin Hannah. New filming vistas Laurent does not shy away from experimentation and she saw plenty of it with The Mad Women’s Ball ’s cinematography led by Nicolas Karakatsanis. Laurent explains, “I wanted to work on still shots and working along some tracks. The first part of the film has a lot of machinery and then we let go of it all when Eugénie let go too. From then, we took a steady camera and took stances with all my actresses.”  The Mad Women’s Ball was a landmark in Laurent’s directorial career because, after working with the same director of photography for many years, she switched to a new collaborator: Nicolas Karakatsanis of Cruella , The Loft and I, Tonya fame. Karakatsanis proposed a new challenge to Laurent: to shoot the whole movie in film. “I never did that before. And, oh my God, that was the best idea ( laughs ),” she describes, “Shooting in film is very special; you work in front of and behind the camera and when you go to the monitor you don’t see anything so I had to run into the eye of the camera to check everything and sometimes I sat at the foot of the camera, while wearing my costume, to watch my actors. Having those big and noisy cameras along with the stress of not wasting too much film is very interesting. He brought so much cinema into my world and it was magical. He had my back and I had a lot of space with him.” The Mad Women’s Ball / Le Bal Des Folles is streaming on Prime Video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-french-filmmakers-ball/article36641758.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Curtain rises again||City-based Storyboard Productions brings Alan Ayckbourn’s dark comedy Table Manners to Rangabhoomi Spaces in Gachibowli on September 25 and 26. A part of a trilogy — the other two being Round and Round the Garden and Living Together — the English play is a satire on the middle class and their ideologies. Director Sandeep Tadi says, “The pieces are brilliantly written by Alan (Ayckbourn) in a way that each play stands on its own. The trilogy, ‘The Norman Conquests’ is a dark, realistic comedy.” Of chaos and family drama The hour-long production shows Annie caring for her ailing mother. When she plans to go out for the weekend, she asks her brother and his wife to be with her mother. The narrative follows the chaos and drama that ensues. Tadi terms the six characters rainbow colours with variations. “It creates a kind of conflict which is satirical and funny.” The setting is Victorian with the dining room as well as costumes in sync with the retro look. Costume designer Rushika Korukonda, an English literature student at St. Francis College, who has also worked on social media promotions for the play says, “I realised the wonderful irony of using screens to make people come to watch the stage. The research has been a great experience.” All artistes except Jonas David, co-founder of Storyboard Productions, are from different fields. Aneesha Dama, an architect, who earlier worked on two plays ( Charley's Aunt and Good Answer staged by Storyboard Productions), plays the protagonist, Annie. “I feel a strange sense of connection and familiarity because there are so many emotions that Annie goes through that I have dealt with in the past as well.” This is the first time that David gets to play a character with ambiguous morality. “Some of the things he (Norman) does are cringe-worthy and appalling. Playing a man-child has advantages as it does give one some leeway to have fun on stage, but a man-child with no morals turned out to be quite obnoxious and notorious as I discovered in rehearsals.” While Harsh Garg, a businessman, plays Tom, marketing manager Abhinav Rastogi gets to play a role close to his real profession. Anchor/corporate trainer Deepika Mahidhara who plays Ruth says, “Some characters are relatable. Ruth and Sarah’s relationship is one such. Ruth is as vulnerable as she is self-assured. It was challenging to bring both to the fore.” Sandeep says, “With more people getting vaccinated, we hope the audience follows safety protocols and enjoys watching a live play.”  (Table Manners to be staged at Rangabhoomi Spaces in Gachibowli on September 25 and 26 from 7 pm onwards; Tickets Rs. 200 and Rs. 150 at www.bookmyshow.com and the venue)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/curtain-rises-again/article36641765.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||On the menu||With quick-service restaurants back in business, here’s a quick look at what’s growing popular in the city   Head to Kukatpally where Satti Babu Biryani, which opened this year, beckons with a bright yellow nameboard that you just cannot miss. The popularity of this takeaway is such that people queue up for almost 30 minutes just to place their order. The succulent chicken that comes with a heap of mildly-flavoured rice can range from medium to intense spiciness. Look forwarded to some interesting combinations of meat cut preferences including chicken joint biryani, fry piece biryani, kaju chicken biryani, wings biryani, etcetera.  Satti Babu Biryani’s takeaway kiosk is opposite Metro Pillar #895, Kukatpally.      Bengaluru-origin and pocket-friendly Chickpet Donne Biryani sells donne biryani and has more than nine outlets across Hyderabad. The biryani here is served in large bowls made of dried palm leaves called donne, hence the name . The mildly-flavoured biryani uses chitti muthyalu rice, so do not expect fluffy rice here. The fastest selling dishes here are chicken biryani, donne chicken biryani combo (includes two extra servings of a chicken side dish), donne mutton biryani, mutton leg soup and Kshatriya chicken wings. A lot of diners also enjoy dumping the chicken biryani in a serving of a mutton leg soup, making it their version of a soupy biryani.  Chickpet Donne Biryani outlets are in Attapur, Himayatnagar, Kondapur, Madhapur, S R Nagar, Trimulgherry, Miyapur, Manikonda and KPHB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-the-menu/article36641771.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Weekend wonders||There are a lot of options for a weekend staycation in Hyderabad, just a two-hour-drive away. Those looking for a day picnic can visit the monolith rock formation in Warangal or Siddipet. Another option is the 12th-century Vana Durga Bhavanai temple in Edupayala in Nagsanpally (85 kilometres from Hyderabad). The 800-year-old Ramappa temple (210 kilometres from Hyderabad) in Warangal that won the Heritage tag, is also a good option. Ramappa lake, a reservoir built by the Kakatiya rulers, is closeby and the Thousand-Pillar temple is just a short drive away . Those looking for a long drive with pit stops enroute can consider Khandala, Pedda Gundam, Kanakai or Gayatri waterfalls in Adilabad (300 kilometres from Hyderabad). Closer options are Ranganayaka Sagar and Kondapochamma reservoir in Siddipet (70 kilometres from Hyderabad) or Udandapur and Karivena reservoir in Mahabubnagar (100 kilometres from Hyderabad).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/weekend-wonders/article36641778.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||A night with Jubin||Ahead of the release of his next single ‘Dil Galti Kar Baitha Hai’ on September 25, musician Jubin Nautiyal will be coming to the city to get you in the right weekend groove. Look forward to his chart-toppers like ‘Tum Hi Aan, ‘Wafa Na Raas Aayee’, ‘Bewafa Tera Masoom Chehra’, ‘Bedardi Se Pyaar Ka’ and ‘Lut Gaye’. Friday September 24, 7 pm onwards; @ Artistry, Kondapur; tickets Rs. 2,499 onwards.8879809587||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-night-with-jubin/article36641763.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Hit the road||After covering a large part of the country on a motor bike with her husband, Nagpur-based Neha Soman, decided to buy a caravan. It would be more comfortable, and also novel, she thought. In 2016 she bought a caravan from a manufacturer in Delhi, and decided to also rent it out to other intrepid travellers. She called it Wacation On Wheels. Neha and her husband are still waiting to take a long-planned trip to Leh in their caravan. “My holidaying has reduced since I bought it,” she laughs, adding that it is booked for most of the year. The number of caravans in the country is certainly growing as a result of the pandemic, says Neha who has two of her own and manages three others that belong to owners in Bhopal/Indore, Mumbai, and Jaipur. Enquiries at Wacation On Wheels have doubled this year, with 14-15 calls per day and the vehicles are out 14 days a month on an average, says Neha. Last year, this Nagpur-based outfit saw about 5% of tourism-based travel in their caravans. The remaining 95% of business was from people who required assistance getting from one city to another. This primarily included infants and senior citizens who did not want to risk a train or flight. Carvaa Travelers, started last October, and Carawander by Siddharth Arya Jolly in April this year, are among the new players in the market. Jigyasu Joshi, along with his friends Himanshu Jangid, Yogesh Kumar, and Pranav Sharma, set up operations for Carvaa Travelers in Delhi. Even with the demand going through the roof, Jigyasu was tentative about the success and future of the business, putting the bookings down to clients’ whims or one-time experience. Revving up In the months to come, he and his friends discovered that this mode had become more of a necessity than something experiential. “It was revenge travel, revenge consumption,” Jigyasu laughs over a call from the capital. Currently operating with two caravans, the team plans to add a few more to their fleet. Unlike Carvaa Travelers, Carawander had a bumpy ride in the beginning. “We launched in April and five days later the second wave started so we had to suspend operations,” says 22-year-old Siddharth. He commenced services in August, but before that his vehicles — a motorhome and a campervan — had to undergo repairs as they were parked for four months. The novelty, privacy, flexibility, and sense of being in a bubble is what greatly works in the favour of caravans, even though they may not exactly be pocket-friendly. Operators price them anywhere between Rs. 4,500 and Rs. 27,000 or more a day, depending on the size and facilities. The additional costs include fuel, toll tax and State tax that vary from Rs. 200 per day to as high as Rs. 15,000 for a month, even if it means one is driving through a State for a day to get to another. Some caravans can sleep nine people, some six and a few just three. These leisure vehicles have beds, an attached bathroom, well-stocked kitchenette, entertainment units, camping kits, barbecue equipment, and a chauffeur and cleaner. This is also a great way for holidaymakers to explore lesser-known destinations. Some governments, such as Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka, have taken note of this and introduced policies and services that will aid tourism in their States. Luxe Camper has tied up with the Karnataka government and uses the State-owned Jungle Lodges and Resort, to park their campervans in 15 locations. This includes a mix of well known destinations such as Kabini and Bandipur, as well as offbeat ones such as Sakrebyle and Aanejari. “Sakrebyle near Shivamogga has a beautiful elephant interpretation centre,” says Tiger Ramesh who started Luxe Camper last June. Caravaners can park there and in the daytime go on a guided tour to see about 25 elephants in water bodies, along with their mahouts, explains Tiger. The company also has its own camp site in Sakleshpur. “Our goal is to have 100 vehicles. Few of them will be in Cochin, Goa, Chennai, Nagpur, and Meghalaya,” says Tiger who says he has been approached by the West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand governments to promote caravan tourism in their States and highlight more destinations. With caravans one has the advantage to choose where they want to sleep or dine, even if there are no hotels or restaurants in the vicinity. “If a tourist wishes to have breakfast by the waterfall, a traditional lunch amid paddy fields, dinner on the mountain side or enjoy the meals at a five star hotel, he/she will be chauffeur driven to these specific locales in a luxury caravan,” says VR Krishna Teja, director, Tourism, Government of Kerala, which is pitching caravan tourism as its latest product, set to unroll on January 1, 2022. Places like Vagamon and parts of north Kerala and Kollam will be included in the caravan circuit. The caravans will be serviced at the caravan parks. This will promote hyper local tourism and help the communities around these parks. “Caravans will have toilet facilities and waste disposal fittings. Each caravan park will have Sewage Treatment Plants, which is compulsory. There will be segregation of waste and compost pits,” he says. Busy routes Popular caravan routes for now are Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Rajasthan and Karnataka. Since India does not have caravan parks yet, some operators have tied up with camping sites. “The caravans can park there for the night and the travellers can use their facilities like restaurants, restrooms, electricity, water drainage system among others,” says Siddharth who collaborates with farm houses and camping sites in Rajasthan, where he currently operates. With each operator issuing a different policy, caravans are being rented out anywhere between a day to even a month. Carvaa Travelers’ longest booking so far has been for 40 days, when a young man set out to travel the Konkan coast with his best friend: his dog. Neha observes that there has been a significant increase in enquiries about travelling with pets. “There are restrictions on aircraft and trains, but here the pet owner and pet can travel together,” she says, adding that she sees this demographic becoming a huge market for caravans. “We ferried three cats along with two of their owners, from Mumbai to Bengaluru. This commute cost Rs. 1.3 lakh. After that, we drove a mother and daughter and their two dogs as they were relocating from Mumbai to Bareilly,” she adds. The single-day bookings are sought after by families and friends who want to celebrate an occasion: Birthdays, bachelorette, bachelor parties. It is also popular among those ready to test something new. Plus, there’s always the quest to upload something trendy on Instagram. #caravans #yousawitherefirst #goexplore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/hit-the-road/article36642337.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Finally, the Catamaran launches||The air is tense with anticipation and malt. Amid hulking, shiny new equipment, Rangaraju Narayanaswamy and his master brewer, Suryakant Singh, test a freshly made ale, quietly appreciating its sparkle and heady scent. They are justifiably proud of the result: It has been a long, challenging road, with hurdles at every turn. The Catamaran Brewing Company finally opens this weekend in Puducherry. As the first microbrewery in the Union Territory, and the closest one to Chennai, there is a lot riding on this launch. As he walks through its spacious, shadowy interiors — a cool respite from the blazing tropical heat and tangled traffic outside — Rangaraju explains how he and his business partner Durgaprasad Radhakrishnan began working on the project in 2017. “With Pondy being a touristy place, we felt that it would be good for the town to have this. We began to apply for licenses, and were given a go-ahead in 2019.” They brought in Oliver Schauf, credited with being one of the catalysts of the craft beer revolution in India, as a brewing consultant and began work on the blends. Then, the pandemic struck. Nevertheless, between lockdowns and at their homes, brainstorming continued, and slowly things began to fall into place. Suryakant, who moves between the brewing equipment with practised ease in practical blue Crocs, points out that while they use imported malt and hops, to get the structure of the ales right, they also add fresh ingredients from the local market, from oranges to coriander. Right now, the 6,500 square foot brewery offers five beers on tap, all freshly made. The best of these is their Indian Summer, which has a refreshing sweetness zesty with flavours of citrus, and an echo of chamomile. They also offer a light bodied Pondi Pilsner, which has a grassy aroma and sweet malty character. If you are in the mood for something stronger, try their dark lager, the Vox Populi, crisp with notes of caramel and toffee. The smoky Yuri G’s drink pays tribute to a London brewer, who in 1722 created a fresh brewed ale which quickly became known as the ‘working man pint of choice’ for its familiar flavours of caramel, molasses and coffee. As he pours out the final sample, a cider, Rangaraju explains how their brewing consultant Oliver popularised apple cider in India in 2009, after he set up Doolally in Pune. After multiple trials, Oliver tweaked his recipe for the Indian palate, creating a hard apple cider. The version at Catamaran Brewing is surprisingly heady, for a cider, exuberant with the aroma of apple orchards. Targeted at tourists and locals alike, the menu attempts to offer a little bit of everything from Pan Asian food to ‘modern South Indian’: chilli cheese wontons, podi fried idlis, chicken ghee roast with neer dosa, pulled pork with pita. Of course, in keeping with the theme, there will also be beer bread, beer cheese dips and even a ‘beer rasam pani puri.’ Is this likely to trigger a craft beer revolution in our neck of the woods? Rangaraju shrugs, “Well, I have heard that two more places are being planned, but it takes so long to put it together…” He adds, fingers crossed, “for this year at least, in this part of the country, we will be the only one.”  The Catamaran Brewing Company is at 35 Anna Salai, Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/finally-the-catamaran-launches/article36642338.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Toying with perceptions||Paula Hawkins has watched the Hindi version of The Girl on the Train based on her bestselling 2015 novel. Directed by Ribhu Dasgupta, the film features Parineeti Chopra and Aditi Rao Hydari. Speaking from Edinburgh on a video call, the British author says, “The story has been changed, which is fine because, it is somebody else’s interpretation.” Hawkins says she enjoyed seeing the London locations, as the 2016 Hollywood version starring Emily Blunt, was set in America. “It was interesting that they changed it from her not being able to have a child to losing a child in a much more traumatic way. It made it even more likely that she turned to alcohol for having been bereaved in that way.” Mamma mia Each of Hawkins’ books, from The Girl on the Train and Into the Water to the latest, A Slow Fire Burning (Penguin Random House) deals with different aspects of motherhood. “I do not have children; I may have a slight fear of parenthood. In my novels, parenthood does not seem to be a happy experience. I am interested in the way in which motherhood is portrayed as the acme of female existence,” she says. For the Harare-born author, books always start with a character and in the case of A Slow Fire Burning ,  it started with the character of Laura. “I heard a story about somebody who had been in an accident and suffered long-term behavioural changes because of it. I had been thinking about writing about someone like that but did not know what story I wanted to tell. I was living in London at the time, near where the novel is set. I was looking at houseboats and wondering about the people there and imagining what might be inside them.” Revenge is an important motif in the novel. “The desire for revenge can be something which keeps people going. People obsess about getting their own back... it is a powerful driving force. ” Work or play While commenting that writing for her is mostly work, Hawkins hopes A Slow Fire Burning is a slightly more playful book. “There is more lightness in this book, although it deals with dark subjects. One of the things about crime fiction is the idea of solving the puzzle and for me, of constructing the puzzle. Thinking about the kinds of people, or the kinds of situations in which terrible things might happen is interesting from a psychological point of view.”  The Girl on the Train was a phenomenal success and Hawkins had discussed the pressure of following up on that in an earlier interview with this writer. Hawkins says the pressure has eased. “ Into the Water was not such a big book. There were quite a lot of critical reviews. It was a difficult place for me, the thought of writing a new novel, when I just had a lot of negative criticism. I am happy with A Slow Fire Burning . I feel like I achieved what I set out to do,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/toying-with-perceptions/article36642339.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Truly a best friend||Natasha and Nandini were best friends from the time they had joined Indus Academy Girls School in first grade. Now, five years later, their friendship had deepened. The two girls sat together in class and pursued the same extra-curricular . Natasha often ate roti, sabzi, dal, chawal and laddoos from Nandini’s lunch box, while Nandini enjoyed the pasta, pizza, burgers, sausages and muffins from Natasha’s tiffin box. In fact, there was a joke in school that, if Natasha was in a room, Nandini wouldn’t be far behind. The teachers called them The Twins and the students called them N and N. The two girls had a lot of similarities and mutual interests; both were good in studies and games. A birthday plan There was only one difference between them: Natasha came from a rich family, while Nandini belonged to a family with a modest income. But that never came between their friendship. “I plan to celebrate my 11th birthday in style. I’ll be inviting the entire class — all 45 girls — to a five-star hotel for my birthday party,” Natasha told Nandini one day. Nandini’s face fell. “I don’t think I’ll be able to attend,” she said. “May I know why, busy lady?” Natasha asked. “My birthday is onSaturday, so you can’t even give the excuse that you are busy studying or completing your assignments.” “I have no new outfit to wear,” Nandini said in a small voice. “You can always borrow a dress from me. In fact, I have two new dresses, which I have never worn and no one from our class has seen them,” Natasha said. “Problem solved.” “You know I won’t do that,” Nandini made a face. “I will never have a party without you,” Natasha said adamantly. “If you can’t come, I’ll cancel the party.” “Don’t do that,” Nandini said. “Your parents have been planning this party for ages. They will be disappointed.” Natasha’s mother had called Nandini the previous night to ask for her help in deciding the return gifts and organising the games and the prizes. Nandini knew that the birthday party would be a grand affair and, in her modest clothes, she would stick out like a sore thumb. Her mother had given her a choice: she could either buy herself a new dress or a gift for Natasha. She couldn’t do both. Solution found “I’ve an idea.” Natasha’s eyes shone with excitement. Seeing the classroom empty, as the teacher had just left, she announced loudly: “I’m having a birthday party on the 15th at The Grand Paradise Hotel and everyone is invited.” The girls sighed. The Grand Paradise Hotel was like a palace; the most beautiful hotel of their city. “The party starts at 4:30 p.m. and the dress code is casual clothes,” Natasha smiled. Nandini’s eyes turned moist. Her best friend was really the best. She knew that Natasha had decided the dress code keeping her in mind. Now she could attend the party as well as buy a nice gift for her best friend.  I’m having a birthday party on the 15th at The Grand Paradise Hotel and everyone is invited||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/truly-a-best-friend/article36642594.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tough times||Story so far: Bhuvan watches Popo Singh struggle to convince Hasmukh stay inside the house. Dhanush makes a plan to help Mrs. Miranda’s kittens  Bhuvan chewed his fingernails as the clock struck two. His parents showed no signs of taking their afternoon nap, busy as they were counting money in the bedroom. “We have Rs. 989,” said Aai, recounting the notes and coins. “I have dozens of blouses waiting to be collected. I can’t get paid until I open my tailoring shop.” “I am ready to work,” added Baba. “Popo Singh has promised to get me a travel pass and a temporary delivery job. Till then, we will have to manage with the money we have.” Bhuvan was disappointed because he knew it meant more khichdi and papads for lunch. He buried his head in a storybook till his parents fell into a deep sleep. Then he picked Aai’s phone, tiptoed out of the bedroom and called Dhanush. Ready to go? “Have you forgotten about our plan?” he asked in a hushed voice. “Sorry! I got delayed. I went to Farida’s garden and plucked some mangoes,” said Dhanush. Bhuvan frowned. “You are a rotten friend!” “Are your parents sleeping?” Bhuvan peeped into the bedroom and heard Aai’s snore. “Yes! Can we go now?” “I will be there in a few minutes,” said Dhanush. Bhuvan quickly washed his water bottle and filled it with milk from the refrigerator. Then, he stood before the mirror and put on the mask Aai had made for him. Putting on his flip-flops, he tiptoed to the door. Just when he was all set to sneak out of the house, Baba’s phone rang. Bhuvan froze. “Hello!” Bhuvan watched his father put on his khaki uniform and nudge Aai. “Popo Singh wants me to deliver some provisions at an orphanage.” It was too late to hide the water bottle and remove the mask. “Where are you going?” asked Baba. “Nowhere!” Bhuvan stared at the floor, waiting to receive an earful. “Why are you wearing a mask in the house?” “I am playing a game of masks,” lied Bhuvan. Baba grabbed a bottle from the refrigerator and took a sip of water. “A game of masks? How do you play it?” Before Bhuvan could answer, Dhanush’s cheerful face appeared at the window. “Why are you loitering outside? Go back to your house before Popo Singh sees you!” ordered Baba. Dhanush vanished without saying a word. Baba barged out of the house when his phone rang again. Bhuvan heaved a sigh of relief. He was about to step into the bedroom and call Dhanush when Aai came into the living room. “It is good Baba can help people stranded in the city with no food,” she said. Bhuvan didn’t respond to her. He was busy thinking of an alternate plan to save the hungry kittens.  (To be continued)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/tough-times/article36642565.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Honouring our history||This 13th century temple complex in Palampet, Telangana, showcases the craftsmanship of the Kakatiya dynasty that ruled most of eastern Deccan region between the 12th and 14th centuries. Their kingdom comprised present-day Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, and parts of eastern Karnataka and southern Odisha. Apart from their other achievements like building reservoirs, the dynasty is known for its distinct style in architecture, especially in temples. And one fine example is the Ramappa temple complex, which stands on a six-foot star-shaped platform and has pillars with intricate carvings. Perhaps the only temple in India to be named after its sculptor, the main structure is of reddish sandstone and the columns outside are of basalt. The carvings of mythical animals, dancers and musicians are brilliant examples of Kakatiya art. The temple complex was built by Racherla Rudra Reddy during the period of the Kakatiya ruler Ganapati Deva in 1213 and it took over four decades to complete it. It is described as “the brightest star in the galaxy of temples” by the famous traveller Marco Polo when he visited India in between 1289 and 1293.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/honouring-our-history/article36642574.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The light of knowledge||Vaihasaya slowly landed in Tripura on top of a beautifully built palace. The whole city was lit up with electric lights. Meghnath was amazed by this technology. Below each light was a huge clay pot with copper rods and zinc/iron in the middle. Another thin rod made of tungsten was connected to it with a wire. Looking at these, Meghnath thought the clay pots were similar to what the sages carried. But there was a difference. As he stepped in, he saw a huge flag pole, below which was another huge clay pot with a similar setup. On top of the pole , he saw a small spark of light. Longed-for meeting Meghnath looked at Mayasura and Ravana. The former said, “Ask Sukracharya when you meet him.” They stepped inside the guru’s building and there sat Sukracharya, with a clay pot in his left hand and a lengthy metal rod with its top part split into two (like an antenna), in his right.  Sukracharya: Welcome to Tripura. Looks like Meghanth has many questions. Go ahead, child. Clarify your doubts.  Meghanth: Thank you, guru. Outside, I saw the light, which seems to be different and artificially created. How it is possible? What is this mysterious clay pot that is everywhere?  Sukracharya: The pot is a battery to store electricity. To understand that idea, you must first know about a process called electrolysis. First, tell me what is electricity?  Meghanth: Not sure. All I know is lighting, which we see during rain and thunder, is a form of current or electricity, which is basically “flow of electrons”.  Sukracharya : Perfect… If you can understand flow of electrons and how they exchange among each element or compound, you can master this electricity, light, telecommunication concept. To learn this, let me teach you how to separate water. What is water?  Meghnath: It is one part of Pranavayu (Oxygen) and two parts of Udajani (Hydrogen).  Sukracharya: Do you know how to separate them?  Meghnath: No.  Sukracharya: Take some water, salt and take a non-conductive bowl (clay pot, glass bowl, etc). For learning, let’s take a ready-made battery. When they put salt inside the water and send electricity inside, Meghnath sees bubbles coming out of the negative and positive terminals; with more in the former and less in the latter. Creating a spark  Meghnath: Hydrogen is coming out from the negative side, and oxygen from the positive side. But, what’s happening?  Sukracharya: This process is called electrolysis; by which a compound/substance like water decomposes or breaks down into simpler substances when current is passed into them. But, for this to happen, there must be some substance which supply ions, which we call it as electrolyte. Here, we use salt (NaCl – Sodium Chloride) as electrolyte.  Meghnath: Guru, I want to learn how to create current and create a spark of light…  Sukracharya: This is just the start. More will follow Meghanth begins to try different methods to store separated oxygen and hydrogen in a metal container, as Sukracharya watches with a smile.  The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years   The whole city seemed lit up, not with traditional, oil lamps but electric lights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-light-of-knowledge/article36642600.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Inspired by the birds||On October 1, 1964, just 10 days before the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games, Japan inaugurated its ‘Bullet Train’. Still emerging from the devastating impact of World War II, the country’s slogan for the Olympics was ‘faster, higher, stronger’. The Bullet train speeding past Mount Fuji became the defining image of new Japan. Challenges As the years passed, the speed kept increasing but, by the 1990s, this began to pose a new challenge: that of noises. One was the result of a sort of whirlwind rushing over the pantographs where the train derived its energy from overhead electric wires. A solution was found and inspiration came from owls, or rather their wings. Comb-like serrations on the edge of the bird’s primary wing feathers break down air rushing over the wing. This muffles sound and allows them to fly silently. Japanese scientists began to prototype pantographs using this mode. In 1994, a new pantograph, dubbed the “wing-graph”, which mimicked the owl’s wing structure replaced the traditional design. The other problem was more complicated. The shape of the train’s face caused a cushion of air to build up as it entered a tunnel. When it exited, a booming sound was produced that disturbed people in the vicinity and the wildlife in the area. Again the solution came from a bird. The head engineer, who was also a keen birdwatcher, and his junior had noticed that kingfishers dived into water at high speed from a great height but created a minimal splash. It struck them that the shape of the bill allowed this seamless transition. The engineers found that the kingfisher’s bill was unique, with the both the upper and lower beak having a triangular cross-section with curved sides. From the kingfisher Testing by the design teams confirmed that the kingfisher’s bill was the most efficient shape and a series of prototypes were built and tested, with a train nose very close to the kingfisher bill being adopted. In 1997, the 500-Series Shinkansen train was able to run at its maximum speed (300km/hour, which was a world record for that time) while also meeting strict noise standards of 70 dB. Thus the new models inspired by the kingfisher and owl not only reduced noise but also air resistance, resulting in twin benefits: of reducing energy consumption and cost savings.  A solution was found and inspiration came from owls, or rather their wings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/inspired-by-the-birds/article36642616.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Back in time||Eighty timelines take you on a journey from prehistory to the modern era. Check out the formation of kingdoms, the establishment of empires, the struggle for independence and the birth of a republic. Along the way, meet people who shaped India’s culture, history and society, and learn about events that shaped the country as we know it today through stories, profiles and facts. A collection of four picture books, the One Day Elsewhere series tells the stories of important events from the 20th century through the eyes of a child. The Dandi March, an oil spill in France, the Moon Landing and the fall of the Berlin Wall, are brought to life to help children understand what history is all about. Originally published in French, the books were written by Marie Lenne-Fouquet, Adèle Tariel, Anne Loyer and Thomas Scotto and are translated by Nakashi Chowdhry. Part of The Teenage Diary Series, which fictionalises the lives of historical characters such as Rani Lakshmibai, Razia Sultan and Nur Jahan, comes this adventure-filled account of the life of one of India’s bravest queens, Abbakka. Ruling over a kingdom in coastal Karnataka and coming up against the might of the Portuguese, this is the story of an unusual girl who would go to any lengths to protect her kingdom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/back-in-time/article36642606.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Water, water, everywhere||Across  1. Two hydrogen atoms and one ____ atom (6) 3. ____ your hands with water (4) 6. The water here is salty (5) 7. Water___: when a river flows over a cliff (4) 8. Fast flowing part of a river (6) 10. To slowly wear away (5) 11. The route followed by a river (6) 14. Small pool of water (6) 16. Water falling form the sky (4) 17. Hot water spring (6) 18. The sheltered side of an island (3)   Down  1. Water is a colourless and ____less liquid (5) 2. Large block of ice in the ocean (7) 4. Prefix relating to water (4) 5. Pellets of ice falling form the sky (4) 7. Deluge (5) 9. Water leaking from the ceiling (7) 11. ____ reefs are made by marine creatures (5) 12. Contains 95% water and 5% urea and other salts (5) 3. Water from the eyes (5) 15. Fine particulate matter (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/water-water-everywhere/article36642577.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||How are stars formed?  Whengas and dust accumulate, they form pockets. As they get denser, they reach a tipping point and collapse under their own gravity. After the pressure and the temperature inside get high enough for nuclear fusion (when two or more atoms come together to form a bigger atom) to ignite, a star is created. However, this process takes a million years, right from when the initial gas cloud starts to collapse until the birth of the star.   How do owlsturn their heads almost 360°?  An owl’sneck has 14 vertebrae, which is is double of that of humans. Also, they have only one bone situated on top of the backbone; this, in turn, allows the owl to pivot its head on its vertebral column. They also have a special arrangement of the jugular veins with associated connector blood vessels, which ensure that blood supply and return are not affected when the neck rotates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article36642562.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article36642558.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Maihar gharana and the sarod||With more than 100 performing artistes today, Maihar continues to be one of the most popular gharanas. Besides its identity as a sarod gharana (founder Ustad Allaudin Khan was a sarodiya), it is known for purity of raag, introduction of new raags, dhrupad alap, rigorous stroke work, and strong bhava content. The differences in the playing style of its past masters, such as Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, Pt. Ravi Shankar and Pt. Nikhil Bannerji, are testimony to the vast musical canvas the gharana offers. It was a pleasure to hear two of the finest Maihar sarod players on the same day recently. Representing two generations, the concerts of both artistes are available online. Abhisek Lahiri performed for the U.S.-based Cadence Entertainment; he was accompanied on the tabla by old friend Anubrata Chatterji with whom he last “performed some 7-8 years ago”. Abhisek stuck to the Maihar tradition of playing some unusual raags by choosing Jog Kauns, a recent invention of vocalist Pt. Jagannath Bua Purohit (Gunidas). This raag is a combination of Jog and Kauns. He played the raag with both the ‘nikhads’, which is the more common version. His alap was phrase-based, the jor was conventionally structured, and ended with a beautiful jhala in which he created a wonderful lau . The Rupak taal gat, composed by him, focused more on laya khel; Anubrata’s sangat was very effective. Abhisek’s forte is cleanly executed wazandar (powerful) strokes, and smooth bolkari. The concluding, ati drut jhaala, in Teen taal with crystal clear strokes, was exhilarating. The next raag was Jaijaiwanti; Abhisek headed straight to his father’s vilambit jhaptaal composition. Showcasing the various aspects of the raag, he concluded with a teen taal drut gat. Sadly, it was a very brief concert, as it was beamed live from Kolkata, where night curfew continues. Pt. Tejendra Narayan Mazumdar, disciple of Ustad Bahadur Khan (nephew of Ustad Allaudin Khan) and Ustad Ali Akbar Khan, is a senior representative of the gharana, and one of the most knowledgeable musicians today. He proved this by choosing raag Ramdasi Malhar, which is played with only the shuddha gandhar, as per the Senia gharana. However, the raag today is played with both gandhars, and many senior musicians are surprised at this version. Probably with the passage of time, the raag was amended by many, making space for both gandhars, to keep the difference between Nat or Gaur Malhar distinct. Pt. Mazumdar’s usage of the gandhar was masterly; landing directly and with an emphasis. He said that he had been taught this raag by both his gurus; clearly his vision of it is all-encompassing, as was apparent in his lucid exposition. It is an unmistakable, tangible experience to hear a musician who knows the raag inside out and has the ability to execute his vision; one experienced this in Ramdasi Malhar. Keeping his interpretation traditional, with emphasis on bolkari, he moved with ease into the composition. This was in Jhaptaal, originally a Teen taal gat, that he tweaked. On the tabla was the doyen of the Banaras gharana, Pt. Kumar Bose, who played with refined elegance, preferring not to display his usual trademark flamboyance. It was indeed a pleasure to hear him in this avatar. Focus on the bhaav Pt. Mazumdar then played Basant Mukhari, a jor raag, combining Bhairav and Bhairavi. He chose to focus on the bhaav aspect of the raag, in a leisurely vilambit Teen taal gat. The expanse of his musicality impresses, as he has sufficient material to showcase in a performance without resorting to repetition. The drut composition in Ek taal was his own, in which, unusually, he also played the concluding jhala. The finale was Bhairavi, again a delightful rendition, ending with a traditional Maihar composition. At just under two hours, this was a thoroughly satisfying concert, presented by the Houston-based Centre for Indian Classical Music of Houston (CICMH).  The Delhi-based author   writes on Hindustani music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/maihar-gharana-and-the-sarod/article36641668.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance of the Lamas||The serene and the sacred meet seamlessly in Benoy Behl’s documentary Dance of Liberation of the Lamas. The filmmaker and art historian recently gave a talk on the dance form at an online event organised by India Habitat Centre. Tracing its origins, Behl said, “The Yogachara School of Buddhism was founded in Kashmir in the fourth century by Asanga and Vasubandhu. This developed into the sophisticated Vajrayana form of Buddhism, which incorporated the Cham dance. From Ladakh till Mongolia, the Cham is the deepest form of meditation for the Lamas.” The purpose of this meditation is for the Lama (priest) to be able to free himself entirely from his own ephemeral personality. Unique tradition The film captures the social connect between the Lamas and the people. Behl pointed out that most dance traditions have lost their true purpose of spiritual awakening and have become mere stage performances. “Therefore,” he said, “the Cham is a unique and important cultural tradition, which reminds us of the philosophic purpose of all Indian dance forms.” Behl was introduced to Cham about 30 years ago and it was after 15 years of research that he shot the documentary for Doordarshan. To capture the drama of the dance, he began to shoot it, sitting very close to the feet of the dancing monks. “In the film, you will notice the robes of the Lamas brushing past my camera’s lens. During once such shoot, the sword of a dancing Lama came down on me, as he probably could not see through his mask. Fortunately, it only hit the microphone mounted on top of the camera and I escaped unhurt,” laughed Behl. Every dance form has a story behind it that captures its essence. Cham is no different. According to Behl, the people of Tibet and those who lived in the Indian part of the Himalayas believed that evil spirits resided in the mountains and in the winds. This fear prevented them from accepting Buddhism’s message of compassion. Guru Padmasambhava, who studied at the renowned Nalanda University, where he imbibed knowledge of Tantric philosophy and rituals, used Cham to destroy the evil forces. “Till today, he is revered in the entire Himalayan region,” said Behl. The black-hat dance The Lamas celebrate the victory of good over evil with two days of the monastic dance. Cham begins in the morning with the appearance of Lhalung Paldor. In the ninth century, king Langdarma had persecuted Buddhists. The monk Lhalung Paldor, disguised as a black hat dancer, killed the king with an arrow. The event is celebrated in all the monasteries of the trans-Himalayas as the majestic black-hat dance. The dance form looks simple but carries deep layers in every twirl of the Lama. In Vajrayana Buddhism, according to Behl, evil is not something outside of ourselves. “It is our own ego, our attachment to the illusory world around. It is transformed through prayers and finally through the experience of Cham.” The costumes and masks are an integral part of the dance. “The masks are used to cover the ordinary, day-to-day nature of the men and present qualities of divinity in them. So there are peaceful masks and wrathful ones.” All sounds in Cham are sacred mantras. The drum is a reminder of the deep sound that resounded at the beginning of creation and at the moment of the Buddha’s enlightenment. “Music is presented as an offering to the divine. It elevates the mind to a contemplative state,” said Behl. Once popularly practised in Ladakh, Lahaul, Spiti, Kinnaur, Tibet, Southern China and Mongolia, today Cham has been kept alive mainly at annual celebrations in parts of Ladakh and Spiti. “However, in places frequented by tourists, the dance has lost its original character and meaning and has become a form of entertainment,” rued Behl.  All sounds in Cham are sacred mantras. The drum is a reminder of the deep sound that resounded at the beginning of creation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dance-of-the-lamas/article36641646.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Not bound by genre||There are just seven musical notes, but they enchant us with their multiple shades and textures. ‘Unbounded’ (Abaad), the latest album by well-known sitar artiste Purbayan Chatterjee, reiterates it. Released recently by the U.K.-based imprint ‘Sufi Score’, the collaborative project features musicians from India, the U.S. and the U.K. and is a blend of jazz, folk, country, Sufi and Indian classical. Among the Indian musicians are Zakir Hussain (tabla), U. Rajesh (mandolin), V. Selvaganesh (kanjira), Shankar Mahadevan (vocal) and Gayatri Asokan (vocal), Deepak Pandit (violin) and Purbayan Chatterjee (sitar) while musicians from the West include global artistes Bela Fleck (banjo), Gary Husband (drums and piano), Jordan Rudess (keyboard), Thana Alexa (jazz singer), Pat Metheny (drums), Snarky Puppy (bass), Anat Cohen (clarionet), and composer Antonio Sanchez . Purbayan’s flair for composing and his spontaneity on the sitar strings come through in the very first track ‘Shanmukhapriya - The Mystic’, a synthesis of the Carnatic alapana, Hindustani sargam, and sloka rendered by Shankar Mahadevan that give way to the subtle playing of cellist Emanuel Keller along with Anna Stromer on the viola, Bengisu Gokce on the violin and the Indonesian guitarist Aleif Hamdan. Together, they give the music a global feel augmented by the post-modern Latin Jazz soundscape. One notices this blend throughout the album, be it in ‘Khula Asman’ based on raag Yaman, ‘Intezar’ (The Wait) with a dadra ‘Mujhe chhod ke na jao sanvariya...’, ‘Lalitha’ (The Mother), or the concluding ‘Unbounded (Abaad)’. The track ‘Sukoon’ (Catharsis) opens with Purbayan’s sitar creating a romantic ambience with raag Pahadi as a prelude to a Rehana Qamar ghazal sung by Gayatri and providing Major scale for the penetrating voice of Thana Alexa, the Grammy-nominated jazz vocalist. Gayatri adds a couple of komal swaras to intensify the pathos of the poetry, interspersed with the jazz choir led by Thana. Zakir’s tabla accompaniment enhances the impact of the musical exchange. Says Gayatri, “It is a dream to collaborate with Thana while it is a blessing to have Zakirji playing for me. The ghazal-jazz fusion is a highly experimental piece but it worked since both genres are improvisational.” Talking about this project, Purbayan says, “Felt overwhelmed when these amazing artistes agreed to be part of this venture. Of course, the prime motivator was Zakir bhai without whose help I wouldn’t have had artistes like Bela Fleck come on board. The whole thing came together in a matter of few weeks although executing it took a few months. It wasn’t easy during the pandemic with all of us based in different parts of the world and in different time zones.”  The Delhi-based author writes on classical music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/not-bound-by-genre/article36641663.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tamil songs in the spotlight||The all-Tamil concert hosted by Naada Inbam recently was a refreshing experience. The thematic concert was by vocalist Varalakshmi Anandkumar, whose Karaharapriya delineation still lingers in my mind. She painted an inspiring portrait of the majestic raga. Listening to this disciple of the legendary D.K. Jayaraman, the virtual audience must have guessed that she would take up Papanasam Sivan’s masterpiece ‘Senthil andavan’ (Rupakam), in praise of the deity of Tiruchendur. She certainly didn’t disappoint. Melakaveri Thyagarajan lent able support on the violin. Proportion and restraint marked her music , especially in this composition. At the niraval of ‘Vadivelan valli deyvanai lolan,’ her creative visualisation found absolute manifestation in the phrasings. The swaras at atheetham brought out the essence of Karaharapriya. Thyagarajan’s swara statements were swift. The piece de resistance of the recital was the evergreen ‘Kapali’ (Mohanam) by the same composer. The alapana in all three octaves was so comprehensive that not a single aspect of the raga seemed omitted. The response on the violin was also splendid. In the swaraprastara, Varalakshmi impressed listeners with her creativity by bringing to the fore the raga’s nuances. The thani by Neyveli Skandasubramanian (mridangam) and Madipakkam Murali (ghatam) was enjoyable, with many hints of their laya finesse. Their able support enhanced the concert’s appeal. Varalakshmi had her initial training under her aunt Maragatham Ramaswamy, before her formal training under D.K. Jayaraman and later P.S. Narayanaswamy. Soulful rendition She began her concert with Gowri Shankar Sthapathi’s Abhogi piece, ‘Guru arulum’ on Vinayaka in a pleasant khanda chapu. Swaras were at the pallavi. This was followed by ‘Intha paramukham edhu’ in Purvikalyani on Lord Muruga by Sankar Das Swami. Some attribute this to Kavimani Desikavinayagam Pillai also. Her rendering of the charanam, ‘Nee oru silaiyo, nee en murai kettilayo’ was soul-stirring. Syama Sastri’s Tamil composition ‘Tharunam idhamma’ in a gentle Gowlipantu was neatly done. Arunachala Kavi’s ‘Arivaar yaar unnai’ in Mukhari (misra chapu) brought out the devotional essence of the song. There are six charanams and Varalakshmi sang the fifth one, ‘Vedathin mele vedantha naadaththin mele.’ Madurai Sreenivasan’s popular piece ‘Karunai deivame karpagame’ on the goddess of Tirumayilai was a straight rendition. Her presentation of the Hamsanandi kriti ‘Muruga muruga ena nee sol’ was steeped in bhakti. The question of who composed this lilting song remains unsettled. Some attribute it to T.A. Sambandamurty, others to Gomathi Ramasubramaniyam. Little wonder, the concert had several of Papanasam Sivan compositions. She succeeded in bringing out karuna rasa in the Harikamboji kriti, ‘Enadhu manam kavalai enum’ that describes a devotee’s appeal to the goddess to come to his rescue. The popular kriti ‘Enna thavam seidhanai’ (Navarasa Kanada) was an appropriate selection towards the end of the concert. ‘Maname kanamum maravadhe’ is a movie song ( Savitri – M.S. Subbulakshmi) in raga Bhimplas and the lines, ‘Maaya vaazhvu thanile’ were beautifully rendered. Varalakshmi concluded the concert with ‘Karpagame kann paaraai’ in Madhyamavati. The concert is available on Parivadinimusic YouTube channel.  The Chennai-based writer specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tamil-songs-in-the-spotlight/article36641650.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tracing Avudai Akkal’s journey||In Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelvelli district, the tradition of singing Avudai Akkal’s songs during the oonjal ceremony in weddings (when the bride and groom sit on a swing) continues. Among the most commonly sung composition is, ‘Sadguru swami mel oonjal pada, Saraswatiyum Ganapatiyum, aadidu oonjal.’ The tune, with a folk flavour, is catchy and adds to the celebratory mood. Vishaka Hari spoke about this ritual in her discourse on the little-known woman saint, whose verses contain life’s philosophy and Vedanta’s essence. Held at Rasika Ranjani Sabha, Vishaka as always peppered her insightful narrative with inspiring songs from Akkal’s repertoire, rendering them with bhava in ragas such as Nata, Ahiri and Kalyani. Avudai Akkal (also known as Ammal) was born over 250 years ago in Chengkottai. The ups and downs of life led her to the path of Advaita. With her mother’s encouragement, she learnt Sanskrit and Tamil. Married and widowed at a young age, she understood the significance of gnana (knowledge) and bhakti under the guidance of Tirivisanallur Sridhar Venkatesa Iyavval. He introduced her to Vedanta and she, in turn, helped common women gain access to it. In song after song, such as ‘Vedanta ammanai’, ‘Vedanta pallu’ and ‘Vedanta Kappal’ she exhorted women, especially widows, to break all kinds of shackles and seek true liberation. She used simple metaphors to refer to life’s greatest realities. The evening also featured Nisha Rajagopalan’s concert, who sang some of Akkal’s songs set to tune by violinist R.K. Shriramkumar, who once again proved his mettle as a composer. The song ‘Brahmanandathai’ was in raga Hamirkalyani, while ‘Sachidananda’ was in Kanada, and ‘Ekanthamayirundhuo’ in Dwijavanti. Mridangist Arun Prakash’s playing kept in mind the mood of the compositions. An emotive Varali raga alapana by Nisha inspired the violinist to take the raga to further heights in his reply preceding the keerthanam in Varali. Nisha packed the 75-minute concert expertly with nine songs, that had several swaraksharas. It was a commendable team effort.  The writer is a trained   classical musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tracing-avudai-akkals-journey/article36641660.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||KFA’s roll of honour||Kartik Fine Arts’ 46th anniversary celebration will be held on September 30, 5.30 p.m., at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Mylapore. K.N. Ramaswamy, director, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chennai , is the chief guest. He will release KFA’s souvenir and present the Kartik Awards of Excellence to violinist M.A. Krishnaswamy, dancer-choreographer Madurai R. Muralidaran, dance accompanist (mridangam) G.V. Guru Bharadwaaj, theatre artistes V.P.S. Sriraman and Nanjil Revathi, and theatre technician (sets) ‘Padma Stage’ R. Kannan. The recipients of the Kartik Lifetime Achievement award are Subbu Arumugam (villupattu), Udayalur Kalyanaraman (namasankirtanam), Priyardarsini Govind (Bharatanatyam) and Thambi K. Parthasarathy (theatre). The award function will be followed by Ganesa Sarma’s discourse on ‘Maha Periyava Mahimai’ at 6.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kfas-roll-of-honour/article36641651.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Conference on folk music||With an aim to promote and preserve folk music, the Singapore-based Kalamanjari, with the support of Tamil Language Council, has organised a five-day international virtual conference on ‘Tamil Folk Songs’, October 4 to 8, 4 p.m. Prof. Thinnappan is the president for the conference, which will bring together four eminent speakers from India, Sri Lanka, Malaysia and Singapore to talk about folk music across the globe, its cultural and national identity, and how it has evolved over the years. The conference will begin with Prof. Arimalam S. Padmanabhan throwing light on Tamil folk songs, nuances and diversity. Prof. C. Mounaguru will share his thoughts about Sri Lankan Tamil folk music on October 6 and Prof. Murasu Nedumaran will speak of how social issues are communicated through the folk music of Malaysia on October 7. On the last day of the conference, Soundara Nayaki Vairavan will talk about the current trends in Singapore folk music. The meet will also feature performances by folk artistes from Chennai and Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/conference-on-folk-music/article36641653.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Dedicated to Sivan||Papanasam Sivan Rasikar Sangam, Chennai, in association with Narada Gana Sabha and Kalakendra.com, will celebrate the 131st birth anniversary of Papanasam Sivan on September 26 at 6 p.m. K. Harishankar, secretary, Narada Gana Sabha, will inaugurate the online event, which will be followed by Nisha Rajagopalan’s vocal concert (on Kalakendra’s YouTube channel and Facebook page). On the occasion, 85 young musicians from North America will present the composer’s kritis, which will be streamed on sivanfineartsacademy’s Facebook page from September 26 to October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dedicated-to-sivan/article36641655.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating Devi||As part of Navaratri, NCPA is hosting an online series titled ‘Celebrating Devi’ featuring well-known dancers. The series will include performances and discussions. Today’s session (6.30 p.m.) is by Bharatanatyam dancer Priyadarsini Govind. It can be viewed on Zoom. The dancer will demonstrate and teach Adi Sankara’s Navarasa shloka on Devi. The next in the series, scheduled for September 30, 4 p.m., will feature Bharatanatyam and Kathak dancer Avani Shah’s ‘Garba Raas’, followed by Anita Ratnam’s storytelling session. Click on https://bit.ly/3kbC7Wz to register. For details, call 88791 14939 or 98190 02515.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-devi/article36641665.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Navaratri concert||Karnatic Music America Inc presents Chenanattavila Shiva Shakthi Temple Navaratri Music festival on October 8 (7 p.m.). The chief guest is Ashwathi Tirunal Gouri Lakshmi Bai Thamburati of the Travancore royal family. Bharath Narayan will present a concert of Swati Tirunal’s kritis. He will be accompanied by Viswesh Chandrasekhar on the violin and Kishore Ramesh on the mridangam. The concert will be live-streamed on the organisation’s Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/navaratri-concert/article36641670.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||The next baithak||HCL Concerts presents a baithak with Nadeem Khan, the scion of the Rampur-Sahaswan gharana. Nadeem took to music inspired by his maternal grandfather, Ustad Sarfaraz Husain Khan. He has also been guided by his cousin, Ustad Rashid Khan, and maternal uncle, Mushahid Hussain Khan. He specialises in khayal gayaki and has collaborated with artistes from other genres. The concert will be held on September 24 at 7 p.m. It can be watched on HCL’s Facebook page and YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-next-baithak/article36641648.ece
24 September 2021||September 24 2021 00:00 IST,||Tribute to King Serfoji II||On the 244th birth anniversary of King Serfoji II, senior Bharatanatyam dancer Sucheta Chapekar will present a performance based on the king’s Marathi compositions on September 24 (10 a.m.). Sucheta will begin with ‘Shiva Kavutuvam’, a brisk nritta-natya composition. This will be followed by ‘Swarajati’ in raga Pantuvarali set to tisra ata taal; a padam; and Jakkini Daru, an ancient nritta-nritya composition. The recital will conclude with the bhakti pada ‘Aji Sonyacha Divasa’ in Ritigowla. Most of these compositions are in praise of Shiva, the deity worshipped by King Serfoji. Though the lyrics are in Marathi, they are set to Carnatic ragas by the late Janardanpanta Tanjorkar. Visit www.facebook.com/serfojirajah2museum to watch the performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/tribute-to-king-serfoji-ii/article36641657.ece
