25 September 2021||Washington,||Modi, Biden talk of a new phase in relations||Sitting in the Oval Office, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Joe Biden kicked off their bilateral talks, with comments on the promise of the India-U.S. relationship, the areas they would work on like COVID-19 and climate and the importance of the diaspora. Their opening remarks were sprinkled with jokes and laughter, interspersed with a serious outlining of the discussions ahead. Mr. Modi said that under Mr. Biden’s leadership the seeds had been sown for India-U.S. relations to expand and that they were entering a “transformative phase”. In this context, he mentioned the growing importance of people-to-people ties, and said Indian talent would be a “full partner” in this relationship. Mr. Biden, who spoke first, said the two countries were launching a “new chapter” in bilateral ties, taking on some of the toughest challenges, starting with COVID-19. He also said climate and ensuring stability in the Indo-Pacific, including with Quad partners, would be on the agenda for talks. The U.S.-India relationship could help solve an “awful lot” of the world’s challenges, he said. “I think that the relationship between India and the United States, two of the largest democracies in the world, is destined to be stronger, closer and tighter, and I think it can benefit the whole world,” Mr. Biden added. Mr. Biden, like Ms. Harris on Thursday, talked about democratic values. “Our partnership is more than just what we do. It's about who we are. It’s rooted in our shared responsibility to uphold democratic values, our joint commitment to diversity, and it's about family ties, including four million Indian Americans who make the United States stronger every single day,” he said. Mr. Modi, during his remarks, said both countries were committed to democratic values and traditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-us-ties-entering-a-new-chapter-biden/article36661382.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||HC remarks on EWS quota set aside||The Supreme Court on Friday set aside a Madras High Court observation that the Centre ought not to have provided 10% reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) of society in the all India quota medical seats without obtaining the express approval of the Supreme Court. The High Court’s remarks in August came while closing a contempt of court case filed by the DMK. “This observation has to be set aside because it has nothing to do with the contempt plea... The observation by the High Court was unnecessary for deciding the contempt,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, sharing a Bench with Justice B.V. Nagarathna, observed. Not on merits However, Justice Chandrachud made it very clear that the HC’s observations were being set aside only because they were made while dealing with a contempt plea and had strayed outside its jurisdiction. The top court refrained from making any comment about the merits of the EWS quota issue. Instead, the court scheduled for October 7 a detailed hearing of a batch of petitions challenging the entirety of the Centre’s July 29 notification of 27% reservation for OBC and 10% for EWS in the NEET all India quota (AIQ) seats. The High Court had approved a July 29 notification of the Central government providing 27% reservation to OBC (Other Backward Classes) candidates for admission in central medical colleges under the AIQ. It, however, had said that the inclusion of a further 10% by way of vertical reservation for EWS would be impermissible until the top court approved it. The Centre had rushed to the top court on September 3 against the observation, saying: “It was unnecessary for the High Court to have gone into an evaluation of the July 29 notification...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-remarks-on-ews-quota-set-aside/article36661381.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Tackling LWE: high-level meeting in Delhi to discuss ‘New Andhra Model’||The ‘New Andhra Model’ to tackle the banned CPI(Maoist) will be discussed in detail in New Delhi during a meeting convened by Minister of Home Affairs Amit Shah, on Sunday. Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and DGP D. Gautam Sawang will be attending the meeting. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who was scheduled to attend the meeting had to skip due to a sprain in his leg. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sawang said the new Andhra model had been successful in containing the Maoists on the one hand and winning over the tribal people, who had been disillusioned by the propaganda machinery of the left wing extremists (LWE) on the other. “We will be sustaining our operational dominance, an area in which we have been highly successful in the recent times, and at the same time we will extending the development activities to the interior parts of the tribal belt, including in the AOB (Andhra Odisha Border) region,” he said. Chief Ministers, Chief Secretaries and DGPs from 10 LWE-affected States, including A.P., Telangana, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Kerala, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh, will be attending the meeting to take stock of the status of the Maoist movement and to know the better practices implemented by each State in tackling the issue. It is learnt that discussion on intelligence sharing and coordination of operation is also on the agenda. Game-changer According to Mr. Sawang, distribution of ROFR pattas among tribals was a game changer. “Tribals are simpletons and giving them pattas is a sea changer, as it generates a sense of ownership,” he said. Apart from operational issues, it is learnt that the focus would be on developmental activity in the tribal areas, where the Moaists have strong presence across all the affected States. This would include plans for roads and cellphone tower connectivity. In A.P., there is a huge change on ground due to the schemes reaching the Adivasis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lwe-delhi-meet-to-discuss-new-andhra-model/article36661378.ece
25 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Boat sent to save jumbo capsizes, journalist dies||A journalist died and one member of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) went missing after a boat that was sent to rescue a wild elephant stranded in the Mahanadi capsized on Friday. The journalist, identified as Arindam Das, 40, was working with a regional television channel. The condition of another video-journalist and three ODRAF personnel was stated to be critical. Early on Friday, the tusker was found stuck near a bridge after it got separated from the herd that was trying to cross the river. Constantly repelled by strong flood waters of the river, the elephant tried to walk ashore. But it remained stranded for more than 9 hours. After a hours-long wait, the ODRAF team entered the water. This was when the two journalists volunteered to accompany them. The boat could not withstand the swirling river and overturned. “The herd was coming from Sukasen Forest of Athagarh Forest division to Chandaka Forest. They swim across the Mahanadi regularly. It’s their regular migration route,” said Sangram Behera, Assistant Conservator of Forests of Chandaka Wildlife Sanctuary. Attempts to revive Das proved futile, said Bhubanananda Maharana, spokesperson of SCB Medical College Hospital, Cuttack. Jayant Mardharaj, environmentalist and member of State Biodiversity Board, said, “The forest areas of both the Chandaka and Athagarh divisions fall in the development zone of the Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Athagarh urban areas. Earlier, elephants were not having any problem in migrating from Athagarh to Chandaka. Now, farm houses have come up along the Mahanadi bank, restricting their movement”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/boat-on-jumbo-rescue-mission-capsizes-in-odisha-journo-dies/article36661380.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Curbs eased for cinemas, pubs in Karnataka||Karnataka on Friday further eased COVID-19 restrictions allowing cinemas and pubs to operate at full seating capacity in districts where the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) is less than 1% from next month. Restrictions on school hours have also been eased, with classes VI to II PU being allowed to function with full strength from next month on five days a week. Night curfew hours have been relaxed and it will be in force from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. from Saturday. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said cinemas (including multiplexes, ranga mandiras, auditoriums and similar places) can operate with full capacity from October 1 and pubs can start from October 3 adhering to all COVID protocols. The decision followed a high-level review meeting. The State’s TPR on Saturday stood at 0.58%. While only those who have taken at least one dose of vaccination will be allowed to enter cinemas, pregnant women and children will not be permitted, he said. For districts having TPR greater than 1%, the existing arrangement of 50% seating capacity will continue. Asserting that restrictions will be imposed again in districts where the TPR goes above 1%, the Chief Minister said: “Cinemas and pubs should operate at half their capacity in districts where TPR goes above 1% and should remain shut in districts where the positivity rate crosses 2%.” Taking about schools, the Chief Minister said classes from VI to II PU can run with full strength in classrooms. Schools and colleges can function for five days a week --- Monday to Friday, he said. The Chief Minister, who along with members of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), reviewed the COVID situation in the State, said separate guidelines will be issued for Dasara festivities and strict vigil would continue in border districts. Focus districts He said officials have been directed to intensify vaccination in Yadgir, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Mysuru districts and also to take up special IEC programmes to create awareness about vaccination among the public. As the vaccination coverage in these districts is low, Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhkar will visit these districts and monitor measures on increasing vaccination coverage on a campaign mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restrictions-eased-for-cinemas-pubs-in-state/article36661403.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Bill on multi-disciplinary horticulture courses tabled||The State government has initiated steps to facilitate Sri Konda Laxman Telangana State Horticulture University to offer multi-disciplinary degree and diploma courses in the field of horticulture and forestry. Steps have accordingly been taken to accord affiliation of the university to the Forest College and Research Institute and Horticulture Polytechnics in the State. A bill incorporating necessary provisions in the Sri Konda Laxman Telangana State Horticulture University Act 2007 to allow affiliation/recognition to the institute/colleges to offer courses in the field of horticulture and forestry was tabled in the Assembly on Friday. The Bill along with another Bill relating to Housing Board, replacing ordinances issued earlier when the House was not in session, was introduced on the first day of the monsoon session of the legislature which got off on Friday morning. The House was adjourned without transacting any business after passage of condolence motion in respect of former members who passed away after the adjournment of the budget session in March last week. Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy said the government had a vision to emerge a world class institution for forestry education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-govt-tables-bill-on-horticulture-courses/article36661651.ece
25 September 2021||Vijayawada,||CM gives nod for filling 14,200 posts in hospitals||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has cleared the proposal to fill 14,200 posts in hospitals – from Primary Health Care Centres, medical colleges to teaching hospitals – in the State. The process of recruitment will start in October and will be completed by November 15. Reviewing the COVID-19 situation and the progress of vaccination on Friday, the Chief Minister instructed officials to ensure that there was no staff crunch in hospitals. Though the State government had been spending huge amounts to construct hospitals, lack of staff had become a major concern. It needed to be addressed, he said. Calling for steps to ensure quality services in government hospitals, he said, “The government should run hospitals efficiently with adequate staff. Even if a doctor is on leave, an alternative doctor should be available. Keeping it in mind, recruit an adequate number of doctors.. Referring to vaccination, he asked the officials to conduct a special drive in East and West Godavari, and Krishna districts by recruiting additional staff. “Also, continue night curfew and enforce restrictions in districts with high positivity rate. Expedite the vaccination process and review works on new teaching hospitals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-gives-approval-to-fill-14200-posts-in-hospitals/article36661087.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gangster falls to bullets in Delhi court complex||Delhi’s most wanted gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi was shot dead inside the Rohini court complex on Friday afternoon. Two persons who attacked Gogi were later shot dead by Delhi Police personnel. The incident sparked widespread concern with Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana raising the issue of security with the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court. The assault took place around 1 p.m. when Gogi was produced before the court by officials of the 3rd battalion and the Special Cell’s Counter Intelligence Unit in connection with a murder case. Over 30 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were present in and around the court room. However, two assailants — suspected to be members of the Tillu Tajpur gang — evaded court security and were waiting inside the courtroom dressed as lawyers. The incident took place in presence of judge Gagandeep Singh. Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. The two assailants were identified as Rahul and Jagdeep. Gogi was rushed to Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital, where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gangster-falls-to-bullets-in-delhi-court/article36661384.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP stand puts JD(U) in tight spot||The Centre’s submission in the Supreme Court on the caste census not being feasible, has put key NDA ally, the Janata Dal (United) in a difficult position. This is the first time that the Centre has voiced its stand on the caste census. “We are sad and angry that the government has decided to take a stand in the Supreme Court without consulting the allies,” JD(U) secretary general K.C. Tyagi said. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, a strident advocate for a caste census, has argued that enumeration of the backward castes is key for effective implementation of welfare programmes. However, he has maintained a studied silence on the affidavit. The JD(U) has been leading the march on the issue but the baton could easily slip from its hands to the Opposition parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-stand-puts-jdu-in-tight-spot/article36661764.ece
25 September 2021||CUDDALORE,||Death penalty awarded in T.N. inter-caste couple killing||The Special Court for SC/ST Act cases here on Friday awarded the death sentence to the brother of a caste Hindu woman and sentenced 12 others, including her father, to life imprisonment in the killing of inter-caste couple S. Murugesan and D. Kannagi at Virudhachalam in 2003. Murugesan, 25, a chemical engineering graduate belonging to a Scheduled Caste community, and Kannagi, 22, a commerce graduate hailing from a Vanniyar family, were residents of Puthukooraipettai. They fell in love while studying at Annamalai University. They secretly got married and registered their marriage on May 5, 2003, at Cuddalore. Angered by this, Kannagi’s family launched a hunt for them. On July 7 that year, they traced the couple, abducted them and forced them to drink poison on July 8. The bodies were burnt in the presence of over 300 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/death-penalty-awarded-in-tn-inter-caste-couple-killing/article36661534.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||State records 239 COVID cases, 2 deaths||Two persons died and 239 new COVID positive cases were recorded in the State on Friday. The latest fatalities took the toll so far to 3,911. As many as 50,569 samples were tested on Friday, including 45,119 in government and 5,450 in private institutions. According to the media bulletin released by the government, 336 persons recovered from the infection. The recovery rate in the State was 98.69% as against 97.75% at the national level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-239-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/article36661669.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Good show by State candidates||Meera K. of Kolazhy, Thrissur, bagged the sixth rank in the Civil Services examinations, the results of which were declared on Friday, even as several Keralites figured in the top 100. Midhun Premraj of Vadakara stood 12th, while Karishma Nair, who lives in Mumbai, came 14th.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/good-show-by-state-candidates/article36661712.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,||Assembly session till Oct. 5||Assembly session is likely to be on till Oct. 5 though the final decision will be taken after receiving proposals from all parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assembly-session-till-oct-5/article36661894.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Three workers injured in blast at chemical factory||Three workers were injured when a solvent vessel exploded accidentally within the premises of a chemical factory in Attibele Industrial Area on Friday. The blast resulted in a chemical leak, which in turn released a pungent odour within a radius of several hundred metres. The incident comes after two fire accidents in the city in the last four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-workers-injured-in-blast-at-chemical-factory/article36661405.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sachin Pilot meets Rahul Gandhi again||Former Rajasthan Congress chief Sachin Pilot met former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Friday, triggering speculation that the Ashok Gehlot government’s Cabinet reshuffle could happen soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sachin-pilot-meets-rahul-gandhi-again/article36661535.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Prosecute officials for water pollution’||Observing that “the court cannot be a silent spectator when residents of Mangaluru are forced to drink polluted water”, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to initiate prosecution of officials responsible for such a serious lapse. It rejecting a report, signed by a chemist of a private company, on water analysis of Maravoor dam submitted by the Mangaluru City Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prosecute-officials-for-water-pollution/article36661802.ece
25 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Search for elusive leopards continues||The elusive leopards have kept the forest officials on their toes as they are moving from one hideout to another while creating further panic among the general public in areas where they have been sighted in the last few days. Meanwhile, the forest officials have continued the search for the wild cats in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi and in and around Kavalageri village near Dharwad, from where leopard sightings have been reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/search-for-elusive-leopards-continues/article36661627.ece
25 September 2021||BELAGAVI,||Panchamasali rally results in traffic jam||Members of the Zilla Panchamasali Horata Samiti took out a rally in Belagavi on Friday to demand inclusion of the community under 2A category among the Other Backward Classes. They are demanding the re-categorisation of the community which is already part of the OBC group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panchamasali-rally-results-in-traffic-jam/article36661629.ece
25 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP seals alliance with Nishad Party||The BJP on Friday formally announced it would contest the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in alliance with the Nishad Party. The two parties have not made public any seat-sharing arrangement yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-seals-alliance-with-nishad-party/article36661765.ece
25 September 2021||Mumbai,||Three more arrested in Dombivli gang-rape case||The Manpada police on Friday arrested three more accused in the Dombivli gang-rape case. With this, the total number of arrests touched 29. The accused have been remanded in police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-more-arrested-in-dombivli-gang-rape-case/article36661766.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||IIT Bombay graduate tops UPSC Civil Services Exam||The Union Public Service Commission on Friday announced the results of the Civil Services Examination 2020. Shubham Kumar, a B.Tech graduate of IIT Bombay, topped the list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/iit-bombay-graduate-tops-upsc-civil-services-exam/article36661768.ece
25 September 2021||Chennai,||T.N. records 1,733 fresh cases, 27 deaths||Tamil Nadu logged 1,733 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, with Coimbatore, Chennai, Chengalpattu and Erode leading the tally. Twenty-seven persons succumbed to the infection on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-1733-fresh-cases-27-deaths/article36661451.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP defends affidavit in SC on caste census||The BJP on Friday defended the Central government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court explaining its inability to conduct a caste census as part of the regular census exercise of 2021. BJP’s OBC Morcha chief K. Laxman spoke to The Hindu over the issue, saying previous attempts at a caste census, including the Socio Economic Caste Census (SECC), had demonstrated the complexity of the exercise and the difficulty in getting reliable data. “Under the UPA, they spent crores engaging NGOs and other agencies to carry out their census, only to come up with unreliable data. The Karnataka government had also undertaken a caste census but have not published the results. It’s a complicated exercise,” he said. The State governments should first be asked to conduct a caste census within their jurisdiction and audit the findings. “Before any all-India exercise, we must ask the State governments to undertake census,” he added. BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi stated that while the government had presented the technical issues involved in the conduct of a caste census, he wanted to refer to the political context as well. He said: “I want to ask those parties that consider themselves the BJP’s rivals and who are demanding this census whether they have done a census of their own office-bearers, MPs, MLAs, as to how many belong to backward or marginalised communities. Let even those parties who count on the support of only one community declare how much space have they ceded in the power structure to those from the community rather than keeping it limited to one family. He admitted that certain National Democratic Alliance constituents like the Janata Dal (U) and the Apna Dal have demanded a caste census and differed from the BJP’s more cautious view on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-defends-affidavit-in-sc-on-caste-census/article36661033.ece
25 September 2021||Washington DC,||Modi, Kamala Harris hold bilateral talks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Vice President Kamala Harris had bilateral talks on Thursday afternoon after the former was received at the 150-year-old Eisenhower Executive Office Building, which houses the Vice President’s ceremonial office in Washington. The meeting started with comments at the top, with some of the press in the room . Not all the travelling Indian press were present – access has been a challenge – with officials saying only state-run media and at least one private news agency are allowed to attend on the Indian side. The Hindu was able to gain access at the last minute. Ms. Harris spoke first, and Mr. Modi next, with interpreters translating between English and Hindi. Mr. Modi spoke about the warmth of Ms. Harris’s message in a phone call earlier this year when India was facing its second pandemic wave. “Excellency, some months ago, we had an opportunity to talk to each other on the phone. We had a detailed discussion at that time. And the way you spoke to me so warmly and so naturally, I will always remember that. Thank you so much,” he said, calling Ms Harris a “true friend” and acknowledging the help of the U.S. government, its private sector and the Indian diaspora. India and the U.S. , being the largest and oldest democracies respectively, were “natural allies” and shared similar values and geopolitical interests. The the strengthening of supply chains, technology and space were important areas for both countries and where cooperation was important, he pointed out. Historic win Mr. Modi called Ms. Harris’s election an “important and historic event” and a source of inspiration for many, globally. Ms. Harris, the first woman Vice President of the U.S., is of African American and Indian descent. Mr. Modi appeared to refer to this India connection and invited Ms. Harris to visit the country. “Excellency, continuing on your — this journey of victory, Indians also would want you to continue that in India and, therefore, they’re waiting to welcome you. And, therefore, I extend to you specially an invitation to visit India,” he observed. Ms. Harris could be seen breaking out in a smile, behind her face mask. Ms. Harris emphasised India was a “very important” partner of the U.S. and the two countries had worked tougher to make the world safer and stronger. India was a source of vaccines for other countries early in the pandemic ánd that the U.S. was “proud” to support India’s vaccination efforts. “The United States is very proud to support India and its need and responsibility to vaccinate its people, and I welcome India’s announcement that we should be able to resume vaccine exports,” she noted, commending the daily rate of vaccination in India. India and the U.S. working together on climate change — a cause supported by the governments of both countries — could have a “profound” impact, she stressed. It was “imperative” for India and the U.S. to strengthen democracy within their respective countries, defend democratic principles and institutions, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-kamala-harris-hold-bilateral-talks/article36661054.ece
25 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP seals alliance with Nishad Party||The BJP on Friday formally announced it would contest 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in alliance with the Nishad Party. In another political development in the State, senior OBC MLAs from the Rajbhar and Kurmi castes Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar, who were recently expelled from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), met Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav here. Talks are the two could formally join the SP soon. Ahead of coming polls, both the BJP and the SP are trying to consolidate their support among the numerically significant non-Yadav OBCs. BJP’s in charge for elections Dharmendra Pradhan announced that the party would contest the polls along with Sanjay Nishad’s Nishad Party along with the Apna Dal of Anupriya Patel. “In 2022, we will contest together with full force,” he said at a press conference. Though Mr. Nishad was present at the press meet, sitting next to Mr. Pradhan, he did not speak. He had indicated that he wanted to field candidates on his party’s symbol rather than the BJP. His son Praveen Nishad contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Sant Kabir Nagar on a BJP ticket. The Apna Dal, on the other hand, has two MPs, nine MLAs and one MLC, causing the Nishad Party chief to feel disgruntled. The BJP and the Nishad Party have not made public any seat-sharing arrangement as of yet. In 2017, the BJP left 20 out of the 403 seats for its two allies. BJP State president Swatantra Dev Singh said the BJP and the Nishad Party would contest next year polls “with full force under the leadership of Yogiji [Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath] and Modi ji [Prime Minister Narendra Modi].” ‘Courtesy meeting’ Mr. Yadav stated that Mr. Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar had a “courtesy meeting” with him. Mr. Verma, a Kurmi, was the BSP’s leader of the Legislative Assembly, while Mr. Rajbhar is a former State BSP president. Both are five-time MLAs, who hail from Ambedkar Nagar in Purvanchal. Battling allegations of favouring his caste, Mr. Yadav has been actively trying to correct that image of the party by incorporating leaders and parties from the OBC groups. The SP has tied up with the Jat-based Rashtriya Lok Dal led by Jayant Chaudhary in west U.P., Maurya-Kushwaha-based Mahan Dal of Keshav Dev Maurya and Noniya Chauhan leader Sanjay Chauhan’s Janvadi Party (Socialist). In 2017, the BJP contested in alliance with the Apna Dal and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, but the latter broke away from the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election. The BJP, however, managed to break away the Nishad Party from the SP-BSP alliance, and now, ahead of Assembly polls, the Nishad Party is bargaining hard to get a decent share of seats. A riverine OBC community, the Nishads, along with their connected sub-castes Mallah, Kewat, Dheevar, Bind, Kashyap and others are an important segment of the non-Yadav backward vote. Among their political icons are bandit-turned-politician Phoolan Devi, who was also a Lok Sabha member from the SP, which has recently tried to erect statues of her in Rae Bareli. Emergence of party The Nishad Party emerged into the political scene in the State ahead of the 2017 polls, projecting itself as the voice of the backward riverine castes, with the demand of their inclusion in the Scheduled Caste list. In 2017, it managed to secure over 5.40 lakh votes in the 72 seats it contested, mostly in east U.P., but failed to win anything. In 2018, it forged an understanding with the SP and the BSP, helping the former win the crucial Lok Sabha bypoll in Gorakhpur and Phulpur, the political fields of Mr. Adityanath and his deputy, Keshav Prasad Maurya, respectively. Mr. Praveen Nishad won from Gorakhpur on an SP ticket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-seals-alliance-with-nishad-party/article36661035.ece
25 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat drug seizure case likely to go to NIA||The Central government may enlist the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for undertaking a comprehensive probe into the country’s largest drug seizure by the Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at Mundra Port in Gujarat. The DRI recently seized almost 3,000 kg of heroin that was originally shipped from Afghanistan and its market value is pegged at around Rs. 21,000 crore. After the seizure, the probe was widened to Andhra Pradesh, as one Vijaywada-based couple had imported the consignment. They had connections in Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and other places. Such a large-scale smuggling of the expensive drugs via sea route in the country has stunned the Union government. The seizure is also said to be one of the largest seizures in the world. Now, The Hindu has reliably learnt that the Centre is contemplating to rope in the NIA to probe the case, as terror forces from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran are involved in the smuggling of banned substances in the country. “It will probably go to the NIA,” a senior official told The Hindu , adding only a federal agency could probe the case since it involved multiple States and also stakeholders. Earlier, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said it would also join the probe and lodge a case for money laundering in the matter. Both the DRI and the ED are the Finance Ministry wings, while the NIA functions under the Ministry of Home Affairs. Gujarat’s Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) has also begun collecting details of the seizure at the Mundra Port and people involved in its import and arranging its logistics. Import party One Aashi Trading Company has been identified as the importer firm and is alleged to be run by M. Sudhakar and his wife, G. Durga Purna Vaishali, both arrested and currently under the DRI custody in Kutch. The couple was arrested from Chennai after the consignment was seized and they were brought to Kutch where a local court granted 10 days custody of the two to the DRI. Meanwhile, when contacted, officials at Adani Group, which operates the Mundra Port, stated that their role was limited to port operations and they were not empowered to inspect or check the cargo handled at the port terminal. Secondly, the terminal where the cargo landed at the port was also not operated by the Adani Group, which has leased out terminals to other private players. “The law empowers the Government of India’s competent authorities such as the Customs and the DRI to open, examine and seize unlawful cargo. No port operator across the country can examine a container. Their role is limited to running the port,” the group said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-drug-seizure-case-likely-to-go-to-nia/article36661065.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||MoD strikes Rs. 22,000 cr. deal with Airbus||The Ministry of Defence (MoD) on Friday signed an estimated Rs. 22,000-crore deal with Airbus Defence and Space S.A., Spain, for 56 C-295MW transport aircraft to replace the Indian Air Force’s ageing 56 Avro aircraft that were procured in the 1960s. This is the first project of its kind in which a military aircraft will be manufactured in India under technology transfer by the private sector. “For the first time, an Indian private company will be wholly manufacturing an aircraft in India. Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL), in partnership with Airbus, will literally take raw aluminium ingots on one end and convert it into a flyaway aircraft on the other end,” Sukaran Singh, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, TASL, told a small group of journalists. “It’s certainly a matter of great privilege to be able to say that Tata’s have now extended themselves from salt and software to cars to making planes now.” Ratan Tata’s initiative It had been 11 years since the Tata Group decided to partner with Airbus for the programme. This was one of the last projects that former Chairman of Tata Sons Ratan Tata helped put together, Mr. Singh pointed out. However, TASL was yet to decide on the location of the manufacturing facility. Tata and Airbus together had looked at more than 100 locations very closely and evaluated for a range of factors such as the length of airstrip, availability of infrastructure among others. A final decision was yet to be taken, he stated. Of the 56 aircraft, 16 will be delivered in flyaway condition from Spain within 48 months and the remaining will be manufactured in India by the Tata Group within 10 years from the date of contract. Rémi Maillard, President of Airbus India, said the first aircraft would be delivered to the IAF in two years. The C295, having 5-10 tonne capacity, is used for tactical transport of up to 71 troops or 50 paratroopers, and for logistic operations not accessible to current heavier aircraft. It also has a proven capability of operating from short or unprepared airstrips.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mod-strikes-rs-22000-cr-deal-with-airbus/article36661070.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sachin Pilot meets Rahul Gandhi again||Former Rajasthan Congress chief Sachin Pilot met former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at Mr. Gandhi’s residence on Friday, triggering speculation that the much anticipated Cabinet reshuffle of the Ashok Gehlot government, along with changes in the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC), could happen soon. In the past one week, this is the second time Mr. Pilot has met Mr. Gandhi. Neither did the Congress party issue any formal statement on the meeting nor did Mr. Pilot speak to reporters about his nearly hour-long meeting the Gandhis. However, the meeting displayed the Congress high command’s eagerness to resolve the leadership tussle in Rajasthan. Various options are being talked about in Congress circles, including the option of making Mr. Pilot the Rajasthan PCC chief once again, and subsequently offering him a role in the government. It has also been reported that the Congress high command wants to accommodate the former Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister as a general secretary in the All India Congress Committee . He could be asked to handle poll-bound Gujarat, where elections are due around November-December next year. However, sources close to Mr. Pilot have maintained he is reluctant to accept any responsibility that keeps him away from Rajasthan for a long time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sachin-pilot-meets-rahul-gandhi-again/article36661039.ece
25 September 2021||Guwahati,||Assam eviction: families mourn loss of their sons||Sheikh Farid would often jog to school about 2 km from his house at Dhalpur No. 2 village in northern Assam’s Darrang district. But when the 17-year-old went to another nearby village on September 23, he was to return no more. Farid was one of two persons killed in police firing during a drive to free government land of alleged encroachers. Maynal Haque, 27, of Dhalpur Hill village was the other. “We did not know when he slipped out of the house during the day and where he went. When we found out, it was too late,” Abdul Khaleque, Farid’s father said. Farid and a few others had gone to Dhalpur No. 3 village where, according to the police, a large crowd armed with stones, sharpened bamboo sticks, machetes and spears had gathered to resist the eviction drive. His friends watched helplessly as he slumped to the ground after catching a bullet in the chest. “They killed my son illegally. The government must give us justice so that other fathers do not lose their sons for their right to have a roof over their heads,” Mr. Khaleque said, grieving the death of the youngest of his four sons. Several kilometres away at Dhalpur Hill, Mokbul Ali said his son Maynal paid the price of being perceived as a foreigner despite their being “genuine Indians”. “My son may have shown aggression in the heat of the moment, but did he deserve death and treatment like vermin (referring to a photographer stomping on his son’s body)?” he asked. Maynal was also shot in the chest. A day after the violence that left 11 policemen injured, besides civilians, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma hardened the government’s stand and said the eviction drive would continue. But he admitted that it may “not be important to involve the police while evicting people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-eviction-families-mourn-loss-of-their-sons/article36661049.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||NIC drops Modi image from SC emails||The National Informatics Centre (NIC), a crucial link in the “Digital India” initiative, got a quick lesson in judicial independence from the Supreme Court. Late on Thursday evening, the Registry of the Supreme Court learned that official emails from the Supreme Court were carrying a government tagline with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image. The NIC provides email services to the Supreme Court. A clarificatory note issued by the Supreme Court said the image being carried as an email footer had “no connection whatsoever with the functioning of the judiciary”. The court immediately directed the NIC to drop the image and the banner from the emails. The court directed the NIC to fill the blank space left by the dropped picture and tagline with an image of the Supreme Court. “The NIC has since complied with the directions of the Supreme Court,” the note said. Under the doctrine of separation of powers, the three branches — government, legislature and judiciary — lead a separate, independent existence. Judicial independence is recognised under the Constitution so that judges can perform their duties of office with neither fear nor favour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nic-drops-modi-image-from-sc-emails/article36661031.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||IIT-B graduate tops Civil Services exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday announced the results of the Civil Services Examination 2020, in which 761 candidates were recommended for appointment to various services. Shubham Kumar, a B. Tech (Civil Engineering) graduate of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay, topped the list. He qualified with Anthropology as his optional subject, a UPSC press release said. Mr. Kumar was followed by Jagriti Awasthi in the second place. Ms. Awasthi, who had Sociology as her optional subject, was a graduate of B.Tech (Electrical Engineering) from MANIT, Bhopal, it said. Ms. Awasthi, who is from Bhopal, quit her job and took a year to study for the exam, her brother said. Mr. Kumar, who is from Bihar, told The Hindu that this was his third attempt. Having secured rank 298 in 2018, he was undergoing training as an Indian Defence Accounts Service officer in Pune while preparing for the exam, and focusing on his weaknesses was one of the keys, he said. Rank three, Ankita Jain from Delhi, was undergoing training as an Indian Audit and Accounts Service officer after having being selected in 2018 when she was preparing for the 2020 examination. Beating the odds She said she managed to focus on her studies while balancing training and despite contracting COVID-19 a month before the Mains exam. Her sister, Vaishali Jain, also cleared the exam, securing rank 21, said Ms. Ankita Jain. Thirteen men and 12 women comprised the top 25, the UPSC said. Out of the 761 candidates selected, 545 are men and 216 women. The top 25 candidates have a range of educational qualifications in Engineering, the Humanities, Commerce and Medicine from some of the top institutions in the country. The selected candidates include 25 persons with benchmark disability. Of the 761 successful candidates, 263 belonged to the general category, 86 to the Economically Weaker Section (EWS), 229 to the Other Backward Classes, 122 to the Scheduled Castes, and 61 to the Scheduled Tribes. The UPSC said the result of the examination would be subject to the outcome of two writ petitions pending before the Delhi High Court. Over 4.82 lakh candidates had appeared for the Civil Services (Preliminary) exam on October 4, 2020, out of which 10,564 had qualified for the written (Mains) exam that was held in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iit-b-graduate-shubham-tops-in-upsc-civil-services-exam/article36661047.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Centre’s stand puts JD(U) in a tight spot||The Narendra Modi government’s submission in the Supreme Court on the caste census not being feasible, has put key NDA ally, the Janata Dal (United) in a difficult position. This is the first time that the Modi government has clearly voiced its stand on the caste census. “We are sad and angry that the government has decided to take a stand in the Supreme Court without consulting the allies,” JD(U) secretary general K.C. Tyagi said. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, a strident advocate for a caste census, has argued that enumeration of the backward castes is key for effective implementation of welfare programmes. However, he has so far maintained a studied silence on the affidavit. The JD(U) has been leading the march on the issue but the baton could easily slip from its hands to the Opposition parties. On July 31, the party’s national executive passed a resolution in favour of the caste census and on August 23, Mr. Kumar led a cross-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi to press for a caste census. In a tweet, Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad on Friday called for a boycott of BJP Ministers and MPs belonging to Other Backward Classes and Extremely Backward Classes. The government’s stand also gives a window to the Samajwadi Party, which is looking to make inroads into the OBC vote bank.  (With inputs from Amarnath Tewary in Patna)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-stand-puts-jdu-in-a-tight-spot/article36661041.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Toppers share tales of overcoming setbacks||The toppers of the Civil Services Examination (CSE) 2020, the results of which were announced on Friday, not only faced uncertainty when the exam was postponed due to COVID-19, some even contracted the disease, but they said they came out strong on the other side with determination, planning and positivity. Shubham Kumar, who secured rank one on the Union Service Public Commission (UPSC) list, said he managed the performance in his third attempt as he had more time to prepare as well as read newspapers. He was undergoing training as an Indian Defence Accounts Service officer in Pune while preparing for the exam. “I want to tell UPSC aspirants who are going through bad times that all toppers go through bad times. You have to be confident. There is a right plan for everything. You may not achieve 100% of your plan, but work towards it and you may be able to achieve 75% or 80%,” he said. The 24-year-old who hails from Katihar district in Bihar said his first preference would be to join the Indian Administrative Service and work for the upliftment of the rural areas of his home State. For Ankita Jain, who secured rank three, this was her fourth attempt. Battling COVID “A month before the Mains, I got COVID-19. But I focused on my training and then whatever time was left, I prepared for the exam. I was well-supported by my family,” she said. Ria Dabi, who secured rank 15, is the younger sister of IAS officer Tina Dabi, the UPSC topper in 2015 and the first Scheduled Caste candidate to top the examination. Ms. Ria Dabi, who finished her BA in Political Science from Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University in 2019, said that there was a lot of pressure on her to secure a good rank after her sister made headlines for her success, but her parents helped ease the expectations and told her to just give her best shot. Satyam Gandhi, who secured UPSC rank 10 in his first attempt, graduated from Dayal Singh College, Delhi University in 2020. Mr. Gandhi said that he is from Dighra village in Bihar. “I put in 10-12 hours of work everyday in my final year of graduation consistently to prepare for the examination but I give the credit to Delhi University for exposing me to various thoughts, ideas and giving me a platform to pursue extra curricular activities that broadened my horizons,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/toppers-share-tales-of-overcoming-setbacks/article36661363.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||ICMR stops use of ivermectin, HCQ for COVID-19 treatment||The Indian Council of Medical Research-led COVID-19 National Task Force has dropped the use of the drugs ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) from the revised “clinical guidance for management of adult COVID-19 patients”. The revised guidelines also suggests the use of drugs Remdesivir and Tocilizumab in specific circumstances. While stressing the need to wear masks, maintain distancing and hand hygiene, the guidelines added that symptomatic patients may take antipyretic and multivitamins and seek immediate medical attention if they experience difficulty in breathing or high-grade fever or severe cough, particularly if lasting for more than five days. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) national task force for COVID-19 and the Joint Monitoring Group made the recommendation following a meeting on August 20. The previous clinical guidance was issued on May 19. “HCQ may be considered for removal from guideline, with recommendation to use with caution only in clinical trial setting (since there is some genuine uncertainty regarding the possible benefit for severe cases and in low dose). Many studies showing increased mortality risk (10/13) and low mortality benefit of HCQ(2/13),” said the revised guidelines for Covid management. Experts add that the reasons behind dropping HCQ also included no mortality benefit, increasing the risk of adverse drug effect (ADE) when co-administered with azithromycin. Meanwhile cautioning that the upcoming festival season is a critical period, Director, AIIMS, Delhi, Dr. Randeep Guleria said the next 6-8 weeks are going to be critical and the community has to come together to ensure people follow all COVID appropriate rules and aggressively encourage vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-stops-use-of-ivermectin-hcq-for-covid-19-treatment/article36661058.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||India rejects China’s accusations on clash||India on Friday said it rejected comments made by China’s Foreign Ministry blaming it for “trespassing” across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and causing last year’s clash in the Galwan Valley. It was China’s “provocative behaviour” that led to the worst violence on the border in decades, it stated. On Friday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson, in response to a question on whether there was a need for new border management protocols in the wake of last year’s LAC crisis, blamed India for sparking the tensions. “Over the years, a series of treaties and agreements signed by China and India on maintaining peace and tranquility along the LAC have played an important role in upholding stability along the China-India border. The Galwan Valley incident last year was caused by the Indian side’s illegal trespass of the LAC to encroach on Chinese territory, in violation of previously-signed treaties and agreements. We hope that the Indian side will strictly abide by relevant treaties and agreements signed by the two countries,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. Twenty Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops died in the Galwan Valley clash. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) dismissed the comment, saying it “reject[s] such statements.” “Our position with regard to developments last year along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh has been clear and consistent,” an MEA spokesperson said. “It was the provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquility. This has also impacted the bilateral relations.” Chinese envoy’s remarks While India has made it clear that relations cannot continue as normal in trade and other areas amid the disturbed situation on the border, China’s envoy to India, Sun Weidong, in remarks delivered to a virtual Track II dialogue on Thursday and published by the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi on its website on Friday, offered a different view, saying that both sides “should place the border issue in an appropriate position in bilateral relations and seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution through dialogue and consultations.” He said, “We should avoid taking a part for the whole, or losing sight of the forest for the trees. For example, peace and tranquility in the border areas is important, but it is not the whole story of the bilateral relations.” Indian officials have rejected the view, pointing out that China, too, for instance, recently told the United States that it could not cooperate on issues such as climate change while other areas of relations remained on confrontation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-rejects-chinas-accusations-on-clash/article36661045.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rahul thanked for naming Channi as CM||Former Congress party president Rahul Gandhi on Friday met a group of Scheduled Caste leaders, who had come to thank him for appointing the first SC Chief Minister in Punjab. The meeting is significant in terms of political messaging amid allegations from political rivals that the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Chief Minister had been done only with an eye on the Assembly elections. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati has called Mr. Channi’s appointment an “election stunt”; the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Amit Malviya tweeted that the newly appointed Chief Minister was “holding the seat for a Gandhi family loyalist”, referring to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. On September 20, Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, though, had clarified that the party will go to polls with both Mr. Channi and Mr. Sidhu as its face. Many in the Congress have privately argued that Mr. Channi’s appointment is “a well thought out strategy” to keep a check on Mr. Sidhu’s ambitions. Mr. Gandhi posted on social media after his meeting with the SC leaders on Friday: “Had an interesting discussion with leaders from the Dalit community this morning. Come rain or shine, we will stay true to our resolve for equal opportunities for all sections of the society. Jai Hind!” The meeting was also attended by party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal and former Lok Sabha MP Udit Raj. Interestingly, former Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Sunil Jakhar, a frontrunner to replace Captain (Retd.) Amarinder Singh, who lost out because of objections from certain sections of the party, including Mr. Sidhu’s supporters, lauded Mr. Gandhi for appointing a member of the SC community as Punjab’s CM. “What Rahul Gandhi has done by choosing Charanjeet Channi as Chief Minister is that he has broken the barely perceptible ‘glass ceiling’,” Mr. Jakhar said in a statement. “This bold decision, though very much rooted in the ethos of Sikhism, is nevertheless a watershed moment not only for the polity but also for the social fabric of the State,” he added. Arguing that “ Punjabiat is being put to test once again as divisive forces are trying to fragment the society”, Mr. Jakhar said the new Congress dispensation will be keenly watched for its ability to maintain amity and brotherhood among different sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-thanked-for-naming-channi-as-cm/article36661038.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Bill on horticulture courses tabled||The Agriculture Minister, Mr. S. Niranjan Reddy, said that the State government had got a vision to emerge a world class institution for forestry education, research and management. It was envisaged to bring out qualified forestry professionals for conservation and suitable management of forest resources and development of appropriate methods through research for propagation of plantation crops to meet the demand from industry and domestic needs. Extension training to farmers, networking and partnership with similar institutions and development of agro-forestry and horti-silviculture model suitable for different agro-ecological situations were among the other objectives of the Bill. It was also felt necessary to develop need-based manpower and technologies to impart education in basics of horticulture and forestry to provide research and employment opportunities in the field and hence, the amendment to the Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bill-on-horticulture-courses-tabled/article36661655.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Gangster falls to bullets in Delhi court complex||Rahul, a native of Meerut, had a reward of Rs. 50,000 on his arrest. Jagdeep alias Jagga was a native of Bakkarwala village and had three murder cases registered against him. Delhi Police spokesperson said Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) S.S. Yadav will enquire into the incident and submit the report. He, along with other senior officers, visited the spot on Friday. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana has expressed deep concern at what had happened in Rohini Court Complex in Delhi today. He spoke to the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court in this regard and advised him to talk to both police and Bar to ensure that the functioning of court is not effected. It may be recalled that the matter of Safety and Security of Court Complexes and judicial personnel is already under the consideration of the Supreme Court. In the wake of Friday’s violence in Rohini Courts Complex, the matter may get prioritised next week. Gogi, who carried a reward of Rs. 6.5 lakh on his head, was arrested along with his three accomplices — Kuldeep Naan alias Fajja, Kapil alias Gaurav and Rohit alias Koi — from Gurgaon by a team of Special Cell in March last year, according to police. Born in 1991 in Alipur village, Gogi was a student of Delhi University. The rivalry between him and Sunil alias Tillu of Tajpur village dates back to their college days when their relatives contested student elections. The two gangs have been responsible for multiple murders of gang members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gangster-falls-to-bullets-in-delhi-court/article36661027.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Boat sent to save jumbo capsizes, journalist dies||“The herd was coming from the Sukasen Forest of the Athagarh Forest division to the Chandaka Forest. They swim across the Mahanadi regularly. It’s their regular migration route,” said Sangram Behera, Assistant Conservator of Forests of the Chandaka Wildlife Sanctuary. Attempts to revive Das proved futile, said Bhubanananda Maharana, spokesperson of the SCB Medical College Hospital, Cuttack. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik condoled the journalist’s death. Jayant Mardharaj, environmentalist and member of State Biodiversity Board, said, “The forest areas of both the Chandaka and Athagarh divisions fall in the development zone of the Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Athagarh urban areas. Earlier, elephants were not having any problem in migrating from Athagarh to Chandaka. Now, farm houses have come up along the Mahanadi bank, restricting their movement”. Migration corridors The government, he stated, should immediately notify elephant migration corridors and control development in these areas. “If development is not regulated, elephants are likely to face similar crisis in future,” he warned. Recently, the National Green Tribunal Eastern Zone directed the government to notify 14 elephant corridors and the action plan for elephant conservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boat-on-jumbo-rescue-mission-capsizes/article36661028.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mukherjee is ABC chief||The chief marketing officer of United Breweries, Debabrata Mukherjee, was unanimously elected chairman of the Audit Bureau of Circulations (ABC) for 2021-2022, an ABC statement said on Friday. A publisher member on the council, Pratap G. Pawar of Sakal Papers, was unanimously elected deputy chairman for the year, the ABC statement said. Apart from Mr. Mukherjee, Karunesh Bajaj of ITC, Aniruddha Haldar of TVS Motor Company and Shashank Srivastava of Maruti Suzuki India are the advertisers’ representatives on the council. Riyad Mathew of Malayala Manorama, Devendra V. Darda of Lokmat Media, Hormusji N. Cama of the Bombay Samachar, Shailesh Gupta of Jagran Prakashan, Parveen Someshwar of HT Media, Mohit Jain of Bennet, Coleman and Co. and Dhruba Mukherjee of ABP were the publishers’ representatives, apart from Mr. Pawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mukherjee-is-abc-chief/article36661029.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Madras HC remarks on EWS quota set aside||It, however, had said that the inclusion of a further 10% by way of vertical reservation for EWS would be impermissible until the top court approved it. The Centre had rushed to the top court on September 3 against the observation, saying: “It was unnecessary for the High Court to have gone into an evaluation of the July 29 notification...” “In a contempt case, the High Court went ahead and examines all other issues... We had started the process [the implementation of 10% EWS quota as per the July 29 notification]. But the HC observation made us stop,” Additional Solicitor General K.M. Nataraj, for the Centre, submitted. The quota covers undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses, starting from the current academic year. The government believes the quota policy would help marginalised sections get better opportunities. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, for the petitioners, said the July 29 notification was unconstitutional. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, also for the petitioners, said the notification raises the question whether Rs. 8 lakh should be the criteria for considering the EWS category. The petition also said it has to be examined whether there would be vertical or horizontal reservation. Mr. Datar said the such quota sucks away over 2,500 seats from the general category. The petitioners contended that the selection process had already begun for the academic year and cannot be interfered with. The implementation of the quota policy now would cause grave injustice, they contended. National ramifications Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Tamil Nadu, said the question of the EWS quota is pending before a Constitution Bench. He made a subtle point that the EWS has national ramifications and all the States should be heard by the court. Senior advocate P. Wilson, for DMK, said it was the party’s petition that made reservations in All India Quota seats across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/madras-hc-remarks-on-ews-quota-set-aside/article36661030.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Modi, Biden talk of a new phase in relations||Mr. Modi’s remarks also made reference to the bilateral relationship having a more global positive impact. While there were overlaps in their remarks, there were some asymmetries as well. Mr. Modi raised the topic of trade, saying it would continue to stay important and that trade between the two countries was complimentary. “There are things that you have and there are things that we have, and then we, in fact, complement each other. And I find that the area of trade during this decade is also going to be tremendously important,” he said. Mr. Biden did not bring up trade. On the other hand, he said the India-U.S. partnership was rooted in democratic values. “Our partnership is more than just what we do. It's about who we are. It’s rooted in our shared responsibility to uphold democratic values, our joint commitment to diversity, and it's about family ties including four million Indian Americans who make the United States stronger every single day,” he said. During his segment of the remarks, the Prime Minister said both countries were committed to democratic values and traditions. “I find that importance of these traditions will only increase further,” he added. Mahatma Gandhi was invoked by both sides — but in different contexts. The President spoke of Gandhi’s values of tolerance and the Prime Minister of his idea of trusteeship of the planet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-ties-entering-a-new-chapter-biden/article36661042.ece
25 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram fears fresh influx from Myanmar||A fresh offensive by the Myanmar military in areas near the border with India has triggered fears of more people crossing over to Mizoram. Officials in the northeastern State said more than 11,500 Myanmar nationals have taken refuge since February when the country’s military staged a coup. Some of the refugees have been moving back and forth depending on the situation in Myanmar, but recent airstrikes by the armed forces have made it one-way traffic over the last few days. According to intelligence officials, violence escalated after the Chinland Defence Force and Chin National Army, in a joint operation, captured a Myanmar Army camp close to the Mizoram border and detained 12 soldiers. The military retaliated by strafing the border areas with helicopters and fighter jets. The Chins of Myanmar are ethnically related to the Mizos of Mizoram. Militias of the former have sided with the pro-democracy forces, specifically the National Unity Government, Myanmar’s government in exile. “We expect a fresh influx of Myanmar nationals into Mizoram due to the armed conflict. There are already about 11,500 refugees on our State,” Mizoram’s lone Lok Sabha member C. Lalrosanga said. Earlier this week, Mr. Lalrosanga and a senior official from Mizoram met Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and other top government officials in Delhi, apprising them of the situation and seeking assistance for the refugees on humanitarian grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mizoram-fears-fresh-influx-from-myanmar/article36661051.ece
25 September 2021||Mumbai,||3 more accused held in Mumbai gangrape case||The Manpada police on Friday arrested three more accused in the Dombivli gang-rape case. With this, the number of total arrests touched 29, including two juveniles. The three accused were produced in court, and remanded in police custody till September 30. The investigating team seized mobile phones, and sent them for forensic examination for video evidence which, the victim had claimed, was used to blackmail her. “We are also visiting the places where the victim claimed she was raped,” a police officer said. According to the victim, the incidents happened in Dombivli, Murbad and Badlapur in Thane district, and Rabale in Navi Mumbai. Till now, the police have visited the spots in Dombivli and Badlapur. All the places are either rooms rented by the accused or under-construction sites, the police source said. Of the 33 accused named by the victim, four are yet to be nabbed. All the accused are aged between 16 and 23 and are either students or daily wagers. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been formed to probe the case which is being headed by Assistant Commissioner of Police (Administration) Sonali Dhole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-more-accused-held-in-dombivli-gangrape-case/article36661052.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI to probe Mahant Narendra Giri’s death||The CBI has taken over the probe into the mysterious death of Mahant Narendra Giri in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj on Monday. This follows a notification from the Central government. A team has been sent to Prayagraj to gather details and interact with the police officers who investigated the case initially. Mahant Narendra Giri, who headed the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, was found dead on the premises of the Baghambari Gaddi Math. A note purportedly written by him was seized from there. The police registered an alleged abetment to suicide case. The name of Anand Giri, a follower of Mahant Narendra Giri, was mentioned in the FIR. While a special investigation team was constituted, he was brought from Hardwar to Prayagraj for questioning. Following allegations of some foul play, the State government decided to refer the case to the CBI. Anand Giri claimed that he was being framed in the case. He alleged that his guru was murdered by those who stole money from the Math.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-to-probe-mahant-narendra-giris-death/article36661060.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre notifies medical device parks’ scheme||The Union government on Friday notified a scheme to promote medical device parks at a financial outlay of Rs. 400 crore till financial year 2024-2025. The scheme aims to ensure easy access to testing and infrastructure facilities. It is expected that this will bring down the cost of production of medical devices, thereby making them more affordable for domestic consumption, the Department of Pharmaceuticals said in a statement. The financial assistance for a selected medical device park would be 90% of the project cost of common infrastructure facilities for the northeastern and hilly States. For the rest, it would be 70%. However, a maximum assistance under the scheme for one such park will be Rs. 100 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-notifies-medical-device-parks-scheme/article36661063.ece
25 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mayawati pans Centre’s affidavit||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Friday described as “worrisome” the Centre’s affidavit in the Supreme Court, in which the government has stated that a caste census of the Backward Classes was “administratively difficult and cumbersome”. It had exposed the BJP’s “OBC (Other Backward Classes) politics for electoral gains,” she said. Ms. Mayawati said the Centre’s “clear refusal” to carry out a caste census of the OBC groups had also exposed the difference between the BJP’s “words and actions”. She said the Centre’s affidavit was “very serious”. She said on Twitter that the demand for conducting a caste census of the OBC has caught pace in the country but the Centre’s clear refusal is going to hurt the entire society and their future in the same way in which they are being regularly hurt by vacant backlogs in jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayawati-pans-centres-affidavit/article36661036.ece
25 September 2021||Washington DC,||Quad not a military tie-up: U.S. official||Previewing the first in-person summit level meeting between Quad leaders later on Friday, a senior U.S. administration official, who spoke on background, highlighted the expected deliverables from the summit across a range of areas from vaccines to illegal fishing. The official also repeatedly stressed that the Quad is an informal gathering and not a military or security partnership. The official said U.S. President Joe Biden understands that the major challenges of this century will play out in the Indo-Pacific and the Quad engagement is part of the U.S. “doubling down” on diplomacy. Mr. Biden is also keen for Friday’s discussions to not be scripted and wants an opportunity to have in-depth conversations, the official said. “I do want to underscore that the Quad is an unofficial gathering, although we have a number of working groups and we are deepening cooperation on a very daily basis. It is also the case that it is not a regional security organisation,” the official said, adding that at Friday’s summit, Quad leaders wanted to focus on specific issues facing the Indo-Pacific at the moment. In terms of deliverables, there will be detailed updates on the Quad Vaccine Initiative, announced in March. The Quad will supply at least a billion India manufactured COVID-19 vaccine doses across Asia by the end of 2022 under this initiative. Quad leaders will also announce a supply chain initiative on semiconductors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quad-not-a-military-tie-up-us-official/article36661043.ece
25 September 2021||Kolkata,||HC reserves order on bypoll plea||The Calcutta High Court on Friday reserved the order on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) petition relating to the September 30 bypoll in Bhabanipur, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting. A Bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj, after hearing the submission of all the parties, reserved the judgment. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had sought time to file an affidavit regarding its September 4 notification, where it was mentioned that the Chief Secretary had requested it to hold byelection to the seat, failing which there would be a constitutional crisis in the State. Ms. Banerjee contested this year polls from Nandigram, but lost to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari by 1,956 votes. She has to get elected to the Assembly by November first week to continue as Chief Minister. An affidavit was placed before the court by Ariz Aftab, but it was not stated in it what post he held in the ECI. Justice Bindal took exception to this. Mr. Aftab is the Chief Electoral Officer of the State. Justice Bindal asked the ECI counsel as to why the question of constitutional crisis had not been answered in the affidavit. Counsel said the Chief Secretary would be the person who could answer the question. Justice Bindal was not satisfied with the reply. He asked why by-election to only one constituency was held when there were several bypolls due in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-reserves-order-on-bypoll-plea/article36661071.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Women can now apply for NDA exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has allowed unmarried women to apply for the National Defence Academy (NDA) and naval academy exam, an official statement said on Friday. The move follows a Supreme Court directive on the issue last month. The UPSC has decided to open the application on upsconline.nic.in for this exam to enable “unmarried women candidates only”, the statement said. Number of vacancieswould be notified after it is received from the Ministry of Defence, it said. The application window will remain open from September 24 to October 8 (till 6 p.m.), said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/women-can-now-apply-for-nda-exam/article36661075.ece
25 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra schools to reopen on October 4||The Maharashtra government on Friday announced its decision to reopen schools from October 4. The decision was taken after the SOPs were cleared by the Chief Minister’s Office, the State’s Paediatric Task Force on COVID-19, and the Health Department, said School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad. She said Classes V to XII in rural and VIII to XII in urban areas will recommence from October 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-schools-to-reopen-on-october-4/article36661537.ece
25 September 2021||Patna,||RTI activist shot dead in Bihar||A Right to Information (RTI) activist Bipin Agrawal was shot dead on Friday in East Champaran district of Bihar. Mr. Agrawal had filed several RTI applications seeking details of government land encroachment in the district and last year too assailants had fired at his home. As many as 20 RTI activists have lost their lives in Bihar since 2008. The RTI activist, said the police, was fired upon by some bike-borne unidentified assailants outside the Harsiddhi Block office in East Champaran district. He was taken to the government town hospital in Motihari but was declared dead after reaching there. “The assailants will be arrested soon,” said Harsidhi police station in-charge Pramod Paswan. Mr. Agrawal, 46, had filed over 90 RTI applications seeking details of encroachment of government land in the district. Protection denied “His RTI applications might have displeased some anti-social elements who killed him today. The assailants had also fired at our house in 2020,” said Mr. Agrawal’s father Vijay Kumar Agrawal. Following the incident last year he (Mr. Bipin Agrawal) had sought protection from the local police which was not provided to him. “Had police protection was provided to him, he would have been alive today,” his father said. The deceased RTI activist has three children and he is second among three brothers. 20 activists killed As many as 20 RTI activists have been killed in Bihar since 2008. “RTI activist Sashidhar Sharma of Begusarai district was the first RTI activist who was killed in 2008. He too had sought details of government land encroachment,” veteran RTI activist Shiv Prakash Rai told The Hindu over phone. “Since then many RTI activists were killed in the State. Mr. Agrawal became the latest target of criminals today. I just want to know how many more RTI activists will have to sacrifice their life for seeking information of public importance?”, asked Mr. Rai.  His RTI applications might have displeased some anti-social elements who killed him today. The assailants had also fired at our house in 2020 Vijay Kumar Agrawal Victim’s father||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rti-activist-shot-dead-in-bihar/article36661046.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||ED arrests two in bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate has arrested two persons for allegedly facilitating bogus transactions, in connection with the Rs. 3,269.42 crore bank fraud case against Shakti Bhog Foods Limited and others. The accused have been identified as Ashok Kumar Goel and Devki Nandan Garg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-arrests-two-in-bank-fraud-case/article36661366.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. releases drone map for users||The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Friday released an interactive drone airspace map. The map is available on digitalsky.dgca.gov.in. The map highlights red and yellow zones, and anyone planning to operate a drone should check the latest airspace map for any changes in zone boundaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-releases-drone-map-for-users/article36661367.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Diesel turns costlier by 20 paise per litre||Diesel price was hiked by 20 paise per litre on Friday, the first increase in over two months, as international oil prices neared their highest since 2018. The price of diesel was hiked to Rs. 88.82 per litre in Delhi and to Rs. 96.41 in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Petrol price was not changed. It costs Rs. 101.19 a litre in Delhi and Rs. 107.26 in Mumbai. State-owned Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) had not revised the fuel rates since September 5 despite a surge in international oil prices. On Friday, global benchmark Brent crude rose to $77.50 a barrel as crude inventories shrunk from Europe to the U.S. Oil rates are up 2% for the week and this is the fifth weekly gain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/diesel-turns-costlier-by-20-paise-per-litre/article36661067.ece
25 September 2021||Kolkata,||NIA names Mahato in Rajdhani Express hostage case||The National Investigation Agency has named Trinamool Congress member Chhatradhar Mahato and 12 others in its chargesheet in the 2009 Rajdhani Express hostage case. It named Mahato, who was the convener of the Maoist-backed People Against Police Atrocities (PCPA), as the prime accused along with his brother, Shashadhar Mahato, and the late Maoist commander Kishenji in its around 50-page chargesheet.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-names-mahato-in-rajdhani-express-hostage-case/article36661068.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Twitter appointed officers in compliance with new IT Rules, Centre tells Delhi High Court||The Centre has informed the Delhi High Court that Twitter has appointed a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), a Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and a Nodal Contact Person in compliance with the new IT rules. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said Twitter had acknowledged that the personnel were appointed as the company’s employees and not as “contingent workers”.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-appointed-officers-in-compliance-with-new-it-rules-centre-tells-delhi-high-court/article36661074.ece
25 September 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Chola palace remains exposed at Gangaikondacholapuram||Substantial portions of brick structures of what are believed to be the remains of a Chola palace have been unearthed by archaeologists during the latest excavations at Maligaimedu near Gangaikondacholapuram in Ariyalur district. The Tamil Nadu Department of Archaeology is set to wind up the excavation season at the site later this month after having exposed brick structures in 13 of the 17 quadrants. Roofing tiles and iron nails have also been recovered in large numbers. A Chola-period copper coin and an ivory object, glass beads and bangles, hopscotch markers, spouted knobs, terracotta pieces and ceramics such as red ware, black ware, decorated ware and Chinese ware, including celadon ware, were among the other finds during the excavations which started in February. Established by King Rajendra Chola I (1012-1044 CE) after his victorious expedition up to the Gangetic plains, Gangaikondacholapuram was the capital of the Cholas for about 250 years from about 1025 CE. Maligaimedu (the mound of palace) lies about two km to the west of the Gangaikondacholeswarar Temple. It is widely believed that the palaces of Chola kings had existed there about 1,000 years ago. The palaces were believed to have been destroyed during the Pandya invasions or later. The structural evidence available also supports this view, officials say. The Department of Archaeology had unearthed some parts of a palace during excavations in 1980 and a few seasons subsequently. The excavations then had unearthed brick structures, bases of granite pillars and other artefacts. Significant portions of the medieval palace have been exposed this season close to the trench excavated earlier. Walls made of burnt bricks, measuring 27 x 13 x 5 cm and 30 x 15 x 8 cm, have been exposed. Brick structures were found at a depth of just from 12 cm and up to a depth of more than two metres. Four to 30 courses of bricks were found in various depths. Mortar of 2 cm thickness had been used as the binding material. However, no foundation was found. Most of the structures follow the north-west and south-east cardinal direction. “These are significant finds — the structures found earlier were of 11 or 12 courses (of bricks). It is well established that there had been a palace there; we only have to find the functionality of the structures. We will be sending some of the material for thermoluminescence dating,” R. Sivanantham, Commissioner (in-charge), Department of Archaeology, told The Hindu.  It has been a satisfying season of digging for Excavation Director S. Nanthakumar and his team, comprising co-director K. Bakiyalakshmi, archaeological officers S.M. Umaiyal and S. Subalakshmi and a few research scholars. “This is an important find of the remains of a medieval palace in Tamil Nadu. Further excavation could lead to unearthing of more such structures,” Mr. Nanthakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chola-palace-remains-unearthed-at-gangaikondacholapuram/article36661478.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flow of sewage into Cooum to be controlled||Pollution in the urban stretch of the Cooum may be brought under control soon with one of the modular sewage treatment plants along the river likely to be commissioned by October-end as part of the Integrated Cooum River Eco Restoration Project. Of the three modular STPs proposed at a total cost of Rs. 33.33 crore along the river, the facility at Chetpet with a capacity to treat one million litres of raw sewage daily is almost ready with the trial run going on. The Rs. 2.77-crore plant is one of the components of the project to restore the river. Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) is setting up two more plants in the city with moving bed biofilm reactor (MBBR) technology. Officials said while work on a plant with a capacity to treat 1.2 million litres daily (MLD) at Choolaimedu would be completed by March next, the largest among the three at Langs Garden with a capacity to treat 10 MLD of sewage would be ready by June 2022. The MBBR technology was chosen as it occupies less space, is cost-effective and consumes less power. The facilities occupy a space of 450 sq m for every mld capacity. The plant at Langs Garden has tertiary treatment component to recycle water that can be supplied to industries and railway stations. Access to the plant was paved through a dump yard, officials said. The proposal to set up a modular STP at Maduravoyal was dropped in the wake of projects being taken up to provide underground drainage network at places such as Nerkundram and Thiruverkadu. The CMWSSB has taken up work to lay pipeline along the river to plug nearly 37 sewage outfalls “We plan to plug 31 outfalls by October-end,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flow-of-sewage-into-cooum-to-be-controlled/article36661456.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM reviews precautions ahead of monsoon||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday chaired a meeting of Ministers and officials at the Secretariat to review the precautions being taken ahead of the northeast monsoon that is expected to set in next month. An official release said Mr. Stalin stressed the need for effective coordination among government agencies in disaster relief operations. The Chief Minister also called for effective coordination with the Army, the Navy, the Coast Guard, the India Meteorological Department, the Central Water Commission, the National Disaster Response Force and the local bodies. He wanted disaster control centres strengthened and helplines 1070 and 1077 to be at the ready. Disaster relief centres should be opened in case of evacuation of people from low-level and severely affected areas, Mr. Stalin said. Dry rations, drinking water, bread and milk must be made available to those in need, including children. “While evacuating people from affected areas, priority must be given to the elderly, the disabled, pregnant women and children.” He also elaborated on the steps to be taken for restoring power infrastructure to resume electricity supply in case of disruptions. ‘Ensure supplies’ He said essential commodities must be made available through ration shops beforehand and stressed the importance of ensuring medical supplies and equipment and measures against the spread of any epidemic soon after the monsoon. The meeting also discussed how to meet Chennai’s drinking water needs in case of flooding in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-reviews-precautions-ahead-of-monsoon/article36661474.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police launch storming operation against rowdies||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Friday said a series of steps has been taken to ensure that the city is free of rowdies. The city police have launched a 48-hour storming operation under instructions from Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, after a couple of cases of beheading were reported in the State. Briefing reporters, Mr. Jiwal said, “We launched action against rowdies in the city two months ago. We are at it continuously. For instance, the Deputy Commissioner, Washermenpet, and his team rounded up 30 rowdies and sent them to jail for 63 to 123 days.” Two days ago, the Deputy Commissioners of Police were told to intensify the drive against rowdies. “Since Thursday, we have been conducting a storming operation. The city police has a list of 6,000 rowdies. Until 7 a.m. today, 717 of them were intercepted and verified. Of these, 57 history-sheeters and 13 others, who were involved in other criminal cases, were secured,” Mr. Jiwal said. In a few instances, weapons have been seized and the police will book cases in connection with this. “We have seized 20 weapons. We will keep the rowdies under constant watch. This operation will continue,” he said. The 6,000 rowdies in the city have been categorised as A+, B and C. “A revision is being done to the list based on their recent criminal activities. After revision, we may know the exact number in 10 days,” the Police Commissioner said. To a question on lax trial proceedings, he said: “We have intensified our effort to expedite trial proceedings. We have prepared a list of cases which have been pending for more than five years or three years or in which the investigation officer concerned failed to appear. Based on that report, we are following up on these cases and giving priority.” Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has approved constitution of two special units to handle rowdy elements and soon they will be constituted under Assistant Commissioner (AC) of Police-level officers, he added.  We have intensified our effort to expedite trial proceedings. We have prepared a list of cases which are pending for more than five years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-launch-storming-operation-against-rowdies/article36661460.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Secretary inspects reservoirs||Work will be taken up to temporarily plug the leaks in one of the floodgates of Poondi reservoir. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu on Friday said rubber seals in all floodgates would be replaced once the water level in the reservoir recedes. He inspected the three main reservoirs in Red Hills, Poondi and Chembarambakkam, in connection with monsoon preparedness work. Though the northeast monsoon is a month away, the storage in the five reservoirs that supply water to the city was 81.47% of their capacity. The one in Red Hills has reached nearly 92.55% of its capacity. The Chief Secretary instructed the officials of the Water Resources Department to take steps to arrest industrial effluents being discharged in catchment areas of Chembarambakkam reservoir. He asked for the report being prepared by a committee comprising officials of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and WRD to be submitted soon. As more inflow was expected into the reservoirs during the monsoon, storage should be maintained only till a specific level and surplus water should be released gradually according to inflow, he said. Sandeep Saxena, additional chief secretary, PWD; Tiruvallur Collector Alby John Varghese; Kancheepuram Collector M.Aarthi and WRD officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-secretary-inspects-reservoirs/article36661482.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu logs 1,733 fresh COVID-19 cases, 27 deaths||Tamil Nadu logged 1,733 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Another 27 persons succumbed to the infection. With the State recording over 1,700 cases for the second day in a row, Coimbatore, Chennai, Chengalpattu and Erode continued to register the most number of cases. Both Coimbatore and Chennai recorded a little over 200 cases, though there was a marginal dip compared with the previous day. While 210 persons tested positive in Coimbatore, Chennai’s cases dipped from 222 to 205. The number of cases rose from 107 to 122 in Chengalpattu, while Erode logged 119 cases. Among the other districts, Tiruppur recorded 98 cases, a small rise from the previous day’s tally of 82. Tiruvallur and Tiruchi recorded 73 cases each, while Namakkal reported a marginal rise from 52 to 72 cases. Thanjavur recorded 61 cases. The State’s overall tally of cases reached 26,53,848. As another 1,631 persons were discharged, the total number of recovered patients stood at 26,01,198. The State’s toll stood at 35,454. Of the 27 deaths, Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tiruchi recorded three deaths each, while Chennai reported two fatalities. At present, 17,196 persons were under treatment. Another 1,86,654 persons were vaccinated on Friday. They included 1,15,877 persons aged 18-44 and 50,893 persons aged 45-59. With this, the total coverage at government vaccination centres reached 4,17,50,075. The cumulative coverage at private vaccination centres from May 1 stood at 24,47,065.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-logs-1733-fresh-covid-19-cases-27-deaths/article36661468.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SL starts work on voluntary repatriation||The Sri Lanka Deputy High Commission has commenced work on voluntary repatriation of Sri Lankan nationals living in the rehabilitation camps of Tamil Nadu, according to Deputy High Commissioner D. Venkateshwaran. The diplomat, who assumed charge in April this year, told The Hindu on Friday that the Deputy High Commission, together with the office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), the Departments concerned of Tamil Nadu, including the Commissionerate of Rehabilitation and Welfare of Non Resident Tamils, and non-governmental organisations, was also working on the collection of preliminary data for repatriation. The Deputy High Commission had proposed a “suitable” ferry service or passenger air service, accommodating the cargo in containers, for repatriation. According to the Tamil Nadu government’s document, 58,822 persons were staying in 108 rehabilitation camps as on July 31. Besides, 34,087 refugees were living outside the camps. The Deputy High Commissioner said that before the outbreak of COVID-19, his office had issued 1,500- 2,000 special refugee repatriation passports every year. Roughly, 1,000-1,500 Sri Lankans had returned annually to Sri Lanka voluntarily with the assistance of UNHCR or on their own. The process of voluntary repatriation was suspended in March 2020 owing to international travel restrictions. As for the issuance of consular birth certificates, Mr. Venkateshwaran recalled that special camps were held every week till March 2020. The registration of consular births had “declined drastically” owing to the pandemic. “However, this Mission is constantly providing its uninterrupted consular services” amid the lockdown, he said, hoping for the resumption of the special camps shortly. The Deputy High Commission planned to clear all pending applications for consular birth certificates before December. As for deepening the cultural ties. he said Sri Lanka’s Ministry of Tourism would soon release the details of the development of the Ramayana trail and the Murugan trail, in addition to the Panchalinga Shiva temple trail, covering five locations. It had been proposed to facilitate the arrival of more tourists from Sri Lanka to places of religious importance. The Mission planned to organise cultural events in south India for the promotion of cultural relations. Expressing Sri Lanka’s gratitude to the Indian government for various assistance rendered during the pandemic, he said he had met the heads of several south Indian States to “enhance the bilateral relationship”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sl-starts-work-on-voluntary-repatriation/article36661470.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘4,101 children got cochlear implants under CMCHIS’||As many as 4,101 children have undergone cochlear implant surgeries under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). So far, funds to the tune of Rs. 327 crore have been spent towards this, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Friday. Noting that former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi had launched the health insurance scheme in 2009, he said Rs. 6.36 lakh was allocated towards surgery per child, while higher treatment was provided for those on whom surgeries could not be performed. For this, Rs. 4 crore was allocated, he said at an event to mark the International Week of the Deaf at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). He added that Rs. 3.62 crore was spent towards replacing defective equipment. Under CMCHIS, 1,35,572 people have received new hearing aids at a cost of Rs. 108 crore. “To continue the schemes and purchase advanced equipment for all government hospitals, Rs. 10 crore has been allocated this year,” he said. Mr. Stalin handed over ENT equipment worth Rs. 98.8 lakh to RGGGH and government medical colleges in Tiruchi and Krishnagiri. He handed over hearing aids to the elderly, and activated the cochlear implants received by children, a release said. He also inaugurated a ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ screening centre at RGGGH. All those aged over 30 will be screened for hypertension and diabetes. Among others, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekarbabu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4101-children-got-cochlear-implants-under-cmchis/article36661465.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CM will take right steps on Ford plant closure issue’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will take appropriate steps at the appropriate time to tackle the situation arising out of Ford’s decision to close its plant in Chennai, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said on Friday. “The government is closely watching the situation,” he said at an interaction with reporters at the Secretariat. To a question about ‘ Valimai ’ cement which the State is planning to introduce, Mr. Thennarasu said the Industries Department and the Tamil Nadu Cement Corporation were taking the necessary steps. Asked about AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s statement that cases were not filed against DMK leaders when he was in power but cases were being filed against AIADMK leaders now, the Minister said there was no prima facie case against DMK leaders; hence, cases were not registered against them. Answering Mr. Palaniswami’s charge that the DMK supported single-phase Assembly elections, but it was now supporting two-phase local bodies elections, Mr. Thennarasu said, “The State Election Commission, which is an autonomous and independent body, has decided on how to conduct the local bodies elections.” Depending on the need for ensuring security and law and order, the State Election Commission had taken a decision, he said. Replying to a question on the former Chief Minister’s statement that elections would be held within three years, Mr. Thennarasu said it was a classic example of how he would make statements without any basis “It is not clear whether he is referring to the Lok Sabha election. But it has become a habit for Mr. Palaniswami to make statements without any basis.” The Minister also listed the welfare measures being implemented by the DMK government.  The Industries Department and the Tamil Nadu Cement Corporation are taking steps on introducing ‘ Valimai ’ cement Thangam Thennarasu Industries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-will-take-right-steps-over-ford-plant-closure-issue/article36661476.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks SEC response to AIADMK concern over local body election||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission (TNSEC) to respond to a representation made by All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam to deploy government staff from other States or from Central services as observers for the local body polls scheduled next month in the nine newly carved out districts. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said it was not right on the part of the TNSEC to not respond to a representation made by the principal Opposition party in the State, and ordered that a reply must be sent to the party on or before September 29. The judges also impressed upon the TNSEC the need to conduct the polls in a free and fair manner. The interim orders were passed on a writ petition filed by the AIADMK complaining of non-consideration of its representation seeking implementation of various measures to ensure purity in the election process. Representing the party, senior counsel Vijay Narayan said the party also wanted deployment of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel during the poll process. He said another important demand was to install closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras during the polling at the strong rooms as well as during the counting of votes so that any complaint regarding malpractices could be addressed appropriately. He said though the AIADMK had made a representation in this regard on September 14, the TNSEC was yet to respond. On the other hand, counsel representing the TNSEC informed the court that the issues highlighted by the petitioner party had already been considered and appropriate measures had been put in place by the commission to ensure free and fair polls. He said there were 14,573 polling stations and that three-tier police security had been arranged to ensure peaceful polling. After hearing him, the judges insisted that the TNSEC must respond to the representation made by AIADMK immediately after the announcement of the polls on September 13. They also accepted a request made by Mr. Narayan to list the writ petition once again on September 30 so that further orders, if necessary, could be passed on that day for free and fair conduct of the local body polls on October 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/respond-to-aiadmk-concern-over-local-body-poll-sec-told/article36661576.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur DC holds meeting with exporters||Tiruvallur district administration has chosen textiles and readymade garments, automobile and engineering components, polymers and plastics, vegetable oil, and non-basmati rice and dal products as priority items to improve exports. District Collector Alby John Varghese, who interacted with representatives of industries at an exporters’ conclave on Friday, said that although the district accounted for Rs. 6,500-crore worth exports annually, there was scope for more. The top items being manufactured and exported from the district were excavators, shovel loaders, mechanical shovels, dumpers for highway use and pellets of refined copper. “The district administration is ready to provide any kind of support to exporters and industries,” he said after inspecting export items, including shoes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-dc-holds-meeting-with-exporters/article36661484.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Keshav Desiraju, a rare intellectual of great personal integrity’||Former Secretary of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Keshav Desiraju, who passed away earlier this month, was a rare intellectual of great personal integrity and moral independence, N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group Publishing Private Limited, said on Friday. Speaking at an event organised online by the Chennai Chapter of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) to pay tributes to the late IAS officer, Mr. Ram said Desiraju left a deep imprint on everyone who knew him or encountered him. Exemplary contributions Desiraju achieved a great deal on the ground by standing by his values and well-considered views on what he believed was beneficial to society. He did this without drawing undue attention to his own exemplary contributions in the fields of health, education, consumer affairs, and even heritage, Mr. Ram noted. The discussion was organised as a reminiscence of a talk that Desiraju delivered in 2017 as part of INTACH’s ‘Those were the days’ series on eminent historian Sarvepalli Gopal, son of former President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and Desiraju’s uncle. Mr. Ram said the talk, which was instructive, elegant and easy flowing, was a little gem that could take Gopal and his works to the present generation. Highlighting that Gopal could be considered the father of contemporary history in India without any exaggeration, he said the late historian was also a distinguished biographer. Highlighting Gopal’s focus on fine, clear and evocative writing of history as opposed to the mundane, pedestrian and dense style of writing history, Mr. Ram stressed the need to take Desiraju’s talk to a wider audience. ‘A revelation’ Gopalkrishna Gandhi, former Governor of West Bengal, said the lecture of Desiraju, which was played at the event, was a revelation and lauded the professionalism with which he dealt with the subject. Echoing Mr. Ram’s suggestion, he appealed to INTACH to bring out the lecture in text format. Sujatha Shankar of INTACH’s Chennai Chapter recollected Desiraju’s association with the organisation and his contributions.  Desiraju achieved a great deal on the ground by standing by his values and well-considered views on what he believed was beneficial to society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keshav-desiraju-a-rare-intellectual-of-great-personal-integrity/article36661489.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss dismisses Gotabaya’s promise||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Friday dubbed Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s promise to engage with the Tamil diaspora in resolving war-related issues a “drama”, and urged India and other nations not to fall for it. In a statement, he said Mr. Gotabaya was making such statements because the United Nations Human Rights Council had intensified the collection of evidence on war crimes. Countries should back the move to collect evidence on war crimes, and India should take measures to ensure that those involved are punished, he said. Through the UN, India should also pave the way for the formation of a separate Tamil eelam , he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-dismisses-gotabayas-promise/article36661472.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘TNHB construction reduced Cooum width’||The Tamil Nadu Housing Board had violated the stipulated conditions and fixed its site boundary for a mixed use complex at Arumbakkam inside the Cooum course and the river width had been “reduced grossly” to 40 m abutting the site between the Inner Ring Road Bridge and the Naduvankarai Bridge, a joint committee appointed by the southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has said in its report. The TNHB submitted before the tribunal that if any interim order of status quo or injunction restraining it from proceeding with the construction work was ordered, it would result in cost escalation. The Bench stayed construction of the buildings for two weeks, except for the removal of debris dumped in the river bed. The Bench directed the PWD to file an independent report as to whether the boundary was fixed by the Survey Department. The Bench asked the committee to inspect the area again and submit a report to find out whether its recommendations had been complied with by the TNHB and the debris removed from the river bed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnhb-construction-reduced-cooum-width/article36661454.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sign language interpreter roped in for event||At an event to mark the International Week of the Deaf on Friday, the Health Department wanted to ensure that the environment was inclusive for its participants. A sign language interpreter was roped in for the 20-odd children who had hearing impairment, and had undergone cochlear implant surgeries, as well as for the elderly who received hearing aids from the Chief Minister at the event held at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). A day before the event, Mission Director of the National Health Mission spoke to the Commissioner for the Welfare of the Differently Abled, seeking a sign language interpreter, according to authorities at the RGGGH. “We had a compere, and the sign language interpreter explained everything simultaneously. We wanted the beneficiaries to be part of the event in every way, and to know what the speakers were highlighting. This is the first time that such an arrangement was made,” RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan said. As Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Health Minister Ma. Subramanian addressed the gathering, their speeches were simultaneously interpreted in sign language for the beneficiaries.  We wanted the beneficiaries to be part of the event in every way, and to know what the speakers were highlighting E. Theranirajan Dean, RGGGH||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sign-language-interpreter-roped-in-for-event/article36661466.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On the investment relationship||Sri Lanka seeks investment from India in a range of areas like pharmaceuticals, organic fertilizer, renewable energy and information technology, Sri Lanka’s Deputy High Commissioner D. Venkateshwaran has said. The other areas indicated by him included apparels, electronic goods, fisheries and dairy products. Discussions were also on for a two-way investment. Noting that there had been a “considerable number of success stories” of investment relationship between Sri Lanka and India, especially in south India, the envoy, whose jurisdiction covers five southern States and Puducherry, said “we are focusing on tourism development as it is a major industry that will attract more Indian investors”. Investment opportunities have been updated on the website of the Board of Investment (BOI) of Sri Lanka, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-the-investment-relationship/article36661471.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panels formed to reassess mineral stocks||Concerned over reports of illegal transport of beach sand minerals from sealed premises, the Tamil Nadu government has decided to form three district-level committees for re-assessment of the minerals “stocked and sealed” at various places in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts. The quantity of the minerals in question, as assessed by senior civil servant Satyabrata Sahoo during 2017-18, is 1.55 crore tonnes. A 14-member committee has been approved for Tiruneveli under the coordination of P. Saravanan, Regional Joint Director of Geology and Mining, Tiruchi; a 10-member committee for Thoothukudi with V. Aruna, Joint Director, Chennai, as the coordinator; and a four-member committee for Kanniyakumari. Barring a few officials from Madurai, Sivaganga and Dindigul, the committees do not have those who are serving in other southern districts, according to an order issued by the Industries Department early this week. The committees have been given one month to submit their reports. The order directed the three Collectors to have CCTVs installed on all the sealed premises where the beach sand minerals had been stocked or stored and give “complete police protection” to sealed or non-sealed godowns having the minerals. In a July 27 communication, Tiruneveli Collector V. Vishnu informed the government that in the light of the reports, he had proposed the constitution of a committee, comprising representatives from different departments, for each of seven villages where the minerals had been kept. A month later, Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj brought to the notice of the government the interception of 5 vehicles that transported ilmenite ore to a company in the SIPCOT complex. Around the same time, Director of Geology and Mining L. Nirmal Raj reported to the government that complaints had been received about the sealed premises in Tiruneveli and Thoothukudi districts having been broken open and the minerals illegally transported to another company in Thoothukudi for the production of titanium dioxide. Capturing all the details, the Industries Department’s order recalled that the government, through orders issued in August and September 2013, banned mining and transport of such minerals as garnet, ilmenite, rutile, zircon and sillimanite in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari, Madurai and Tiruchi districts. In April 2017, as a follow-up to the directions of the Madras High Court, the government set up a special team, led by Mr. Sahoo, for assessment of the minerals stored at various places of the three districts. A year later, Mr. Sahoo submitted a “comprehensive report” to the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-forms-three-panels-to-reassess-stocked-minerals/article36661491.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dhoti as part of Mahatma’s attire celebrated||To celebrate the centennial year of Mahatma Gandhi changing his attire to dhoti, Ramraj Cotton honoured 100 martyrs, 100 weavers and planted 100 tree saplings at a function in Tirupur on Wednesday. The event “Dhoti 100” saw dancers from Kalashetra Foundation performing a dance drama on Gandhiya Vazhiyil Ramraj . K.R. Nagarajan, managing director of Ramraj Cotton, said the company had been constantly reinventing the dhoti to inspire youth to wear and promoting it as a national attire. A publication Mahatmaavai Kondaduvom was released by B.K. Krishnaraj Vanavarayar, Chairman, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Coimbatore Kendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mahatmas-madurai-visit-remembered-at-dhoti-100/article36661485.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore resident secures 33rd rank in civil services examination||Coimbatore resident Narayana Sarma, 25, has secured 33rd rank in the UPSC civil services examination 2020. Mr. Sarma, in his third attempt, had opted for Public Administration as his optional subject. “For current affairs, I followed newspapers on a daily basis. Continuous practice without giving up despite setbacks is the key to crack this exam,” said Mr. Sarma. He did his B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Amrita University, Coimbatore. “The most challenging aspect of the exam was to move on to the next attempt without thinking much about past failures. However, I was able to manage that transition well,” said Mr. Sarma. Tenkasi resident Shanmuga Valli, 26, has secured 108th rank in her third attempt. She did her Electronics and Communication Engineering in College of Engineering Guindy, Anna University, in 2017. “My family supported me and gave me confidence to work hard. I read The Hindu for current affairs. My optional subject was Sociology. I received free coaching at the All India Civil Services coaching centre, which is run by the State government,” said Ms. Shanmuga Valli, who also received coaching at Manidhaneyam and Aram IAS Academy. Guduvanchery resident Priyanga Rangasamy Annadurai has secured 181st rank in the exam. Her optional subject was Tamil literature. Her father retired as driver in Chennai Port Trust. She did her Computer Science and Engineering from Valliammai Engineering College. She joined Tata Consultancy Services and started preparing for her civil services examination at Aram IAS Academy. Later she quit her job to focus on preparation. “A candidate has to learn from mistakes and get the right guidance for success in this examination. I thank my family and mentors,” she said. According to a press release from Manidhaneyam IAS Academy, 18 students who received free coaching cleared the exam. Coimbatore resident D.Ranjith, a candidate with hearing disability has secured 750th rank. His mother Amirthavalli, who is a school headmistress, said he worked hard utilising technology to clear the examination. He did his Mechanical Engineering from PSG Tech.  Tenkasi resident Shanmuga Valli, who received coaching at Manidhaneyam and Aram IAS Academy, has secured 108th rank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-resident-secures-33rd-rank-in-civil-services-exam/article36661493.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anbumani slams plan to increase toll gates in T.N.||PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Friday urged the Centre to drop its plan to allow six more toll gates on highways in Tamil Nadu. The Centre and the State government should take measures to reduce the number of toll gates in the State to 16 from 48, he demanded. In a statement, he expressed shock over reports that six new toll gates are coming up in Tamil Nadu as the State hands over four highway stretches to National Highways Authority of India after developing them into two and four lanes. This includes Vellore-Tiruvannamalai-Villupuram stretch, Cuddalore-Virudhachalam-Salem section, Avinashi-Avinashi Palayam section and Perambalur-Thanjavur section, Dr. Ramadoss noted. At the time when there were growing calls from various sections to remove existing toll gates, allowing new toll gates would hurt development of Tamil Nadu and it was not acceptable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anbumani-slams-plan-to-increase-toll-gates-in-tn/article36661626.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fair price shop staff warned not to harass family cardholders||The Commissioner of Civil Supplies has asked staff manning fair price shops not to harass family cardholders coming to collect the essential commodities, especially senior citizens or people with disabilities. He urged consumers, who are unable to go directly to the shop such as senior citizens or persons with disabilities and do not have anyone else to collect the items at home, to submit the necessary authorisation forms. The forms are available in plenty at all fair price shops. “The authorisation from such cardholders is enough to provide the provisions without the biometric authentication,” the official said in a press release here. There have been complaints from such persons that they were being harassed by shopkeepers, he added. Shopkeepers have been told to provide the commodities to the cardholders even if biometric authentication does not work due to network issues. “They can do so by taking the signature of the cardholder in the register,” explained a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fair-price-shop-staff-warned-not-to-harass-family-cardholders/article36661487.ece
25 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore resident gets 33rd rank in civil services exam||Coimbatore resident Narayana Sarma, 25, has secured 33rd rank in the UPSC civil services examination 2020. Mr. Sarma, in his third attempt, had opted for Public Administration as his optional subject. “For current affairs, I regularly followed newspapers on a daily basis. Continuous practice without giving up despite setbacks is the key to crack this exam,” said Mr. Sarma. He did his B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Amrita University, Coimbatore. “The most challenging aspect of the exam was to move on to the next attempt without thinking much about past failures. However, I was able to manage that transition well,” said Mr. Sarma. Tenkasi resident Shanmuga Valli, 26, has secured 108th rank in her third attempt. She did her Electronics and Communication Engineering in College of Engineering Guindy, Anna University, in 2017. Guduvanchery resident Priyanga Rangasamy Annadurai has secured 181st rank in the exam. She did her Computer Science and Engineering from Valliammai Engineering College.  Coimbatore resident D.Ranjith, a candidate with hearing disability has secured 750th rank. His mother Amirthavalli, who is a school headmistress, said he worked hard utilising technology to clear the examination. He did his Mechanical Engineering from PSG Tech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-resident-gets-33rd-rank-in-civil-services-exam/article36661506.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cuban film fest from Sept. 27||The Indo-Cine Appreciation Foundation and the Embassy of Cuba in India, New Delhi, will organise a Cuban film festival on September 27, 28 and 30 in the city. The films will be screened at the Alliance Française of Madras at 6 p.m.   For details, call 9840151956 or 8939022618.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuban-film-fest-from-sept-27/article36661481.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tusks, antlers seized from car||Seven persons were injured after a car driven by an advocate hit another car, an autorickshaw and two motorbikes on Thursday midnight. The police seized six elephant tusks and antlers from a businessman’s car which was damaged in the accident. The police said Radhakrishnan, 57, a lawyer from Anna Nagar, was driving under the influence of alcohol. While checking the damaged car which was driven by Wilson, a businessman, the police found six elephant tusks and a pair of antlers in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tusks-antlers-seized-from-car/article36661483.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri to kick off Cong. membership campaign||Although the Congress had the highest strike rate among all parties in the recently concluded Assembly polls, the party’s bargaining capacity for seats is often hindered by its limited cadre strength in many regions of the State. The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee hopes to set this right by embarking on a membership drive, beginning with Chennai, before the urban local body polls are announced. On Sunday next, TNCC president K.S. Alagiri will undertake a membership drive at Saidapet where he will go door-to-door to enrol people into the Congress party. “This will be the first time a TNCC president will personally reach out to people to get them to enrol in the party. Earlier, the TNCC presidents used to give the membership cards to the office bearers who would then enrol members,” according to G.K. Muralidharan, TNCC general secretary .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alagiri-to-kick-off-cong-membership-campaign/article36661486.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man who stabbed college girl arrested||The Selaiyur police on Friday arrested Ramachandran, 25, who allegedly stabbed to death M. Swetha, 20, a student, near Tambaram railway station on Thursday. A court in Tambaram remanded him in judicial custody. The police said M. Swetha from Bharathipuram, Chromepet, doing a diploma course in Medical Laboratory Technology in Madras Christian College in Tambaram, was walking towards the railway station with her friend around 1.30 p.m. on Thursday when Ramachandran, a mechanical engineer in a private firm in Maramalai Nagar, stopped her. During a heated argument, Ramachandran suddenly stabbed her with a knife. Passers-by tried to nab Ramachandran but he threatened them with the knife and stabbed himself. He was then overpowered and handed over to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-who-stabbed-college-girl-arrested/article36661453.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AC bus services to resume on October 1||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) will resume air-conditioned (AC) bus services across the State from October 1. More than 700 AC buses are proposed to be operated throughout the State. Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan has directed the officials to operate 702 buses. Of these, State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) would be operating 340 AC buses comprising sleeper and semi-sleeper coaches. Chennai’s Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) would run 48 buses. The TNSTC unit in Villupuram would operate 92 AC buses, Kumbakonam 52, Coimbatore and Salem 50 each, Madurai 40 and Tirunelveli 30. The department has advised the passengers to comply with COVID-19 norms such as compulsory wearing of masks, maintaining hand hygiene and following social distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ac-bus-services-from-october-1/article36661458.ece
25 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actress moves High Court||A Malaysian citizen who had recently lodged a rape complaint against former Information Technology Minister M. Manikandan of All India Annna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) has moved the Madras High Court seeking a direction to a Metropolitan Magistrate at Saidapet in Chennai to entertain a petition filed by her seeking various relief under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act of 2005. When the matter was listed before Justice M. Nirmal Kumar on Friday, the petitioner’s counsel, V. Raghavachari, complained that the Magistrate Court had returned her petition on multiple occasions by stating that the relationship between her and the former Minister must be established first in the rape case. He said there was no necessity for it since any woman in a shared household could lodge a domestic violence complaint. After hearing the arguments advanced by the counsel, the judge adjourned the matter till October 7 so that he could go through the case papers before passing appropriate orders. In her petition, the actress claimed that the former Minister had sexual relationship with her on the promise of marrying her after divorcing his first wife. She also alleged to have been forced by the former Minister to undergo abortion thrice. Stating that now he had deserted her and left her without any means for survival, she contended that he was liable to pay her monthly maintenance of Rs. 2.8 lakh apart from damages to the tune of Rs. 10 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actress-moves-high-court/article36661586.ece
25 September 2021||Chennai/Madurai,TAMIL NADU||450 criminals held in storming operation||Special teams of police officers and personnel across the southern districts conducted a ‘storming operation’ in which 174 anti-social elements were arrested and 201 weapons, including machetes ( aruval) were seized from them, said Inspector General of Police (south zone) T. S. Anbu, in Madurai, on Friday. Director General of Police Sylendra Babu had instructed the police to conduct combing operations in districts/cities and secure “wanted” accused in grave crimes and enforce law and order, police officers in south zone said. Apart from screening vehicles at check posts at random from 6 p.m. on September 23 to 6 a.m. on September 24, the police also executed non-bailable warrants. The police also secured people whose bond period had lapsed across the south zone, the officers said. In the last fortnight alone, 53 persons were detained under the Goondas Act in the south zone. The operation would continue in the southern districts, officers said. Madurai City In Madurai City, the police checked on 235 anti-socials and 25 among them were arrested. The special teams secured 13 weapons from their dwellings during a combing operation. In Avaniapuram and Madhichiyam in Madurai City, the police secured N. Saivam alias Saivadurai (27) of Villapuram TNHB Colony, Sugumar (19) Mohamed Ali Khan (20), Saktipandi (20), B. Jayamurugan (19) and K. Vasu (21) of Alwarpuram and seized three aruvals from them. The police said that the accused figured in heinous crimes and were wanted in connection with a few robbery cases reported in the city. The Madhichiyam and Avaniapuram police are questioning the accused as part of further probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/450-arrested-across-state/article36661461.ece
25 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown restrictions eased further||The district administration has allowed owners of commercial establishments to open for business on Sundays by easing the additional restrictions it had imposed a couple of weeks ago. A release from District Collector G.S. Sameeran said the administration was easing the Coimbatore-specific Sunday restrictions it had imposed following increase in COVID-19 vaccination coverage. Sources said the easing of restrictions meant that restaurants, eateries and bakeries could start welcoming walk-in customers, malls, cinemas, places of recreation and gyms could be kept open and all those establishments that were asked to shut shop on Sundays could resume business. Mr. Sameeran said following the two mega vaccination camps on September 12 and 19, the administration had covered over 80% of the eligible population with at least one dose of vaccination. The number worked out to 24.5 lakh. In the release, the Collector said employees in malls, cinemas, liquor shops, markets, textile shops, jewellery shops and other establishments should have had at least the first vaccine and managements, employers should ensure the same. They should also ensure that they allowed customers who had at least taken the first dose of vaccine and create awareness. Wedding hall owners and space providers should pass on details of events that they host to the local revenue officials at least a week prior to the date of the events and ensure that all COVID-19 safety guidelines were being observed at such events. Vigil at border The release said the administration was closely monitoring all check posts at the inter-State border with Kerala to ensure that all visitors to the State had RT-PCR test results that were not older than 72 hours at the time of entry, and this applied to those who had completed two doses of vaccines. While not allowing day scholar students from Kerala to the district, the administration said those who had arrived from Kerala to stay in hostels in the district should quarantine themselves for 10 days after arrival. And, if the students showed symptoms or had tested positive, the hostel management, college or school should inform the nearest primary health centre.  As for markets, the release said markets could function but with only 50% traders or sellers and the Pollachi cattle market was open only for those from within the State.  The administration has covered over 80% of the eligible population with at least one dose of vaccination. G.S. Sameeran, District Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-restrictions-eased-further/article36661508.ece
25 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Applicants’ wait for civic services continues||Around 1,000 applicants are waiting for the Coimbatore Corporation to respond after processing their applications for water connection. As many number of applicants are also waiting for the Corporation to assess their buildings for tax. Sources in the civic body said that sometime in July, the civic body had suspended the process of assessing buildings for property tax, applications for water tax, collecting vacant land tax and approving applications for underground sewer connection. The suspension followed the move to migrate from the Corporation’s own data management system to the Urban Tree Information System, a system adopted by most urban local bodies in the State. The period of migration saw the Corporation also suspend collection of property tax and water charges. After migrating the existing property tax assessments and water connection data to the Urban Tree Information System, the Corporation resumed collecting the two a few weeks ago. However, the wait for applicants for assessing buildings for tax or for water connection or the other civic services continued. The applications were piling up and the civic body seemed to be doing very little to quicken the process, rued P. Muralidharan, a joint secretary of the Coimbatore Corporation Registered Plumbers’ Association. As for water connection, the Corporation had suspended accepting new applications as it was unable to give acknowledgement, generate demand for applicants to pay or process applications where applicants had paid money. M. Ranjithkumar, another joint secretary, said despite representation to officials at various levels, the Corporation had done little to address the issue. His estimate was that at least over 1,000 applications for water connections were pending at the five zonal offices. The impact of the delay was that the plumbers who had moved the applications on the applicants’ behalf were facing the heat. The Corporation sources said the migration of data to the Urban Tree Information System was almost complete. Debugging was going on and in the next few days, the Corporation would be in a position to resume the process for all civic services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applicants-wait-for-civic-services-continues/article36661509.ece
25 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ATR staff boycott work condemning arrest of Forest Range Officer||A day after the arrest of Valparai Forest Range Officer K. Jayachandran, frontline staff of the Forest Department attached to the Pollachi and Tiruppur divisions of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) boycotted work on Friday in protest. Members of the Tamil Nadu Forest Staff Association gathered outside the ATR Pollachi Division office as part of the protest. In a letter addressed to the senior officials of ATR, Association president and Manambolly Forest Range Officer A. Manikandan demanded that a special team should investigate into the registering of “false case” against Mr. Jayachandran and into the alleged lack of safety for the frontline staff of the Forest Department. He said the members would go on an indefinite protest till the demands were met. Mr. Manikandan told The Hindu nearly 250 staff members including forest guards, forest watchers and anti-poaching watchers from the ATR Pollachi and Tiruppur divisions participated in the protest. He demanded that Mr. Jayachandran must be let out on bail at the earliest. According to the police, three persons including the son of a Madras High Court judge were provided accommodation at the Forest Department guest house at Sirukundra on September 21. In the evening, Mr. Jayachandran allegedly had a verbal altercation with the three while being in an inebriated state. Following this, the head clerk of the judicial magistrate court, Valparai, registered a complaint against the Forest Range Officer at Valparai police station. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Thursday, sparking protest from the forest staff. However, sources in the Forest Department claimed that Mr. Jayachandran consumed liquor only after his working hours on Tuesday evening and was attempting to warn the three persons regarding the presence of wild animals. Retired Assistant Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore, and former president of Tamil Nadu Forest Staff Association M. Nazir on Friday wrote to the Chief Wildlife Warden and to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest urging “action at the earliest for justice and staff welfare” in this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atr-staff-boycott-work-condemning-arrest-of-forest-range-officer/article36661503.ece
25 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Traders expect brisk sales this festival season||With the retail sector stepping into the festival season, traders here are hopeful of good business this year. The government has relaxed lockdown restrictions and in Coimbatore, the Sunday lockdown has been lifted. So sales should be normal across sectors, they say. According to the president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, M. Balasubramanian, retail trade is seeing signs of revival and expects sales to pick up now. “We do not anticipate major health threats as a large number of people are vaccinated and businesses are following all the safety protocols,” he says. The retailers have suffered financial crunch because of the lockdown and they cannot afford any large-scale discounts or special offers. They need cash liquidity to sustain businesses, he adds. B. Sabarinath, president of Coimbatore Jewellers Association, says jewellery retail sales picks up for festival season after Navarathri and goes on for a couple of months. Usually, sales is low during the Tamil month of Puratasi as there are no weddings. This year too it is dull. But traders had seen brisk sales after the lockdown restrictions were relaxed and expect good sales during the festival season too. “All factors are favourable for good sales,” he adds. A press release from Amazon India said it saw 70 % growth year-on-year in the consumer electronics category in Coimbatore. Ahead of the festival season, Amazon India was expanding its consumer electronics portfolio. Customers were also using different finance options to make purchases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-expect-brisk-sales-this-festival-season/article36661513.ece
25 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||31 secured in preventive arrest||A total 31 persons were secured in preventive arrest by the police during the storming operations against history-sheeters held in Coimbatore district. Police sources said that 10 persons involved in various criminal cases were secured by the City Police during the operation that commenced at 10 p.m. Thursday and ended at 5 a.m. Friday. As many as 113 lodges and other locations in the city were searched. The police teams interrogated 50 murder case accused and recorded the fingerprints of 40 accused for further investigation. Coimbatore District (Rural) Police searched 98 lodges and secured 21 persons in preventive arrest during the storming operation. In Tiruppur, the city police searched 120 locations from 6 p.m. Thursday to 6 a.m. Friday and secured seven persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/31-secured-in-preventive-arrest/article36661515.ece
25 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Stay away from criminal activities’||Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district, S. Selvanagarathinam cautioned youths who were involved in various crimes as minors to not become repeat offenders and to stay away from criminal activities for the sake of their families, at a rehabilitation camp held at the Police Recruits School grounds here on Friday. A press release said that Mr. Selvanagarathinam addressed around 100 youths aged between 18 and 21, who had come in conflict with law and were sent to Juvenile Observation Home as minors and have now been released. The educational qualifications and the needs of all the youths were noted down by the police during the event. Job opportunities The SP said that private individuals wishing to fund their education or provide employment opportunities shall do so through the Coimbatore District Police. Additional Superintendent of Police (Special Wing for Crimes Against Women and Children) R. Sughasini also participated in the event, according to the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stay-away-from-criminal-activities/article36661517.ece
25 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life sentence in murder case||The District Mahila Court in Coimbatore sentenced a man to life imprisonment for murdering a woman. Coimbatore District Police said in a statement that Udhayakumar murdered the woman on September 18, 2020. He was subsequently arrested and remanded in judicial custody by the Alandurai police. On Friday, the Court sentenced the accused to life imprisonment and levied a fine of Rs. 2,000. Crimes against women in Coimbatore district shall be reported to the Coimbatore District Police through 94981 81212 and 77081 00100, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-sentence-in-murder-case/article36661518.ece
25 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||IAF Sulur services 100th Dornier aircraft||Air Force Station Sulur said on Friday it achieved a milestone when the 100th Dornier aircraft it serviced rolled out. An Indian Air Force press release said that from a small beginning in 2000, of servicing the force’s Dornier aircraft, the Sulur IAF Base Repair Depot serviced more number of Dornier aircraft every year. Fleet availability The depot achieved this with reduced time-line for each servicing, thereby providing greater fleet availability for the IAF to meet its operational commitments. An event held at the Air Force Station on Friday to mark the feat was presided over by Air Vice Marshal C.R. Mohan, Air Officer Engineering Services from Headquarters Maintenance Command. Dignitaries from other aircraft operating units and Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, and veterans who serviced the first aircraft were present. Key and aircraft log books were handed over to the operating crew by Air Commodore P.K. Sreekumar, Air Officer Commanding of the Base Repair Depot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iaf-sulur-services-100th-dornier-aircraft/article36661504.ece
25 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||3 deaths, 210 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Friday reported 210 new COVID-19 cases, which took the overall tally to 2,41,355. The Health Department reported three new deaths, taking the district’s toll to 2,325. The district had 2,119 active cases and 235 patients were reported to have recovered on Friday. The positivity rate of Coimbatore district as per Thursday’s data was 2%. Tiruppur district reported 98 fresh cases on Friday and the overall tally rose to 92,496. The district’s toll went up to 952 after one new death was reported. The district had 959 active cases and 86 patients had recovered on Friday. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district according to Thursday’s data was 1.7%. The Nilgiris on Friday reported 37 fresh cases, which took the overall tally to 32,535. The district’s COVID-19 toll increased from 196 to 198 on Friday and a total of 343 persons were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-deaths-210-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article36661520.ece
25 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Election preparedness reviewed||Election observer for the ordinary rural local body election 2021 for Coimbatore M. Mathivanan held a meeting with election officials at the Collectorate on Thursday. A release from the district administration said that the observer held the meeting with designated officers tasked with conducting the election to review preparedness and pass on the State Election Commission’s instructions. District Election Officer-cum-Collector G.S. Sameeran, senior police officials and heads of department of District Rural Development Agency, Rural Livelihood Mission and Revenue participated. The officials also inspected the K.G. Matriculation Hr. Sec. School where the counting would be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/election-preparedness-reviewed/article36661510.ece
25 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU trains agriculture officers||Twenty-eight agriculture officers involved in the production and quality control of biofertilisers underwent a two-day training programme at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. A release from the University said the training programme on ‘Recent trends in quality control of biofertilisers’ was conducted by the Department of Agricultural Microbiology on September 23 and 24. Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar inaugurated the training. R. Santhi, Director, Directorate of Natural Resource Management took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-trains-agriculture-officers/article36661511.ece
25 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Meet held for exporters||The Office of the Director General of Foreign Trade, State government and export organisations in Tiruppur organised an exporters meet in Tiruppur on Friday, as part of the nation-wide Trade and Commerce Week programmes that are on. A press release from the Apparel Export Promotion Council said Minister M.P. Saminathan said at the meeting the State government had taken several steps to support the growth of the apparel industry in Tiruppur and would continue to take more measures. It had released an export promotion policy and decided that Tiruppur would be a separate Commercial Tax division. It would also improve Tiruppur city’s infrastructure, he said. A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council and Federation of Indian Export Organisations, said the decision of the State government to constitute a State Export Promotion Committee would benefit exporters across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-held-for-exporters/article36661500.ece
25 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Case against Narain Karthikeyan||The Thondamuthur police in Coimbatore district registered a case against former Formula One racer Narain Karthikeyan on charges of blocking a pathway on an agricultural land owned by another person in a land dispute. According to the police, he and K. Prithvirajkumar (27), a textile businessman from Coimbatore, were owners of agricultural lands at Keel Chithirai Chavadi in Thondamuthur and a case is pending trial at a civil court here regarding an ownership dispute between the two. On September 18, Mr. Karthikeyan allegedly blocked a pathway on Mr. Prithvirajkumar’s land with wired fence, following which the latter allegedly damaged the fence and trespassed into the former’s land. On Thursday, the Thondamuthur police booked the racer under section 339 (Wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code. Based on a counter-complaint by Mr. Karthikeyan’s accountant, Mr. Prithvirajkumar was booked under sections 447 (Punishment for criminal trespass) and 427 (Mischief causing damage) of the IPC, according to the police. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-narain-karthikeyan/article36661501.ece
25 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pending briefly||Nehru Group of Institutions, in association with Kovai Pedallers, organised Mountain Terrain Bike Championship 2021 on September 19 on Palakkad Main Road in Palathurai here. P. Krishna Kumar, CEO of the Institutions, and Director of Kovai Pedallers, said that over 200 school students took part in the championship. The winners were awarded with certificate, medal and cash prize. Commodore Ashok Rai, Commanding Officer, INS Agrani, Coimbatore, flagged off the event. K.S Mohammed Nijamudhin, National Athletic Trainer for Indian Railways, presented the awards to the winners.    Sri GVG Visalakshi College for Women, Udumalpet, on Tuesday organised a session to create awareness among students on competitive examinations. A release said retired Indian Army officer R. Karthick Kumar addressed the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pending-briefly/article36661514.ece
25 September 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Three held in Dindigul murder case||Three suspects in the murder of 59-year-old Dalit woman P. Nirmala Devi were arrested here on Friday. After the woman’s head was left in front of the residence of the late leader Pasupathi Pandian in Dindigul by the killers, the police had formed five teams to nab them. Following a tip-off that some of the suspects were hiding in a location in Chinnalapatti on the Madurai-Dindigul highway, the team rushed to the hideout and secured them. Their names were given as Ayyanar, 21, of Sembatti-Mettupatti, P. Natarajan, 45, of Karattalagampatti (a Devendrakula Vellalar Koottamaippu functionary), and Boopalan, 21, of Sembatti Seevalsiragu. The Thadicombu police have registered a case and produced the three before the Judicial Magistrate court which remanded them to 15 days judicial custody. Another case Meanwhile, in a similar murder case of Stephen, 38, who was also beheaded on September 22 in Dindigul district, the police had formed special teams led by ASP Arun Kabilan. Following some leads, the police were hopeful of catching the suspects soon. Night vigil up Superintendent of Police V. R. Srinivasan told reporters that they had intensified night patrol in vulnerable areas. Apart from heightened vigil at police check posts, special teams were also on the look out for criminal offenders who were wanted in NBW cases. Forty-four people were detained during the storming operation conducted in the district. Even as the police had tightened the vigil, a passenger, Muthu Ganesan, 38, of Ponnamaravathi in Pudukottai district, who was waiting in Dindigul bus stand, suffered cut injuries after he was attacked with knives by two persons in a bid to steal money from him. On seeing the attack, other passengers in the bus stand ran helter-skelter, fearing a major attack. Police pickets have been posted in the bus stand and the injured Muthu Ganesan has been admitted to Government Hospital for treatment. He was working in a hotel in Vedasandur and was waiting to board a bus to go home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-in-dindigul-murder-case/article36661603.ece
25 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme launched in Erode Corporation limits||Initially, 5,235 persons suffering from blood pressure and diabetes in the corporation limits will get benefited by the ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme and other individuals can also register for getting treatment, said S. Muthusamy, Minister for Housing and Urban Development here on Friday. The Minister, in the presence of Collector H. Krishnanunni, E. Thirumagan Evera, MLA, and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, inaugurated the scheme in the corporation limits at Thendral Nagar in Ward 18. He said that under the scheme, health staff would visit the houses and provide treatment to the needy at their residence. Also, the healthcare needs of other family members were also ascertained and necessary steps taken, he added. He said that medical staff would visit the houses of persons aged above 45 and provide medicines for diabetics and blood pressure. Also, children with birth defects were identified and all the medical help for the family was ensured. The Minister said that of the total population of 5,42,530 in the corporation limits, a total of 3,182 persons were having blood pressure, 1,521 diabetes and 532 persons high blood pressure. “Health staff from the primary health centres will visit their households and provide the much-needed medical attention”, he said. Deputy Director of Health Services Somasundaram, Corporation Commissioner Vijayakumar, City Health Officer Prakash and officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/makkalai-thedi-maruthuvam-scheme-launched-in-erode-corporation-limits/article36661614.ece
25 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition of kolu dolls under way at Poompuhar||Ahead of the Navaratri celebrations, a special exhibition-cum-sale of kolu dolls is in progress at the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation’s Poompuhar showroom on Mettur Road here. Kolu sets, dolls made of clay, paper mache, fabric and wood of various sizes and colours from different parts of the State are on display. An array of kolu dolls, both stand alone and sets, were on display at the exhibition. Apart from this, traditional dolls and toys like Kondapalli dolls, Marapachi toys and dolls made of mud are also on display. The prices of dolls range from Rs. 50 to over Rs. 15,000. The showroom is open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. till October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibition-of-kolu-dolls-under-way-at-poompuhar/article36661616.ece
25 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||50 persons arrested||In a storming operation launched in the district on Thursday, the police arrested 13 accused who were absconding, besides 37 rowdies as a precautionary measure. A press release said that the operation was carried out across the district in which 13 rowdies against whom arrest warrants were pending were arrested and sent to prison. Police teams also inspected 288 hotels and marriage halls across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-persons-arrested/article36661618.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Telangana Opposition wants longer Assembly session||Assembly session is likely to be conducted till October 5 though the final decision will be taken after receiving proposals from all political parties. The Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting, chaired by Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy, on Friday discussed the duration and the subjects to be taken up during the session. The State government proposed that the session could be conducted for 8 working days till October. Opposition parties demanded a longer session with at least 20 working days for the people’s issues to be discussed thoroughly. However, the Speaker said he would seek suggestions and proposals from all parties for discussion. A decision on the number of days would be taken based on the proposals. The BAC meeting was attended by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Minister for Legislative Affairs Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Finance Minister T Harish Rao, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, and AIMIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi attended. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said it did not receive invitation for the meeting. According to officials, the government proposed discussion on various subjects like Dalit Bandhu, IT, industries, and agriculture but the focus would on Dalit Bandhu scheme launched recently by the Chief Minister. Four or five bills and ordinances were likely to be placed in the session for members’ approval. The Chief Minister said the government was ready for discussion as long as the opposition members wanted it but they should be confined to issues of public importance, leading to meaningful discussions. He said the Assembly was the platform to take the government’s initiatives to people. The CM apparently suggested drawing up new guidelines for smooth conduct of the session and protocols should be followed strictly. KCR also suggested establishing a club for MLAs like the Constitution Club for Parliament members in New Delhi. He suggested that the Speaker visit the Constitution Club along with Ministers and MLAs, including opposition members, before finalising the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/telangana-opposition-wants-longer-assembly-session/article36661081.ece
25 September 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||State offers protection on hartal day||The State government has assured the Kerala High Court that it would provide adequate security for those who wish to work on Monday, the day on which various trade unions have given a call for a Statewide hartal. The trade unions have called for the hartal in support of the Bharat Bandh called by organisaitons of farmers demanding the scrapping of the newly introduced agricultural laws. The State government on Friday gave the undertaking before the court, which was considering a writ petition filed by Perumutam Radhakrishnan, general secretary, Samastha Nayar Samajam. ‘Illegal hartal’ The petitioner approached the court for declaring the hartal illegal as it violated the Kerala High Court directive that at least 10 days’ notice shall be given for organising such protests. He also sought the intervention of the court to ensure that vehicular movement would not be affected on the day and no one would be forced to participate in the strike. The petitioner pointed out that the State did not participate in the earlier Bharat Bandh called by the farmers on March 26 as the State was in election mode. ‘Forced bandh’ He submitted that the hartal would turn out to be a forced bandh if the court did not issue specific directives to comply with its earlier directives regarding hartals. A Division Bench consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly disposed of the petition considering the submission of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-offers-protection-on-hartal-day/article36661082.ece
25 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for hunting spotted deer||The Krishnagiri forest department arrested two persons on Friday for hunting a male spotted deer. According to forest officials, a team of personnel who were on anti-poaching patrol in the Kallavi reserve forest area nabbed two persons red-handed while they were slaughtering a hunted deer. The accused, Karthikeyan and Sarvanan were daily wagers and a case was registered against them under the Wildlife Protection Act. Forest officials warned of stern action against those indulging in hunting here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-hunting-spotted-deer/article36661610.ece
25 September 2021||KRISHNAGIRI/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Exporters’ meet held in districts||Exporters’ Conclave was held at three districts on Friday to explore the export potential. In Krishnagiri, District Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy inaugurated the event organised by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the District Industries Centre. The conclave was organised on the theme ‘India’s Rising Export Potential in Global Market.’ Addressing the event, the Collector said that the district holds a huge potential for export. Between September 2020 – March 2021, the district had exported goods worth Rs. 1,242 crore, including cut flowers, motorcycles, three-wheelers, granite, pharmaceutical goods and spare parts. He said that 15-16% of total exports from Tamil Nadu was from Krishnagiri. The district stands second in the State in terms of export. In Dharmapuri, District Collector S. Divyadarshini inaugurated the conclave held at the Collectorate. Ms. Divyadarshini said that the district had huge potential for export of agri and agro-based products, plastic goods, engineering products and other items. She added that land acquisition works were progressing for setting up a State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) complex in the district and it would come up along the Salem-Krishnagiri National Highway. She advised business owners to ensure quality in production and to carry out attractive marketing for their products. The Collector distributed cheques to the tune of Rs. 2.91 crore to 12 beneficiaries for setting up businesses. In Namakkal, District Collector Shreya P. Singh launched the programme and said that manufacturers should make use of the conclave to know about export guidelines and become exporters. She added that between September 2020 and March 2021, goods worth Rs. 572.21 crore were exported from the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exporters-meet-held-in-districts/article36661620.ece
25 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bar Council told to enroll lawyer who took part in agitations||Coming to the aid of a lawyer who had participated in the anti-Sterlite agitations, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to enrol him as an advocate on its roll. The Court was hearing the petition filed by K. Siva. After completing law degree from the Tirunelveli Government Law College, he applied to the State Bar Council to enroll as an advocate. The application was sent for police verification. Following the police verification, the petitioner was told that there were more than 80 criminal cases against him. He was not called for enrollment and was orally informed that unless he obtained a Court order, he would not be permitted to be enrolled. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar observed that the right to freedom of speech and expression and the right to assemble peaceably and without arms are fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution. “Moreover, every citizen has a right to comment on the policies of the government and they can have their own views on such policies. The petitioner took part in the protests raising voice against the policies of the government,” the judges said. Status reports Perusing the status reports submitted to the court by Superintendents of Police, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli and Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli, the judges observed that though the said involvement of the petitioner in the cases was listed out, he was not named in the FIRs. “Nowhere was it stated that the petitioner was involved in heinous crimes or in anti-national- or anti-social activities. The cases were referred to the CBI for investigation. The petitioner was not included in the first final report or in the supplementary charge sheet.” “The Court was at a loss to understand as to how the State Bar Council relied on police reports alone without getting any report from the CBI and without resorting to any enquiry declined his enrollment,” the judges said. The duties of the State in protecting the environment are basically the rights of the people. In one of the cases, he was said to have raised slogans by holding banners along with other law students. The protest was towards fulfillment of a fundamental duty. “The Court has no hesitation to hold that the enrollment of the petitioner as an advocate was unjustly being denied.” The Court directed the State Bar Council to enroll the petitioner as an advocate on the roll of the Bar Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bar-council-told-to-enrol-lawyer-who-took-part-in-agitations/article36661589.ece
25 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Granite Sivalingam unearthed||A granite Sivalingam was unearthed in Airavathanallur near Teppakulam on Thursday. It was found by Public Works Department staff when they were digging the ground for drainage work. Measuring 2.5 feet in height, the Sivalingam was handed over to Government Museum Curator M. Maruthupandian. The Sivalingam, said to belong between the 10th and the 11th centuries, is now for public display in the museum on Gandhi Memorial Museum campus. According to Mr. Maruthupandian, stone idol worshipping started after Sangam Age. The Sivalingam could be from an ancient temple of Pandyas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/granite-sivalingam-unearthed/article36661798.ece
25 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspended Inspector of Police moves High Court seeking bail in extortion case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court sought a status report from the State on the bail petition filed by suspended Inspector of Police S. Vasanthi, who has been booked for extorting Rs. 10 lakh from a tailor. Justice B. Pugalendhi sought the status report on the progress made in the investigation. Earlier, the court, taking into account the serious nature of the offence, had dismissed the anticipatory bail petition filed by Vasanthi. The tailor, K. Asrath, had lodged a complaint with the police alleging that his bag containing Rs. 10 lakh which he had borrowed from some sources for setting up a tailoring unit was snatched from him by the accused. Taken for inquiry When he was waiting in a lodge to raise more money, other accused in the case offered to help him. Suddenly, Inspector Vasanthi arrived at the spot, took the bag and asked them to appear for an inquiry, it was said. The case of the prosecution was that Vasanthi intercepted Asrath, took away the bag that contained the money and refused to return it. It was said that she also intimidated him. A case was booked based on the complaint preferred by Mr. Asrath. Vasanthi denied the allegations, saying she received secret information from one Pandiaraj regarding exchange of fake currency notes. Based on the information she arrived at the spot and seized two bags, she said. ‘No cash in bag’ However, the bags contained only newspapers, documents and dresses, she said. With no incriminating materials available, she said, she let them go. She said she was falsely implicated in the case. The other accused in the case are Pandiaraj, Palpandi, Ukkirapandi and Karthik. They have been remanded in judicial custody. Vasanthi was nabbed by a special team from a lodge in Kotagiri in the Nilgiris district. Earlier, the bail petition filed before the Principal District and Sessions Judge was dismissed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-inspector-of-police-moves-high-court-seeking-bail-in-extortion-case/article36661609.ece
25 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||More DPCs will be opened: Minister||Minister for Registration and Commercial Taxes P. Moorthy has said direct purchase centres (DPC) opened by the government would procure paddy only from farmers in the particular village or taluk. Speaking after opening a DPC at Arumbanoor in Madurai East constituency on Friday, he said following requests from farmers, the administration would open more DPCs after examining the modalities. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar said there was no target for opening the DPCs, and depending on the requirement, they would be considered. Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation officials said they had already opened the DPCs in areas where harvest was going on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-dpcs-will-be-opened-minister/article36661795.ece
25 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw move to privatise PSUs’||Opposing the moves of the railway administration, the employees affiliated to the Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union here staged a demonstration in front of the eastern entrance of Madurai Railway Junction on Friday. Led by R. Sankara Narayanan, divisional secretary of the union, the members shouted slogans against the Union government. Demanding the government to withdraw the moves to privatise public sector undertakings, to drop the new pension scheme, to stop handing over rail coaches, railway stations, railway playgrounds to private sector among others, they urged the MPs to save the PSUs in larger public interest. By handing over the profit-making PSUs to some private sector, it showed the hidden agenda of the government. The railways should immediately issue orders to all the kalasis who were appointed in 2009 as substitutes and give them orders as technicians, they demanded. They also urged the administration to abolish the ceiling fixed for issuance of bonus to the railway employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-move-to-privatise-psus/article36661796.ece
25 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 128.85 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 316 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 54.49 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 888 cusecs and a discharge of 1,669 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,907 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36661594.ece
25 September 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Concern over start of work for new refinery in Nagapattinam district||The Anti-Methane Project Movement has raised concern over the start of work on the new refinery and petrochemical project by Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL), along with Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL), in Nagapattinam district Work on installation of a 9 MMTPA (Nine million metric tonnes per annum) grass root refinery project at an estimated investment of Rs. 31,580 crore began after Chief Minister M K Stalin had handed over the order for the acquisition of 606 acres of land parcel adjoining the existing refinery site to S M Vaidya, Chairman, IOCL, in the presence of Arvind Kumar, MD, CPCL, earlier this month. The new refinery will produce petrol and diesel of Bharat Stage-VI specifications and polypropylene as a value-added product. ‘The permission granted by the State Government for the project is shocking since the second phase of the project envisages ramping up the capacity to 15 MMPTA. Land acquisition to the extent of 1,338 acres has been planned in Panagudi, Gopurajapuram, Muttam, Narimanam and Uttamacholapuram,’ T. Jayaraman, chief coridnator, Anti-Methane Project Movement, said ‘Declaration of Cauvery delta as a Protected Agricultural Zone implies that neither onshore nor offshore exploratory drilling can be permitted in the river basin. Allowing the project defies logic and justification,’ Prof. Jayaraman said wondering where from will the crude oil be sourced for the mega project. “The coastal stretch was also a part of the Cauvery basin. Permitting ONGC and Vedanta to extract oil from offshore exploratory wells will deprive livelihood for nine lakh fishermen all along the coastal stretch of the State,” he apprehended, cautioning that the fishers will face the ignominy of being chased away from the coastal area. Also, the cultivable areas will be acquired forcefully for the CPCL expansion project; the project has to be scrapped, he said. The previous regime had withdrawn its consent for the PCPIR (Petroleum, Chemicals and Petrochemicals Investment Region) in Cuddalore, that had been planned on an expanse of 57,345 acres covering 45 villages. Likewise, the CPCL expansion project must also be cancelled in view of the destruction it would cause to the Cauvery basin, he emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-start-of-work-for-new-refinery-in-nagapattinam-district/article36661565.ece
25 September 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Sapling planting drive launched||Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan launched the plantation of 1.16 lakh saplings on a single day in the district on Friday. The Minister launched the drive as part of district administration scheme ‘Our Namakkal Green Namakkal’. Under the scheme, the district administration plans to plant 10 lakh saplings during the year. Dr. Mathiventhan launched the scheme at Kurukapuram panchayat in the presence of Namakkal MP A.K.P. Chinraj, District Collector Shreya P. Singh and other officials. Saplings measuring over 4ft in height were chosen for the project and the trees wouldn’t require much maintenance, officials said. The saplings were native varieties, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sapling-planting-drive-launched/article36661623.ece
25 September 2021||PALANI,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in bus-lorry collision||Three passengers were killed when a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus and a lorry collided near here on Friday. Police said that the bus, proceeding from Palani to Coimbatore, collided head-on with the lorry at Thalayuthu. In the collision, three passengers died on the spot and 20 others, including lorry driver Rajesh, suffered multiple injuries. Saminathapuram police rushed to the spot and transported the injured to Palani Government Hospital. Of the three passengers who were killed, two have been identified as Manikandan Prabhu of Pollachi and Ukkirapandi of Puliankulam off Kariapatti near Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district. The identity of the third passenger is yet to be established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-bus-lorry-collision/article36661566.ece
25 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre seeks report on new Assembly complex||The Ministry of Home Affairs has sought a detailed project report from the territorial administration to sanction funds for the construction of a new integrated Assembly-cum-administrative complex for the Union Territory. In response to a letter written by Speaker R. Selvam to the MHA, seeking funds to the tune of Rs. 300 crore for the complex, Under Secretary to the Union government Anita Saini wrote to the Chief Secretary on September 20, asking the government to furnish further details about the project. “It is requested that a detailed justification on the proposal of the government seeking Special Central Assistance of Rs. 300 crore, in two instalments (Rs. 200 crore in the financial year 2021-22 and Rs. 100 crore in 2022-23 for the construction of new integrated Assembly-cum-administrative complex) in Thattanchavady, in Oulgaret Municipality limits, be furnished to the Ministry for taking further action in the matter,” the letter said. DPR work The Speaker’s letter was forwarded by the Chief Minister, the MHA official said. The government will now call for a consultant to prepare a detailed project report to be submitted for funding. The government plans to construct the complex to accommodate the Assembly and offices for the Chief Minister, Ministers and legislators. It will also accommodate the Chief Secretariat. Land for the complex is already in the possession of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-seeks-report-on-new-assembly-complex/article36661585.ece
25 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai asks Jipmer to put order restricting free treatment on hold||Even as Jipmer’s move to restrict free treatment, including out-patient services, investigations and implants, to patients holding below poverty line (BPL) ration cards from any State drew flak from various parties, Lieutenant-Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday directed the institution to put the proposal on hold. As per a recent circular issued by Jipmer, only those with a monthly income not exceeding Rs. 2,499 — the income limit adopted by the Puducherry government — and with BPL ration cards from any State, will qualify for free treatment from October 1. “It has been decided by the competent authority that free treatment, including the out-patient department, investigations and implant treatment, will be provided to all patients who have BPL ration cards from any State. To avail free treatment, patients have to bring the BPL ration card issued by their State,” the circular issued by the Jipmer medical superintendent said. It stated that the decision would take effect on October 1, and thereafter, no other proof of income would be accepted. Even as the circular, widely seen as restricting the scope of free treatment, led to an outcry, the Lt. Governor directed the Health Secretary to inquire into the matter and asked Jipmer to maintain status quo in its treatment policy in the meantime. Demanding revocation of the Jipmer order, MP (Villupuram) D. Ravikumar said the proposal betrayed the institution’s motive to charge those without BPL ration cards. The DMK also flayed the move and threatened to launch protests if the order was not withdrawn. Leader of the Opposition and DMK convenor (south) R. Siva said the circular was issued at a time when the common man was severely hit by COVID-19 and was struggling to meet treatment costs. He said ever since the BJP-led NDA had come to power at the Centre, Puducherry was being “deceived in various ways”. Jipmer clarifies Jipmer has clarified that the proposal is meant only to streamline documentation to facilitate treatment for the poor and render seamless access to the most sophisticated inpatient treatment without the need for any additional testimonials. In a press note, Jipmer said access to some advanced and costly investigations, interventions and treatment are provided free of cost, as per government rules, only to those living below the poverty line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-asks-jipmer-to-put-order-restricting-free-treatment-on-hold/article36661882.ece
25 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 94 fresh infections||The Union Territory reported no fatality due to COVID-19 on Friday, even as it logged 94 fresh infections. As many as 107 people were discharged after treatment. Puducherry accounted for 65 cases, detected from 4,836 tests, followed by Karaikal (25) and Mahe (4). No new case was reported in Yanam for the second day in a row. The test positivity rate stood at 1.94%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.78%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-94-fresh-infections/article36661880.ece
25 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer clarifies on circular||Responding to the row over its circular, Jipmer has clarified that the proposal is meant only to streamline documentation to facilitate treatment for the poor and render seamless access to the most sophisticated inpatient treatment without the need for any additional testimonials. In a press note, Jipmer said access to some advanced and costly investigations, interventions and treatment are provided free of cost, as per government rules, only to those living below the poverty line. Under the existing system, patients needing these services are often forced to go back to their place of domicile to get income certificate because such certificates have a short validity. Further, the income limit for such benefits varies across States, leading to confusion whether a particular income is considered eligible for such specific treatments. This poses a lot of discomfort to the patients and their family members, and sometimes also leads to delay in treatment. The new proposal is designed to avoid these problems by documenting the ‘below the poverty line’ status of new patients at one time i.e., during the initial registration, and recording the certificate details in the hospital’s system. This will allow patients who need prolonged treatment to avail themselves of the services that need such certification without interruptions and without having to go back to their native place repeatedly to get an income certificate. “It is explicitly clarified that free treatment to poor patients shall continue to be provided by Jipmer. Furthermore, it is clarified that at present, almost all OPD patients are being treated free of cost, including the provision of drugs by the pharmacy and the routine laboratory tests and x-rays, and this shall continue,” the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jipmer-clarifies-on-circular/article36661885.ece
25 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PM -JAY award for Union Territory||Puducherry has bagged the top award in the Best Performing State/Union Territory category for the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM - JAY), featuring the highest proportion of households with at least one card as a percentage of the population. The award was presented at a virtually-hosted Ayushman Bharat Divas as part of Arogya Manthan 3.0, a celebration of the third anniversary of the Government of India’s flagship programme under the auspices of the National Health Authority. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya gave away the Ayushman Utkrishta Puraskaar awards to the best performing AB PM - JAY States/Union Territories for efficient implementation of the scheme across various categories. The award was presented virtually by the Union Health Minister to Health Secretary T. Arun. Participating dignitaries included Bharti Pawar, Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare; Vinod Paul, Member, Niti Aayog, Rajesh Bhushan, Health & Family Welfare Secretary; R.S. Sharma, CEO, National Health Authority; and Vipul Aggarwal, Deputy CEO. According to a press note, the period considered for the award was October 1, 2020 to August 31, 2021. Puducherry had 51% of households with at least one AB PM - JAY card during this period. As of now, the Union Territory has 84% households with at least one AB PM - JAY card. The State Health Agency is the implementing agency for AB PM - JAY.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pm-jay-award-for-union-territory/article36661881.ece
25 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Detour planned for runway extension||With INS Parundhu, the Indian Naval Air Station at Uchipuli near here, objecting to the present rail alignment between Valantharavai and Uchipuli railway stations for extension of its runway, Southern Railway is planning a detour, General Manager John Thomas said. Talking to reporters here on Friday, Mr. Thomas said that INS Parundhu denied permission to take up electrification work between Valantharavai and Uchipuli. With the proposal to open the defence airfield for civilian traffic under UDAN scheme, the railway has been asked to realign the tracks to facilitate the runway extension work, said Divisional Railway Manager, P. Ananth. Stating that the new alignment had not been finsalised, Mr. Thomas said that it needed consultation with the State government as the realignment would warrant land acquisition. When his attention was drawn to the long-pending demand of resuming Madurai-Rameswaram passenger train service, he said that the proposal was pending with the Railway Board. “Indian Railway has not resumed passenger services under the COVID-19 condition. In few places they are run as unreserved express trains. Only when we come out of the pandemic situation, we can resume passenger train services,” Mr. Thomas said. The detailed project report (DPR) for Dhanushkodi rail link project had been submitted and work would start upon getting sanction, Mr. Thomas added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/detour-planned-for-runway-extension/article36661599.ece
25 September 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Old Pamban rail bridge stability issue set right||All the stability issues with the century-old Pamban rail bridge have been set right and rail traffic can continue on it till the new bridge under construction is commissioned, said Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas. After inspecting the old bridge and new bridge under construction along with Madurai Divisional Railway Manager P. Ananth here on Friday, Mr. Thomas said that railway officials had attended to the stability problems in the old bridge, detected by the continuous health monitoring system (CHMS) installed in the bridge by Indian Institute of Technology-Madras. Officials led by Chief Engineer (Bridges), along with the DRM, attended to the problems, Mr. Thomas said. The officials had done some improvement to the CHMS too to obviate suspension of traffic on the bridge.  For 100 years Replying to a question, Mr. Thomas said that the new bridge under construction by Railway Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) would also have a life-span for 100 years like the old bridge. “While the old bridge has a speed restriction of 10 kmph, the maximum speed on the new bridge will be 80 kmph,” he said. Around 50% of the work on the new bridge across the sea, to link Rameswaram island with the mainland, is expected to be completed by next March, the target set by the Prime Minister’s Office, he said. Chief Bridge Engineer Sumeet Singhal and Chief Project Manager (RVNL) B. Kamalakara Reddy were present.  Quantum leap Speed restriction on old bridge is 10 kmph Maximum speed on new bridge will be 80 kmph||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/old-pamban-rail-bridge-stability-issue-set-right/article36661593.ece
25 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes Salem, Erode||Heavy rain lashed Salem from the late hours of Thursday to Friday morning, inundating several residential areas. According to officials, an average rainfall of 24.33 mm was recorded in Salem on Friday. The highest amount of rainfall of 105 mm was recorded at P.N.Palayam. Sankari received 87 mm rainfall, Attur 61 mm, Yercaud 41 mm, Mettur 28.8 mm, Salem 15.7 mm, Kariyakovil 10 mm, Edappadi 9.4 mm, Gangavalli 5 mm and Aanaimaduvu received 2mm rainfall. Rainwater stagnated at residential areas in Alagapuram, Gorimedu and a few other places in the district, causing inconvenience to the public. The residents demanded measures to prevent rainwater stagnation. Due to continuous rain, landslide occurred along the 13th hairpin bend on Yercaud Ghat Road and traffic was affected for nearly one hour. Water level at Mettur dam was 73.68ft against a total scale of 120ft. The storage was 35,946 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 9,561 cusecs. The discharge into River Cauvery was 7,000 cusecs and discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 800 cusecs. Widespread rainfall in Erode district on Thursday night brought down the temperature on Friday. Many areas in the district received rainfall that led to stagnation of water at many places on Perundurai Road, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road and on the outskirts. The district received a total rainfall of 238.4 mm. Rainfall recorded at various places were Elanthakuttai 45.4 mm, Kavundapadi 35 mm, Chennimalai 31 mm, Gobichettipalayam 29.6 mm, Varattupallam 25.2 mm, Bhavani 17 mm, Gunderipallam 13.4 mm and Bhavani 17 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-salem-erode/article36661622.ece
25 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Preventive measures reviewed||District Collector S. Karmegham reviewed the COVID-19 preventive measures in schools here on Thursday. Chief Education Officer R. Murugan, district education officials, school principals and others took part in the meeting and reviewed containment measures at schools. Mr. Karmegham advised teachers to take measures for the mental and physical well-being of students. Teachers were told to encourage parents through students to get vaccinated. They should guide students for educational loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preventive-measures-reviewed/article36661625.ece
25 September 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK cadre clash||Factional politics in All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Virudhunagar district came to the fore once again when cadres clashed while giving reception to party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami here on Friday. Sattur Town police have registered two different cases and have booked several persons, including former Minister and party Virudhunagar West district secretary K. T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, under various Sections of Indian Penal Code. The police said that Mr. Bhalaji, former Minister R. B. Udhayakumar, party Virudhunagar East district secretary K. Ravichandran, former Sattur MLA M. S. R. Rajavarman, along with the cadre, hosted a reception to the former Chief Minister. Mr. Palaniswami was proceeding to Tenkasi for rural local body election campaign. As his convoy started to leave, someone shouted a slogan against Mr. Bhalaji, following which his supporters and Mr. Ravichandran indulged in verbal abuses and fisticuffs. Police personnel and senior party men pacified them. Based on the complaint of Ramalingapuram branch secretary Verovureddi, Sattur Town police have registered a case against Mr. Bhalaji and several of his supporters for using abusive language, assault and criminal intimidation. The police have registered a case against party Sattur East union secretary Shanmugakani, based on a complaint lodged by party town secretary Elangovan for assault and abuse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-cadre-clash-in-sattur/article36661577.ece
25 September 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||INTUC man held||The CB-CID police have arrested Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) State general secretary Kalanjiam in connection with a robbery case registered in Sivaganga district in 2019. Sai Chidambaram, who runs a textile mill in Nachiapuram near Tirupattur, had lodged a complaint with the police that machinery worth Rs. 2 crore was missing from the mill. Later three persons were arrested. The complainant moved the Madras High Court seeking a specific direction to probe the issue. The court had directed the CB-CID police to probe. Investigations revealed that Kalanjiam, who was working in the textile mill, had played a role in the crime. The team conducted a search on his premises and seized Rs. 13 lakh in cash. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robbery-intuc-functionary-held/article36661595.ece
25 September 2021||Staff Reporter,TAMIL NADU||Symposium held||Arya Vaidya Pharmacy (Coimbatore) Limited conducted a symposium from September 16 to 23 to mark the first death anniversary of its former managing director P.R. Krishnakumar. A release said that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan attended the virtual valedictory event and released a documentary on the Ayurveda doyen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/symposium-held/article36661499.ece
25 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Commotion at grievance meet||There was commotion during the monthly farmers grievances meeting held here on Friday when a group of farmers from Pottalankudikadu demanded justice for an individual farmer. It all began with around 15 farmers shouted slogans against the officials when the meeting, chaired by Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, was going on. Led by Thamizhaga Puratchikara Vivasayigal Sangam’s chief coordinator, M.Pugazhendi, they alleged that the official apathy towards the problems faced by an individual farmer, Thiruvengadam of Pottalankudikadu in Orathanadu taluk, had pushed the latter and his family into penury. Claiming that the paddy cultivated by Thiruvengadam on a six-acre land was not harvested during the last season as the ‘public path’ to access his field remained under encroachment. Repeated pleas to the revenue and other concerned departments had failed to evoke any response and he was not able to take up paddy cultivation this season, they said. They insisted that this issue be heard and solved first and then the grievances of others could be heard by the Collector and continued to raise slogans demanding justice for the affected farmer. They withdrew their agitation after they were pacified by the farmers of other taluks and Collector who assured that the problem would be solved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commotion-at-grievance-meet/article36661561.ece
25 September 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Food Park to be established in Thoothukudi’||The ‘Food Park’ proposal, which is gathering dust for more than a decade after it was announced by the DMK government during its previous tenure, will be realised soon, Member of Parliament Kanimozhi has said. Inaugurating the ‘Exporters’ Conclave’ here on Friday, Ms. Kanimozhi said the DMK government, which was keen on taking Tamil Nadu to the next level in the industrial growth, had signed MoUs recently for creating over 41,000 jobs. More proposals were in the pipeline for taking the State to the first place from its third spot in industrial growth, she said. Thoothukudi, which was advantageously located with seaport, airport and rail connectivities, was all set to get its cent per cent export-oriented furniture park in the SIPCOT Industrial Estate. The district would also have its mini-Tidel Park, as announced in the State Budget, she said. The problems being encountered by the entrepreneurs of SIPCOT Industrial Estate would be weeded-out as promised by the Minster for Industries. The ‘Food Park’ proposal, which was mooted by the DMK government during its earlier tenure, would be realised in near future, Ms. Kanimozhi said. Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan, District Revenue Officer Kannapiraan, Tirunelveli District Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Gunasingh Chelladurai, General Manager of District Industries Centre A. Swarnalatha, and others spoke at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-park-to-be-set-up-in-thoothukudi/article36661579.ece
25 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ostracised villagers want to be back in the mainstream||At least 50 persons, ostracised many years ago by their families and village elders for marrying outside their caste, live outside their village at Echampatti near Thirupanjili in Tiruchi district. Some have submitted a representation to the Collector seeking official intervention to return. Life has not been easy for the villagers, most of them from intermediate caste, hailing from Echampatti who chose to marry outside their caste. P. Soundararajan, now a 65-year-old man, was thrown out of his village for marrying Kamalam, a resident of Thirupanjili, the nearby village in 1977.  “My father asked me to leave and never return. With my son, who was three years at the time, we took refuge in Thirupanjili,” he said. The son is now 45 years old and has three children. The son and his family too, are not allowed to enter the village. ‘My son's wedding was held without the participation of my siblings or my parents. It is a painful way to live,’ he said. Mr. Soundararajan was not allowed to conduct the last rites of his mother. He fought with the village elders and, in the end, had to conduct the rituals alone. ‘We had to bring the priests, parai artistes and everyone else from nearby villages and paid them twice the money,’ he said. His siblings, uncles and other relatives too, do not keep in touch. Like him, 50 others have been expelled from the village. While many live on the outskirts of the village, some have moved away to other districts in search of a better living. Their main contention is that they are not allowed to offer prayers at the temple in the village. ‘If the village elders allow us to enter the temple, soon others will allow us to enter their houses,’ Kamalam said. Along with Soundararajan, four other men submitted a petition to the Collector seeking his intervention in the matter and allowing their inclusion in the annual temple festival and other social events in August. Following this, an enquiry was ordered and the panchayat president and other elders were warned. ‘The panchayat leaders said that they would include them in the temple festival and the festival was held last week with no complaints. We have warned the panchayat president that if any complaint is filed, the consequences would be severe,’ Manachanallur Tahsildar, Shaktivel Murugan said. These villagers, however, do not believe it. ‘They promised that they would include us so that the temple festival could be conducted smoothly. Now things have gone back to the way they were,’ Mr. Soundararajan alleged. They, however, took part in the festival for the first time in 45 years, and that has given them some solace. ‘We need to wait and watch. My brother ignored me at the festival too. We hope that the step we took will bring change at least for our grandchildren,’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ostracised-villagers-want-to-be-back-in-the-mainstream/article36661568.ece
25 September 2021||TIRuchi,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against four||The Tiruchi Rural Police conducted a storming operation from Thursday evening to Friday evening on the instruction of the Director General of Police against anti-social elements. A total number of 150 rowdy elements were enquired by the police teams to determine if they were in possession of arms and if there were any accomplices along with them. A press release said during the operation a case was registered against four persons who had unlawfully assembled with sharp weapons at Koppu in Somarasampet police station limits with the intention to commit crimes. They were inquired and the weapons in their possession were seized. The four were accomplices of a history sheeter by name Gopi. Madurai Special teams of police officers and personnel across the southern districts conducted storming operation in which 174 “anti-social elements” were arrested and 201 weapons including machetes ( aruval) were seized from them, said Inspector General of Police (south zone) T S Anbu in Madurai on Friday. The Director General of Police Sylendra Babu had instructed the police to conduct combing operations in the respective districts/cities and secure “wanted” accused in grave crimes and enforce law and order, police officers in south zone said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cast-registered-against-four/article36661573.ece
25 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Explore avenues for export of products, entrepreneurs told||Entrepreneurs were exposed to opportunities available for export of locally made products at exporters conclaves organised in the districts by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade in association with the respective District Industries Centres on Friday.  In Tiruchi, the focus was on opportunities for export of value-added products of banana, a widely grown fruit in the region, and engineering goods as Tiruchi has built a reputation as major fabrication hub in the country. Collector S.Sivarasu urged entrepreneurs to leverage the government schemes to explore avenues for export of their products. He released a handbook on the government schemes and subsidies available for micro small and medium industries and distributed subsidy components sanctioned to five entrepreneurs under the New Entrepreneurs cum Enterprise Development Scheme. TIDITSSIA president P.Rajappa, BHELSIA President, Rajappa Rajkumar, entrepreneurs and officials spoke. Perambalur Collector P.Sri Venkada Priya said that assistance would be extended to artisans engaged in wood carving in Arumbavur and for producing value-added products from millets. She inaugurated an exhibition of locally made products. In Nagapattinam, Collector Arun Thamburaj called upon entrepreneurs to tap the full scope for export of marine products. A.K.S.Vijayan, Tamil Nadu Government’s Special Representative in New Delhi addressed the event. Similar events were held in Ariyalur, Tiruvarur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explore-avenues-for-export-of-products-entrepreneurs-told/article36661562.ece
25 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Defence civilian staff to observe protest||Expressing dismay over what they described as the misguiding poster advertisement, published by the Department of Defence Production, depicting the portrait of Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicating seven new defence companies to the nation, trade unions representing defence civilian employees have decided to observe black day on October 1. Employees in Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, and the High Energy Projectile Factory will be joining their counterparts in the defence production units across the country to register their protest. The 76,000 defence civilian employees of ordnance factories and Ordnance Factory Board Headquarters will observe black day and boycott lunch to convey protest against the clubbing of 41 ordnance factories into seven non-viable corporations,’ C. Srikumar, general secretary of All India Defence Employees Federation, said. All employees belonging to the AIDEF, Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, Confederation of Defence Recognised Associations, National Progressive Defence Employees Federation, and All India Bahujan Defence Employees Federation, will be taking part in the protest. The government has splintered the 220 years old ordnance factories. Instead of telling the truth to the nation, the DDP has published a false and misguiding poster and that too using the photograph of the Prime Minister. “We protest against this misguiding poster and request you to kindly withdraw the same immediately so as to rectify the mistake,” a letter sent by the trade unions to the Secretary of Defence Production, New Delhi, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/defence-civilian-staff-to-observe-protest/article36661560.ece
25 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rly. workshop makes pet bottle shredder machines||The Golden Rock Railway Workshop here has been asked to manufacture pet bottle shredder machines for installation in railway stations in the Southern Railway zone. It has commenced the task to manufacture 51 pet bottle shredder machines to prevent littering of bottles and keep the station environment neat and clean. The workshop has so far dispatched 17 machines to Tiruchi, Madurai, Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram railway divisions. The machines would also be installed at railway coaching depots. The shredders have begun to be installed at various stations. The shredders have been designed and fabricated at the workshop and its cost was less than the one which were available in the open market. The machine which works on electricity can take two empty pet bottles at a time and shred them into pieces which could be used for recycling. A senior railway official said the Palakkad Railway Division has planned to purchase 11 machines. Five out of them have been received for installation at various stations in that division, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rly-workshop-makes-pet-bottle-shredder-machines/article36661564.ece
25 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Five surrender in Tiruchi||Five persons surrendered before a Judicial Magistrate Court here on Friday in connection with the murder of P. Nirmala Devi, an accused in the 2012 Pasupathi Pandian murder case. Nirmala Devi was beheaded by an armed gang near Chettinayakanpatti in Dindigul district on Wednesday. Nirmala Devi was the fifth accused in the murder of Devendrakula Vellalar Koottamaipu leader Pasupathi Pandian. Judicial custody The police sources said the five persons surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate Court IV, which remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-surrender-in-tiruchi/article36661605.ece
25 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK hoodwinked voters by making false promises’||The DMK, which hoodwinked people with attractive but false election promises in a bid to return to power, is unable to fulfil its electoral promises and cannot cheat the people any more, said Opposition leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami here on Friday. Addressing a party workers’ meeting in Palayamkottai, he said, “the people have realised that the DMK has cheated them and are agitated over its failure to fulfil its 500-odd poll promises. They will never support the DMK in the upcoming rural body polls and all the elections to be held in the future too.” The former Chief Minister came down heavily on the DMK for giving the students a “fake promise” on scrapping NEET. The AIADMK, which was also against NEET, ensured 7.50% reservation for government school students in medical admission and it resulted in 435 government school students getting into medical colleges in 2020, whereas the number dropped to eight when NEET was introduced. Conditions On the DMK’s jewel loan waiver promise, he said the party had now gone back on its promise by incorporating “new unrealistic” conditions and was unable to execute its promise of giving Rs. 1,000 as monthly incentive to the housewives, scrapping educational loans and loans given to the women self-help groups and Rs. 100 as the LPG subsidy. BJP state vice-president and Tirunelveli MLA Nainar Nagenthran while addressing the meeting said he, as a former AIADMK man, was keen on the growth and the well-being of the AIADMK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-hoodwinked-voters-by-making-false-promises/article36661581.ece
25 September 2021||TIRUPATTUR,TAMIL NADU||21-year-old set to become president of tribal village||Braving the odds, 21-year-old P. Indumathi is all set to become the president of the Nayakkaneri village panchayat near Ambur in Tirupattur district, as she was the lone candidate to file nomination for the post from her village. The district administration is expected to declare her winner at 3 p.m on Saturday. District officials said the time limit for the withdrawal of nomination by candidates for the forthcoming local body elections would end at 3 p.m on Saturday. Once the deadline is over, candidates who are alone in the fray will be declared winners. For the 354 village panchayat president posts in Madhanur panchayat union, including Nayakkaneri, 1,080 nominations were filed. Not the only one Indumathi is not alone in being the lone contestant, especially for village panchayat president posts. Around 10 such posts are being contested by only one candidate in the Madhanur block. “If the candidates do not withdraw their papers, they will be declared winners,” Mr. Durai, BDO (Madhanur), told The Hindu . Police protection Ms. Indumathi is currently under police protection after she filed her nomination despite objections from fellow villagers. The villagers have been protesting against the post being reserved for Scheduled Caste women. No nominations have been filed for the 9 ward posts in the Nayakkaneri panchayat. If elected panchayat president, Ms. Indumathi would have to run the panchayat without any elected ward members.  If elected panchayat president, Ms. Indumathi would have to run the panchayat without any elected ward members||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-year-old-set-to-become-president-of-tribal-village/article36661948.ece
25 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for murder||The Dharapuram police arrested five persons on charges of murdering a man and attempting to murder his son due to previous enmity. A release said that a gang attacked Marimuthu (40), his son Madankumar (22) and their car driver Murugan (40) using sickles on the evening of September 22. While Marimuthu died on the spot, his son and the driver were hospitalised and the Dharapuram police received his statement to register a case. The police arrested Eswaramoorthi (24), Selvakumar (21) and Manikandan (34) on Thursday, and Kalimuthu (48) and Karthi (19) on Friday. The five accused were remanded in judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-arrested-for-murder/article36661521.ece
25 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in suspected tiger attack||A 56-year-old man died in a suspected tiger attack at an estate bordering the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Gudalur on Friday. The man, identified as V. Chandran of Devan Estate, was said to have been grazing cattle inside the estate, when a tiger was believed to have attacked him. Mr. Chandran was rescued by residents and Forest Department staff and rushed to hospital. He was stabilised and was referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Udhagamandalam, but died on the way. It is unclear whether the tiger was attempting to lift cattle when it came across Mr. Chandran, or whether it had singled him out as prey. Kommu Omkaram, District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, said the department had placed camera traps and cages to identify and capture the animal responsible for the attack. Mr. Omkaram said that around ten cattle had been lifted from villages bordering Gudalur and MTR in the last few weeks, but it was not clear whether the same animal was involved in all these instances of cattle lifting. Human-animal interactions The estate where the incident occurred was known for human-animal interactions, especially due to the presence of large number of cattle, local conservationists said. As the cow pens were located in close proximity to the tiger reserve, there was always a chance for such problematic interactions, they said. Forest officials believe that the same tiger could have been responsible for the death of two other persons in the region in the last few months. Venkatesan, Field Director of MTR, said four cages had been placed to capture the animal. Only after identifying the animal responsible for the death of Chandran, and verifying whether it was the same animal responsible for the death of the other two could a further decision be taken on the fate of the tiger, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-in-suspected-tiger-attack-in-gudalur/article36661505.ece
25 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore Aavin chairman’s office, house searched||Sleuths from the Vellore unit of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Friday conducted a day-long search in three places including the Aavin office in Sathuvachari in Vellore in connection with the case against former Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration K.C. Veeramani. Friday’s searches came a day after former Chief Minister and AIADMK’s co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami met party functionaries in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur to discuss local body elections. Two teams, each comprising three officials, were led by DVAC inspector Vijayalakshmi and Rajinikanth. They searched the Aavin premises, including the office of its chairman D. Velazhagan, in Vellore and his residence in Odugathur village. They also raided the house of Mr. Velazhagan’s friend Sampath Kumar in the town. “The searches are related to the case that has been filed against Mr. K.C. Veeramani at Vellore police station. We have seized some documents. Nothing more can be revealed now,” said a DVAC official. The officials said Mr. Velazhagan also held the AIADMK district secretary post in suburban Vellore. Further, he has been chairman of Aavin’s Vellore unit for two terms since 2011. Officials also claimed that he had been considered a close associate of Mr. K.C.Veeramani. Though Mr. Velazhagan did not come under the scanner during the searches at the former Minister’s place on September 16, the DVAC officials said this time they had concrete leads to do so. On September 16, DVAC conducted searches at 35 places including properties belonging to Mr. Veeramani in Chennai, Bengaluru, Ranipet, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Krishnagiri and his home town, Tirupattur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-aavin-chairmans-office-house-searched/article36661607.ece
25 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman, 3 children found dead; husband arrested||A 28-year-old man was arrested on Friday after his wife and three children, including an infant, were found dead in their house in Salvanpettai near the Fort in Vellore. The Police said Dinesh, a construction worker, was married to 25-year-old Jeevitha six years ago. The couple had three children — Akshaya, 6, Nandakumar, 5, and a six-month-old boy. Dinesh’s drinking habit led to frequent quarrel between them. As a result, Dinesh was living separately for more than a week. On Thursday evening, after being informed by Jeevitha’s neighbours, her brother S. Jagadeeswaran broke open the door of the house and found his sister and her three children dead. On information, the police reached the spot and retrieved the bodies which were sent to Government Medical College Hospital in Vellore for post-mortem. “We have a complaint filed by the victim’s mother earlier. We have also detained the suspect [Dinesh] related to the case,” Albert John, Assistant Superintendent of Police, told The Hindu . The south Vellore police registered a case under section 306 for abetment of suicide and section 174 (death due to suicide) of the Code of Criminal Procedure against Dinesh. Further investigation is on, the police said. Constable dead Meanwhile, 22-year-old Ajithkumar, a police constable attached to the 15th battalion of Tamil Nadu Special Police, was found dead in the police housing quarters in Sevur village near Katpadi on Friday. He was serving in the district for the past few months. No suicide note was found. Tiruvalam police near Katpadi have registered a case. ( The State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 offer counselling for those in distress. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-3-children-found-dead/article36661574.ece
25 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Cane farmers seek dues from mill||Cane farmers staged a protest at the Collectorate here on Friday seeking Rs. 10 crore dues pending from Dharani Sugars that had procured sugarcane from Virudhunagar farmers. Several farmers came without their shirts to the farmers’ grievancex rederess s meeting and made their representation. “The mill has not paid us the money due to us for the last two years. Now, the mill has been closed,” Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam district president, N. A. Ramachandra Raja said. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy promised to initiate action to fetch the dues of the farmers. Meanwhile, the farmers said that cane had been raised on around 10,000 acres in Virudhunagar district and sought the district administration to take action for diversion of the standing crop to some other sugar factory. “We have requested the Collector to divert the crop to any sugar mill that could make immediate payment us,” Mr. Ramachandra Raja said. Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district president A. Vijayamurugan wondered why the copra procurement centre had been set up in Sattur when there was no coconut farm in the entire taluk. He wanted the centre to be shifted to Watrap where a lot of coconut farms were located. When the officials complained that they could not afford rent for the centre, Mr. Vijayamurugan raised the issue of farmers being forced to pay for transportation of copra from Watrap to Sattur. The Collector, who intervened, said that he would issue an order to shift the copra procurement centre to Watrap. The Collector promised to draw the attention of higher officials of insurance company for distribution of compensation under crop insurance for the year 2016-17 for farmers of Veppilaipatti and Minakulam. Even as the officials claimed that jewels pledged under jewel loan that had been waived have been returned to as many as 19,343 persons from various Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies, farmers complained that many societies were forcing farmers to make fixed deposits to return the money or sought bribe.“In some of the societies, the farmers were forced to pay bribe. In some societies, they were asked to deposit 20% or 30% of the loan amount that was waived,” Mr. Vijayamurugan said. The officials promised to look into the allegations.  Why a copra procurement centre has been set up in Sattur when there is no coconut farm in the entire taluk A. Vijayamurugan Forum president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cane-farmers-seek-dues-from-mill/article36661604.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three panels formed to reassess mineral stocks||Barring a few officials from Madurai, Sivaganga and Dindigul, the committees do not have those who are serving in other southern districts, according to an order issued issued by the Industries Department early this week. The committees have been given one month to submit their reports. ‘Install CCTVs’ The order directed the three Collectors to have CCTVs installed on all the sealed premises where the beach sand minerals had been stocked or stored and give “complete police protection” to sealed or non-sealed godowns having the minerals. In a July 27 communication, Tiruneveli Collector V. Vishnu informed the government that in the light of the reports, he had proposed the constitution of a committee, comprising representatives from different departments, for each of seven villages where the minerals had been kept. A month later, Thoothukudi Collector K. Senthil Raj brought to the notice of the government the interception of five vehicles that transported ilmenite ore to a company in the SIPCOT complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-panels-formed-to-reassess-mineral-stocks/article36661591.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Death for girl’s brother in inter-caste couple killing||Delivering the verdict in the case, which was eventually probed by the CBI, Judge S. Uthamaraj described the double-murder as “brutal and against humanity”. He said this punishment would act as a warning to those who still practised such caste-based hatred. The court awarded the death sentence to the second accused and Kannagi’s brother Marudhupandian and life imprisonment to her father C. Duraiswami and 11 others, including policemen Chellamuthu (since retired) and Tamil Maran, Inspector of Police (since suspended), who served at the Virudhachalam station. The others convicted were Rangasamy, Kandavelu, Jothi, Venkatesan, Mani, Dhanavel, Anjapuli, Ramdoss and Chinnadurai. The death sentence would be executed subject to the confirmation by the Madras High Court. The CBI filed a chargesheet in the trial court in 2009, invoking the provisions of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act), 1989. Two other accused, Ayyasamy and Gunasekaran, were acquitted. As many as 81 witnesses were examined, and 36 turned hostile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-for-girls-brother-in-inter-caste-couple-killing/article36661480.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||119 COVID-19 cases in Erode district||Erode district reported 119 new COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the total number of cases to 1,01,248. While 148 persons were discharged, 1,287 continue to be under treatment. One person died raising the toll to 668. A total of 78 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 62 cases were indigenous and 17 were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, two deaths were reported in Salem. In Namakkal, 72 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. One person died in the district. In Krishnagiri, 34 indigenous cases were reported. One person died in the district. Thirty-eight indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/119-covid-19-cases-in-erode-district/article36661611.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Rotary Club of Coimbatore Spectrum: School classroom block opening ceremony, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi to participate, Corporation Middle School, Veeriyampalayam, 5 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Workshop on ‘Emotional Intelligence and Lateral Thinking’, 9.30 a.m.  AJK College of Arts and Science: Webinar on ‘Threat Intelligence and Threat Hunting’, 10 a.m.  KPR Institute of Engineering and Technology: Webinar on ‘Initial Journey to Entrepreneurship’, 11 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Webinar on ‘Tourism for Inclusive Growth’, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36661516.ece
25 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Panchamasali rally results in traffic jam||Members of the Zilla Panchamasali Horata Samiti took out a rally in Belagavi on Friday to demand inclusion of the community under 2A category among the Other Backward Classes. They are demanding the re-categorisation of the community which is already part of the OBC group. Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjay Swami, head of the Koodalasangama Panchamasali Mutt, and leaders, including BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, the former MLAs Vijayanand Kashappanavar and A.B. Patil, and others participated. They took out a padayatra from the Rani Channamma Circle to the Gandhi Bhavan where they held a meeting. The protest march resulted in a huge traffic jam in the central business district and the police had to divert traffic onto roads in the Military Camp area. The meeting passed two resolutions, one, condemning the government for delay in re-categorisation and the other, demanding immediate government orders to include the community under 2A category. Mr. Yatnal said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had assured him of including the community under 2A category. “It is only that he has asked me for some time. He has assured that he will take steps to include various backward communities among the Veerashaiva Lingayat community, including Gouda Lingayat, Deeksha Lingayat, Gouli Lingayat and Panchamasali, into 2A category. I think that we are coming the end of a long battle,’’ he said. He said that the seer was heading the agitation in a completely selfless manner. He appealed to the crowd to realise that the protest was not political and that leaders like him who were supporting the seer were acting in a selfless manner. “I am quite well off. So are the leaders who are here on the stage with me. We don’t need any benefits. We are fighting for the welfare of the community,” he said. The seer said that he was fighting several odds to lead the agitation. “I have not succumbed to any provocations or offers for considerations,” he said. He, however, did not elaborate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchamasali-rally-results-in-traffic-jam/article36661636.ece
25 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Engineering Awareness Programme||Karnataka Law Society’s Gogte Institute of Technology of Belagavi will conduct the ‘Engineering Awareness Programme’ and an ‘Interactive Session on CET and COMEDK Processes’ at 10 a.m. on Sunday. Raju S. Basannavar,Nodal Officer, KEA CET Helpline Centre, Belagavi, will be chief guest. The programme will focus on different types of engineering courses, the scope of each stream and branch, career avenues, how to select a branch, and parameters that affect selection of an institute and others. There will be pick-up and drop from Belagavi Central Bus Stand to KLS GIT from 9 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. Call 8088007011, 9036855485.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engineering-awareness-programme/article36661639.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Air quality improved on pedestrianised weekends’||A clear improvement in air quality was recorded on Church Street on pedestrianised weekends in terms of the PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations, which were within the limits of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for most of the weekends, revealed authors of a scientific report on the pedestrianisation of Church Street. Titled ‘Church Street First – Impact Assessment of Pedestrianizing an Urban Street in Terms of Quality of Life’, it was prepared by IISc Sustainable Transportation Lab in collaboration with DULT, Urban Morph, and Catapult, U.K. The report was released on Friday in front of the Namma Metro’s Church Street entrance. “This report is an outcome of almost 10 months of relentless and extraordinary effort between November 2020 and August 2021, right from extensive field data collection and studies on this test,” said Ashish Verma, convener, Indian Institute of Science, Sustainable Transportation Lab. Terming the impact assessment as one never been done before in India or elsewhere, he said it was done using both quantitative and qualitative indicators and covering the three main pillars of sustainability — environment, social, and economic. Pedestrian footfall The researchers noticed that between November 2020 and February 2021, the average daily footfall on Church Street increased by 92% and the average peak duration footfall increased by 117%. From the survey responses, 97% visitors and 84% shop owners were satisfied with overall service quality of Church Street after pedestrianisation. Further, more than 50% of restaurant owners and gift shop owners of Church Street agreed that the initiative led to an increase in customer footfall, revenue, and overall positive effect on business. But this agreement level was comparatively lower for other types of businesses, leaving some scope for future improvements and strategies, he added. “It was heartening to see that pedestrianisation led to a 7% decrease in the mode share of personal modes [of transport] and an equal 7% increase in the mode share of sustainable modes among visitors. The number of metro users at M.G. Road station on weekends saw an increase of 162% between November 2020 to February 2021,” explained Prof. Verma. While the sentiment analysis showed at least 78% social media statements on this initiative were positive, overall, there was a 98% agreement that pedestrian friendly environment improved quality of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/air-quality-improved-on-pedestrianised-weekends/article36661416.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||UPSC results: Preparing for an exam during a pandemic||Several candidates from the State have cleared the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examination-2020, the results of which were declared on Friday afternoon. Among them was Akshay Simha (77th rank) and Nischay Prasad (130th rank). Mr. Prasad relied on self-study to clear one of the toughest exams in the country. In his second attempt, the 24-year-old from Mysuru was ranked 130. He is a BE graduate in biotechnology. He told The Hindu that he had made “a casual attempt” in 2019. “However, in 2020, I was very serious about clearing the exam. I always had a plan to appear for civil services exams. But I did not join any of the coaching institutes for classes,” he said. Instead, he relied on self-study by reading books and other material available online. “I got support from everyone, from teachers to family members.” When asked how the pandemic impacted his preparation, he said, “Last year, the exam were scheduled in the month of May, but it was postponed. It was an uncertain time and continuing to study was a challenge. Gradually, I focused on revision and sat for the exam.” Mr. Prasad wasn’t the only candidate who was frustrated by the delays. Mr. Simha, ranked 77, said that it was mentally tough to sustain the same level of enthusiasm and maintain readiness for the examination. “It kept getting postponed because of COVID-19. This was my second attempt,” he said. It was only two weeks ago that the 26-year-old Mr. Simha joined Bank of India. He was winding up for the day when the results were declared. “I did inform my boss about my result and they were happy for me,” he said.  I always had a plan to appear for civil services exam. But I did not join any of the coaching institutes. Instead, I relied on self-study by reading books and other material available online Nischay Prasad, UPSC 130th rank-holder||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/upsc-results-preparing-for-an-exam-during-a-pandemic/article36661429.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Prosecute officials responsible for drinking water pollution’||Observing that “the court cannot be a silent spectator when residents of Mangaluru are forced to drink polluted water”, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to initiate prosecution of officials responsible for such a serious lapse. While rejecting a report, signed by a chemist of a private company, on water analysis of Maravoor dam submitted by the Mangaluru City Corporation, the court directed the KSPCB to test water samples from various points, including at the entry and the exist points of the dam, and submit a monthly report to the court. A Division Bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority on the failure of the corporation to implement the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 and also the failure to protect people from the ill-effects of Pachchanady landfill site. The KSPCB report of August 21 had revealed that ammoniacal nitrogen and iron were found beyond the permitted limits in the water samples collected from some of the open wells and storm-water drains due to mixing of leachate overflowing from the Pachchanady landfill. As the corporation had relied on a report singed by a chemist of a private company to state that drinking water drawn from Maravoor dam is not contaminated, the Bench wondered how could the corporation rely on a private chemist’s report as it was not from any authority recognised under the provision of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1974. “This shows the insensitivity of the corporation,” the Bench said, while directing it to take steps quickly to remove legacy waste lying at the Pachchanady landfill as the State government has now sanctioned Rs. 72 crore for the purpose. Stating that “it is a very serious matter involving the lives of residents of Mangaluru as they are forced to drink poisonous water,” the Bench directed the corporation to submit reports every month on the progress made to remove legacy waste from Pachachanady landfill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prosecute-officials-responsible-for-drinking-water-pollution/article36661817.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Positive immune response six months after vaccination’||A study to assess the need for a booster dose of the COVID-19 vaccine taken up at the State-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences in Bengaluru has found that 99% of a group of 250 healthcare workers, who received their second dose in February, showed positive antibody response even six months later. Of the 250 healthcare workers, 20% were delayed responders. Initially, these 20% workers did not show a positive immune response in April when they took their first dose. Now, six months after their second dose (in February), they showed a significant improvement in antibody levels. Institute director C.N. Manjunath told The Hindu that 19 (7.6%) of the healthcare workers, who were both COVID-19 infected and vaccinated, had shown the highest antibody responses. “Although 10 healthcare workers (4%) showed a decline in antibody levels from April to September, they still remain in the positive immune response limits of above 30,” he said. Doctors from the Department of Microbiology at the institute checked the robustness and longevity of anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the group. “We had tested the same group in April, two months after they had taken the second dose and had found a good antibody response in 80% of them. Our September study has shown good antibody response in 90% of them, which is very encouraging,” said Dr. Manjunath. The employees had taken two doses of Covishield after an interval of four weeks as per the spacing rules then. “A majority of them had developed good immunogenic response then. After the government revised the gap between two doses to 12–16 weeks, there were doubts about immunogenicity among the healthcare workers who took the second dose after four weeks. Our study has cleared their doubts and also provided evidence that a booster shot may not be required,” the doctor said. “The findings can have a significant impact on the booster dose vaccine policy as at six months after the vaccination most people do not require a booster dose. However, we have to re-study this group at the end of one year,” he said. Reduction in gap Dr. Manjunath said he would submit the findings of the study to the ICMR as discussions on a booster dose were on. “Besides, this study also shows that it is scientific to reduce the gap between two doses of Covishield from 84 days (12 weeks) to 4–6 weeks,” the doctor said. “With the third wave anticipated in October–November, this community-immunity is likely to provide significant protection, provided there are no further mutations and people continue to follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour,” he added.  Post-vaccination antibody response Number of healthcare workers studied: 250 Positive immune response: 79% in April; 99% in September Negative immune response: 20% in April; 1% in September Highest antibody response shown in 19 healthcare workers who were both COVID-19 infected and vaccinated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/positive-immune-response-six-months-after-vaccination-finds-study/article36661418.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ECI has to ensure strict adherence to law on electoral registration: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday said that the Election Commission of India (ECI) would have to strictly adhere to the provisions of the Representation of the People (RP) Act, 1950, in the process of registration of voters. Making it clear that it cannot conduct a roving inquiry on correctness of inclusion of names of citizens in the voters’ list or the exclusion of the names, the court said the aggrieved people had remedies under the RP Act, 1950, to redress their grievances on registration or deletion of names in the list. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order while disposing of a PIL petition filed in 2018 by city-based Whitefield Rising Trust. The petitioner had complained that a large number of residents in Whitefield and surrounding areas could not register their names in the voters’ list owing to deliberate inaction on the part of officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike in-charge of electoral registration process. Earlier, counsel for the ECI told the Bench that the commission, from time to time, had laid down an elaborate process for registration of voters based on the provisions of the RP Act, and now the online facility for registering names in the voters’ list was also available in addition to the provision of physically submitting the applications. At every stage the applicants would get update through SMS on the progress if the applications are submitted through online mode, it was informed to the court. Recording the process followed by the ECI, the Bench disposed of the petition while also taking note that citizens had remedies under the RP Act on issues related to registration of names or deletion of names, and the individual citizens also had the right to knock on the doors of the High Court under writ jurisdiction in case of lapse on the part of the authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eci-has-to-ensure-strict-adherence-to-law-on-electoral-registration-hc/article36661410.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assembly adjourned sine die amid Congress protest||After 10 days of session, the Legislative Assembly was adjourned sine die on Friday, amid demands from the Congress that it should be extended by a week. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri read out a two-page report on the business conducted by the House and said the Assembly passed 19 different Bills during the session. The House was adjourned sine die amid protests by the Congress. Rejection of the Congress’ demand for extension of the session, besides dissatisfaction among Congress members to replies provided by Ministers on various subjects/issues, led to pandemonium in the Assembly.  ‘RSS education policy’ Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and his Congress colleagues trooped into the well of the House and were involved in sloganeering against the government for not extending the session. With no time left to discuss the New Education Policy (NEP), the Congress members termed the policy “Nagpur Education Policy” and “RSS education policy”. The ruling BJP members countered by saying the Congress did not like a policy suited for the interests of Indian students. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, “The RSS and nationalism are one and the same. The New Education Policy is being implemented after holding discussions for nearly three years. The policy will help the students hailing from rural areas to excel in higher education and enable them to compete globally.” Amid the protest in the House, Heath Minister K. Sudhakar tabled his reply on the debate on COVID-19 and said the State and Union governments had handled the pandemic very well and received appreciation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assembly-adjourned-sine-die-amid-congress-protest/article36661439.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka to recommend more stringent laws on crimes against women||The State government will recommend to the Centre, through the Law Commission, to bring in amendments to further tighten laws dealing with crimes against women, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy saidon Friday. He told the Legislative Council that the government was proposing to have an in-camera trial before a woman judge in the Mysuru gangrape case, in response to a discussion on the incident. Mr. Madhuswamy said the State did not have powers to amend the Indian Penal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure, and the Evidence Act, and that a suggestion would be sent to the Centre through the Law Commission. Assuring the members that the State would seek stringent punishment for the six accused arrested in the case, he said the police have been directed to file a charge sheet within 90 days. The Opposition members had earlier charged the Mysuru police with delaying filing the FIR (which took 15 hours) and trying to hush up the case. Mr. Madhuswamy said, “The government is holding consultations to have the best lawyer to fight the case.” If necessary, the government will also appoint a skilled woman investigating officer in the team, he added. Defending the police, he said they had also made the best efforts to convince the victim’s family to make a statement. ‘Vigilance is tough’ He also said that vigilance was a tough task as it is never known where crimes take place. “Some areas are being monitored and the Mysuru incident was unexpected. We will try to expand police vigil,” he said. However, Leader of the Opposition in the Council S.R. Patil said the Law Minister’s defence of the police was not honourable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-to-recommend-more-stringent-laws-on-crimes-against-women/article36661426.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decision on Panchamasali quota depends on panel report: CM||The State government will take a decision on providing reservation to the Panchamasali community under 2A of the Other Backward Classes quota based on the report of the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai informed the Legislative Assembly on Friday. In a reply to senior member Basanagouda Patil Yatnal (BJP), Mr. Bommai said the backward classes commission has been collecting data on educational and employment status of the community. The commission has also been studying the demand of 15 other backward communities in Karnataka. “It is essential to study and collect data for taking a decision on reservation,” the Chief Minister said. At present, Panchamasali community is included in 3B and is eligible to receive benefits under the 5% quota. Mr. Bommai said that the Union government’s recent legislation had given powers to the States for providing reservation to backward communities. Based on the Supreme Court judgment in the Indra Sawhney case and other guidelines related to reservation, the government would take a decision, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Yatnal had raised the issue in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. He said the Yediyurappa government had, in March, said that it would seek reports from the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission in six months and take a decision on reclassification and increasing quota. He was joined by another BJP member, Aravind Bellad. On Thursday, Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami of Lingayat Panchamashali Peetha of Kudalasangama announced in Belagavi that a rally would be held in Bengaluru in the first week of October if the State government did not fulfil the demand for inclusion of Panchamasali community in the 2A category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-panchamasali-quota-depends-on-panel-report-cm/article36661438.ece
25 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut today||There will be no power supply on Saturday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. due to carrying out works related to conversion of overhead line into underground cable. According to a release from Bescom, West Circle, the areas to be affected are: Widia: Sri Rama Public School and surrounding areas; Byadarahalli: Government School and surrounding areas; Srigandhakaval: Lakshmananagar, Sanjeevininagar, Vigneshwaranagar, Hegganahalli, Sunkadakatte, Pipeline Road, Kottigepalya, and surrounding areas; Vijayanagara: Pete Chinnappa Industrial Area and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-cut-today/article36661408.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man injured in Tharagupet godown blast dies||A 74-year-old man who was severely injured in the suspected firecracker explosion at New Tharagupet on September 23 died at Victoria Hospital on Friday. The deceased, Anjiswamy, had sustained over 60% burns and doctors had said chances of his survival were slim. He worked at a nearby shop and was in the vicinity when the blast occurred at the godown. With Anjiswamy’s death, the toll has risen to three. The driver who was loading the firecracker cartons, Manohar, and Aslam Pasha, who ran a puncture shop nearby, died on the spot on Thursday. The South Division police on Friday conducted a special drive in the wholesale market hub of New Tharagupet to check for storage of any illegal explosive material and also conducted an awareness drive on safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-injured-in-tharagupet-godown-blast-dies/article36661411.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three foreign nationals arrested, drugs seized||The city police arrested a foreign national from Ivory Coast who was allegedly peddling drugs and recovered 2.5 kg of MDMA crystals worth approximately Rs. 2.5 crore. He had stored the crystals in empty champagne bottles. Acting on a tip-off, the Govindapura police intercepted the peddler while he was trying to sell MDMA crystals in his car on a service road at HBR Layout. “We arrested him and recovered drugs,” the police said. Preliminary investigations have revealed he was sourcing the narcotics from a supplier in Goa. According to the police, he smuggled them to the city by road using empty champagne bottles to hide them. He was not able to produce any valid passport or visa documents. He has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and Foreigners Act. The police have also issued a notice to the landlord who had rented the house to the foreign national without verifying his documents. In another case, a foreign national from Congo who was arrested after he was caught allegedly peddling narcotics at Subramanyanagar. The police recovered 350 grams of ganja oil from him. He had come to Bengaluru in December 2016 on a student visa for a bachelor’s degree in computer applications. However, he did not return to his country after his visa expired and took to peddling drugs, along with others from his country, said the police, adding that he resided in Maragondanahalli. In yet another case, the Subramanyanagar police arrested a Nigerian national and recovered 19 grams of MDMA crystals. The accused had come to India in 2012 on a business visa and was exporting garments to his home country. However, he had also taken to peddling narcotics, said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-foreign-nationals-arrested-drugs-seized/article36661412.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Call to restart initiative||At the event, speakers from across political backgrounds and government departments batted for the reintroduction of the concept on Church Street. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said though things went for a toss due to COVID-19, he called it a “brilliant idea that needs to be continued further”. He also said a similar design was being replicated at Commercial Street, another “iconic street” in the city. Shanthinagar MLA N.A. Haris said it needed to be restarted again and many more roads should come up along similar lines where people can walk. He added that objections of shopkeepers need to be taken into consideration Bengaluru Central MP P.C. Mohan, on the other hand, said at the time of reintroducing pedestrianisation, local residents should not be put to hardship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/call-to-restart-initiative/article36661420.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MLAs say poor coordination among departments led to illegal layouts||Members cutting across party lines complained that lack of coordination among various departments and irresponsibility on the part of officials were major causes for the formation of illegal layouts and the denial of basic amenities. Poor coordination among Planning, Urban Development, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, and Energy departments were major causes for denial of basic amenities such as roads, electricity and water supply, said Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, Kumara Bangarappa (BJP) , Raghavendra Basavaraj Hitnal (Congress), and other members. During Question Hour in the Assembly on Friday, the members complained that registration of documents through KAVERI e-Swathu had come to a halt following the migration to a new secure platform by the RDPR Department in gram panchayat limits. Minister for Municipal Administration N. Nagaraj (MTB) said the formation of illegal layouts was not new and some layouts had been formed illegally about 20 years ago. Public Works Minister Govind M. Karjol said a meeting of the departments concerned would be called soon to settle the issue of regularisation and providing basic amenities in residential layouts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlas-say-poor-coordination-among-departments-led-to-illegal-layouts/article36661431.ece
25 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Award for Yediyurappa||Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was on Friday presented with the award for best legislator instituted by the Legislative Assembly. The award was presented to him by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla at a special programme held in the Assembly in the presence of Assembly Speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri, Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti, and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. A committee led by Mr. Kageri that comprised the Chief Minister, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, and Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy chose Mr. Yediyurappa for the award. Mr. Kageri said the award would henceforth be presented every year. A legislator can get the it once in a lifetime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-yediyurappa/article36661432.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Cocoon production in State down by 50%’||Cocoon production in the State has declined by almost 50% because of diseases affecting mulberry plantations, Congress member S. Ravi said on Friday. He said that a total of 1.07 lakh hectares in the State was under mulberry cultivation, but two diseases, including blight, affecting the mulberry crop had reduced cocoon production. “Before farmers move away from mulberry cultivation, the government should intervene,” he said. While the insecticide that was being used to protect the crop has been banned, Mr. Ravi pointed out that the neem oil being alternatively proposed has not been effective. “In the past two years, the production has declined by almost 50%. Sericulture industry is in trouble,” he said. Sericulture Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda said that cocoon prices have more thandoubled in recent times and the government was making efforts to improve the sericulture industry. “In the next one week, I will convene a meeting of officers concerned to resolve the issue. Scientists are also working towards offering solutions for the diseases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cocoon-production-in-state-down-by-50/article36661435.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BCU MCom students get wrong question paper||Thousands of Bengaluru City University (BCU) MCom students who reported to examination halls on Friday were given an incorrect paper. Many started to panic when they saw that the questions were not relevant to the study material and syllabus that they had prepared for. Students immediately raised the issue with the invigilators. After the affiliated college principals also alerted BCU officials, the university sent another set of question papers to the examination centres through the secured portal. As a result, the examination began an hour late, at 11.30 a.m. According to the students the questions in the first paper were not related to the Strategic Accounting subject that was scheduled on Friday. Lingaraja Gandhi, Vice-Chancellor, BCU, said, “The university intervened and ensured that exam was conducted.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bcu-mcom-students-get-wrong-question-paper/article36661424.ece
25 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Name building after Anubhava Mantapa’||Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to name one of the buildings in the new Parliament House after the ‘Anubhava Mantapa’ established by 12th century social reformer Basaveshwara. Mr. Horatti personally handed over a letter in this regard to Mr. Birla at a programme held in the Legislative Assembly on Friday. In it, Mr. Horatti has said, “Anubhava Mantapa was the first parliament established in India. Basaveshwara advocated his new religion, which was based on the principle of democracy, at Anubhava Mantapa.” He further said, “People and intellectuals cutting across caste, religion, language, region, and gender assembled in the Mantapa to discuss matters concerning all aspects of human life. It was the place where humanism and democratic values took final shape. The members of Anubhava Mantapa were all authors of vachanas that were like different articles of the present Constitution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/name-building-after-anubhava-mantapa/article36661433.ece
25 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water supply likely to be hit||Water supply is likely to be disrupted on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in view of 220-kV Vrishabhavati line protection work to be taken up at Tataguni. Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board in a release said in view of the work, CauveryWater Supply Scheme Stages 1, 2, 3, and 4, Phases 1 and 2 pumping systems at T.K. Halli, Harohalli, and Tataguni would not be functioning, resulting in disruption in supply to the entire city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-supply-likely-to-be-hit/article36661413.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||789 new cases, 23 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 789 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,71,833. Bengaluru Urban reported 285 cases and eight deaths. With 23 deaths, the toll rose to 37,706. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,050 people were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 29,20,792. The State now has 13,306 active cases. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.58%, the case fatality rate touched 2.91%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/789-new-cases-23-deaths/article36661419.ece
25 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||JD(S) member protests; Cong. stays out||Janata Dal (S) legislator Annadani on Monday protested against Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla addressing a joint session of the State legislature in Hindi. Holding the Kannada flag in the Assembly, Dr. Annadani, who has a doctoral degree in Kannada, expressed concern over Kannada being undermined in the Assembly. Meanwhile, Congress members boycotted the speech on the grounds that there was no provision under parliamentary norms to allow the Lok Sabha Speaker to address a joint session of the State legislature in the Assembly Hall. Only the President and Governor are allowed to hold such sessions, the Congress said, arguing that the programme could have been held elsewhere.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-member-protests-cong-stays-out/article36661430.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Rural students struggle with Seva Sindhu’||Students in rural and hilly regions of the State wishing to make use of bus passes are having a tough time because of Internet issues, said Janata Dal (S) leader Marithibbe Gowda on Friday. Though Seva Sindhu was introduced to simplify the process, it has become a nightmare for those in rural and hilly areas, Mr. Gowda said. “Though passes are issued for free, students have to pay a service charge of Rs. 150 and make multiple trips to get their pass,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rural-students-struggle-with-seva-sindhu/article36661425.ece
25 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC’s appeal||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has called upon industrialists to make use of the resources available in Hassan and explore export opportunities. He spoke at a district-level convention of exporters here on Friday. The programme was organised by the Department of Industries and Commerce as part of Azadi ki Amrut Mahotsava. The DC said the country could become stronger financially only by exporting native products. An exhibition of products, manufactured by the industrialists in Hassan, was also organised on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcs-appeal/article36661831.ece
25 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Search for elusive leopards continues||The elusive leopards have kept the forest officials on their toes as they are moving from one hideout to another while creating further panic among the general public in areas where they have been sighted in the last few days. Meanwhile, the forest officials have continued the search for the wild cats in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi and in and around Kavalageri village near Dharwad, from where leopard sightings have been reported. On Friday, Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Ksheersagar led the continued combing operation in Kavalageri village off Dharwad, where a leopard has reportedly taken shelter in a sugarcane field. The search teams comprising personnel from Dharwad, Haveri and Gadag districts have surrounded the field and are keeping a close watch on the movement of the wild animal. Mr. Yashpal said that they carried out an intensified search on Thursday night. The search team confronted the leopard which, however, gave the slip and disappeared into the thick vegetation of the sugarcane field. “It is confirmed that the leopard is in the field and we are keeping a close watch. We have found pug marks of the leopard. Leopard droppings found in the field have been sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad to find out whether it is the same leopard that was spotted in Hubballi or a different one. Our teams are immediately responding to alerts by villagers,” he said. He also said that a video shot using drone camera has confirmed the presence of the leopard in the field. On Friday, the forest officials launched combing operation in Govanakoppa village after they received information about leopard being seen in a banana plantation. However, a thorough search did not yield any result. In Hubballi, search operations continued in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills on Friday too but with little success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/search-for-elusive-leopards-continues/article36661638.ece
25 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Demonstration in support of bandh||Raising their voice in support of the Bharat Bandh call on September 27 seeking repeal of pro-corporate, anti-farmer farm laws, members of Left parties staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Friday and appealed to the people to support the bandh in the interest of the future of the country. Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist), Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), Communist Party of India congregated at Vivekananda Circle in Dharwad on Friday in support of the call. Addressing the protesters, District Secretary of CPI(M) Mahesh Pattar said that over 550 farmers organisations in the country which had united under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha had given call for the bandh and various organisations of workers, students, youth, women, Dalits and Left parties had extended support. He said that in Karnataka, various organisations had united under the banner of Samyukta Horata-Karnataka and had given call for a Karnataka Bandh in support of the farmers. The Centre should not be allowed to go ahead with anti-farmer farm laws being imposed on the farmers at the behest of corporate companies. Residents of Dharwad should come out in support of the bandh, he said. District Secretary of SUCI(C) Ramanjanappa Aldalli said that the questions being raised by the farmers were rightfully and justified. The Centre was imposing pro-corporate, pro-privatisation laws on the nation, thereby leaving little scope for protection against loot by the private sector. The farm laws should be withdrawn immediately and new laws that protect the interests of the farmers and the people should be implemented, he demanded. Mr. Ramannjappa too strong exception to the statement of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai that the farmers protest was sponsored one. He said Mr. Bommai’s statement was an indication of his indebtedness for being made the Chief Minister of the State and he reminded everyone about “his master’s voice”. CPI leader Kariyannavar said that the state government was implementing anti-farmer laws like Land Reforms (Amendment) Act-2020, APMC (Amendment ) Act-2020 and Anti-Cow Slaughter (Amendment) Act-2020, which snatched away the food rights of the people. All these should be immediately withdrawn, he urged the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demonstration-in-support-of-bandh/article36661644.ece
25 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Education is about shaping good humans’||“Education is more than just knowledge and skills, it is about shaping a good human being,” said founder of Starmark Software V. Tharakram on Friday. Speaking at the 11th Graduation Day of SDM College of Engineering and Technology in Dharwad, he said that whatever might be the situation and challenges, one should not forget one’s duties towards the environment and ensure that a greener planet is handed over to the future generation. Referring to the information explosion, he said: “This is an era of information which has come as a boon to Indians as the nation is poised to do well globally because of its technical acumen,” he said. To be successful, engineers must identify gaps in technology smartly and address them, he said and added that engineering colleges, including SDMCET, deserve high praise for moulding technical graduates, but it was also up to each individual to use the foundation to build a great career. Mr. Tharakram advised students to pause and ponder over the direction and pace of their career and also to achieve a good work-life balance. Presiding over the programme, secretary of SDME Society Jeevandhar Kumar said that outgoing students are brand ambassadors of the institution and they should concentrate on environmental and social impact. Principal of SDMCET K. Gopinath said that the college had an excellent placement record with 540 offers for 600 students from 130 companies on campus, with the highest salary package of Rs. 40 lakh per annum. He said that the college had received Rs. 5 crore grants for various research projects. Top scorer of the college Sharadhi from the Department of Information Science and Engineering with a CGPA of 9.89 was awarded the Padma Vibhushana Dr. D. Veerendra Heggade Gold Medal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/education-is-about-shaping-good-humans/article36661645.ece
25 September 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Joint Committee of Trade Unions appeal for support||A Joint Committee of Trade Unions including - All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) appealed to the people to support the Bharat Bandh on September 27, to register their solidarity with the farmers agitating against three farm laws. Union leaders Prabhudev Yelasangi and V.G. Desai, at a joint press conference in Kalaburagi on Friday reiterated their support to the ongoing united 10 month agitation led by Samyukta Kisan Morcha demanding scrapping of draconian farm laws. Mr. Yelasangi said that the BJP-led government was not only implementing anti-farmer policies, but they were also trying to divide people and polarize society on the communal lines. Opposing the Centre’s decision of the National Monetisation Pipeline, he said the privatization of public sector units will have an adverse effect. He welcomed Mission Uttar Pradesh and Mission Uttarakhand launched by Samyukta Kisan Morcha in Muzzafarnagar on September 5, said that the farmers’ organizations will campaign against the BJP in both States going to the polls next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joint-committee-of-trade-unions-appeal-for-support/article36661641.ece
25 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Quarrel over pet dog ends in murder||A 35-year-old man was bludgeoned to death by his neighbour following an argument over his pet dog at Akkamahadevi Nagar in Kalaburagi late on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Gururaj Kulkarni and the accused Pavan Jagirdhar. The police said that Jagirdhar and Kulkarni quarrelled several times over the pet dog. An altercation ensued between the two two days ago when Jagirdhar beat up the pet dog that belonged to Kulkarni as it frequented his house causing nuisance. Jagirdhar and his friends, who nursed a grudge against Kulkarni, invited him for striking a compromise over the feud. When the discussion turned into a heated argument, Jagirdhar and his friends, in a fit of rage, smashed Kulkarni’s face repeatedly with a stone. A case has been lodged in the Rural Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quarrel-over-pet-dog-ends-in-murder/article36661642.ece
25 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Weekend street festivals in city||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Friday that the District Tourism Development Committee headed by him will promote weekend street festivals in the central business district area in the coming days. Speaking at a meet-the-press organised by the Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists at the Patrika Bhavan, he said that theme-based festivals will be organised on the Clock Tower to Clock Tower loop road which has been notified as one-way for vehicular traffic. With the median on the loop road being removed, a wide space, which is almost like a six-lane road, is available now to hold street festivals. A calendar of theme-based festivals, including food festival and art festival, will be prepared. In addition, the committee will promote festivals in identified parks such as Kadri Park in the city. The festivals will be permitted once COVID-19 cases come under full control, he said. Pilikula Kambala The Deputy Commissioner said that the committee is planning to resume Pilikula Kambala (slush track buffalo race) which has not been held for the last five years. Mr. Rajendra, who is also the chairman of the Pilikula Development Authority, said that three species of animals, zebra, giraffe and elephant, will be added to the Pilikula Biological Park. Dr. Rajendra said that he has written to the government seeking appointment of the Deputy Commissioner or any senior State government official of the rank of Principal Secretary as one of the trustees on the Board of the New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT). With this, port-related issues of fishermen and cruise tourism can be addressed well. The Deputy Commissioner said that the committee has a clear vision for promoting tourism in the district. Tourists who land in Mangaluru should first be made to visit the tourist attractions in the district before heading to other neighbouring districts. The tourist attractions of Dakshina Kannada will be promoted in airports in other States also. The district has eight archaeological sites. A brochure highlighting them will be prepared and kept in major hotels in the city to attract tourists to such sites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weekend-street-festivals-in-city/article36661806.ece
25 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sonowal launches host of projects||Union Minister for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbanand Sonowal on Friday launched several projects in New Mangalore Port, including laying the foundation stone for modification of U.S. Mallya Gate and a truck terminal, and dedicated a business development centre at Panambur. His visit was part of a series of visits to all the major ports of the country ever since he took charge of the new portfolio in July 2021. During his visit, Mr. Sonowal inspected development works at the port. The New Mangalore Port has three gates, East, South and North of Custom Bond area, for receipt of EXIM Cargo and evacuation of import cargo. The East Gate [U.S. Mallya Gate] named after the founder of the port has been proposed for modification. The gate complex will be constructed with ground plus two floors. It will have a two-wheeler movement lane, a four-wheeler movement lane, a truck movement lane, a pedestrian lane, provisions of RFID system, radiological monitoring equipment and boom barriers. The first and second floors will have four office rooms for CCTV monitoring office, CISF offices and Control Room. It will be completed at an estimated cost of Rs. 3.22 crore by March 2022. Mr. Sonowal also laid the foundation stone for a 17,000 sq m truck terminal to be built at an estimated cost of Rs. 5 crore with facilities, including restaurants, dormitories and rest rooms. The port already has two terminals of 12,000 sq m and 16,000 sq m, respectively. While the new terminal will have paver quality concrete surface, the existing terminals too will get PQC surface at a cost of Rs. 4 crore. The Minister later inaugurated the Business Development Centre built by New Mangalore Port Trust along side National Highway 66 to house testing and certification centres. The centre was built at a total cost of Rs. 25 crore with Rs. 15 crore support from the Commerce Ministry. Export cargo handled at the port now undergo testing at centres located in Mysuru and Mumbai. It comprises parking at the stilt level, conference hall, restaurant, post office/ bank, Customs and Port offices and testing centres. Mr. Sonowal distributed prizes to winners of various competitions conducted for NMPT staff and family members to commemorate Azadi ki Amrith Mahotsav. Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mayor Premananda Shetty, Port Chairnan A.V. Ramana and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sonowal-launches-host-of-projects/article36661812.ece
25 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Congress playing politics over new waste management plan, says BJP||Whip in the Mangaluru City Corporation council Sudhir Shetty Kannur said here on Friday that the Congress has launched a negative campaign against the Rs. 52-crore waste management plan mooted by the civic body, with an ulterior motive. It is doing politics in the matter, he said. Addressing presspersons, he said that only the detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed plan has been prepared now. It has been approved by the council. If the plan is to become a reality, it has to pass through several levels of scrutiny at the government level. There is scope for modifications now and while inviting bids. But the former Congress MLA from Mangaluru City South J.R. Lobo and the Opposition Congress Leader in the council A.C. Vinayraj have now begun a sullying campaign against the plan by drawing the name of Ramakrishna Mutt-promoted Mangala Resource Management Pvt. Ltd. unnecessarily. The leaders are doing politics in the matter, he reiterated. He was responding to the media conference by the two Congress leaders in the city on Thursday. Both had questioned the model of the plan. The whip said that if the performance of the agency awarded with the contract for collecting and transporting solid waste is poor, there is scope for cancelling the contract. Mr. Kannur said that a public consultation meeting on the detailed project report has been called in the corporation on Monday where suggestions can be given before it is finalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-playing-politics-over-new-waste-management-plan-says-bjp/article36661804.ece
25 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Phalguni riverfront can be developed as a tourist attraction’||Union Minister for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbanand Sonowal on Friday said that the Phalguni (Gurupura) riverfront adjoining New Mangalore Port has potential to be developed into an attractive tourism spot. Speaking to reporters during his visit here, the Minister said that his Ministry will plan the development of the tourism spot in association with the State government. The Minister also said that New Mangalore Port has all the potential to grow to international standards and the Ministry will extend all the necessary support. Mr. Sonowal said that the port will be developed with new ideas; but he did not elaborate them. Earlier in the day, he laid the foundation stones for modernisation of the U.S. Mallya Gate abutting National Highway 66 and a truck terminal and inaugurated the Business Development Centre, all in NMP Trust area. Speaking after inaugurating the Business Development Centre, Mr. Sonowal said that the port in the last 47 years of its existence has achieved several milestones. It is known as the most sustainable port of the nation achieving 100% target of solarisation and 100% self-sufficiency in water requirements. It is also the biggest exporter of coffee and second largest importer of LPG in the country, the Minister noted. During the Azadi Ka Amrith Mahotsav, the port is geared up to take on new challenges in realisation of the aspirations of the country. Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel said that Dakshina Kannada has received over Rs. 16,000 crore Union government funds in the last seven years. The government is committed to ensuring all-round development of the region. He said that four-lane work on National Highway 75 between B.C. Road and Addahole in the district will be completed in 2024, while the work on National Highway 169 between Mangaluru and Moodbidri and the two-lane work between Moodbidri and Karkala will start soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phalguni-riverfront-can-be-developed-as-a-tourist-attraction/article36661810.ece
25 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||College students, staff and locals clean Tannirbavi beach||Students and staff of College of Fisheries, beach walkers and the local people cleaned the Tannirbavi Beach on Friday. The exercise was part of International Coastal Cleanup Campaign. They collected plastic waste, non-degradable waste, including thermocol and industrial waste, in waste collection bags and handed them over to Mangaluru City Corporation. The participants, holding placards, went on a march in the nearby areas spreading the cleanliness message and educating the people on the harmful effects of plastic waste and other non-degradable material dumped in to the sea. Pamphlets that were distributed highlighted the adverse impact of plastic waste, while requesting the residents to avoid usage of plastic. Dean and Professor of the college A. Senthil Vel highlighted the importance of safeguarding the environment and inculcating the habit of respecting the coastline which, in turn, nurtures marine biodiversity. As the coastal stretches of the country and the coastal waters are being used as dumping areas for solid waste in several places of the country, coastal environment is becoming highly polluted and plastic waste, which constitutes more than 60% of solid waste, gets disintegrated into micro plastics finding its own way into the food chain as it is consumed by fish and thereafter by human beings, he said. The former dean S.M. Shivaprakash and former MD of Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation V.K. Shetty spoke on the day..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/college-students-staff-and-locals-clean-tannirbavi-beach/article36661814.ece
25 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Meeting seeks suggestions for waste management||Mangaluru City Corporation has called a meeting of civil society members and experts on solid waste management seeking suggestions on the detailed project report prepared to change handling of solid waste management system which will become effective on February 1, 2022. The meeting will be held in the Mangala auditorium of the corporation at 4 p.m. on September 27. Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra will preside over it. Mayor Premananda Shetty will be present, Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-seeks-suggestions-for-waste-management/article36661803.ece
25 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC bus service to be upgraded to non-AC sleeper||The KSRTC will upgrade its Udupi-Hyderabad Rajahamsa bus service as a non-AC sleeper on September 27. The bus will leave Udupi at 3 p.m. and reach Hyderabad at 9.30 a.m. the next day. On the return journey, it will leave Hyderabad at 5.30 p.m. and reach Udupi at 11 a.m. the next day. The fare per passenger will be Rs. 1,250. There will be advance booking for the service, a release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-bus-service-to-be-upgraded-to-non-ac-sleeper/article36661808.ece
25 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Meeting||Udupi City Municipal Council will hold a monthly meeting at 10.30 a.m. on September 29. Council president Sumitra Nayak will preside over it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting/article36661807.ece
25 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Film exhibitors welcome order on screening to full capacity||While welcoming the State government’s decision allowing cinemas to open to full capacity from October 1 ahead of Dasara festivities, the film exhibitors in Mysuru asked whether the condition imposed on verifying the vaccination status of movie-goers was practically implementable. “How can we check every person coming to watch a film on whether he or she is fully or partially vaccinated,” a senior office-bearer of the exhibitors’ association here asked, over the decision on allowing only vaccinated persons into theatres. The exhibitors said they are ready to comply with all the SOPs that are within the permissible levels but opined that checking the vaccination status of a movie goer was practically difficult. Though the screening was allowed to 50 per cent of the seating capacity a few weeks ago, many single-screen theatres in Mysuru did not reopen and start screening as they said it was not feasible and they would incur loss. Moreover, there were no new theatre releases at that time. Now, all theatres are ready to reopen and screen movies as some new releases are expected in view of the festive season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-exhibitors-welcome-order-on-screening-to-full-capacity/article36661830.ece
25 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tobacco farmers gherao Simha, ex-MP||The start of tobacco auction season in Karnataka on Friday was marked by complaints of poor price offered for the commodity by traders. Farmers gheraoed Mysuru MP Pratap Simha and former MP C.H. Vijayshankar at the auction platform in Periyapatna. They said the prices offered for tobacco during the last two years were very low, and demanded better and remunerative prices this year. They urged the leaders to prevail upon the traders to offer better prices. Earlier in the morning, a customary pooja at the auction platforms in Periyapatna, Chilkunda and Hunsur in the presence of Tobacco Board Chairman Raghunadha Babu, Mr. Simha, Mr. Vijayshankar and other Board officials signalled the start the auction season. A group of tobacco farmers including Lokesh Raj Urs from the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha expressed disappointment over the poor prices tobacco was fetching despite the increase in the input costs. The tobacco auctioned on the first day of the season fetched the farmers around Rs. 186 per kg. Board officials said the prices had remained low during the last two years as a large quantity of produce was low grade tobacco. The percentage of bright grade variety was very low. However, President of Federation of Flue Cured Variety (FCV) Tobacco Growers Associations of Karnataka Javare Gowda said the quality of tobacco was good this year. Not only had the proportion of bright grade variety improved significantly this year, even the quantum of produce had dropped. Against a crop size of 97 million kg, the Board is expecting only around 75 to 80 million kgsdue to less than optimum rainfall this year. “The increase in bright grade variety and the decrease in yield should ensure a better price this year”, Mr. Gowda said. Sources in the Tobacco Board were also hopeful of farmers receiving a better price this year. Though the price offered was Rs. 186 per kg on Wednesday, Board officials pointed out that the first day’s price last year was Rs. 175 and expressed optimism that the prices will surely improve in the coming days with the participation of more traders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tobacco-farmers-gherao-simha-ex-mp/article36661828.ece
25 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Golden throne may be assembled on Oct. 1||The golden throne at the Mysuru palace is expected to be assembled for the forthcoming Dasara festivities on October 1. Like last year, the Dasara-2021 celebrations will also be a low-key affair in view of the pandemic situation. The festivities commence atop Chamundi Hills on October 7. The scion of erstwhile Mysuru royal family, Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, would be holding ‘Khas Durbar’ sitting on the throne during the Navaratri celebrations of the Wadiyar family. The tradition of ‘Khas Durbar’ by the titular head of the royal family has been in practice for generations and entry for watching it is restricted to invitees. In view of the pandemic and restrictions on gatherings, the royal family had restricted public entry last year and the durbar was completely a family affair as a precautionary measure. The dismantled portions of the throne kept in the safe custody of the strong room inside the palace would be brought out and assembled by a team of experts hailing from a village near Mysuru at the Durbar Hall. Special rituals would be performed at the palace by the family before and after the throne is assembled. Meanwhile, the palace surroundings were being spruced up for the Dasara festivities. The government is yet to decide on the chief guest who will be inaugurating the festivities this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/golden-throne-may-be-assembled-on-oct-1/article36661834.ece
25 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Pharmacists not getting due recognition’||S. Nagaraj, Assistant Drugs Controller, Drugs Control Department, Mysuru, on Friday regretted that pharmacists were not getting due recognition even though their contribution to healthcare was noteworthy. Participating in a World Pharmacist Day programme organised by HCG Bharath Hospital and Institute of Oncology here, Mr. Nagaraj said pharmacists had played a very important role during the pandemic. Many worked round the clock, risking their lives, he said before adding that five pharmacists even lost their lives to COVID-19 in Mysuru. A statement issued by the hospital said Mysuru had more than 1,200 pharmacists. Many of them also played a key role in eradication of TB. “When patients buy drugs for tuberculosis, their details are collected and passed onto the district tuberculosis officer, who in turn sends staff to the house of the patient and provides free treatment,” he said in a statement. H.V. Raghunandan, Head-Technical Consultations, Pharmaceuticals and Bio Pharmaceuticals, HCG Bharath Hospital and Institute of Oncology, said pharmacists work with registered medical practitioners for the healthcare delivery system. He also spoke on the research for affordable innovations in the development of novel anti-cancer drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pharmacists-not-getting-due-recognition/article36661832.ece
25 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru positivity rate stands at 0.98 per cent||Fifteen COVID-19 cases in the zero to 17 age-group were detected in Mysuru district on Friday. Eleven cases were found in Mysuru city and K.R. Nagar taluk. Two cases each were detected in children aged between 0 and 5 and 6 and 10 while 11 cases were found in those aged between 11 and 17, a bulletin from the Health Department said. On Friday, 7,279 tests were done and 71 tested positive with the positivity rate standing at 0.98 per cent. Three deaths were reported on Friday and 67 were discharged. The active case tally is 615 as on Friday. While 303 patients are home isolated, 119 patients and 115 patients are admitted in government and private hospitals respectively. The death toll has gone up to 2383. The recovery rate in Mysuru is 94.37 per cent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-positivity-rate-stands-at-098-per-cent/article36661827.ece
25 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Shops to remain open on Sept. 27||Trade and businesses will remain open on the day of Bharat Bandh here on September 27 with the Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysuru resolving not to shut down commercial establishments. It said that the trade was yet to recover from the impact of pandemic and many families are banking on it for their livelihood. However, traders will extend outside support to the bandh. “Business will function as usual on Monday,” said federation president B.S. Prashanth. Farmers’ organisations have called for nationwide bandh on September 27 in protest against the Centre’s farm laws. “We are always with the farmers. But, in the last 1.5 years, trade and business are in bad shape and are yet to recover from the losses suffered during the lockdown. If the shops and trade were closed it will affect the livelihood of people. In view of this, we are continuing to remain open on Monday and extend outside support to the bandh,” said Mr. Prashanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shops-to-remain-open-on-sept-27/article36661835.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Restrictions eased for cinemas, pubs in State||Asserting that restrictions will be imposed again in districts where the TPR goes above 1%, the Chief Minister said: “Cinemas and pubs should operate at half their capacity in districts where TPR goes above 1% and should remain shut in districts where the positivity rate crosses 2%.” Taking about schools, the Chief Minister said classes from VI to II PU can run with full strength in classrooms. Schools and colleges can function for five days a week — Monday to Friday, Mr. Bommai said. Guidelines for Dasara The Chief Minister, who along with members of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), reviewed the COVID situation, said guidelines would be issued for Dasara festivities and strict vigil would continue in border districts. Focus districts He said officials have been directed to intensify vaccination in Yadgir, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Mysuru districts and also to take up special IEC programmes to create awareness about vaccination among the public. Vaccination coverage As the vaccination coverage in these districts is low, Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhkar will visit these districts and monitor measures on increasing vaccination coverage on a campaign mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restrictions-eased-for-cinemas-pubs-in-state/article36661423.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Showing their ire||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/showing-their-ire/article36661437.ece
25 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Glut pushes down cassava price||O.S. Pratheesh, a successful paddy farmer, shifted to cassava (tapioca) cultivation a couple of years ago after he suffered huge losses in the deluge of 2018. Pratheesh, hailing from Muhamma in Alappuzha, reaped rich rewards from the tuberous roots in the initial days. Nowadays, he is disappointed as the returns on his investment are plummeting due to a price crash. “There was a time when I used to get Rs. 24 for a kilogram of cassava. This time, I cultivated cassava on 25 acres of leased land in two districts. Recently, I was forced to sell the produce below Rs. 5, while Horticorp procured a few tonnes at Rs. 7 a kilo,” Pratheesh says. To avoid loss, farmers need to get at least Rs. 12 for a kilogram, he adds. No spirit for now Farmers say the price fell on a supply glut. While they partly blame Subhiksha Keralam, a government mission to ensure food security, for overproduction of cassava, along with other factors including a decline in exports, many feel the crisis is the result of a lack of cassava processing industries and facilities for value addition in the State. The government’s move to make industrial spirit from tapioca seems to have met a premature death due to the high cost of production. “A wide range of products can be made from cassava. Animal feed is one such. Tapioca starch is used in many industries. We are yet to tap the potential. We need to establish facilities for value-added products,” says Pratheesh. The government last year fixed the base price of cassava at Rs. 12 a kilogram and farmers are eligible for this price for a maximum of 15 acres. However, not many farmers seem to have benefitted from it when the prices plunged, primarily due to a lack of awareness about registration and procurement mechanism. “When I contacted the Krishi Bhavan they promised to procure the produce from five acres. After waiting for a few days, I sold the produce to starch-processing units in Tamil Nadu for a nominal rate,” says V.M. Kurien, a cassava farmer from Nedumbassery. ‘Increase base price’ G.S. Unnikrishnan Nair, a retired Additional Director of Agriculture, calls for better linkage between entrepreneurs and institutions like the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute for promoting value-added products. “When it comes to value-added products and industrial use, Tamil Nadu is showing the way. The technology is already available and it needs to be imparted to the industry people,” says Mr. Unnikrishnan. He also called to increase the base price of tapioca to Rs. 15-Rs. 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/glut-pushes-down-cassava-price/article36661783.ece
25 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Woman killed by wild elephant in Idukki||A woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Anayirankal, near Munnar, early Friday. The victim was identified as Viji Kumar, 36, a resident of Chatta Munnar. The police said Viji and her husband Kumar were on their way to Munnar from Tamil Nadu on a motorcycle through the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway. When they reached S Valavu area, near Anayiranakal, around 5.50 a.m. they saw a rogue elephant on the road. Kumar tried to reverse the motorbike, but it fell and the elephant attacked Viji who died on the spot. Kumar escaped narrowly. Viji’s body was shifted to the Adimali taluk hospital for post-mortem examination. Attacks on the rise Attacks by wild elephants have been increasing in the area. In July, a woman was killed in a wild elephant attack at Thalakkulam while she was working in a cardamom plantation. Due to fog and rain the workers had not seen the animal and had approached it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-killed-by-wild-elephant-in-idukki/article36661784.ece
25 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||IUML leader Abdul Qadir Moulavi dead||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State vice president V.K. Abdul Qadir Moulavi, 79, died on Friday following a heart attack. He has served as district president of the Muslim League, United Democratic Front district chairman, Kerala Textiles Corporation chairman, and governing body chairman of the Kannur unit of Chandrika .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-leader-abdul-qadir-moulavi-dead/article36661741.ece
25 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man ends life after killing infant son, hacking wife||A man hacked to death his nine-month-old baby and critically wounded his wife before dying by suicide at Kudiyanmala in the district on Friday. According to the police, Satheesan, 31, locked his mother in a room and hacked to death his nine-month-old child Dhyan Dev. Satheesan’s wife Anju is in a critical condition and has been moved to the intensive care unit of a private hospital. According to local residents, Satheesan had been suffering from mental problems and was on medication. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s helpline of Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495-2760000 and DISHA- 1056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-ends-life-after-killing-infant-son-hacking-wife/article36661708.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Picture of harmony at Vallarpadam church fete||Representatives of two Hindu families were in attendance at the Our Lady of Ransom Basilica at Vallarpadam, known as Vallarpadathamma, abutting the Kochi backwaters on Friday as Varappuzha Archbishop Joseph Kalathiparambil lighted a candle to show the path for a series of festivities that will culminate in 2024 with the church turning 500 years. The day also marked the end of the annual feast. The Hindu families are deeply linked to the church lore and history. Land given The floods of CE 1676 washed away the church set up by the Portuguese in CE 1524, also taking apart the island comprising today’s Panambukad, Vallarpadam, and Raman Thuruth. But the portrait of “Our Lady of Mercy”, depicting Mother Mary and Infant Jesus, was salvaged by Paliath Raman Valiachan while on a ferry to Chendamangalam. Subsequently, the Paliam household allotted land tax free for the construction of a new church and offered to continually provide oil for an “undying lamp” (Kedavilakku), donated by it which hangs from the church ceiling in front of the altar, said U.T. Paul, coordinator of the basilica’s history commission. In line with the custom, Krishnabalan Paliath, manager of the Paliam Trust, on Friday replenished the oil lamp at the church. “The church officials were a little apprehensive about observing the day in view of the pandemic. But I encouraged them and here I am today, repeating an age-old tradition,” said Mr. Krishnabalan. The other Hindu family comprises the descendants of Meenakshiamma of Palli Veedu. The legend has it that in CE 1752, Meenakshiamma and her baby were on their way to Mattancherry for the baby’s first meal ceremony when the boat capsized. Everyone thought that they had drowned. But the vicar of the Vallarpadam church had a revelation following which the mother and the baby were rescued from a part of the backwaters three days later. “The woman submitted herself to the service of Vallarpadathamma for the rest of her life. Sweeping the church courtyard with a broom is an offering even now,” said Fr. Antony Valumkal, parish priest. The legend is so entrenched in the lore that an image of a mother holding a baby was painted in a corner of the original portrait of St. Mary and Infant Jesus that adorns the altar of the basilica now. Privileged altar Pope Leo XIII made it a “privileged altar” in 1880 and the Government of India recognised it as a major pilgrim church in 1951. It was declared a national shrine in 2004 and Pope John Paul II made it a minor basilica, Fr. Valumkal said. The quincentenary celebrations will also see a a study of manuscripts and old documents in the possession of the basilica.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hindu-families-carry-out-rituals-as-vallarpadam-church-fete-begins/article36661717.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Integrated terminal project in doldrums||The fate of the much-awaited project to decongest Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations by developing an integrated coaching terminal (ICT) in 110 acres of underutilised railway land in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area is in doldrums, with the Thiruvananthapuram Division of the Southern Railway conveying its reservations on the project, it is learnt. At the same time, the Southern Railway has extended its support to the project that will be executed on public-private partnership (PPP) basis and conveyed it to the Railway Board. It is because the ICT, in which over half-a-dozen platforms too are envisaged, will considerably speed up train movement through Ernakulam and thereby the entire State. The Railways will incur little or no expense for it, official sources said. The development comes eight months after Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) submitted its feasibility report on the project to the Southern Railway. The agency was also willing to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the project, if needed. Even as key officials of the Southern Railway were supportive of the initiative in which the Railways need not invest funds, a section of railway officials are up in arms against it, it is learnt. “Building an ICT in the area [a portion of which is now used as a marshalling yard] will result in three railway stations within close proximity of one another, in the city. This could affect the overall operation of trains passing through Ernakulam. In addition, only the Rail Land Development Authority [RLDA] has the mandate for commercial development of railway land. It ought to take a call on the project,” a senior official of the Thiruvananthapuram Division said. Sources in KRDCL said the Southern Railway had not officially responded to its feasibility report that was submitted way back in January. “Neither has it sought any clarification. A DPR that could be readied will mention the technical parameters and modalities of funding. It can be readied only on the basis of the status of the feasibility report,” they added. Well before KRDCL submitted its feasibility report, Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden had submitted a preliminary project report, which was prepared by a private firm, to then Railway Minister in December 2019. Both the reports were aimed at optimally using the largely idling 110 acres being put to optimal use for speeding up train movement through the region. Most trains are now detained in the suburbs of the city or in the ‘outer’ of Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations, for want of reception capacity at the two stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/integrated-terminal-project-in-doldrums/article36661726.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Public prosecutor appointment: Kerala HC initiates suo motu action||Expressing its anguish over the incompetence of public prosecutors appearing in some cases, the Kerala High Court has suo motu initiated a writ petition on the issue. A Division Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice A.A. Ziyad Rahman on Friday directed the registry to register a petition and post it in accordance with the orders of the Chief Justice. The court observed that though the appointment of public prosecutor was the prerogative of the government, it cannot exercise absolute freedom for such appointments. The appointments shall be made in consultation with the sessions judge concerned and such appointments can be made only from a panel of lawyers prepared by the district magistrate. On his part, the district magistrate cannot cherry-pick the advocates to be appointed as prosecutors at the instance of and based on political affiliations, the Bench said. Murder case The Division Bench noted that it was appalled by the abject incompetence displayed by the prosecution in a murder case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, which came to its consideration. Taking note of the submission of the Director General of Prosecution that the issue was taken up with the government, the court directed that the measures taken by the government in this regard should be communicated to it.  Appointments shall be made in consultation with the sessions judge concerned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-prosecutor-appointment-hc-initiates-action/article36661739.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CBSE schools want staggered opening, flag parents’ concerns||The Council of CBSE Schools Kerala has requested Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to permit CBSE schools to reopen in a staggered manner in view of the concerns raised by parents in primary sections about sending their children to the campus from November 1. The council has welcomed the government decision to resume the academic session in the physical mode. However, its representatives point out that parents are apprehensive as they cite the high infection ratio prevailing in various places in the State. Indira Rajan, secretary general, and E. Ramankutty Warrier, president of the council, said in a communication on Friday that the CBSE schools would like to resume the sessions for senior secondary students in the first phase. This would be followed by offline sessions for middle-level classes and primary students. The council stated that it would be a Herculean task to submit the fitness certificate of school buses before October 20. Hundreds of buses were not fit to hit the road as the vehicles were not in use for the last 18 to 20 months. The organisation urged the government to do away with the discriminatory taxation policy on school buses plying for unaided schools and waive off the tax arrears during the COVID-19 pandemic period.  Schools would like to resume sessions for senior secondary students in the first phase||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-schools-want-staggered-reopening/article36661724.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KRFB to consider flyover at Kathrikadavu||The Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) will examine the feasibility of readying a flyover linking the eastern side of Kathrikadavu Junction, ending beyond the Jewish cemetery on the western side, it was decided on Friday. This followed a joint inspection of the area by Hibi Eden, MP; T.J. Vinod and P.T. Thomas MLAs; Mayor M. Anilkumar, District Collector Jafar Malik, and officials of the Kochi Corporation and KRFB. Among the objectives was to discuss with the cemetery authorities the need to acquire a portion of the cemetery land as part of the project to develop M.G. Road-Pullepady-Thammanam-NH Bypass Road into a four-lane corridor. A flyover / overbridge that was already under consideration at Kathrikadavu was dropped in the detailed project report (DPR) readied a month ago for the development of the road, considering the need to acquire an additional three metres of land on either side at Kathrikadavu Junction to build service roads. “We suggested that a flyover extending beyond the cemetery on the western side be built, considering the potential hassles associated with acquiring a part of the cemetery land. KRFB officials said they would study the proposal,” Mr. Anilkumar said. Cemetery land A 500-metre-long flyover will streamline traffic flow in the proposed corridor that will be widened, while also helping overcome hassles associated with acquiring the cemetery land. It has to be decided whether the flyover mooted will be 22 metres wide as the rest of the corridor or be limited to 14 metres to prevent additional land acquisition for service roads, sources said. There are three types of land in the corridor that will be widened to 22 metres — ones which were handed over to the Kochi Corporation free of cost to develop the road, those for which compensation was paid, and those for which compensation was not given. The land will be notified and details handed over to the KRFB, it is learnt.  It is yet to be decided whether the flyover will be 22 metres wide or be limited to 14 metres to prevent land acquisition for service roads||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/krfb-to-consider-flyover-at-kathrikadavu/article36661729.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ICT estimated to cost Rs. 1,100 crore||The total cost of the integrated coaching terminal (ICT) project proposed to be implemented on public-private partnership (PPP) basis in 110 acres of underutilised railway land in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area was fixed at approximately Rs. 1,100 crore, as per official estimate. Railway components were set to cost around Rs. 320 crore. The rest of the funds could be used for commercial development of the floors above the station building and in the surrounding vast open spaces. Platforms, pit lines The feasibility report readied by Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) in January speaks of building four platforms, two for parcel trains, while a pit line can be readied in the project’s first phase. Ernakulam is the hub of parcel services in Kerala, while readying pit lines (to carry out periodic maintenance and repair of trains) will help introduce more trains to the State. These amenities, the ground and first floors of the station building and readying of approach roads, are together slated to cost a total of Rs. 320 crore, sources said. Up to 12 platforms can be built on the premises in the long run. Approach roads have been envisaged from Elamkulam, Thammanam-Pullepady Road / Stadium Link Road and through the northern service road beside the Ponnurunni overbridge. Minimal land acquisition will be required for readying these roads. Commercial components Commercial components over the station building are estimated to cost Rs. 290 crore, those in open spaces Rs. 396 crore, and a residential block Rs. 109 crore, the proceeds from which will go to the private player.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ict-estimated-to-cost-rs-1100-crore/article36661727.ece
25 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||e-auction of cardamom tomorrow||To commemorate the 75th year of Independence, the Spices Board is organising a mammoth cardamom special e-auction in a single day on Sunday. The e-auction on September 26 will bring together the spices community enabling spice growers to connect with spice traders in the country. “This is a special e-auction apart from the regular scheduled e-auction to facilitate e-auction of 75,000 kg of small cardamom,” said D. Sathiyan, Secretary, Spices Board, on Friday. “This auction will help the spice farming community by giving them an extra opportunity to sell their produce, besides it will increase competitiveness leading to an increase in the price for their produce,” he said. The e-auction is scheduled to take place at the board’s e-auction centre at Puttady in Idukki. The e-auction is organised as part of Vanijya Saptah, a series of events focussing on economic growth and promotion of exports by the Union Department of Commerce and the Spices Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-auction-of-cardamom-tomorrow/article36661736.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Turn Kochi into a global city, says Minister||A network of safe and well-maintained roads, garbage-free public spaces, scientific treatment of garbage, and development of more tourism locales hold the key to making Kochi a city of global standards, Minister for Local Self Government M.V. Govindan has said. He was speaking at a function organised here on Friday to inaugurate roads that were renovated by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). A total of 40 roads will be renovated by the end of October. Hibi Eden, MP, sought steps to effectively use the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) to bring Vypeen also under the ambit of Smart Cities. GIDA meeting Mr. Eden expressed dismay that GIDA’s executive committee chaired by the Chief Minister had met just once in the past five years, whereas it ought to mandatorily meet every six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/turn-kochi-into-a-global-city-says-minister/article36661730.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro frequencies up||Kochi Metro trains will operate every 8 minutes during peak hours and every 10 minutes during off-peak hours during weekdays (Monday to Friday), from September 27, considering the average increase in the daily ridership to 26,000 during the past 15 days, the KMRL has said. MyByk has suspended its operations, although it has said that the existing customers will enjoy the benefits. The 400 bicycles purchased and owned by KMRL will be re-launched for the convenience of customers. Efforts will also be made to increase the number of cycles as per the requirement. For details, call 1800 425 0355, while sharing name and mobile number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-frequencies-up/article36661734.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KINFRA, BPCL sign agreement for petrochemical park||Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (KINFRA) and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. - Kochi Refinery signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Friday as part of the establishment of a petrochemical park on 482 acres at Ambalamedu here by 2024. The agreement was signed in Thiruvananthapuram between Santhosh Koshy Thomas, managing director, KINFRA, and Subikash Jena, executive director (marketing), BPCL, in the presence of P. Rajeeve, Minister for Industries. The project aims to develop a cluster of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) that use the propylene derivative by-products of BPCL - Kochi Refinery as raw material to manufacture consumer products, according to a release. The land for the project at Ambalamedu was taken over by the government from FACT. Of the 482 acres, the government has leased out 171 acres to BPCL. Around 250 acres will be set apart for petrochemical units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kinfra-bpcl-sign-agreement-for-petrochemical-park/article36661738.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A 333-km run to commemorate freedom||A 333-km freedom awareness run that was flagged off by Vice Admiral Anil Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, was on Friday flagged in by Vice Admiral M.A. Hampiholi, Commandant of the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala. The event commemorated the 75th year of Independence, promoted Fit India Movement and was also to pay tribute to COVID warriors. The runners were led by Commander Amit Kumar Sharma and included Cdr. Mandip Kaur and Cdr. Karanjit Singh, besides sailors S.K. Pandey, Ram Ratan Jat, and Rahul Kumar Pandey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-333-km-run-to-commemorate-freedom/article36661731.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Water supply regulation||Water supply to Cheranalloor, Deshabhimani Road, Ponekkara, Elamakkara, Pottakuzhi, Edappally, and Kunnumpuram will be regulated on Saturday owing to repair of a broken pipeline, the KWA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-regulation/article36661735.ece
25 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,397 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 2,397 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. A total of 2,339 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 45 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 14.7%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 50 included Thrikkakara (83), Njarakkal (72), Maradu (68), Thripunithura (64), Kavalangad (53), Pallipuram (53), and Nedumbassery (52). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Edakochi, Aikkaranad, Keerampara, Keezhmad, Kuzhippilli, Thoppumpady, Ayappankavu, Ayampuzha, Pindimana, Paingottur, Manjapra, Chalikavattam, and Poonithura, according to an official release. Around 16,238 tests were conducted on Friday. About 21,141 persons are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2397-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article36661737.ece
25 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Curbs trouble rail passengers||Non-issue of season tickets, limited passenger services and maximum booking of 12 a month, woes continue for a large section of passengers who depend on Railways for cheap and fast travel. With the State all set to enter the last stage of unlock and more than 90% of the offices resuming regular work, Railways’ reluctance to address the issues is causing hardships to commuters. “Despite repeated appeals, the authorities have done nothing to ease the restrictions. We have submitted memorandums to all MPs and we are planning to launch a mass signature campaign coordinating with offices across Kerala,” says J. Liyons, secretary, Friends on Rails, a collective of daily passengers. Unscientific timing Mr. Liyons says that though a couple of MEMU services have been restored with season ticket facility, the timing is totally unscientific and very few passengers benefit from it. “Apart from private and government employees, a lot of people from the unorganised sector take daily trips. It is not practical for them to take MEMU services that are operated during odd hours.” Sajeev Parisavila, president, Southern Railway Passengers Association, says passengers are forced to shell out extra money in the absence of season tickets. “A lot of people from lower income groups travel using season tickets. Many of them have to take pay cuts during the pandemic and now instead of Rs. 300, they have to spend more than Rs. 3,000 for travel. Without issuing season tickets and restoring all services, they will not be able to survive,” he says. Technical issues While some passengers, especially a section of senior citizens, are not acquainted with the online booking system, technical issues also pose a challenge. Both Eranad Express and Parasuram Express start from Mangaluru, but reserving tickets for Parasuram from some stations is a task. “Those travelling via Kottayam are not able to book tickets in Sabari, Kerala and Parasuram. The only option for them is Venad Express which arrives in Thiruvananthapuram around 11 p.m.,” says Mr. Liyons. Queueing up Since reservation is a prerequisite for travel, passengers have to reach much early and queue up in front of counters. “If you have an IRCTC account linked to the Aadhaar card, you can book six round trips a month and for others it is just three. The volume of daily passengers is very huge and they require tickets for over 20 days a month. With the restoration of Saturdays as working days, the situation has become very difficult. When schools and colleges reopen, it will be a nightmare,” says S. Amal, who works at a private firm in Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-trouble-rail-passengers/article36661785.ece
25 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Anchal bypass work to be expedited||Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said that the construction works of Anchal bypass will be completed in a time-bound manner. He was visiting Anchal-Ayur road and Anchal bypass here on Friday. The Minister said steps had been taken to expedite the construction of the bypass, a long-standing demand of the residents. KIIFB funds “With the completion of the road, the traffic congestion in the town will come to an end,” he added. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) had sanctioned Rs. 123.37 crore for the construction of Anchal bypass and renovation of Ayur-Anchal road. Other amenities The State highway from Ayur to Agasthyakode will be developed with a width of 10 metres as part of the renovation. Drains, footpath, a new bridge parallel to Vattaman bridge, bus shelter, railing, street lights and road safety measures will be part of the project. The new Anchal bypass road will be made four-lane with drains on both sides. The project also includes railing, landscaping, installation of street lights and construction of bus shelters. While pipe culverts will be constructed at various locations, box culvert will come up at one point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anchal-bypass-work-to-be-expedited/article36661789.ece
25 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,500 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 1,500 new cases of COVID-19 and 538 recoveries on Friday. While 1,487 patients contracted the virus through local contact, the others infected include two persons from other States and 11 health workers. At present the district has 29,987 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,15,120. While 2,298 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 3,62,623 primary and 20,107 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 17.44%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1500-new-cases-in-kollam/article36661790.ece
25 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Training||The Canara Bank Rural Self-Employment Training Institute has invited applications for its tailor, mobile phone servicing, and fast food stall operation courses. Those in the 18-45 year age group can apply. Food and training will be provided for selected candidates. Apply to The Director, Canara Bank Rural Self Employment Training Institute, KIP Campus, Kottiyam, Kollam 691571. Contact 0474-2537141.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-in-self-employment/article36661786.ece
25 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||DCA, PGDCA courses at LBS centre||The LBS centre, Sasthamcotta, has invited applications for one-year DCA and PGDCA courses. Applications can be submitted online through www.lbscentre.kerala.gov.in/ services/courses and applicants from SC/ST and OBC categories are eligible for fee concession. Call 9446854661, 7510297507, 0476-2831122 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dca-pgdca-courses-at-lbs-centre/article36661787.ece
25 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF unseated in Kottayam municipality||Just 10 days after it was uprooted from power in the Erattupetta civic body, the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Friday lost one more municipality with a no-trust motion against its chairperson getting passed in the Kottayam municipality. The no-trust motion against municipal chairperson Bincy Sebastian, moved by the Left Democratic Front (LDF), received 29 votes, including those of the eight Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors. The UDF members abstained from the proceedings while the vote cast by one of the LDF members became invalid. In the 52-member council, both the LDF and the UDF have 22 members each while the remaining eight belong to the BJP. The UDF had come to power in the municipality through a draw of lots. The LDF leadership said they decided to bring down the council following a prolonged stalemate in the administration. Speaking to mediapersons, Communist Party of India (Marxist) district committee member K. Anilkumar said the council failed miserably in containing the COVID-19 outbreak and in effectively utilising funds. The UDF, on the other hand, accused the LDF of joining hands with communal forces. Satheesan flays LDF Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly V.D. Satheesan accused the LDF of forging alliances with both the BJP and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) in a span of ten days. The no-trust motion moved by the LDF in Erattupetta had received the support of all five SDPI councillors in the municipality. During the first nine months of her tenure, Ms.Sebastian faced stiff opposition not just from the LDF but from within her own camp as well. A section of the UDF councillors, led by vice chairman B.Gopakumar, had come out in the open against Ms.Sebastian on more than one occasion during the period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-unseated-in-kottayam-municipality/article36661743.ece
25 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kudumbashree to start home delivery project||Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree is launching ‘Nagarasree’, a home delivery project for its products, on November 1. Nagarasree is being designed to be part of the ‘Home Shop’ project of Kudumbashree and is expected to provide employment to at least 500 women. Home Shop is a project that aims at finding a local market for the products prepared by various Kudumbashree units in the district. Around 1,500 women are employed under the project that began in 2010. Eleven years down the line, Kudumbashree has been forced to find new avenues for Home Shop in the backdrop of the pandemic. Under Nagarasree, there are coordinators in every community development society (CDS), who have been selected, trained and appointed. There will also be ward level facilitators in every ward and Home Shop owners. They will be selected and appointed based on applications from members. The selected candidates will have to attend a week-long training session. Kudumbashree members who have a minimum educational qualification of SSLC and have a two-wheeler licence may apply for the posts. The application forms are available at the respective CDS and ADS offices. Kudumbasree Project Officer of the Corporation T.K. Prakashan said the organisation of the project was progressing fast and the training would be completed in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-to-start-home-delivery-project/article36661698.ece
25 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Report on flood relief fund diversion submitted||An investigation report on suspected irregularities in the distribution of flood relief funds has been submitted to the District Collector. The report by two senior government officials found that Rs. 53 lakh allotted to help the victims of the 2018 floods had been diverted to other accounts with the support of a Revenue Department officer, who was later suspended based on a preliminary investigation report. The investigation carried out by a senior finance officer and a Deputy Collector also recorded the details of nine illegal fund transfers made by the suspended officer, who was junior superintendent at the Collectorate, to the personal bank accounts of his relatives. According to the report, he alone allegedly transferred a sum of Rs. 97,600 to multiple accounts. Though the illegally transferred funds had been recovered from the personal accounts, the investigation panel recommended serious department-level action against the officer and others suspected of colluding with him to divert funds. The report also looked into the suspicious delay in the distribution of relief funds worth Rs. 1.17 crore. List of beneficiaries According to official sources, the enrolment of ineligible candidates for the funds was also investigated. It was found that many illegal beneficiaries whose names were not on the lists submitted by village officers had secured the one-time assistance of Rs. 10,000. A thorough re-investigation into the particulars of such fund transfers and the eligibility of beneficiaries could be ordered based on the latest report, they said. It was during the audit of the Finance Department on July 6, 2021 that the diversion of funds and the delayed distribution of sanctioned funds were confirmed. The suspected officer was suspended by the District Collector on July 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-on-flood-relief-fund-diversion-submitted/article36661699.ece
25 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,362 more test positive in Kozhikode: TPR at 15.75%||Kozhikode district recorded 1,362 COVID-19 cases on Friday after 8,873 persons were tested. The test positivity rate was 15.75% on the day. Of the new patients, 1,337 were infected through local contact while the source was unknown in 19 cases. Four who had recently come from other States and two health workers also tested positive. At the same time, 1,792 persons were cured and discharged from various treatment facilities in the district. The active caseload for the district is 18,220 while 52,719 are under observation. So far, 2,576 persons have lost their lives to COVID in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1362-more-test-positive-in-kozhikode-tpr-at-1575/article36661706.ece
25 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Book pays tribute to S.P. Balasubrahmanyam||On September 25 last year, Indian music lost one of its greatest singers with the death of S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. He may have rendered most of his popular songs in Tamil, but he had a huge fan-following in Kerala too. One of his admirers, K.P. Sudheera, a writer of fiction in Malayalam, has come up with a book about the much-loved singer. It will be released on Saturday, on his first death anniversary.  SPB: Pattinte Kadalazham , brought out by Honey Comb Publishers, runs into more than 400 pages and contains a biography of SPB, homages to him from those who worked with him, such as actors Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth, lyricists Vairamuthu and Sreekumaran Thampi and singers K.S. Chithra and Mano, as well as translations of some of his songs in Tamil and Hindi. “SPB has been one of my favourite singers and we used to talk over phone,” says Sudheera. “It is my regret that I could never meet him, though I had known him for more than a decade. When he passed away last year, I felt I needed to write about him. I have been working on the book for the last 11 months.” She says many of SPB’s friends and colleagues were happy to share their memories of the legend with her. “People like Kamal, Rajinikanth, Vairamuthu and Chithra readily agreed to speak to me over phone,” she says. “I would have loved to meet them in person, but that wasn’t possible because of the COVID-19 pandemic. SPB’s close friend G.V. Murali helped me a lot while I worked on the book.” Among the highlights of the book are the glowing tributes paid by Kamal, Chithra and Vairamuthu. Everyone knows that SPB sang many of the songs Kamal lip-synced to, but Kamal speaks about how the singer also dubbed for the actor in Telugu films despite his busy schedule. In Chithra’s moving tribute, she talks of her experiences of sharing the stage with SPB and his humility, kindness, and sense of humour as well as her interaction with him shortly before his death after contracting COVID-19.  It is my regret that I could never meet him [SPB], though I had known him for more than a decade. When he passed away, I felt I needed to write about him K.P. Sudheera Author||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/celebrating-the-memories-and-melodies-of-spb/article36661692.ece
25 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode native bags 12th rank in IAS exam||Dr. Mithun Premraj, a native of Vadakara in Kozhikode, has bagged the 12th rank in the country in the UPSC Civil Service Examinations 2021, and has emerged the second rank holder in the State. Mithun, a medical professional, cleared the test in his fifth attempt and has chosen the Indian Administrative Service as his first option for placement. Mithun had his schooling in his native place Vadakara as well as Thrissur, after which he completed MBBS from JIPMER, Pondicherry, and later, a PG Diploma in Public Health Management. He was working at the District Hospital in Vadakara, which is now a COVID hospital, until just before the Civil Service interviews. In all his five attempts, he had chosen geography as his main subject, as he was interested in it from a young age. He had passed the Mains and had attended the interview thrice. In 2017, he was in the reserve list for Civil Service rank holders. “I was determined to clear the Civil Services, but had never expected such a high rank,” Dr. Mithun said. He said he was much more comfortable with the interview than the prelims or the Mains. “Prelims are always unpredictable, and the Mains is more about writing. I was in my element at the interview, which was more of a personality test,” he said. Dr. Mithun has also tried his hand in the Kerala Administrative Service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-native-bags-12th-rank-in-ias-exam/article36661690.ece
25 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Haritha Mission to set up medicinal gardens||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran will open the medicinal garden project of Haritha Keralam Mission, being implemented at the Ayush Health and Wellness Centres across the district, on Saturday. The district level inauguration will be held at the Government Ayurveda Dispensary at Kattippara at 10 a.m. The project involves setting up medicinal plant gardens at Health and Wellness Centres being prepared under the Ayushman Bharat project of the National Health Mission. Four government Ayurveda dispensaries (Kattippara, Vellannur, Beypore, Feroke) and two government homoeopathy dispensaries (Cheruvannur, Thuneri) in the district come under the project. P.Prakashan, project coordinator of Haritha Keralam Mission in the district, said that the project aimed at creating more awareness among the masses on medicinal plants. A large variety of such and herbs including gooseberry, ashwagandha, kurunthotti, keezharnelli, brahmi, chittamrith, turmeric, aloevera, neem, asparagus, ginger, tulsi, avanakku, karinochi, and adalodakam would be grown on the premises of these six dispensaries, preferably on the ground, and if not, in large flower pots. In Kattippara, a large plot near the dispensary with overgrown shrubs, is being cleared and land filled, to set up the medicinal garden. The help of agencies such as the Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and the Farmers’ Task Force of Kattipara panchayat, is being utilised for the project at various stages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/haritha-mission-to-set-up-medicinal-gardens/article36661704.ece
25 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Kathirani’ launched to cultivate paddy on fallow land||The Department of Agriculture, joining hands with the District Panchayat on Friday, launched a pilot project named “Kathirani” to convert fallow land into productive paddy fields in selected rural areas of Kozhikode district. Minister for Agriculture P. Prasad announced the official launch of the project at Koodalott field in Changaroth panchayat, where over 100 hectares of fallow land would be converted into productive fields in the first phase. Officials said the project was designed with an aim to make use of 1,321 hectares of identified land where no farm activities had been in place for over a decade. In the 2021-22 financial year, Rs. 40 lakh would be invested for the project, they said. The project would be implemented with the support of trained technicians under the Haritha Karma Sena and Agro Service Centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kathirani-launched-to-cultivate-paddy-on-fallow-land/article36661707.ece
25 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||New trust board member for Arya Vaidya Sala||P. Ramkumar, a member of Aryavaidyan P.K. Warrier’s Panniyampalli family, was chosen a trust board member of Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala. He fills the membership left vacant by the death of Dr. Warrier. Dr. Ramkumar has been working at Arya Vaidya Sala as a physician since 1999. Currently, manager of Arya Vaidya Sala factory, he is State president of Ayurveda Medicine Manufacturers Association. His wife, Deepa R. Varier, is an assistant manager at Arya Vaidya Sala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-trust-board-member-for-arya-vaidya-sala/article36661702.ece
25 September 2021||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD,KERALA||60 Malappuram panchayats to do away with ‘sir’, ‘madam’||In a revolutionary move, 60 grama panchayat presidents belonging to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in Malappuram district have decided to say goodbye to salutations such as ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ in the local bodies they head. The decision taken at a meeting of the Grama Panchayat Presidents League (GPPL) held here on Thursday is likely to have a far-reaching impact with two-thirds of the civic bodies in Malappuram district jumping on to the anti-colonial bandwagon in the centenary year of the 1921 Malabar Rebellion. The GPPL, a forum of IUML’s panchayat presidents, has surprised those who are currently spearheading a campaign against ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ in the State. “It’s really a surprise. It’s a bold decision indeed,” said Boban Mattumantha, the social worker who started the campaign from Palakkad. It was Mathur grama panchayat in Palakkad district that took the historic decision to ban ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ on August 31. Avinissery panchayat in Thrissur district, Ambalappuzha North panchayat in Alapuzha district, and Uzhavoor panchayat in Kottayam district soon followed suit. As many as 30 panchayats across the State and several other institutions have joined the movement against ‘sir’ and ‘madam’. ‘Colonial hangover’ “Ending salutations like ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ will give us much-needed freedom from the colonial hangover. When people address government officials as ‘sir’ and ‘madam’, a feeling is instilled in them that the latter are the boss. This mindset has to go. The government is to serve the people, and not to rule them,” said P.C. Abdurahman and Mohammed Ismail K., president and general secretary respectively of the GPPL. Mr. Abdurahman is president of Pulpatta panchayat and Mr. Ismail heads Pookkottur panchayat. Meetings to be held They said each of the 60 panchayats would soon convene meetings of officials concerned and implement the decision. This is the first time in the State that a political party’s panchayat presidents have taken the decision to scrap ‘sir’ and ‘madam’. The panchayats that will soon do away with the practice are Vazhikkadavu, Karulai, Kalikavu, Thuvvoor, Edappatta, Thrikkalangode, Urangattiri, Kavanur, Keezhuparamba, Pulpatta, Cheekode, Areekode, Kuzhimanna, Chelembra, Cherukavu, Pallikkal, Ponmala, Vazhakkad, Muthuvallur, Kodur, Anakkayam, Morayur, Pookkottur, Othukkungal, Kuruva, Mankada, Makkaraparamba, Koottilangadi, Puzhakkattiri, Alipparamba, Keezhattur, Vettathur, Angadipuram, Athavanad, Edayur, Irimbiliyam, Marakkara, Kuttippuram, Kalpakanchery, Tirunavaya, Vattamkulam, Ozhur, Mangalam, Kaladi, Perumanna Klari, Ponmundam, Valavannur, Cheriyamundam, Niramarathur, Tenhipalam, Munniyur, Nannambra, Peruvallur, AR Nagar, Edarikode, Parappur, Thennala, Vengara, Kannamangalam, and Oorakam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/60-malappuram-panchayats-headed-by-iuml-to-do-away-with-sir-and-madam/article36661700.ece
25 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Subhashini Ali visits Anakkara||All India Democratic Women’s Association president Subhashini Ali visited her ancestral Vadakkath home at Anakkara, near Thrithala, on Friday. Daughter of Captain Lakshmi Sahgal, Ms. Ali grieved for her aunt G. Susheelamma, the last of the freedom fighters from the legendary Vadakkath family who died on Wednesday. Ms. Ali had visited Anakkara during the last Assembly election. Sharing her relation with Susheelamma, Ms. Ali said she instilled the spirit of freedom and secularism throughout her life. “Susheelamma had been jailed at her tender age of 19. But she upheld her spirit of freedom and secularism until her death.” Ms. Ali said that Susheelamma was so much endeared to the people of Anakkara. For them, she was an embodiment of Gandhian principles. She said she felt a terrible vacuum in her ancestral home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subhashini-ali-visits-anakkara/article36661878.ece
25 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Chalo travel card scheme in Palakkad||Private buses in the district will soon have the Chalo travel card scheme. Fifty-odd buses plying between Palakkad and Walayar launched the scheme on Friday. The scheme, being implemented in association with Chalo Mobility Private Ltd., will be extended across the State. Buses will soon be fitted with camera and GPS so that people will be able to know the real timing of the buses. Regional Transport Officer Thankaraj inaugurated the distribution of the Chalo travel card and ticket machine at Stadium Busstand here on Friday. Private Bus Operators Association district president K. Satyan, general secretary K. Raveendrakumar, V.N. Giriprasad, K. Sudhakaran, K. Unnikrishnan, and K. Balakrishnan attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chalo-travel-card-scheme-in-palakkad/article36661930.ece
25 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Bank heist: jewellery, cars recovered||The police team investigating the heist at the Chandranagar branch of the Marutharoad Rural Cooperative Credit Society Bank a few weeks ago has recovered the jewellery and cars the accused had purchased with the loot. The police team recovered the cars and the jewellery from Satar and Nasik after taking a jewellery owner Rahul to Maharashtra. Rahul had helped the main accused Nikhil Ashok Joshi, alias Paresh, to sell the 7.5 kg gold he stole from the bank on July 25. Two absconding Another accused Nelesh Sable, a doctor by profession, is on the run. But the police seized his cars. The police said the car he bought with the money from the loot would be produced before the court. Apart from Sable, another accused Sujit Jagdab too is absconding. The police said efforts were on to arrest the duo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bank-heist-jewellery-cars-recovered/article36661877.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Most IT staff prefer to work from home||Even as Technopark gets ready for normal functioning with 100% vaccination, a survey conducted by Prathidhwani, welfare organisation of information technology (IT)employees in Kerala, shows that a majority of the employees prefer the existing work from home arrangement, while another section prefer a hybrid arrangement involving working few days from home and the rest from office. Three groups According to Prathidhwani representatives, more than 3,000 employees from 335 companies in Technopark, Infopark and Cyberpark and a few IT employees from Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad participated in the survey. The employees were categorised into three groups, with the entry level consisting of those with up to 4 years of experience, the mid level consisting of those with 4 to 8 years of experience and the senior level having experience of above 8 years. Of the participants, 36% were females and 64% were males. As per the survey, 53% of the employees prefer a hybrid model, 36% prefer complete work from home and only 11% prefer work from office. Unexpected finding “Combining the hybrid and work from home percentages, we find that 89% of the employees prefer some level of working from home. This was an unexpected finding for us, as we assumed quite a few would be wanting to come back to office after almost two years of working from home. Going by this trend, the work from home or hybrid model will come up as a requirement from the employee’s side during the recruitment phase,” said Rohit J., member of the Prathidwani’s data team that analysed the findings. As many as 63% of the males and 61% of the females surveyed said that their work-life balance have improved after the implementation of the work from home system, while the percentages are 50% and 58% respectively to a question on improvement in their physical health. Increased work hours Significantly, 79% of the women and 78% of the men said that their working hours have increased in the shift to work from home. For 48% of the females, stress or depression was a problem, while it was 42% for the males. Around 36% of both categories said that they have to now work more on weekends, while around 70% said that they miss the coffee breaks at office. The preference for work from office was more among the entry level employees at 15%. Connectivity issues are a problem for close to 50% of those surveyed, although it is more for the entry-level employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/most-it-staff-prefer-to-work-from-home/article36661910.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State candidates shine bright||Meera K. of Kolazhy, Thrissur, bagged the sixth rank in the Civil Services examinations, the results of which were declared on Friday, even as several Keralites figured in the top 100. Midhun Premraj of Vadakara in Kozhikode district stood 12th, while Karishma Nair, who lives in Mumbai, came 14th. Aparna Ramesh 35th. Veena S. Suthan of Kandalloor, Alappuzha, stood 57th, while Aparna M.B. and Dheena Dastageer from Thiruvananthapuram came 62nd and 63rd respectively. Other winners Other rank holders from the State include Arya R. Nair of Koorooppada, Kottayam (113), Malini S. of Thiruvananthapuram (135), Devi P. of Cherthala (143), A.B. Silpa of Pathiyoorkala, Alappuzha (147), and Minnu P.M. of Thiruvananthapuram, who is employed as a Lower Division clerk at the Police Headquarters, who bagged the 150th rank. Anchu Wilson of Thiruvananthapuram (156) and Sreethu S.S. of Vellarada, Thiruvananthapuram (163) also figured on the rank list. CM wishes rankers Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said it is heartening to know that over 10 Keralites have figured in the top 100. Mr. Vijayan called Ms. Meera, who stood sixth, and commended her for the achievement. The Chief Minister also congratulated the other rank holders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-candidates-score-in-civil-services-exams/article36661752.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||For this city duo, it’s third time lucky||Aparna M. B. and Dheenah Dastageer from the city who bagged the 62nd and 63rd ranks in the Civil Services examinations cleared the tough exams in their third attempts. Ms. Aparna, who hails from Kaniyapuram, had resigned a private sector job to prepare for the exams. Ms. Dastageer, who resides at Nanthancode, had received placement in an MNC after her graduation, but declined it so that she could find the time to prepare for her dream job. The announcement of the results on Friday has more or less come as a ‘wedding gift’ for Ms. Aparna who had tied the knot on September 1. She had decided to give a crack at the Civil Services as she believed that field work was her “true calling.” Quits job After five years in the private sector, Ms. Aparna, who holds a Masters in Economics from the Delhi School of Economics, had resigned her job to prepare for the Civil Services. ''I'd sat for the exams twice before while working as a data scientist at a private firm in Bengaluru,'' she said. Ms. Aparna is married to Shubham Dang who is pursuing his Executive MBA at the IIM Ahmedabad. The Civil Service rank holder is the daughter of retired banker Manoj Kumar and Bindu. She has a sister, Anoshka, who is in Class XII. Sixty-third in the rank list, Ms. Dastageer says her school days at the International Indian School in Damaam, Saudi Arabia, inspired her to try for the Civil Services. ''That, and the fact that my father, Mohammed Abdul Kader Dastageer, is a research scientist at the King Fahd University. The International Indian School was a 'mini India' despite being far away from home,'' she said. Ms. Dastageer had got placement in an MNC after obtaining her BTech in Electronics and Communication Engineering from the LBS Institute of technology for Women in the city. However, she had opted out out to prepare for the Civil Services instead. Having cracked the exams in her third attempt, Ms. Dastageer said that the result was quite unexpected. In her second attempt, she had made it to the interview. Her mother is Sharmila Dastageer. She has a brother, Faheem Dastageer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-this-city-duo-its-third-time-lucky/article36661922.ece
25 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Active cases on the decline||Kerala reported 17,983 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,10,523 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool has been on a declining trend and it had 1,62,846 patients on Friday, with 15,054 patients reported to have recovered on the day. 127 more deaths The Health Department states that only 12.6% of the active cases are admitted in hospitals. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 24,318 with the State adding 127 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Friday. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 1,807 while the total number of hospitalisations across the State has come down to 22,512. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began now stands at 45,97,266 cases. Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of 2,784 cases, followed by Ernakulam 2,397, Thiruvananthapuram 1,802, Kollam 1,500, Kottayam 1,367, Kozhikode 1,362, Palakkad 1,312, Malappuram 1,285, Alappuzha 1,164, Idukki 848, Kannur 819, Pathanamthitta 759, Wayanad 338, and Kasaragod 246.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/active-cases-on-the-decline/article36661748.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB sets up specialised unit for ‘power’ful ideas||Recognising the value of innovation, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has established a unit for fashioning devices useful for the State’s power sector. Christened ‘MIDEA’, short for Manufacturing unit for Innovative Devices, Equipment and Accessories, the specialised unit has been tasked with driving innovation within the KSEB, manufacturing useful devices, picking suitable technologies and also assessing whether concepts from outside the KSEB hold potential for the utility. Developing innovative solutions in-house will also save money for the power utility, which operates in a technology-intensive atmosphere, the KSEB has observed. A meeting of the full-time directors of the KSEB, which met on September 9, had given the approval for forming the unit. “MIDEA will be based in Cherthala and we hope to operationalise it at the earliest. Initially, it will run with a skeleton staff,” said Mini George, Director (Planning and Safety, Supply Chain Management), KSEB. Workplace safety In a nutshell, MIDEA is expected to develop devices that not only simplify tasks but also enhance workplace safety. The KSEB treats workplace safety as of paramount importance, given the number of electrical mishaps reported in the State every year.  Climbing poles easily Some of the technologies MIDEA will be working on in the initial phase include the ‘ACSR detector,’ an instrument that helps field staff to easily differentiate between aluminium conductor steel reinforced (ACSR) and all aluminium alloy conductor (AAAC) power cables. Designing a simpler, safer method for the staff to climb up electricity poles forms another project. Baiju K. C., an assistant engineer at the office of the KSEB chief safety commissioner known for coming up with innovative solutions, had submitted the preliminary report on MIDEA. The full-time directors cleared the proposal based on a recommendation made by the director (distribution and HRM) in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-sets-up-specialised-unit-for-powerful-ideas/article36661791.ece
25 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State bags awards for medical care||The State has received three national awards from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, an official release issued by the Health Department said here on Friday. At ‘Arogya Manthan 3.0’, a meeting organised to mark the three years of successful implementation of Ayushman Bharat (AB PM-JAY) scheme, Kerala received the award for the State providing the maximum free medical care under the scheme. Kottayam Government Medical College bagged the award for the public sector hospital to have provided the maximum free medical care under AB-PMJAY. Pradhan Manthri Arogya Mitra award for issuing the maximum number of AB-PMJAY-Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati (KASP) cards was won by A. Aswathy of the Government Medical College, Alappuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-bags-awards-for-medical-care/article36661720.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stunt riding: Neyyar Dam police register case against 2||The Neyyar Dam police on Friday registered a case against two youths in connection with a stunt-riding incident a few days ago in which a youngster fractured his leg. The accused were identified as Lalu, 30, and Aneesh, 30, of Neyyar Dam. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by a relative of the injured youth, Unnikrishnan, 22, of Vattiyurkavu. Unnikrishnan was injured in the incident that occurred on Pantha road near the Neyyar reservoir on Sunday. The incident came under intense scrutiny after a video clip of a group of youngsters engaged in motorbike racing circulated on the social media. Unnikrishnan and a few others were seen doing dangerous stunts even as other motorists passed by. The motorcycle ridden by Lalu and Aneesh rammed Unnikrishnan’s two-wheeler. The duo then went on to thrash him, despite Unnikrishnan writhing in pain with a partially severed leg. In the complaint to the police, Unnikrishnan’s relative alleged that the accident was a premeditated one. While the police claimed to have received informal complaints of motorbike racing in the region, no case has however been registered against the group of motorcyclists yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stunt-riding-neyyar-dam-police-register-case-against-2/article36661917.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fulfilling her late dad’s dream||Minnu P.M., who bagged the 150th rank in the Civil Services exams, says that she has now fulfilled a dream of her late father who was a police officer. ‘Higher level’ Ms. Minnu is presently employed as an lower division clerk at the Police Headquarters, a job she secured in 2012 through the Compassionate Employment Scheme after her father's demise. She decided to try for the Civil Services as it involved a ''higher level of public service.'' ''My father, S. Paul Raj, was a head constable and he wanted me to try for the Civil Services,'' says Minnu, who lives at Karyavattom with her husband Joshy D. J., a technician at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), Thumba, and her eight-year-old son Jeremiah Joshy. A surprise Ms. Minnu is a postgraduate in biochemistry. Her mother, Mini Prabha, is employed as a clerk at a cooperative society at Aryanad. Ms. Minnu had attempted the exams in the past years but had failed to clear it. Friday's announcement has come as a surprise, she says. ''Of course, I dreamed of clearing it. But it's a very tough exam, so it has come as a surprise,'' says Ms. Minnu, who had taken leave from her work to prepare for the Civil Services exams. Although Ms. Minnu works at the police headquarters, she prefers the IAS to the IPS. ''It's true I work at the police HQ, but I'm working in the administration wing,'' she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fulfilling-her-late-dads-dream/article36661923.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC publishes results of preliminary examinations||The Public Service Commission (PSC) has published the shortlist of candidates who cleared the preliminary examinations for posts in 192 categories. Separate lists have been published for State-level posts, district-level posts and special recruitment. The aspirants who figure on the shortlist will appear for the final exams to be held in November and December. They need not provide a separate confirmation. The admission ticket will be provided 15 days before the exam date. No changes will be allowed in the exam date or centre. Separate arrangements will be made for aspirants who are COVID-19 positive if they submit an application in the respective district office. Since the tenth-level preliminary examinations were held in phases, the shortlists were prepared after standardisation of marks. The shortlists were prepared with the codes A,B, C and D attached to the register numbers depending on the phase in which the particular aspirant had appeared for the four-phased examination. Syllabus on website The same register number might appear in different phases, but these will belong to different candidates. Candidates have to be careful while accessing the shortlist and ensure that they are referring to the list for the phase in which they appeared for. The PSC has also published on its website the detailed syllabus for the main examination and the mark weightage for each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/psc-publishes-results-of-preliminary-examinations/article36661750.ece
25 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One exams get under way||After lots of delays and confusions, the Plus One higher secondary and vocational higher secondary examinations got under way in State schools on Friday morning. In all, 4,17,598 students are appearing for the higher secondary exam, though only 71,795 were slated to reach the exam centres for the papers scheduled on Day 1 – Sociology, Anthropology, Electronic Service Technology (Old), and Electronic Systems. Nearly 30,000 students are taking the entrepreneurship development exam in the vocational higher secondary stream. Taken together, more than one lakh students reached schools to appear for the exam on Friday. As many as 120 higher secondary and a few VHSE students who were COVID-positive sat for the exam in separate classrooms wearing PPE kits. On September 28, nearly 4.2 lakh students will reach schools for the exams in subjects such as Chemistry, History, Islamic History and Culture, Business Studies, and Communicative English. Cool-off time The exams have been scheduled with intervals of one to five days between papers. A cool-off time of 20 minutes is allowed to students. Directives have been issued to adhere to COVID-19 protocols strictly. School premises, exam halls, furniture all have been cleaned and disinfected. Thermal scanners are be used at the main school entrance to check students’ body temperature. Masks are mandatory. Sanitisers have been provided to students at the entrance.Only 20 students are seated in a classroom. Open and ventilated classrooms instead of air-conditioned ones are used. Crowding, before and after exams, are not allowed. Health workers from the nearest primary or community health centre have been posted at the exam centres. COVID-positive students have been asked to inform school authorities beforehand. The higher secondary exams will go on till October 18, while the VHSE exams will conclude on October 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-exams-get-under-way/article36661754.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Low pressure to bring rain in State||Indications are that the southwest monsoon season will end on a relatively active note for Kerala. The presence of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal region is expected to trigger an increase in rainfall activity from Saturday. Districts can expect fairly widespread to widespread rainfall and isolated heavy falls till September 28, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated on Friday. Fishers have been advised not to put out to sea on September 27 and 28 as strong winds are likely along and off the Kerala coast. Meanwhile, southwest monsoon rainfall over Kerala has finally come out of the ‘deficit’ position and turned ‘normal,’ according to the IMD data for the June 1-September 24 period. The percentage departure from the normal stood at -18 (percentage departures between -19 and +19 is deemed normal). The southwest monsoon season officially lasts from June 1 to September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-pressure-to-bring-rain-in-state/article36661751.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Coastal shipping service may be extended||The coastal shipping service connecting Azheekal, Beypore, Kochi and Kollam is likely to be extended to the Vizhinjam minor port. Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil said on Friday that the proposal was under the active consideration of the State government. Mr. Devarkovil was speaking after inaugurating the World Maritime Day celebrations organised by the newly-formed Maritime Customs and Logistics Lawyers' Association of Trivandrum (M-CLAT). The government is currently developing infrastructure at the minor ports. Work is in progress at Azheekal for developing a small port at a cost of Rs. 3,000 crore. The foundation stone will be laid by the middle of 2022. Steps are being taken to complete the construction of the Vizhinjam international seaport at the earliest, maritime board chairman V.J. Mathew said. Security mechanisms as prescribed under the International Ship and Ports Facility Security Code are being established at Vizhinjam, he added. Books released The Minister inaugurated M-CLAT and released the books The Exim Trade , Maritime Law and Blue Economy , and CHA-CBLR Exam Guide authored by M-CLAT secretary K.J. Thomas Kallampally. M. Vincent, MLA, Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd (VISL) CEO Jayakumar, Adani Vizhinjam Port Pvt Ltd CEO and MD Rajesh Jha, Mar Gregorios Law College Principal P.C. John and Thiruvananthapuram Bar Association president S.S. Balu were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coastal-shipping-service-may-be-extended-to-vizhinjam/article36661927.ece
25 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||10-day online energy efficiency quiz begins||A 10-day online quiz programme organised by The Hindu in association with the Energy Management Centre (EMC), Kerala, began on Friday. The objective of the Energy Efficiency Quiz is to spread awareness of energy efficiency and green and sustainable energy in the State. Anyone above the age of 13 can participate in the event which goes on up to October 3. Organised in connection with the silver jubilee of the EMC and as part of its Smart Energy programme (SEP), the quiz will have five multiple choice questions every day. Ten winners a day Ten winners will get gift vouchers every day. The criterion for selecting winners is “maximum correct answers in the shortest time.” The fastest top three among the daily winners also stand a chance to take home cash prizes worth Rs. 5,000, Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 2,000. The names of the winners will be announced the next day of the quiz on the website. To participate in the quiz, please log on to https://bit.ly/THEMCQZ.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/10-day-online-energy-efficiency-quiz-begins/article36661695.ece
25 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt., Adani delaying Vizhinjam project: Cong.||Leader of the Opposition and Congress leader V.D. Satheesan on Friday accused the State government of kowtowing to the Adani Group’s go-slow approach to the Vizhinjam international shipment container project. Adani had failed to meet the 2019 December deadline for completing the port. On its part, the LDF government was strangely reluctant to insist that Adani fulfil its contractual obligation. Now, the Adani Group had sought three more years to finish construction. Ideally, the government should sue the group for contractual violation and not permit deadline prolongation, Mr. Satheesan said. The UDF government had contracted Adani Group to construct the port in 2015. But, it had insisted that the group pay Rs. 12 lakh as penalty for every 24-hour extension of the deadline beyond December 2019, he said. The LDF was loath to claim the indemnity from the company. Instead, it has accorded Adani free rein in all issues concerning the Vizhinjam project, he said. The government has failed to ensure railway connectivity to the port. Adani Group has merely constructed an 850-m long breakwater. The port ideally needs a 3,100-m long barrier to protect the upcoming harbour from strong waves, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-adani-delaying-vizhinjam-project-cong/article36661913.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister takes stock of stent availability at MCH||Health Minister Veena George conducted a surprise inspection at the cardiac catheterisation laboratory (cath lab) in the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, on Friday. The visit came amid reports of procedures, including emergency surgeries, getting disrupted at the facility owing to the lack of stents. The issue had come up for discussion when the Minister visited the newly-established intensive care units (ICUs) at the hospital on Thursday. Following discussions with the college Principal and hospital superintendent, Ms. George had convened another meeting of college authorities in her office later in the day. She conducted a stock-taking of the necessary items at the cath lab for a first-hand account of the situation during her second visit on Friday. During the exercise, the availability of adequate stock of stents, guide wires and balloons for procedures were ascertained in the laboratory. Additional stock The stock of stents is estimated to last for over a month. While the guide wires would last for another four or five days, necessary orders were issued by the Health Minister to procure additional stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-takes-stock-of-stent-availability-at-mch/article36661914.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines issued to police||State Police Chief Anil Kant has issued guidelines on the measures to be adopted by the police in the run-up to the reopening of schools. Station house officers have been instructed to convene meetings of headmasters and management office-bearers to assess preparedness relating to student safety and health issues. The police will also ascertain the working condition of school buses. Necessary maintenance must be completed by October 20. Only drivers having over 10 years of experience will be allowed to ply vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-issued-to-police/article36661749.ece
25 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State driving investors away: Union Minister||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan on Friday said that the Kerala government had hit a new high in driving away investment by imposing a hartal right on World Tourism Day on September 27. ‘Shed image’ Inaugurating an “industrial festival” jointly organised by the Central and State governments, Mr. Muraleedharan said that the State is ranked 28th in investor friendliness. The government had opposed public-private participation in the development of the Thiruvananthapuram airport. He also asked the LDF government to shed the view that investors were exploiters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-driving-investors-away-union-minister/article36661908.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Centre told to extend validity||Transport Minister Antony Raju has written to Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, demanding the extension of validity of driving licences and other vehicle permits for six more months considering the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-told-to-extend-validity/article36661911.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,802 cases in capital district||The active COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram district fell considerably to 15,535 when 2,422 recovered from the illness on Friday, even as 1,802 fresh cases were reported. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district stood at 14.7%. As many as 41,342 people currently underwent quarantine in the district. These included 9,292 people who were self-isolated in their houses. Meanwhile, a new containment zone was declared in Panangad ward of Venganoor grama panchayat. Micro-containment zones also came up in Pantha of Mayam ward in Amboori grama panchayat, Chinnanvila of Office ward and Maruthoorkonam area in Maruthoorkonam ward in Kottukal grama panchayat. The existing containment zones in Changa, Uriyakkode, Vellanad Town and Konganam wards of Vellanad grama panchayat, Velloorkkonam ward of Navaikulam grama panchayat, and Poovathoor ward of Vamanapuram grama panchayat have been lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1802-cases-in-capital-district/article36661916.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Subhiksha hotel opens on Tuesday||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil will inaugurate the hunger-free Kerala — Subhiksha hotel project at the State Central Library's canteen building on September 28. The project aims at providing food at affordable rates. The noon meals through Subhiksha hotels are priced at Rs. 20, with the government providing a subsidy of Rs. 5 on each meal sold to those running the restaurant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subhiksha-hotel-opens-on-tuesday/article36661918.ece
25 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MoU inked for cattle improvement||Steps will be taken for the genetic improvement of cattle in the State and enhancing productivity, Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchurani has said. The Minister was addressing a function where an MoU for collaboration was signed by the Kerala Livestock Development Board and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research for genomic research in cattle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mou-inked-for-cattle-improvement/article36661919.ece
25 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP slams September 27 hartal||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has slammed the “LDF government-sponsored” hartal on September 27. Terming the hartal strike brazenly anti-people, he said here on Friday that the farmers’ agitation in Punjab had no bearing on Kerala. By backing the hartal, the Left Democratic Front was trying to crawl out of the current financial despair caused by COVID-19. He warned against endangering children by opening schools now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-slams-september-27-hartal/article36661928.ece
25 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Stir helped build farmers’ self-esteem: Yadav||The ongoing struggle has helped build self-esteem in farmers in the country, Yogendra Yadav, activist and founding leader of the Jai Kisan Andolan, has said. He was speaking here on Friday after inaugurating a farmers’ commission formed by an umbrella organisation of farmers’ associations. The commission formed by the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh is meant to study the problems faced by farmers across the State and to find expert solutions. The commission will submit a report comprising suggestions to the governments before the next State and Union Budgets. Goals achieved “The historic farmers’ struggle, which completes almost 10 months, has already achieved three goals. First and foremost, it brought back self-respect in farmers. ‘No farmer, no food, no future’ is the new slogan. Secondly, the farmers have realised their political power. Even the political parties realised that they cannot afford to underestimate the power of the farmers. Thirdly, the agitation has united the farmers across religious lines, crop variations and linguistic divides.” Though the three new laws, which were brought by the Centre, have not yet been repealed, they are almost dead. No government will dare to bring them again. But we need a death certificate to the laws. Unfortunately the Prime Minister refused to repeal them officially as he takes it as a prestige issue, Mr. Yadav said. Stir on Monday The farmers’ agitation on Monday called by the Samyuktha Kisan Morcha has support from all sections of society. Mr. Yadav was here to gather support for the agitation. “The agitation on Monday is only a prelude to the bigger show of strength on November 26, when the farmers’ agitation completes one year,” he said. This movement is now much more than a protest for repealing the three laws and to demand minimum support price. It is a movement to defend democratic values and to save the unity of the country. “The move to implement the three anti-farmer laws was the beginning of a culture of corporate farming, which we nipped in the bud.” Man-animal conflict Earlier he called on people who came under attack from wild animals in the district. “Distorted development projects forced wild elephants to stray into farm lands and attack people. Response of the system is far from sufficient. Bureaucracy is finding excuses to deny compensation to farmers. The State system failed to find a systematic solution to the issue,” he said. “We have short-term, mid-term and long-term goals to address the issue. We will write to the government about individual and general cases of man-animal conflicts and demand fair, speedy and substantial compensation. Bureaucratic red ribbon should not come as a hurdle for compensation. In the long term, the government should think about a sustainable model of development,” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-helped-build-farmers-self-esteem-yadav/article36661693.ece
25 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Sixth ranked Meera does State proud||“It is my mother’s dream. With hard work anybody can secure a good rank in the Civil Services examinations,” said Meera K. of Kolazhy at Pottore in Thrissur district who has won the sixth rank in Civil Services examinations. She is the State topper. Ms. Meera, who did her BTech in Mechanical Engineering from Thrissur Government Engineering College in 2016, got a job in Bengaluru through campus selection. However, she discontinued it for cracking Civil Services examinations. Ms. Meera has cracked the examination in her fourth attempt. “The country is going through a tough time. I expect I can contribute effectively. I am very happy to come in the first ten ranks. I never expected it,” the 27-year-old added. Ms. Meera completed her higher secondary education from Kulapathi Munshi Bhavans Vidyamandir, Pottore. Meera’s father, K. Ramdas, runs a construction company, while her mother, K. Radhika, works as a teacher at NSS High School, Mundathikkode. Revenue Minister K. Rajan, Thrissur Collector Haritha V. Kumar and Xavier Chittilappilly, MLA, met Meera at her house. “The entire State is proud of Ms. Meera. It gives additional joy that she got selected in the Kerala cadre itself,” the Minister said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan called her on phone and congratulated her. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi made a video call and congratulated Ms. Meera.  The country is going through a tough time. I expect I can contribute effectivelyMeera K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sixth-ranked-meera-does-state-proud/article36661746.ece
25 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Chembai music fete from Nov. 29||The annual Chembai Music Festival, organised by the Guruvayur Devaswom, will be held from November 29 to December 14 by maintaining COVID-19 protocols. Online registration Online registration can be done from October 4 to October 14. People who have taken at least one dose of COVID vaccine will only be allowed to participate. People above the age of 60 should take both the doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chembai-music-festival-from-nov-29-to-dec-14/article36661709.ece
25 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Illegal Viyyur phone calls: CB probe ordered||The Crime Branch (CB) will investigate the illegal telephone calls made by some inmates in the Viyyur Central Jail. The probe will be into the reports that ‘Kodi’ Suni, convicted in the T.P. Chandrasekharan murder case, and Rasheed, imprisoned for a murder at a flat at Ayyanthole, made more than 1,000 calls from the prison. Director General of Police (Prisons) Sheikh Darvesh Saheb has issued a show-cause notice to Jail Superintendent A.G. Suresh in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-viyyur-phone-calls-cb-probe-ordered/article36661744.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cleaning, disinfection of schools to be over by Oct. 15||The Education Department plans to complete cleaning and disinfection work ahead of school reopening by October 15. The government has announced that offline classes will resume by November 1. A major challenge before the department and local bodies is to make classrooms and school premises clean and safe to use, at least two weeks ahead of reopening. Preliminary assessment had revealed that many schools required maintenance and repair, as they had remained closed for one-and-a-half years due to the pandemic. Local bodies have been directed to release emergency funds to carry out repair and maintenance of schools. “We have initiated steps to identify infrastructure shortcomings and repairs needed ahead of reopening on November 15. The necessary work will be carried out as per the assessment,” said Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam. School managements have been told to submit electrical and plumbing fitness certificates to ascertain that the facilities are functional. They also have to submit fitness certificates of school buses. Directives will be further given on the basis of the general guidelines to be issued by the department in consultation with the Health Department. Ms. Alexander said a cleaning campaign would be held in 1,037 schools under the department before October 15. The cooperation of local bodies, Suchitwa Mission, and voluntary organisations will be sought for cleaning and disinfection, she added. The first instalment of financial aid for minor repair has been released under the Samagra Shiksha Kerala programme. The assistance varies from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 1 lakh, as per the total intake capacity of each school. The services of workers affiliated to the Employment Guarantee Scheme have been utilised for clearing overgrown bushes, if any, and cleaning of school premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleaning-disinfection-of-schools-to-be-over-by-oct-15/article36661733.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kerala offers protection on hartal day||He also sought the intervention of the court to ensure that vehicular movement would not be affected on the day and no one would be forced to participate in the strike. The petitioner pointed out that the State did not participate in the earlier Bharat Bandh called by the farmers on March 26 as the State was in election mode. The protest should have been avoided considering the COVID-19 situation, he contended. Forced bandh He submitted that the hartal would turn out to be a forced bandh if the court did not issue specific directives to comply with its earlier directives regarding hartals. A Division Bench consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly disposed of the petition considering the submission of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-offers-protection-on-hartal-day/article36661794.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wake-up call||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wake-up-call/article36661925.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sun, sea and sand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sun-sea-and-sand/article36661697.ece
25 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala govt. releases draft guidelines to reopen schools||General Education Minister V. Sivankutty on Friday released the draft guidelines for reopening of schools in the State, scheduled on November 1. Speaking to reporters here on Friday, Mr. Sivankutty said only two students would be allowed on a bench and the midday meal scheme would be scrapped for the time being. “Instead students will be given an allowance,” the Minister said. Terming it a draft, Mr. Sivankutty said the final guidelines would be issued in five days. “We have received several suggestions regarding reopening of schools. Students of each class will be divided into groups. One of the suggestions is to have classes till noon based on a shift system. Another is to conduct full-day sessions for a week for one batch while allowing the other batch to come to school the following week. A final decision will be taken after detailed discussions with various stakeholders,” the Minister said. He said online classes would continue along with offline education. Differently abled students need not come to schools in the first phase. “Uniforms will not be made mandatory. Students will be allowed to enter schools after examining body temperature and oxygen level. Students should not be allowed to gather in groups. Teachers should be deployed to prevent gatherings,” he said. The Minister said the government was contemplating arranging Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus services from in front of schools. School buses should conduct more trips and operate adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Autorickshaws carrying schoolchildren would be allowed to transport two students at a time. Mr. Sivankutty said shops such as bakeries functioning near schools would not be allowed to sell items to students. New curriculum The Minister said to revise the curriculum, a new committee would be constituted. “The new curriculum will be job oriented with focus on social factors, including secularism, gender equality, environment and cleanliness,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-govt-releases-draft-guidelines-to-reopen-schools/article36661077.ece
25 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple killed as tractor hits bike||A couple from Ulindikonda in Kalluru Mandal of the district died when a tractor knocked down the motorcycle they were riding, at Yaparlapadu village on Friday. While Sriramulu died on the spot, his wife, who suffered grievous injuries, died in the Kurnool Government General Hospital, the Ulindikonda police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-killed-as-tractor-hits-bike/article36661847.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three injured in factory blast||Three workers were injured when a solvent vessel exploded accidentally within the premises of a chemical factory in Attibele Industrial Area on Friday. The blast resulted in a chemical leak which in turn released a pungent odour within a radius of several hundred metres. The incident comes after two fire accidents in the city in the last four days. The blast occurred at Lake Chemicals Pvt. Ltd., a pharmaceutical-related plant, at around 1.05 p.m. “Eight workers were at the spot when the solvent vessel burst, splattering chemicals around. Two workers sustained significant injuries, while another person sustained minor injuries,” said Mallesh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Bengaluru Rural. The injured have been identified as Gnanavelu, 22, and Mune Gowda, 30, who, according to sources, suffered significant burns — up to 30%. A third worker, Suryanath, 27, escaped with minor injuries. The injured are being treated at a private hospital nearby and are said to be out of danger. “When we reached the spot, the injured had already been shifted to hospitals but there was a fire raging, which we put out using two fire tenders,” said P.M. Nagesh, District Fire Officer, who led the operation at the factory. “The vessel was about eight feet high and eight feet wide. It had chemicals such as toluene, methanol, and hydrochloric acid. While we don’t yet know the exact reason for the blast, unregulated pressure or temperature may have led to an adverse reaction and blast,” he said. Residents angry An angry resident told mediapersons that they had been demanding that the factory be relocated as it emanates a foul smell, which has affected their quality of life. “Not only is there a foul smell every day, but it also causes irritation in our nose and throat,” he said, alleging that a similar accident had occurred a while back. When contacted, sources in the Fire and Emergency Services said a minor fire accident had occurredat the factory 14 years ago and some workers were injured, but no fatalities were recorded. The Attibele police have registered a case against the owners and management of Lake Chemicals under Section 337 of Indian Penal Code for “causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of others”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-injured-in-factory-blast/article36661092.ece
25 September 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Protests must conform to House rules’||Coming down heavily on the stalling of legislature/parliamentary sessions due to protests, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday maintained that such disruptions take away the right of members to raise issues of public importance. Delivering a talk on ‘Democracy: Protection of Parliamentary Values’ in a joint session of the Karnataka legislature, he said such disruptions came in the way of ensuring the fulfilment of responsibilities by the executive, as it would not be possible to debate important Bills. “This does not mean there should be no opposition or differences of opinion. In fact, opposition, differences of opinion, arguments, debates, and protests are all the basis of democracy. But protests should conform to the dignity of the House and be in tune with the spirit of parliamentary norms,” he said In this backdrop, he said there was a need for holding a serious debate on inculcating discipline and tolerance during legislature/parliamentary sessions. Mr. Birla also observed that the conduct of elected representatives in their private lives too should be a model for others so that the dignity of the House is elevated. “It is a matter of concern that legislature debates are not meeting the required standards and even the participation of legislators in such debates is not to the expected level,” he observed. Karnataka Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri proposed strict action, such as suspension and withholding of allowances, against members who either disrupt the proceedings of the House or boycott them. He also recommended increasing the annual duration of the session.          ‘Kannada undermined’ Janata Dal (S) legislator Annadani protested against Mr. Birla’s address in Hindi. Holding the Kannada flag in the Assembly, he said Kannada was being undermined in the Assembly. Congress members boycotted the speech saying there was no provision under parliamentary norms to allow the Lok Sabha Speaker to address a joint session of the State legislature in the Assembly hall. Only the President and Governor were allowed to do so. The programme could have been held elsewhere, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protests-must-conform-to-house-rules/article36661079.ece
25 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for 100% occupancy at cinemas, with a rider||The Karnataka government on Friday decided to allow 100% occupancy in cinemas and pubs from October in districts where there is less than one per cent COVID positivity rate. Announcing this to reporters after consulting with an expert committee on coronavirus, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said cent per cent occupancy would be allowed in cinemas from October 1 and in pubs from October 3. “From October 1, cent per cent occupancy will be allowed in the cinemas in the districts where the positivity rate is less than one per cent and 50% occupancy if the positivity rate is more than one per cent,” the Chief Minister said. According to him, the average positivity rate in the State is 0.66%. Barring a few, most of the districts see this rate, he said. He said at least one dose of the vaccine was mandatory for film-goers. However, pregnant women and children would not be allowed. Also, it was decided to allow 100% attendance for Classes six to 12, which would be conducted five days a week. However, night curfew would be in force between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m., he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nod-for-100-occupancy-at-cinemas-with-a-rider/article36661093.ece
25 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing statue of YSR creates a flutter||A missing statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhar Reddy at Kottur village in Gudupalle mandal, a few kilometres from Kuppam mandal headquarters, created a flutter on Friday. The police said that the statue made of plaster of paris (PoP) was missing from the pedestal in the village. According to police, preliminary inquiry suggested that a group of four youth from the same village, inebriated condition, were resting against the pedestal on Thursday night. A search is on to trace the statue. The police said that the suspects would be taken into custody. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/missing-ysr-statue-creates-a-flutter/article36661851.ece
25 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl rescued from rape bid in Chittoor district||The Narayanavanam police rescued a 20-year-old girl from rape bid and arrested a 28-year-old youth at a nearby hamlet in the early hours of Friday. The Disha App, which the girl had downloaded on her mobile a couple of days ago, helped her to contact the police. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar said the accused, identified as T. Vikram, allegedly barged into a house at midnight on Thursday and tried to force himself on the girl, who was alone at that time. However, the girl could pushed the accused and kept shouting for help, the desperate youth continued banging the the door. In a flash, the girl took to the Disha App on her mobile. At 1.30 a.m., woman sub-inspector from Narayanavanam Priyanka received the message from the control room in Vijayawada and her team rushed to the village by 1.39 a.m. The accused who was seen moving around the house was taken into custody. The SP said that this was the third incident in September where the police nabbed the accused and saved the girls, thanks to the Disha App. Mr. Senthil Kumar said that the Disha App awareness campaign was going strong in Chittoor district, with over 7.5 lakh women and students downloading it. The SP announced a cash reward to sub-inspector Priyanka and her team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/girl-rescued-from-rape-bid-in-chittoor/article36661388.ece
25 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders worth Rs. 40 lakh seized||A combing party of the Andhra Pradesh State Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (APSRSASTF) on Friday seized 18 logs worth over Rs. 40 lakh and nabbed a smuggling operative from Tamil Nadu, in the forests of Talakona in the Seshachalam Hills, 80 km from here. According to the task force officials, the combing party led by Deputy SP D. Murali Dhar was on patrol at Kokkirayi Kanuma in the Nerabailu forest in the early hours of Friday and they found smuggling operatives carrying the red sanders logs. Seeing the task force team, the operatives abandoned the logs and fled. The team nabbed one of the operatives identified as Sankar Govindan (36) from Vellore district of Tamil Nadu. Task force SP M. Sundar Rao said additional forces had been deployed in the Talakona forests to flush out the smuggling operatives. “All vulnerable routes have been put under surveillance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-sanders-worth-rs-40-lakh-seized/article36661853.ece
25 September 2021||CUDDALORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death for girl’s brother in inter-caste couple killing||The Special Court for SC/ST Act cases here on Friday awarded the death sentence to the brother of a caste Hindu girl and sentenced 12 others, including her father, to life imprisonment in the killing of inter-caste couple S. Murugesan and D. Kannagi at Virudhachalam in 2003. Murugesan, 25, a chemical engineering graduate belonging to a Scheduled Caste community, and Kannagi, 22, a commerce graduate hailing from a Vanniyar family, were residents of Puthukooraipettai. They fell in love while studying at Annamalai University. They secretly got married and registered their marriage on May 5, 2003, at Cuddalore. Angered by this, Kannagi’s family launched a hunt for them. On July 7 that year, they traced the couple, abducted them and forced them to drink poison in the early hours of July 8. The bodies were burnt in the presence of over 300 people. Delivering the verdict in the case, which was eventually probed by the CBI, Judge S. Uthamaraj described the double-murder as “brutal and against humanity”. He said this punishment would act as a warning to those who still practised such caste-based hatred. The court awarded the death sentence to the second accused and Kannagi’s brother Marudhupandian and life imprisonment to her father C. Duraiswami and 11 others, including policemen Chellamuthu (since retired) and Tamil Maran, Inspector of Police (since suspended), who served at the Virudhachalam station. The others convicted were Rangasamy, Kandavelu, Jothi, Venkatesan, Mani, Dhanavel, Anjapuli, Ramdoss and Chinnadurai. The death sentence would be executed subject to the mandatory confirmation by the Madras High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-for-girls-brother-in-inter-caste-couple-killing/article36661452.ece
25 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCV tobacco to be geo-tagged||The Tobacco Board will soon introduce geo-tagging of FCV tobacco crop in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Aim is to ensure that farmers are able to adopt latest techniques of cultivation, besides helping the board in planning its extension activities. “The board, with the help of the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI), will impart hand-son training to one farmer in latest techniques. The farmer will handle about 500 acres and in turn train another farmer and help him choose better quality seed, fertilizer, etc.,” Tobacco Board Chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu said on Wednesday. Dwindling crop size Farm mechanisation was one among the host of initiatives taken up during the last one year to reduce the cost of cultivation, he said. “The crop size of FCV tobacco has dwindled from 311 million kg in 2008-2011 to 216 million kg in 2016-2019. It may come down further to 200 million kg this year. While the cost of cultivation has gone up, the average price has not increased beyond 50%,” Mr. Raghunadha Babu said. “The ITC had set up a loose leaf mechanical barn in West Godavari district in 2020. We have set up four such barns with subsidy. Now, we are proposing a subsidy of Rs. 1 lakh for each barn and plan to set up 50 barns next year. The loose leaf barn reduces 60% of labour and curing costs,” said Mr. Raghunadha Babu. The board had also taken initiatives to improve productivity by about 15% to 20% by brining in new varieties in FCR-15 of southern region in Prakasam district. “To mitigate the losses, I have convinced the Commerce Ministry to reduce the penalty from 15% to 10%, and proposed to reduce further to 7.5%,” he said. “I have toured 31 auction platforms in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka in six months to study the industry before COVID-19. Since the lockdown has been lifted, I have started touring again. Our endeavour is to see smiles back on the faces of the farmers,” Mr. Raghunatha Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fcv-tobacco-to-be-geo-tagged/article36661862.ece
25 September 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foot-and-mouth disease reported in Hassan||The outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) among cattle in Hassan has left both farmers and veterinarians worried. Cases have been reported from Arkalgud, Arsikere, Channarayapatna and Sakleshpur taluks. While the farming community are worried about their livelihood, veterinarians are struggling to provide treatment, amidst a shortage of staff. The Department of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry has reported over 150 cases in the district so far. As of Friday, animals in 16 villages are being treated. So one animal death has been reported. However, farmers claim more animals have died over the last month. The deaths of cattle has hit milk production. Cattle vaccination is done once in six months. However, it was not done last year, owing to the pandemic. “The outbreak of the disease is due to the failure of the government in conducting the vaccination. If it had been done as per the schedule, farmers would not have suffered,” H. Yoga Ramesh, president, Potato Club in Arkalgud, said. “Against 24 sanctioned posts of veterinary doctors in Arkalgud taluk, we are only five. Every doctor is in charge of two or more hospitals. We are struggling to treat animals,” said a veterinarian. There was a shortage of staff members of other cadres as well, he added. Considering the cases, the department has launched a ring vaccination programme. Under this, the animals in a 5-km radius of the village, where the disease breakout was reported, will be vaccinated. “We are planning a mass vaccination in October, where we will cover 6.58 lakh animals,” said K.R. Ramesh, Deputy Director of Veterinary and Animal Husbandry in Hassan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foot-and-mouth-disease-reported-in-hassan/article36661368.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man carries wife’s body on shoulder, roughed up||An impoverished man, Srinivas, was roughed up by locals at Hayatnagar here in Telangana while he was carrying his wife’s body on his shoulders to a nearby lake for her last rites. Suspecting something amiss, the locals roughed up Mr. Srinivas and his friend Vinod and handed them over to police, with whom he narrated his tale of woes. A native of Nellore district in Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Srinivas along with his 35-year-old wife Lakshmi and two children — a nine-year-old girl and a six-year-old boy — had migrated to the city a few months ago and was doing odd jobs for livelihood. The family was living in a rented house in the area. None to help For the past few weeks, Ms. Lakshmi was not keeping well. Around 20 days ago, she was admitted to a hospital. The woman breathed her last on Friday. “As Mr. Srinivas had no money or relatives in the city, and didn’t know how to perform the last rites, he called his friend Mr. Vinod, who suggested cremating the body on the lake shore,” Assistant Commissioner of Police (Vanasthalipuram division) K. Purushotham Reddy said. While Mr. Srinivas was carrying the body wrapped in a bedsheet on his shoulders, the locals suspected foul play and stopped them. When Mr. Srinivas and Mr. Vinod were unable to answer their string of questions, the locals roughed them up, before calling the police. No foul play: hospital Despite repeated pleas, the locals did not allow them to carry the body. Soon, police reached the spot and shifted Lakshmi’s body to the Osmania General Hospital mortuary for autopsy. A report from the hospital ruled out any foul play in the death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-carries-wifes-body-on-shoulder-roughed-up/article36661369.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS mountaineer gets a surprise incentive from Jagan||For Amgoth Tukaram, the 23-year-old mountaineer from the City, it was a huge and pleasant surprise when Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy presented him a cheque for Rs. 35 lakh when the former called on him at his official chambers in Amaravati on Thursday. Mr. Tukaram, who is chasing the rare feat of scaling all the tallest mountain peaks in the world — he completed five of the seven — informed The Hindu that it all started when he was presented the Sakshi Excellence Award last week by Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan and Y.S. Bharathi, chairperson of Jagati Group of Publications which brings out the Sakshi Telugu daily. “After presenting the award, Ms. Bharathi made a general enquiry about my achievements, background and future plans and noted down my number. And within a week I got a call from the Andhra Pradesh CMO to come to Vijayawada,” said a delighted Mr. Tukaram. “And, to my delight, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was full of warmth when he even reeled out my list of feats. Apparently, he got all the feedback,” said the post-graduate student in Political Science. “Honestly, there was no specific request from my side but was immensely pleased when the honourable CM sir said I would be given Rs. 35 lakh as incentive to fulfil my dream,” Mr. Tukaram said. “I have been struggling to get this kind of support back home despite my efforts for quite some time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-mountaineer-gets-a-surprise-incentive-from-jagan/article36661860.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCCL to have geo-thermal power plant||After venturing into thermal and solar power generation, Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL), a public sector coal mining undertaking, is getting ready for setting up a geo-thermal power station on experimental basis, for the first time in the country, with the help of hot water springs found in some of its coal mining areas. The science and technology wing of the Ministry of Coal has sanctioned Rs. 1.72 crore for setting up the geo-thermal power plant at Pagideru village of Manuguru area in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. The power plant is expected to be established over the next six months. According to the company officials, the task (contract) of setting up the geo-thermal power plant was given to Sriram Institute of Industrial Research and the agency was planning to complete the work on the project taken up in 3,000 square feet area for generation of 20 kilowatt (Kw) power by March-end. People living in tribal and forest areas in Manuguru area of SCCL are aware of the existence of hot water springs in Pagideru, Khammamthogu, Bugga and a few other habitations. Geological Survey of India (GSI) had found hot water springs in Pagideru and its surroundings while conducting drilling as part of assessing availability of various minerals. They found that the hot water was coming from a depth about 1,000 metres in the farm fields near the village. Even the authorities of Singareni Collieries have found the existence of hot water springs in the area while making bore-holes in search of coal reserves. After coming to know that power generation could be taken up with hot water springs, with water coming with 50 degree to 90 degree Celsius temperature, the company management had submitted a report to the Ministry of Coal with a plea to examine the possibilities of setting up a power plant. Responding to the SCCL plea, the Ministry of Coal approved setting up a 20 Kw geo-thermal power plant in Pagideru area, sanctioned Rs. 1.72 crore for the purpose and handed over the work to Delhi-based Sriram Institute. In association with SCCL, the agency prepared a plant for acquiring 3,000 square feet of private land at Pagideru, to lay an approach road to the site from the village, to establish equipment at the bore-hole point from which hot water is gushing up and other civil works required as also transmission line for grid connectivity. The officials said success of the project would help the Ministry replicate such projects in the mining areas across the country. Local people have been utilising the water for irrigation and domestic needs so far and they could continue doing so with water recycled after power generation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sccl-to-have-countrys-first-geo-thermal-plant/article36661673.ece
25 September 2021||JANGAREEDDYGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three fishermen held in murder case||The police claimed to have solved the murder case of K. Suresh Prabhu (47), owner of a milk booth, that occurred in the town on September 18. The accused, Oleti Chiranjeevi alias Chandu, O. Raju and O. Eswara Rao, natives of Yanam, Puducherry, were arrested on Friday. They were all fishermen, said West Godavari district Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma. Chiranjeevi allegedly was in a relationship with one U. Asha Jyothi, who was working in the milk booth run by the victim. She was maintaining distance from the accused since a few days. False cases The woman reportedly collected some amount by filing cases against the relatives of the accused in Puducherry, and was allegedly threatening to file false cases against them again. Chiranjeevi reportedly developed grudge against her and hatched a plan to eliminate her. On September 18, the accused attacked Asha Jyothi and Suresh Prabhu, while he was dropping her at home. Suresh suffered critical injuries and died while undergoing treatment in the hospital in Vijayawada, The woman also suffered injuries in the attack. The three accused were arrested in the case and were produced in the court, the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-fishermen-held-in-murder-case/article36661387.ece
25 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paramedical contract staff seek regularisation||The agitation of the Andhra Pradesh DSC Contract Paramedical Employees JAC, which has been fighting for getting the services of the contract employees regularised entered the 117th day on Friday. The JAC members who has been staging protest in front of the Yandapalle Primary Health Centre in Rayachoti constituency said the services of the contract employees was yet to be regularised even after 20 years. Many of the contract employees have crossed 50 years of age and some of them are on the verge of retirement. The contract staff had demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy fulfil the promise he had made to them during his padayatra in the run-up to the 2019 general elections. JAC State convener Y. Viswanatha Reddy said more than 4,000 staff comprising multipurpose (male and female) health assistants, lab technicians and pharmacists, had been waiting for regularisation of their services. “It is unfortunate that the government is dragging its feet from the issue in the name of deliberations. We have met Ministers and MLAs, but to no avail,” he rued. The successive governments have been placating the contract staff with promises which still remain unfulfilled, the JAC members lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paramedical-contract-staff-seek-regularisation/article36661856.ece
25 September 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to merge Brahmin corp. with BC dept. flayed||Objections are being raised over the State government’s move to delink the Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Corporation from the Endowments Department and bringing it under the Backward Classes Welfare Department. The Brahmin Corporation was formed during the TDP term with a view to extending welfare schemes and financial benefits to the impoverished sections of the community. “The previous government had spent Rs. 285 crore that benefited 1.50 lakh members of the community. But, after the change of guard in the State, the employees were removed and schemes such as Gayatri, Bharati, Chanakya, Videsi Vidya, Garuda were stalled,” I. Janardhan, former district coordinator of the corporation, told the media on Friday. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to pump in Rs. 1,500 crore ahead of the elections. But now, he is bent on diluting the corporation,” Mr. Janardhan said. The government did not implement a single programme for the benefit of the community in the last two years, he alleged. “Merging the Brahmin Corporation into the BC Corporation, or any other outfit, will only harm the interests of the Brahmin beneficiaries,” he said.  The previous government had spent Rs. 285 crore that benefited 1.50 lakh members of the community. But, after the change of guard in the State, the employees were removed I. Janardhan Brahmin Corpn. member||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bid-to-merge-brahmin-corpn-with-bcs-flayed/article36661870.ece
25 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTU-K told to formulate new rules for guest house||The Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) has directed Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU-Kakinada) to frame new guidelines for operating the guest house on the university campus. In August, JNTU-K Director of Women Empowerment and Grievances A. Swarna Latha reportedly obtained guest house access for a Hyderabad couple who stayed there for two days to celebrate their honeymoon. “We have directed JNTU-K to frame guidelines on running the guest house on the university campus. On the other hand, the Council is yet to receive any request from JNTU-K to convene the Executive Council meeting on the honeymoon row,” APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy told The Hindu on Friday. Prof. Hemachandra Reddy added that the university guest house staff have been reshuffled and new staff have been deployed. “Last week, a five-member committee constituted to investigate the incident submitted its report. The report has been tabled before Vice-Chancellor M. Ramalinga Raju for further action,” JNTU-K Registrar L. Sumalatha said. “A decision on the incident will be taken by the Executive Council and the council meet will be conducted soon,” said Prof. Ramalinga Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntu-k-told-to-formulate-new-rules-for-guest-house/article36661886.ece
25 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI suspended for taking pregnant woman into ‘illegal custody’||Kothapeta sub-inspector L. Srinu Naik was suspended on Friday for taking a pregnant woman into “illegal custody” in a murder case reported in Konaseema region of East Godavari district. Deputy Inspector General (Eluru Range) K.V. Mohana Rao on Friday issued the orders suspending Mr. Naik and issued a change memo to Ravulapalem CI V. Krishna, according to East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu. The woman had moved the High Court of Andhra Pradesh stating that the police had taken her into illegal custody and kept her in custody for more than one day without registering her arrest in a murder case in January. The police conducted an internal inquiry based on the directive from the High Court and found that the woman was taken into illegal custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-suspended-for-taking-pregnant-woman-into-illegal-custody/article36661887.ece
25 September 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more surprises from Western Ghats||A team of scientists of the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) have discovered three new plant species from the evergreen forest patches of the southern Western Ghats in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The new lianas (woody climbing plants) Hiptage laxiflora and Argyreia lakshminarasimhanii have been discovered from the Kanyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary in Tamil Nadu and Phanera murthyi from the Kakkayam region of the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. The exploration was led by BSI scientist K.A. Sujana.  Phanera murthyi has small reddish flowers and medium-sized inflorescence compared to its relatives. Hiptage laxiflora has unique leaf characters and inflorescence compared to other Hiptage species. Argyreia lakshminara- simhanii differs from its relatives in the family of Convolvulaceae by its peculiar features in habit, shape, and texture of leaves. “The close relatives of all these species have medici- nal and aromatic properties; hence, the newly discovered ones may also have such properties and it should be validated,” says Dr. Sujana. “Woody climbing plants have a significant role in the ecosystem as they form 40% of the forest biomass. These plants also ensure food for the wildlife, during the lean season,” says S. Shalini, a BSI researcher. D. Maity, assistant professor, Department of Botany, Calcutta University, W. Arisdason, J.H. Franklin Benjamin, and Rakesh G. Vadhyar of the BSI were the other members of the team. While the discovery of Hiptage laxiflora has been published in Annales Botanici Fennici , Finland, the discovery of Phanera murthyi has been published in Phytotaxa , New Zealand. The discovery of Argyreia lakshminarasimhanii was published in the Rheedea Journal of the Indian Association for Angiosperm Taxonomy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ghats-throws-up-three-more-surprises/article36661089.ece
25 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Airfares to Gulf region continue to remain high||High airfares to the Gulf region have put thousands of stranded expatriates in a spot. Despite several Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations relaxing travel restrictions after a fall in COVID-19 cases, airline tickets from Kerala remain expensive. The decision of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to suspend passenger flights till September 30 has been attributed to high tariffs by foreign and private airline companies. Most Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) who want to return to GCC nations are forced to book tickets at exorbitant prices as their jobs are at stake. The airfare on a one-way trip to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) from Kerala is still above Rs. 25,000 for economy class and some airline companies such as the Emirates offer only first class or business class fares which are above Rs. 90,000. A direct flight to Bahrain would cost above Rs. 30,000. However, the Dubai-based Emirates and the budget airline flydubai will provide free all-day passes to the Expo 2020 Dubai beginning October 1. Passengers travelling to or via Abu Dhabi with Etihad Airways will also get the offer. The one-way ticket rate for Muscat and Qatar flights are quoted between Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 50,000. Qatar Airways is charging Rs. 46,000 for Kozhikode-Doha trip. In Saudi The airfare to cities in Saudi Arabia is still hovering between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 40,000 even as its administration relaxed norms for passengers from India who are fully vaccinated with Covishield. Now, NRIs will not be subjected to institutional quarantine provided they present vaccination certificates upon arrival and proof of negative PCR tests conducted within 72 hours from the time of departure. From Sunday, Abu Dhabi cancelled its COVID-19 testing requirements to enter the emirate for travellers from any emirate of the country. Incidentally, some NRIs shuttling between Dubai and Abu Dhabi had to do over 100 COVID-19 tests during the past one year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/airfares-to-gulf-region-continue-to-remain-high/article36661090.ece
25 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPTC member-elect held||K. Nagalapuram MPTC member-elect Rajamma and her son were taken into custody on Friday on charge of trying to demolish a statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy built in her own land. Ms. Rajamma, along with her son Narasimha Reddy, other family members and supporters, has been staging a dharna in the village since Thursday morning, protesting against the denial of the post of the Gudur Mandal Praja Parishad president to her. She, along with her family members, allegedly tried to demolish the statue of YSR. But, the YSRCP cadres stopped them. The police took all those allegedly involved in the act into custody and shifted them to Kurnool. Kodumur Assembly Constituency in-charge Kotla Harsha’s supporter Sunitha was chosen for the MPP president post. Ms. Rajamma and her supporters protested just before the meeting in which the decision was taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mptc-member-elect-taken-into-custody/article36661848.ece
25 September 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mason held for ‘misbehaving’ with minor||T. Saibaba, a mason, was arrested for allegedly misbehaving with a 11-year-old girl in the town. The police took the accused into custody in half an hour, said the Chilakalapudi police. According to Machilipatnam Deputy Superintendent of Police Sk. Masum Basha, the accused allegedly tried to sexually assault the girl when she was alone at home. When the girl raised an alarm, he fled from the spot. Immediately, her mother alerted the police by dialing ‘Disha Helpline 112’. Police swung into action, cordoned the area and took Saibaba into custody. He was produced in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mason-held-for-misbehaving-with-minor/article36661385.ece
25 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Congress bags 43 of 46 MPPs in Nellore district||The YSR Congress Party has bagged the posts of chairman and vice-chairman in 43 of the 46 Mandal Praja Parishads (MPPs) in Nellore district as the indirect elections for these posts were postponed in two mandals on Friday, sources have said. Police intervened to restore order as two YSRCP groups clashed during the elections in Chittamuru, leading to postponement of the proceedings to Saturday. In Vinjamuru, the elections could not be held owing to lack of quorum as only one nomination was received for the election of the coopted member by the deadline of 10 a.m. As a result, the elections to the three posts were postponed to Saturday. In Buchireddypalem, an Independent candidate M.Srinivasulu was elected as the MPP chairperson and Nagireddy Keerthana, another independent candidate, as vice-chairperson. It was a smooth affair in the rest of the 43 MPPs, where the YSRCP leadership handpicked the incumbents who were elected as MPP chairpersons, vice-chairpersons and coopted members, while the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and other opposition parties drew a blank. Meanwhile, the YSRCP leadership chose Anam Annapurnama for the post of Zilla Parishad chairperson ahead of the election scheduled to be held on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-bags-chairperson-post-in-43-of-46-mpps-in-nellore/article36661854.ece
25 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man shoots video of wife taking extreme step in Nellore||A 38-year-old recorded a video as his wife ended her life allegedly due to harassment meted out to her at Atmakur in Nellore district. The video went viral on social media. The husband also sent the video to the victim’s family member too. Police on Friday stepped up investigation to ascertain any involvement of other members of the family of victim’s in-laws in the case. Acting on a complaint lodged by the parents of the 31-year-old woman, her husband, identified as Penchaliah was arrested on charge of abetting the suicide on Thursday. He is working as a security guard at an ATM kiosk.  In the video, Penchaliah was seen egging her wife to resort to the extreme step even as she desperately looked towards him. “A case has been registered under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. Probe is on to ascertain whether any other family members are involved,” said Atmakur Station House Officer Sivasankar. Probe revealed that Penchaliah was estranged from his wife. Suspecting her fidelity, he had been harassing her. Meanwhile, State Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma met the bereaved family members, including the two children of the couple. Ms. Padma also assured the family of the victim that the State government would take care of the education of the children. Those with suicidal thought can dial the helpline number 100 for counselling, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-man-shoots-video-as-wife-ends-life-arrested/article36661083.ece
25 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pregnant woman gets help in reaching hospital||The Disha App came in handy for a pregnant woman in Chirala who used it to hail the police, who in turn helped her reach the hospital in time for the safe delivery of her baby. The woman, named Padma, hailing from Weavers’ Colony at Thotavaripalem, began undergoing severe labour pains in the early hours of Friday. Her family members anxiously began looking for a vehicle to transport her to hospital, but their efforts proved futile. A desperate Ms. Padma then raised an alert on the Disha App. Autorickshaw engaged Responding to the SOS call, Epurapalem Station House Officer Subba Rao, after finding that no ambulance was available in the area, directed his staff to immediately engage an auto-rickshaw to take Ms. Padma to the hospital. Shortly thereafter, the woman was taken to the Government Area Hospital where she gave birth to a healthy baby boy. Ms. Padma and her family members thanked the Prakasam police who also presented her a baby kit. Download app Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg patted the police personnel concerned including constable Gopi Krishna and Home Guard Sambi Reddy. She appealed to all women to download the app from the Google Playstore, stating that it would come in handy in times of distress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pregnant-woman-gets-help-in-reaching-hospital/article36661389.ece
25 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha worth Rs. 23.15 lakh seized||The Prakasam police arrested two suspected peddlers of banned tobacco products and seized gutkha worth over Rs. 23.15 lakh from them at Jangalapalli village, near P.C. Palli, on Friday. Kandukur Deputy Superintendent of Police K. Srinivasa Rao said that interception of a car used to transport the contraband led to seizure of 50 bags of gutkha from the vehicle and also from the godowns shown by the arrested persons, Kasireddy Ramesh Reddy (30) and E. Ramakrishna (30). Probe revealed that the gangsters had been allegedly sourcing the contraband from outside the State and selling them in the Kandukur sub-division. Police are on the lookout for Yedukondalu and Venkatakrishna Reddy. SP Malika Garg said surveillance had been stepped up to curb sale of banned tobacco products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gutkha-worth-rs-2315-lakh-seized/article36661855.ece
25 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||2.4 lakh paid darshan tickets for October booked in a jiffy||There was an unprecedented response to the online booking of paid darshan tickets the TTD released on Friday for the month of October. The quota of about 2.4 lakh Special Entry Darshan (SED) tickets of Rs. 300 each for the month (8,000 tickets per day) were exhausted in a couple of hours of their release. A record number of about 5.5 lakh hits were registered on the TTD website. The improvements made to the online booking of darshan tickets in the recent times proved rewarding with no major technical issues reported during the entire course of bookings. Briefing the media here, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy was in all praise for Reliance Jio, TCS and the TTDs IT team for overcoming the hurdles that normally hampered the bookings. He thanked the Reliance Jio management for employing the cloud management technology in providing darshan tickets, besides extending the technical support. Mr. Reddy also appealed to the devotees not to get carried away by the “malicious campaign by vested interests,” and said that the Reliance Jio management, besides lending its expertise, had borne all the costs without burdening the TTD. He also clarified that due to paucity of time the darshan tickets were made available on the Jiomart sub-domain. They would be available on the TTDs domain – tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in – from next time, he said. Meanwhile, sources said that about 2/3rd tickets were booked by pilgrims using their mobile devices and 40% of the payments made through Unified Payments Interface (UPI). An interesting part was that it took about 30 seconds for completion of the entire booking process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/24-lakh-paid-darshan-tickets-for-october-booked-in-a-jiffy/article36661085.ece
25 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD’s ‘Dhana prasadam’ idea gaining currency||The newly introduced ‘Dhana Prasadam’ of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams is gaining popularity with every passing day. Coins of various denominations received in the temple hundi are provided to the pilgrims in the form of ‘prasadam’ packed in a plastic pouch with the imprint of presiding deity on both sides along with vermilion and turmeric powder. The idea has come in handy to the TTD in clearing its piled up coins stock. The ‘hundi’ at Tirumala temple nets an income of around Rs. 1,300 crore annually and a fair percentage of it is received in the form of coins. With people preferring digital mode of payments, the uncleared coin stocks with the TTD rose to a staggering Rs. 110 crore by 2020. Of late, TTD is also receiving requests for the supply of Dhana prasadam through post, reflecting the popularity of the initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttds-dhana-prasadam-idea-gaining-currency/article36661865.ece
25 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||EO sworn in as TTD ex officio member||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Friday took oath as the ex-officio member of the newly-formed trust board. He was administered the oath by Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy at Bangaru Vakili inside the temple. Later, Dr. Jawahar Reddy told reporters that preparations for the annual Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara, scheduled to commence from October 7, are under way and will be observed in ‘ekantham’ (private) due to COVID-19 protocols. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be extended a formal invitation to take part in the annual festival on behalf of the temple administration. Efforts are also in progress in developing Anjanadri as the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. As part of popularising the new sankeertanas of Tallapaka Annamacharya which were brought into light in recent times, singing competitions among the youth will be organised as scheduled in October. Later, he along with other senior officials inspected various works under progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eo-sworn-in-as-ttd-ex-officio-member/article36661390.ece
25 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. scheme workers demand regularisation||Staff working in various government schemes in the State staged a dharna demanding a solution to their long-pending demands. Thousands of women and other staff carrying placards staged protests on Friday urging the government to pay them a minimum monthly salary of Rs. 21,000. Following the call given by CITU and other unions, staff working in Anganwadi Centres, ASHA workers, women working in midday meal and other schemes organised dharnas and rallies demanding that the government provide them Provident Fund, Employees State Insurance (ESI), pension and other benefits to all the staff working in various State and Central government schemes. Though the staff have been working for the last few years, the government was paying them honorarium and was not revising salaries and not issuing ration cards stating that they were government employees, said a worker A. Bhagyavathi. “We request the government to provide job security, retirement benefits and pay salaries as per the Minimum Wages Act,” the protesters urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-scheme-workers-demand-regularisation/article36661392.ece
25 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 10 more lives||The State reported 10 COVID deaths in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. During the same period, 1,246 infections were reported taking the cumulative tally to 20,44,490. The death toll increased to 14,118. The number of active cases further came down to 13,535  as 1,450 patients recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,16,837 and 98.65%. The daily test positivity rate of 55,353 samples tested was 2.25% and that of the 2.79 crore tests conducted so far 7.31%. Chittoor and Krishna reported two deaths each in the past day while East Godavari, Guntur, Nellore, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Chittoor reported 207 more infections in the past day. It was followed by East Godavari (167), Nellore (158), Krishna (138), Prakasam (128), West Godavari (123), Guntur (117), Kadapa (93), Visakhapatnam (62), Srikakulam (14), Anantapur (13), Kurnool (13) and Vizianagaram (13). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,90,258), Chittoor (2,42,954), West Godavari (1,77,209), Guntur (1,75,337), Anantapur (1,57,539), Visakhapatnam (1,56,407), Nellore (1,44,290), Prakasam (1,36,635), Kurnool (1,23,998), Srikakulam (1,22,625), Krishna (1,16,944), Kadapa (1,14,673) and Vizianagaram (82,726).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-10-more-lives/article36661868.ece
25 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brandix Apparel City bags Export Champion Award||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday presented the Export Champion Award 2020-21 to Brandix India Apparel City. Director (Strategy and Investment) Suchira Surendranath and Deputy Chief Operating Officer Saravanan Chandramouleeswaran of the company received the award at the Vanijya Utsav-2021 here, in recognition of their valuable contribution towards exports in India. Brandix India Apparel City (BIAC) is a self-sustaining ecosystem bringing together world-class apparel supply chain partners to collaborate and co-create inspired solutions for branded apparel clothing. Supported by a vertically integrated supply chain, expanding global network of production and operating locations, a strong workforce base and advanced infrastructure, the clothing firm has established itself as a leader in apparel manufacturing over the years. The company’s commitment towards high-quality control for leading global apparel brands has further positioned BIAC as a valuable exporter for India. Country Head of Brandix India Neil Rosayro said it was an honour to receive the Export Champion Award for 2020-21. We attribute this achievement to our team members, he said, extending gratitude for the recognition. India Partner, BIACPC Doraswamy Pachipala informed that the apparel park currently comprised over 15 operating units with more than 20,000 employees, of which over 90% were from within a 50 km radius of the BIAC. “We are further proud to note that women comprise a 17,000-workforce of the BIAC, making it one of the largest women-employed firms in a single location in the country,” he said. Minister for Industries, Commerce, and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy, other Ministers, MLAs, MPs, and officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brandix-apparel-city-bags-export-champion-award/article36661393.ece
25 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan not to attend Shah’s meeting||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will not attend a review meeting on ‘left-wing extremism and related issues on both security and development’ slated to be held in New Delhi on Sunday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah is scheduled to chair the high-level meeting with the Chief Ministers of 10 Maoist-affected States. According to information, Mr. Jagan suffered a sprain while doing exercises on his leg. It compelled him to cancel his visit to Delhi. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita would attend the meeting on his behalf. The State government is likely to raise issues such as Centre’s contribution in the development of tribal areas in the State. Govt. to place wishlist The government has plans to design a policy to provide internet and mobile-telecom facilities to all tribal villages. The government wanted to open a post office wherever there are village secretariats. Recognising village secretariats as Aadhaar centres, setting up of Tribal University are some of the issues that are likely to be raised by the government at the meeting. The State government has also decided to seek Centre’s contribution towards building necessary infrastructure facilities in tribal areas across the State, which includes construction of roads, transforming schools and hospitals under Nadu-Nedu initiative, and comprehensive internet and mobile-telecom facility. Directors-General of Police, Chief Secretaries and heads of paramilitary forces are also scheduled to attend the high-level review meeting in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-not-to-attend-shahs-meeting/article36661872.ece
25 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Weaker sections to get priority in selection of MPP, ZPP chiefs’||Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that weaker sections will be given priority in the selection of the ZPP and MPP chairpersons. Addressing the media on Friday, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said, “Everyone will be given an equal opportunity.” The selection of MPP presidents and vice-presidents would be completed by Saturday, he said. “Competition for the posts is natural when there is a massive victory. But the party leaders are well disciplined and there will not be any clashes,” he said. “The responsibility of the government has increased after the landslide victory of the party in the ZPTC and MPTC elections,” he said, and added that the YSRCP had won over 98% of the seats and created a history by securing 69.55% votes in the ZPTC and 64.8% votes in the MPTC elections. The TDP had secured only 22.27% and 25.27% of votes in ZPTC and MPTC elections respectively, he said. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy slammed the Opposition leaders for alleging that the government was involved in smuggling of drugs. “There is no connection between the government, or the State, with the drugs found in other States,” he said. “TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has degraded himself in making such allegations. The BJP, which does not have even one percent vote share, is trying to corner the government on petty issues instead of fighting for the State’s needs with the Centre,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/weaker-sections-to-get-priority-in-selection-of-mpp-zpp-chiefs/article36661873.ece
25 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire in textiles godown||Fire broke out in NSL Textiles godown, located at Yedlapadu village in Guntur district on Friday. However, no casualties were reported, said Guntur District Fire Officer Srinivas Reddy. On receiving information, four fire tenders from Guntur, Narsaraopeta and other stations rushed to the spot and are trying to control fire. Cotton stocks were gutted in the accident, Mr. Reddy said. The operation was continuing when the reports last came in. The reasons for cause of fire was not known immediately, the DFO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-in-textiles-godown/article36661950.ece
25 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ALIET students showcase talent at launch of a club||Students should think beyond academics, make the best of the available time and use technology to improve their lives, said Principal Secretary, Revenue (Endowment) G. Vani Mohan, on Friday. She was addressing a programme organised by Andhra Loyola Institute of Engineering and Technology (ALIET) in connection with the launch of ‘MAGIS’ club. Sharing her own success story with the students, she said one must believe in oneself and should not avoid challenges. “Take the challenges head-on and achieve your goals,” she said. Azhagu Pandia Raja, the first Innovation Officer in the country from Chennai, urged students to invent and create things that can solve the real life situations. The Magis Club has been sanctioned under the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE)-sponsored Scheme for Promoting Interests, Creativity and Ethics among Students (SPICES). The scheme provides financial support to institutions for developing students’ club for well-rounded development of students by promoting their interests, creativity and ethics. This club should serve as a model for other clubs in the institution and also those in other institutions. The objective is to energise and position students club/ chapters/ societies as facilitating entity for pursuit of individual interests, creative work, showcasing talent, networking and teamwork opportunities, social experience; organisation and management skills, exposure to professional ethics etc. Spot competitions were organised in various art, innovative and creativity related activities. Over 100 students from ALIET and from the neighbouring colleges participated. Director of the college Fr. A. Francis, Principal O. Mahesh and Assistant Directors D. Bala Samy and N. Brito Paul appreciated the efforts of the Magis team comprising both students and teaching fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aliet-students-showcase-talent-at-launch-of-a-club/article36661953.ece
25 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Firecrackers worth Rs. 14 lakh seized||The police conducted raid on a house in Neggipudi village in West Godavari district on Friday and seized firecrackers worth about Rs. 14 lakh that were stored illegally. Tip-off On a tip-off that crackers were hoarded illegally, the team raided the house and seized the stocks procured from Tamil Nadu. Police arrested one G. Sai Reddy, who stored the fire crackers without possessing any license.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/firecrackers-worth-rs-14-lakh-seized/article36661386.ece
25 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC to implement 10% EWS reservation||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) will implement 10% reservation for candidates belonging to the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in appointments in initial posts and services under the State government based on the decision taken by the government on the quota through G.O. 73 issued last year. In a statement on Friday, APPSC Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said candidates in the 18-47 age group were eligible for applying for the posts. The APPSC would soon issue notifications to fill the posts earmarked for the EWS candidates. The eligible candidates and those who had already registered their bio data with the Commission in the One Time Profile Registration (OTPR), should update their status of EWS before applying for the posts on the websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.in, he said. The Commission, meanwhile, issued three notifications to fill the posts of Medical Officer in the Ayush Department. Eligible candidates can apply in the online mode from October 4 to 25. There are 72 vacant posts of Medical Officer (Ayurveda), 53 Medical Officer (Homeo) and 26 Medical Officer (Unani) in the Ayush Department. Mr. Anjaneyulu said notifications for other services would be released in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-to-implement-10-ews-reservation/article36661874.ece
25 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress seeks White Paper on borrowings||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Sake Sailajanath on Friday came down heavily on the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), alleging that it was “adding to the misery of the common people by thrusting heavy taxes on them.” In a statement, Mr. Sailajanath said the lower and middle class sections were reeling under serious financial crisis because of increase in electricity charges, increase in the prices of petrol and diesel, and additional tax on liquor. “The prices of essential commodities have been jacked up to help generate revenue for the State’s coffers,” he alleged. “This apart, the government borrowed huge loans,” he added. While nobody knew where the borrowed money went, the government imposed additional taxes on people with a view to repaying the loans, he alleged. “The YSRCP government’s limitless borrowings have pushed the State into a debt trap,” Mr. Sailajanath alleged. “The employees are not being paid their salaries on time. Pensioners are being denied their monthly amounts. Clearance of bills has been stopped for want of funds,” he alleged. The APCC president demanded that the government release a White Paper on loans availed by it and the purpose for which they were spent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-seeks-white-paper-on-borrowings/article36661875.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Cruise terminal will change region’s tourism landscape’||Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Shantanu Thakur on Friday laid the foundation for the construction of the long-awaited cruise terminal at the Visakhapatnam Port. Mr. Shantanu Thakur was in the city to participate in a series of events. “The cruise terminal can change the tourism landscape of the region,” Mr. Shantanu Thakur told the media. Attributing the delay in the commencement of the project to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Minister said it would be completed in one year. Conceived about three years ago, the project envisaged development of a cruise-cum-coastal cargo terminal by reorienting the existing channel berth located in the outer harbour with the financial assistance Ministry of Tourism. The proposal was to build a 180-metre-long berth with two mooring dolphins on either side. With a total length of 330 m, it would accommodate vessels of 300 m LOA, 37.6 m beam and 8.1 metres draft. A terminal building of 2,000 sq.m. with all amenities such as gangways, lounge, restaurant, immigration and customs facilities, entertainment and shopping would also be provided for the benefit of tourists arriving by the cruise vessels. Mr. Thakur said the dedicated freight corridor being laid under the Sagarmala project from Visakhapatnam to Raipur to enable movement of containers arriving at the port was expected to be over soon. On the extension of the berth at the container terminal from 500 metres to 850 metres, he said it would be completed within three months. Investments of about Rs. 26,000 crore secured by the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) during the Maritime India Summit would contribute to the economic progress and regional development of the State. The port was also bringing in various infrastructure projects through the Sagarmala initiative. It had invested Rs. 150 crore for the development of the fishing harbour under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana, a scheme to usher in blue revolution through sustainable development of the fisheries sector. Earlier, Mr. Thakur was received by VPT Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao. Later, the Minister held a meeting with officials on the port’s developmental activities. To a query, Mr. Thakur said the target for VPT for next year was fixed at 75 million tonnes. Replying to another query, the Minister said that no decision was taken on the privatisation of major ports He also offered prayers at the Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cruise-terminal-will-change-regions-tourism-landscape/article36661876.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre has put the nation on ‘discount sale’, allege Left parties||The Left parties have alleged that the BJP government has put the nation on ‘discount sale’. Steel, railways, roads, electricity, petroleum, gas, telecom, airports, stadia, banks and insurance companies have all been put up for sale at a discount, the leaders of Left parties alleged at a media conference on Friday. Underlining the importance of opposing the ‘anti-people’ policies of the Union government, they called upon the YSR Congress Party government to announce its support to the Bharat Bandh, being organised on September 27. They also appealed to the Telugu Desam Party and the JSP to participate in the bandh and make it a success. ‘Damaging Vizag’ Alleging that the BJP government was bent on ‘damaging Visakhapatnam’, they said that Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) has already been put up for sale and now efforts were on to hand over the Visakhapatnam Port to the Adani group and the Naval Alternate Operating Base (NAOB) at Rambilli in the district and some other defence units to the Reliance group, they alleged. They also alleged that a decision was taken to hand over the HSL and the BHEL and the container terminal near the airport to private investors. The Bhogapuram airport project was handed over to the GMR group. Rail zone works The work on the Visakha Railway Zone (South Coast Railway) zone, which was announced before the general elections has not been started to this day. Funds were not given for the Visakha Metro Rail Project, IIM-Visakhapatnam and the Tribal University. These measures would result in Visakhapatnam losing its prominence, they alleged. They also alleged that in the seven years, after the Modi government came to power, petrol and diesel prices were hiked several times, and the additional tax burden on the people was to the tune of Rs. 30 lakh crore. They called upon all sections of the people to make the Bharat Bandh a success. Leaders of Left parties B. Ganga Rao (CPI(M)), M. Pydiraju (CPI), Y. Kondaiah, CPI-ML (New Democracy), Ganesh Panda (CPI-ML) and R. Sankara Rao (MCPI-U) spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-has-put-the-nation-on-discount-sale-allege-left-parties/article36661957.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City to host World Tourism Day State-level function on Sept. 27||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the State-level World Tourism Day celebrations will be held at the VMRDA Children’s Arena here on September 27. Announcing this at a media conference here on Friday, the Minister said that representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and hoteliers would be invited to participate in the celebrations. The best service providers would be given awards on that day. New restaurant A new restaurant has been opened at the popular tourist spot of ‘Erramatti Dibbalu’ (red sand dunes), near Bheemunipatnam. The government would encourage construction of 5-Star hotels at 11 places in the State, he said. The World Tourism Day celebrations would reflect the culture of North Andhra. A meeting would also be held with all stakeholders. Special Chief Secretary, Youth Advancement, Tourism and Culture, Rajat Bhargava, and the Chief Secretary would participate in the meeting, he said. The Minister said that the tourism sector would be divided into four circles and measures would be taken for promotion of tourism, taking the airports as the base. The entry into tourist places in Visakapatnam would be free on September 27. The World Tourism Day would be celebrated in all the districts, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Competitions in essay writing, elocution and painting would be conducted at all the schools in Visakhapatnam district in coordination with the District Educational Officer. Tourist destinations, hotels and APTDC properties would be specially illuminated on the occasion. Andhra cuisine would be offered at all the hotels at discounted rates. VMRDA Chairperson Vijayanirmala, NREDCAP Chairman K.K. Raju, AP Chamber of Commerce president Pydah Krishna Prasad, Hoteliers Association secretary Pavan Karteek, AP Tour Operators Association president Vijaymohan and MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar were present. A poster was released on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-to-host-tourism-day-state-level-event-on-sept-27/article36661954.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clear skies ahead for Vizag airport||The Visakhapatnam International Airport is slowly but steadily recovering from the pandemic blues during the last couple of months. The number of passengers handled by the airport, increased to 64,732 in June, 1,04,044 in July and 1,48,249 in August this year as the restrictions on air travel were relaxed. International flights, which were cancelled due to the pandemic, are yet to be resumed from Visakhapatnam. However, the number of domestic passengers handled during May this year (2021) dropped to 45,726 from 1,15,143 from the previous month due to the second wave surge of COVID-19. Flight movements had also decreased due to the cancellation of flights due to poor patronage as a result of the pandemic threat due to the second wave. The domestic flight movements, which were 1,322 in April, 2021, declined to 720 in May and 654 in June. They are, however, picking up slowly with revival of services. The flight movements increased to 964 in July and 1,292 in August. The airport, which handled 27,03,261 domestic and 1,50,370 international passengers during the 2019-20 fiscal, registered a marginal decline in the next financial year as the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in restrictions and lockdown during February/March 2020. The passengers handled by the airport during 2020-21 dropped drastically as the pandemic hit the aviation sector badly. The domestic passengers during 2020-21 declined to 11,06,451 and international passengers were a mere 8,192.  The aircraft movements from Vizag Airport were the highest during 2018-19 with 22,376 domestic and 1,806 international flight movements, taking the total movements in that year to 24,182. The next year (2019-20), the domestic flight movements declined sharply with the restrictions and lockdown towards the end of the financial year. However, international flight movements during the year increased marginally to 1,899 movements during that year. “With the commissioning of the N-5 taxi track, there is a possibility of increasing aircraft movements considerably. We are requesting airline operators to use the newly-built parking bays at the airport for parking of their aircraft in Vizag at night. This will facilitate late-night arrivals and early morning departures,” said Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clear-skies-ahead-for-vizag-airport/article36661864.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents and students of special school stage protest||Parents and students of Hidden Sprouts Special School for Mentally Challenged Children continued their protest against the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) for closing down their school. For second the day in a row, they along with the school management have staged a peaceful protest this time before the GVMC office, demanding that the civic body officials allot them some accommodation to resume school activities. Dozens of special children were seen holding placards which read out “CM Sir, MP Vijaya Sai Reddy Sir, GVMC Commissioner Madam, Please give our school back.” The parents said that it has been four months since their children had last gone to the school. They said that they have seen improvement in their children behaviour after going to the school and taking part in various activities. Now with the school being shut down, the mentally challenged children are facing issues in the house, they said. “The school management has been taking better care of our children and it is providing such services without taking any money. The GVMC should understand the problems faced by these children and should solve the issue immediately,” a parent urged. Founder-Principal of the school, K. Srinivasa Rao, said that they wanted to meet some official to report their problem directly. “However, since GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana was not available, we have submitted a representation at the Commissioner’s Peshi,” he added. It may be recalled that the GVMC had partially demolished temporary structures at the school on June 6 this year, alleging unauthorised constructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-and-students-of-special-school-stage-protest/article36661965.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Form sub-committees over exports of marine products’||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has directed the officials concerned to form sub-committees for the promotion of seafood and marine exports, pharma, coir and other other products. Presiding over the District Industries and Exports Promotion Committee (DIEPC) meeting here, the Collector asked the officials to ensure that the sub- committees, pertaining to pharma and bulk drug exports, meet once in every 10 days and an action plan was chalked out in this regard. District Industries Centre (DIC) General Manager Ramalinga Raju said that 120 pharma units in the district have developed as pharma hub and 50 more proposals were pending. As many as 27 companies were in various phases of construction at the Atchutapuram SEZ. Seven companies were ready for production. A sub-committee has been formed for seafood and marine products. A total of 2,16,457 tons of seafood was exported from the Vizag Port. Mr. Raju said that starting from August 26 to September 22, 2021, 90 applications were received through the single desk portal, and 56 applications were approved. A total of 82 online claims were received till September 21 from MSMEs, for the period 2010-15 and 2015-20. Of these, 70 claims to the value of Rs. 4,83,46,867 were approved, and 12 claims were rejected. Officials of the APIIC, GVMC, VMRDA, AP Transco, factories, Pollution Control Board and Fire Services and committee members participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/form-sub-committees-over-exports-of-marine-products/article36661959.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Federations stage protest against move to privatise assets of major ports||A dharna was jointly organised by the five federations of major ports over the proposal of the BJP government to privatise the assets of ports, at the Visakhapatnam Port Trust administration building here on Friday. The union leaders alleged that the Union government was keen on going ahead with its privatisation policies, though farmers, steel workers and defence employees had been organising struggles against the decision in a big way. The Centre was now planning to sell the assets in Ports, Railways, airports, stadia, telecom, mining and godowns in the name of ‘monetisation,’ they alleged. They noted that 31 berths in major ports, including EQ 6 and 7 and WQ 6, 7 and 8 berths in the Visakhapatnam Port, were proposed to be handed over to private operators. Some of the berths have already been given to private operators like Adani, causing a loss to the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT). The fresh decision was to benefit private players, they alleged and added that the five federations jointly formulated the charter of demands.  The union leaders later met the Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Shantanu Thakur and VPT Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao and submitted a memorandum. CITU union general secretary V.S. Padmanabha Raju, AITUC union general secretary B. Ch. Masen, Janata Union general secretary Kanaka Rao, INTUC union general secretary Chandu, VDLB and Dock Workers Union president Lakshmana Rao spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/federations-stage-protest-against-move-to-privatise-assets-of-major-ports/article36661961.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag-Kirandul bi-weekly special train from October 2||Bi-weekly special express train services will be introduced between Visakhapatnam and Kirandul, by East Coast Railway (E Co R), with effect from October 2. Train no. 08514 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul bi-weekly special will leave Visakhapatnam at 9.20 p.m. on Saturdays and Tuesdays with effect from October 2 to reach Kirandul on the next day at 9 a.m. In the return direction, 08513 Kirandul- Visakhapatnam bi-weekly special express train will leave Kirandul at 3 p.m. on Sundays and Wednesdays with effect from October 3 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 2.40 a.m. These pair of trains will have stoppages at Kottavalasa, Araku, Koraput, Jeypore, Jagdalpur and Dantewara between Visakhapatnam and Kirandul, according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. Passengers are requested to strictly follow all the health protocols. They should also give their correct mobile number, while purchasing a ticket to receive SMS alert on time, if there is any update about train like cancellation and change of timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-kirandul-bi-weekly-special-train-from-october-2/article36661963.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) opposes sanction of funds for hired cars of Deputy Mayors||Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and corporator B. Ganga Rao has objected to the standing committee decision to approve the proposal to sanction Rs. 2.07 lakh for hire vehicles (cars) of Deputy Mayors, during the standing committee meet held, under the chairmanship of Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, on Friday. He said that this was nothing but misusing public money, being paid by the people in the form of taxes. He sought that the issue of paying the hire charges for the vehicles of the Deputy Mayors should be brought to the notice of the council during the council meet. “But the Mayor has not proposed it till date. If this trend continued, public money to the tune of Rs. 16 lakh a year would be spent to pay rents for the cars of both the Deputy Mayors,” he alleged. As many as 34 agenda points were proposed by the GVMC officials for the standing committee meet. After discussions, the standing committee members approved 29 of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-opposes-sanction-of-funds-for-hired-cars-of-deputy-mayors/article36661958.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||59 works taken up as part of smart city projects, says Srijana||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana gave a power point presentation on the ongoing smart city projects to National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA) Director Hitesh Vaidya here on Friday. She said that as part of the smart city projects, 59 works are being taken up with a budget of Rs. 1,000 crore. Of them, 44 works, including City Operations Centre, Smart City Classrooms, VUDA park modernisation and adoptive traffic signals at 50 junctions, all worth around Rs. 371 crore, have been completed. About 14 more projects, including Dandu Bazaar School modernisation, construction of sports arena, 24/7 drinking water supply and a few others worth Rs. 344.63 crore, are still under various stages of completion. She also explained about renovating the GVMC schools under the CITIIS (City Investments To Innovate, Integrate and Sustain) project to the NIUA officials. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, Chief Engineer Ravi Krishna Raju and others attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/59-works-taken-up-as-part-of-smart-city-projects-says-srijana/article36661970.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||31-year-old man goes missing in Sarada river||A 31-year-old man reportedly went missing after he accidentally fell in the Sarada river in Munagapaka area in the Visakhapatnam district on Thursday night. According to the police, one K. Ramji reportedly attended a party with five other friends on the banks of the river. He reportedly went into the river for some purpose. After some time, his friends realised that he was missing. The police registered a case and a search is on for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/31-year-old-man-goes-missing-in-sarada-river/article36661967.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports one death, 62 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 62 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Friday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,917. The death toll also rose to 1,086 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. The total number of deaths reported this month are 12. Meanwhile, 52 persons recovered from the infection, according to the bulletin. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,54,868.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-one-death-62-new-covid-cases/article36661968.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man accused of rape arrested||The district police on Friday arrested 38-year-old man, who had allegedly raped a 33-year-old woman with speech impairment, at Sileru on September 20. The arrested was identified as Venkat Reddy from Sileru. The woman was allegedly raped by the accused, when her family members were not present in the house. He also reportedly threatened the woman not to reveal about the incident to anybody. The incident came to light after the family members of the woman lodged a complaint with the local police on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-accused-of-rape-arrested/article36661971.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) slams house arrest of tribal leaders||The CPI(M) District Committee condemned the house arrest of AP Girijana Sangham general secretary Appalanarasa and some others to foil the dharna planned by the tribal organisations at the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) office on Friday. The tribal people were agitating against the removal of Valmiki tribe from the State government website. In a statement, the party district committee secretary K. Lokanadham said in a statement that the name of the tribe was removed from the website two months ago, which was a violation of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-slams-house-arrest-of-tribal-leaders/article36661956.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘murders’ younger brother at G.Koduru||A man allegedly murdered his younger brother suspecting that he had an extranarital relationship with his wife at G.Koduru village under Makavarapalem police station limits in the Visakhapatnam district in the early hours of Friday. According to reports, one V. Suri Apparao (30) suspected an affair between his brother V. Naga Ramana (23) and his wife. Suri Apparao reportedly strangulated Naga Ramana to death while he was sleeping. Police have launched a manhunt for the accused. Case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-murders-younger-brother-at-gkoduru/article36661966.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online Faculty Development Programme for pharmaceutics faculty held||An online Faculty Development Programme(FDP) on ‘New Dimensions of Teaching Learning Practices in Pharmaceutics’ was organised jointly by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE)-ATAL Academy and the GITAM Institute of Pharmacy, here, on Friday.  Around 120 faculty members, research scholars and industry representatives from different parts of India participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-faculty-development-programme-for-pharmaceutics-faculty-held/article36661962.ece
25 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Painter falls to death from 15th floor||A 22-year-old painter died after he reportedly fell from the 15th floor of an under construction building at Midhilapuri VUDA Colony under the PM Palem police station limits here on Friday morning. The deceased was identified as Sonu Banavasi (22), a resident of Uttar Pradesh. The police registered a case and sent the body for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/painter-falls-to-death-from-15th-floor/article36661969.ece
25 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP wins all 4 MPP seats in Bobbili Assembly constituency||In spite of tough competition from the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), the YSR Congress Party won all the four Mandal Parishad President (MPP) posts in Bobbili Assembly constituency of the Vizianagaram district on Friday. Sambangi Lakshmi (Bobbili,) Bhogi Gowri (Badangi), Narsupalli Umalakshmi (Terlam) and Chokkapu Lakshmana Rao (Rambhadrapuram) were elected as MPPs, making the YSRCP cadre jubilant in the respective mandals. Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appalanaidu congratulated all the newly-elected MPPs and asked them to strive hard to strengthen the party and highlight Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s flagship programmes in their respective mandals. The elections in the constituency assumed significance with the TDP’s attempt to field its candidates in all the mandals. However, fortunes favoured the YSRCP as the ruling party won the toss in Badangi where both the TDP and the YSRCP have equal strength of seven MPTC members. In Bobbili, the ruling party got 10 votes where as the TDP got nine votes. Meanwhile, the ruling party dominated elections in the remaining 32 mandals also with comfortable majorities. With the competition among the YSRCP leaders for MPP posts, tension prevailed in places like Vepada mandal. The district administration made arrangements for ZP chairperson election on Saturday. YSRCP leader Majji Srinivas Rao is expected to be elected for the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-congress-wins-all-4-mpp-seats-in-bobbili-assembly-constituency/article36661889.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making way for devotees||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/making-way-for-devotees/article36661858.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Standing tall||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/standing-tall/article36661973.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kothapet fruit market is history now||On Saturday, it will be an adieu to the iconic fruit market at Kothapet, which stood there as a prominent landmark for more than three decades. Following the government’s decision to shift the market to Batasingaram in Hayatnagar, which will serve as short sojourn before a permanent market is built at Koheda, traders and commission agents at the market have been informed that Saturday will be their last day of transactions here. Super speciality hospital In place of the market at Kothapet, government has proposed to construct a super speciality hospital. Starting from October 1, all fruit auctions and transactions will be held at Batasingaram, the space allocated near Logistics Park. Commission agents are not a happy lot though. The Kothapet market, also known as Gaddiannaram market, was shifted from the earlier fruit market at Jambagh, way back in 1986. Since then, it has been the only regulated market for purchase and sale of fruits in the city. Extending over 22 acres of prime land, the market primarily traded in fruit varieties such as mangoes, sweet lime, orange, apple, grapes, water melon, musk melon, and pineapple apart from several other indigenously grown and imported fruit varieties. Fruits arrived here from far and wide. Apart from various districts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, other States such as Maharashtra, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, and Karnataka too contributed to the arrivals here. Connected continents It is not an exaggeration to state that the market connected continents. Exotic apples would be brought here from countries such as China, USA, New Zealand, Chile, France, Italy, Belgium and Iran, while plums arrived from Spain, USA, China, and South Africa. Only 30% fruit arriving here is locally consumed. The remaining is exported to States such as Delhi, UP, Haryana, Gujarat, Rajasthan, MP and Maharashtra. The market has more than 200 shops/sheds and several platforms from where 271 commission agents and 282 hamalis operated. Apart from one ripening chamber of 60 MT capacity set up by the Market Committee, the commission agents were allowed to establish 640 MT capacity more within their premises. “We are being asked to shift to Batasingaram without any facilities. There are no security arrangements at the place which is located amid wilderness. There are neither sheds nor platforms where auctions can be conducted,” complained Ibrahim, a commission agent. “Even with a police station just beside the market, thefts are a daily affair. What kind of security will be available there? The commission agent might merely lose his merchandise. We need to sleep in the market, and it would be a life threat,” says Tej Paswan, a labourer. However, market authorities assure that a huge shed with 50,000 square feet space is being provided for auctions. Security arrangements will be in place, and facilities such as canteen, bank, dormitory, and mobile toilets will be provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kothapet-fruit-market-is-history/article36661662.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, cars can have sensors to alert possible collisions||The next James Bond movie is round the corner and there is every chance every four-wheeler will soon have at least one of the features of his iconic car that warns of possible collisions ahead with the help of sensors. An indigenous Artificial Intelligence (AI) based system developed jointly by multiple public and private agencies, including the International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT-Hyderabad), is currently being pilot tested and will also be seen in Mahindra’s latest SUV. iRASTE – Intelligent Solutions for Road Safety through Technology and Engineering project is a combined effort of the government, Applied AI Research Institute (INAI), Intel, IIIT-Hyderabad, CSIR-CRRI - Central Road Research Institute, Mahindra and Mahindra and the Nagpur Municipal Corporation. “IIIT-H has been working with Intel in creating datasets for Indian driving conditions and this resulted in IDD or Indian Driving Dataset, helpful for researchers to develop their own algorithms. Setting up of INAI was like a natural progression to formalise the industry partnership and to find applications to sophisticated AI in everyday problems,” said INAI CEO Varma Konala in a post on the website. The project was recently launched in Nagpur by Union Minister of Road Transport Nitin Gadkari. While Intel-India brought onboard systems based on Advanced Driver Assist System (ADAS) technology, CSIR-CRRI domain expertise was in road engineering and Mahindra and Mahindra helped in conducting road safety public awareness programs and driver training. The group has been conducting small pilot studies of ADAS technology by Mobileye (an Intel company) where a camera mounted on the windshield of a vehicle will scan the entire road ahead using complex algorithms to track potential risks for safety. If the system detects a potential risk of collision, it gives an audio and visual warning to the driver, like if a driver gets too close to the vehicle ahead, a warning will let him know so that he can slow down and maintain a safe following distance. A similar warning is sounded in case of a risk of colliding with pedestrians, cyclists or even stray animals. It also provides an alert to prevent unintentional drifting into the wrong lane. Nagpur Municipal Corporation has already adopted the collision avoidance technology in a fleet of its intra-city buses. While the initial roll-out of the system is in Nagpur, the eventual goal is to replicate the solution in other cities too. Talks are also on with the Telangana government to adopt the technology in a fleet of buses that ply on highways, he added. For a country that has seen 1.2 lakh deaths even in the pandemic year of 2020 a quick roll out should help reduce fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-car-sensors-to-avoid-mishaps/article36661660.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TRS govt. yet to furnish accounts’||Union Minister of State for Railways Raosaheb Dadarao Dhanve Patil on Friday alleged that the TRS government had not furnished any accounts to date for the funds it had received from Modi Government despite being given liberally for various welfare and development schemes. While the Modi government was giving subsidy of Rs. 22 per kg for wheat, TRS Government was giving only Rs. 1; the Centre was providing Rs. 37 per kg of rice being given whereas TRS was contributing just Rs. 1, yet Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao claimed credit for providing subsidy grains to poor, he said. Mr. Patil, who was addressing a press conference after participating in the ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ of Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar in Rajanna-Sircilla district, said he was deputed by Prime Minister Modi, Home Minister Amit Sah and party president J P Nadda to visit Telangana and explain the achievements and development works funded by the Central government in TS and expose “fake promises” of Mr. Rao. ‘Foresight of PM’ The global community had appreciated the foresight of the PM in taking timely measures to fight against corona pandemic which had crippled the economy of the world, the Minister said and pointed out that the Centre had been giving free ration to 80 crore people till the Deepavali festival benefiting many, who had lost their jobs and livelihoods due to the pandemic. With regard to the railway projects in TS, he said while he had been reviewing the progress of pending works, the fact that neither Mr. Rao nor his son, who is also a senior Minister, K.T. Rama Rao, had met him till now about the issue. There was discontent in the public on the functioning of the TRS government as the Chief Minister had failed to fulfil any promise made to people in the last seven years like making a Dalit CM, allotment of three-acre land, providing one lakh jobs, double bedroom houses and free education from KG to PG, etc. Praising Mr. Sanjay’s programme, he said people from all walks of life had been giving good support as he was listening to their woes when there was no such effort from the TRS and Congress. At a separate press conference, national OBC Morcha president K. Laxman charged the CM with having mortgaged the interests of Telangana and weaker sections for the Majlis Party benefit. By linking the proposed ST quota with that of the minorities and putting it across to the Centre, he sought to wash his hands of the issue so the cadre should expose this double standards of Mr. Rao, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-govt-yet-to-furnish-accounts/article36661677.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Hyderabad doctor tops Telangana, AP in Civils||Aspirants from two Telugu states bagged impressive ranks in the Civil Services examinations with P. Srija of Hyderabad securing the 20th rank and topping the two Telugu states. A medical doctor from Osmania Medical College (OMC), Srija bagged the rank in her very first attempt with the optionals being from her core subjects. The daughter of a nurse in Primary Health Centre in Jangaon Srija will get the home cadre for her rank. From being medical doctor to a civil servant, she says she can serve better in public life than in medical profession. She attributes her success to her father Srinivas Podishetty’s dream. The State topper who hails from Warangal says she was ably guided by V. Gopalkrishna of Brain Tree, Balalatha of CSB IAS Academy and Cyberabad Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat for the personality test. The 66th ranker, Anisha Srivastava, an alumnus of NASR school, is a resident of RK Puram. The 317th ranker, Gouthami, hailing from the city, is an Architecture graduate from NIT Nagpur and her mother too is a staff nurse. Other Telugus who figured in the top ranks are Rallapalli Jagat Sai (32), Anisha Shrivastav (66), Rahul Dev Boora (76), Kavali Meghana (83), Challapalle Yashwanth Kumar Reddy (93), Baddeli Chandrakanth Reddy (120) and MVNV Lakshmi Soujanya (127). Telugu candidates have taken coaching from multiple institutes like Brain Tree, Analog Institute, CSB IAS Academy, RC Reddy IAS Study Circle. Srikanth Vinnakota of Analog IAS Institute said that 95 of their students from across the country emerged successful this year including 16 candidates from the two Telugu states. Some of them include Sarthak Agrawal (17), Shashwat Tripurari (19), Sadaf Choudhary (23), Rallapalli Jagat Sai (32), Devagudi Mounica (75) and Yaswanth Kumar Reddy (93). Mr. Srikanth said large number of vacancies in top three services this year will ensure that more number of aspirants will get into IAS, IFS and IPS. Director, Brain Tree, Gopalakrishna said the candidates deserve accolades given their preparation under severe psychological and physical stress due to COVID. Some toppers from Brain Tree include Srija P (20), V.S. Narayana Sarma (33), Anisha Srivastav (66), Shobhika Pathak (248), P. Gouthami (317) and Tirupathi Rao Ganta (441). A statement from RC Reddy Study Circle said that 16 of their students secured good ranks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/osmania-college-doctor-tops-telangana-andhra-in-civils/article36661665.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC sets aside single judge order in J.Hills society case||Telangana High Court had set aside a single judge order suspending the Registrar-cum-Commissioner of Co-operative Societies’ proceedings accepting no-confidence motion against Jubilee Hills Co-operative House Building Society secretary A. Murali Mukund. Pronouncing verdict in an appeal filed by society president B. Ravindranath, a bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar said the single judge order cannot be sustained. The bench observed that the single judge order issued on this September 17 “appears to be attempting to nullify the division bench order” passed two days prior to that i.e. on September 15. “We do not appreciate this,” the bench said in its order. The dispute started on August 11 when society’s managing committee (MC) passed a resolution curtailing powers of society secretary Mukund. A single judge suspended the resolution after Mr. Mukund moved the HC on this August 18. Meanwhile, the MC moved a no-confidence motion against the secretary on August 26. The next day, the Registrar-cum-Commissioner of Co-operative Societies, invoking his powers, issued notices to convene a meeting of the managing committee to conduct no-confidence motion proceedings. In between, the MC also filed a writ appeal seeking suspension of the single judge order. On September 15, the division bench headed by the Acting Chief Justice passed interim orders suspending the single judge order. But, before the division bench issued this order, the secretary filed a contempt of court petition stating that the Commissioner and society president violated the single judge order by moving no-confidence motion. This plea came up for hearing two days after the division bench suspended the single judge order. The same day the MC was to take a call on no-confidence motion. The single judge closed the contempt petition in the backdrop of division bench direction suspending his order. However, the single judge stayed the Commissioner’s proceedings (passing no-confidence motion against secretary) for three days. Mr. Ravindranath who appealed against the single judge order. The bench said the bench had already suspended the single judge order. Hence, staying the Commissioner’s proceedings for three days cannot be accepted. Moreover, the cause of action in the writ petition and the contempt petition were different.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-sets-aside-order-in-jhills-society-case/article36661674.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Keep pre-poll promise on loan waiver, says Bandi||Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar has demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao immediately implement the loan waiver scheme for farmers for up to Rs. 1 lakh each totalling an estimated Rs. 27,500 crore as was announced before the 2018 Assembly elections on Friday. He also urged him to withdraw his directive to the farmers not to raise paddy crop, procure every single grain that was produced as was promised and implement the PM ‘Fasal Beema scheme providing insurance by paying Rs. 413.50 crore of the State Government’s share to the Centre’. In an open letter to Mr. Rao, a copy of which was released to the media, the Bharatiya JanataParty (BJP) leader said the assurance given to the farmers to provide free fertilizer should be adhered to and procurement centres for maize be initiated to save farmers from middlemen. The BJP leader informed the Chief Minister that during the course of his ‘padayatra’ in the districts of Medak, Rangareddy and Nizamabad, the farmers voluntarily came forward to explain their problems and his party would stand by them. About 42 lakh farmers would have benefited if the Government took up the loan waiver scheme but so far it had waived loans for up to Rs. 25,000 for 2.96 lakh farmers to the tune of Rs. 408 crore and had kept silent about the remaining loans. Farmers had been extensively cultivating maize with the minimum support price being Rs. 1,870 per tonne, however, the price being offered was Rs. 1,600 per tonne only. Hence, the Government should intervene before the entire produce came to the markets and procure the lot before the middlemen make merry. Farmers had lost as much as Rs. 960 crore in the last three years as they had been unable to benefit from the Centre’s farm insurance scheme for the losses suffered and sought the Government share to be complied with soon. Mr. Sanjay Kumar charged that about 28,500 farmer suicides had been recorded as per official statistics including 18,845 in 2018-19 and and 19,351 in 2019-20. The Government should reach out to the farmers and take steps to prevent such tragedies by boosting their confidence. Another issue highlighted was the Dharani portal, which, he said, should be made free of errors and pattadar passbooks should be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/keep-pre-poll-promise-on-loan-waiver-says-bandi/article36661676.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Strengthen freight business: Minister||Union Minister of State of Railways, Coal & Mines Raosaheb Patil Danve advised the SCR officials to speed up the progress of infrastructure facilities, passenger amenities and non-fare revenue to achieve the targets set for all-round progress on Friday. Every effort should be made to strengthen its freight business by transporting all commodities, he said and advised them to hold discussions with freight customers and logistic firms at frequent intervals for improving loading at places like Aurangabad, Hyderabad etc. and to provide last mile connectivity. At a performance review meeting with General Manager Gajanan Mallya and other officials at Rail Nilayam, the Minister complimented the officials and staff for progress achieved in various sectors and the manner in which the pandemic was being handled. Security and safety of the rail users should be enhanced, he said and enquired on the child rescue operations being done by the Railway Protection Force. Passenger traffic, running of Kisan rails, Doodh Duronto (Milk Special) trains etc. came up for discussion while Mr. Mallya detailed the measures taken up on safety, security, punctuality as well as status of rail projects, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/strengthen-freight-business-minister/article36661678.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Revanth ignoring seniors’||TPCC working president and Sangareddy MLA Jagga Reddy accused TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy of following his own agenda and deliberately ignoring seniors like him. Speaking to reporters on the Assembly premises, he said there was no coordination in the party he had not been informed of the TPCC chief’s visit to Sangareddy. Similarly, he was not given an opportunity to speak at the Gajwel meeting. Even party programmes in the districts were being finalised without the knowledge of local leadership. “I have been an MLA for three times much before Mr. Revanth Reddy was appointed TPCC chief and someone trying to become a hero was not acceptable in a party like the Congress,” he said. “I can also organise huge public meetings without the party support. I am forced to vent out my feelings in front of the media as we are being humiliated.” “Can anyone stop if he wants to leave the Congress,” he said to a question and added that he was in the Congress for his sincere liking for Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. He said if the party should come to power it should be a collective effort and promoting individuals would not help,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-is-ignoring-seniors/article36661684.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Adieu to Ajay Gandhi||There was an outpouring of grief as the city bid adieu to Ajay Gandhi, well-known chartered accountant and cultural maven, who passed away on Thursday evening. A memorial meeting has been scheduled by his friends and well-wishers at the Marriott between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. on September 26. On Thursday evening, his daughter Mansi had shared plans for a wake/celebration of his life. “This one is for you dear friend. Bright. Spirited. Passionate. Humble. May your onward be in peace. Fare thee well Ajay Gandhi,” shared Amita Desai of Goethe Zentrum who worked with Ajay Gandhi on the annual Hyderabad Literary Festival. Ajay Gandhi was one of the key persons who helped create a niche for the Hyderabad Literary Festival as well as the annual Manthan Samvad that brought some of the leading lights of India’s intellectual world to the city. The two annual events enlivened cultural and literary life as Ajay used his heft and rapport with people like P. Chidambaram to Arun Shourie to Shabana Azmi and calendar their events in the city. “The world seems a much poorer place now, bereft of him. The hospitality that I quite often enjoyed in his home is something that I will always treasure. I don’t have any words of comfort for his wonderful family, I’m just too devastated,” wrote Sunita Reddy in her tribute. Other citizens who were touched by Ajay during his lifetime expressed shock at his sudden demise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-bids-final-adieu-to-ajay-gandhi/article36661668.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Level 1 cardiac emergency care facility opened||A Level 1 cardiac emergency care centre, a unique initiative to reduce sudden cardiac deaths through excellence, was inaugurated at Medicover Hospitals at Hi-Tec City on Friday. The facility was launched to reduce the rate of sudden deaths in acute heart stroke situations. The hospital management said that the facility was designed as one-of-its-kind in the country. It would go a long way in preventing loss of life due to acute heart stroke. The hospital authorities said healthcare institutions, depending on the infrastructure of the facility and available human resources, are divided into three levels of cardiac emergency care – Level 1 centre means 24×7 primary PCI (emergency angiogram followed by opening of blood vessel with or without stent) facility, on-site Impella and mechanical circulatory support (MCS) devices and round-the-clock MCS team. Level 2 centre would have 24×7 primary PCI facility without MCS devices or MCS team and Level 3 centre supports medical care only, without 24×7 primary PCI or MCS devices or team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/level-1-cardiac-emergency-care-centre-opened/article36661658.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad Postal Region launches spl parcel festival||Hyderabad Postal Region has made elaborate arrangements to help people send gift packages to their near and dear ones living across India and abroad by launching a four-month long Dak parcel mahotsav. The parcel mahotsav will ensure parcel bookings for the forthcoming festival season of Dasara, Deepavali, Guru Nanak Jayanti, Christmas-New Year and Pongal till January 15. A dedicated parcel counter is set up at every Head Post Office with extended counter working hours whenever and wherever required as per demand. Parcel pick-up from customers’ doorstep has been arranged based on online requests received on POST INFO APP or by requests through the beat postman in Hanamkonda, Karimnagar, Khammam, Nizamabad and Warangal. To keep customers updated about the status, an SMS alert would be sent soon after the delivery of the consignment. Online tracking is also available besides pre-delivery alerts to customers’ mobile numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-postal-region-launches-spl-parcel-festival/article36661659.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie held for cheating friends||A software engineer who cheated his colleagues and known people by inducing them to take personal loans from various banks and to invest in stock market and real estate with the promise of good profits, was arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime Station police on Friday. Pokuri Suresh Babu, 39, from Yeemiganuru in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh, who is currently residing at Penamaluru, Vijayawada, was absconding for the past two years by frequently changing addresses and cell phone handset/phone numbers. He was taking shelter at OYO rooms and rented houses in Vijayawada. Based on a complaint, a case was registered against the latter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/techie-held-for-cheating-friends/article36661897.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR leaves for Delhi||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Friday left for New Delhi to participate in the meeting of Chief Ministers of States affected by left wing extremism, convened by Union Home Ministry at Vignan Bhavan on Sunday. He was accompanied by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Rajya Sabha member J. Santosh Kumar and State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar. He will meet Union Minister for Food and Supplies Piyush Goyal to discuss procurement of foodgrains from the State after the meeting at Vignan Bhavan and return to the city. On Saturday, he was scheduled to meet Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendrasingh Shekhawat on overdrawal of water from Srisailam by AP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-leaves-for-delhi/article36661679.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nalgonda boy emerges Ed.CET topper||Thimmishetty Mahendar from Nalgonda topped the Telangana State Education Common Entrance Test (TS EdCET) 2021 while Akenapalli Prathyusha of Mancherial district secured the second rank and the third rank went to Rishikesh Kumar Sharma of Patna, Bihar. Telangana State Council of Higher Education chairman R Limbadri, who released the results along with Telangana State Council of Higher Education vice chairman V. Venkataramana, Osmania University Vice Chancellor Ravinder, said that the topper scored 122.153503 marks out of 150 marks. The results would be available on ‘https://edcet.tsche.ac.in’. Prof. Limbadri said that 42,399 candidates had registered for the entrance test of which 34,185 students appeared and 33,683 candidates qualified with the pass percentage being 98.53. 25,983 girls clear Out of the total 34,185 candidates who took the test, 26,448 were girls and 7,737 were boys, and among these 25,983 girls cleared the test as against 7,700 boys. Those who qualified in the entrance would be eligible for admission into the two-year Bachelor of Education (B.Ed) course offered in Telangan, TSCEH chairman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-boy-emerges-edcet-topper/article36661683.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Inter exams from Oct. 25||The Board of Intermediate Examinations (BIE) has announced the dates for first year Intermediate exams for students who are in second year of the course now. The exams will be held from October 25 to November 2. They could not be held due to the COVID induced lockdown in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-exams-from-oct-25/article36661666.ece
25 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ex-I&PR director passes away||A retired director of Information and Public Relations U. Subhash died of illness while undergoing treatment in a private hospital on Friday. He retired in the post in 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-ipr-director-passes-away/article36661681.ece
25 September 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda rape, murder victim mourned||Condolences continued to pour in for the family of a 54-year-old rape and murder victim at Mushampally in Nalgonda on Friday. Visiting the bereaved family and assuring them of support, leaders of various parties also took potshots at the State government policies and said they are “contributing factors” for the crime. Bharatiya Janata Party leader D.K. Aruna said that the government should be held accountable for the crime. Liquor revenue “Unfortunately, it is from liquor revenues that the TRS government is paying Aasara pensions and Rythu Bandhu. With more and more belt shops in villages, even that amount is used to buy liquor. The victim’s family should be paid Rs. 1 crore ex gratia,” she said. For Telangana Inti Party’s founder Cheruku Sudhakar, any crime related to women in the State has its roots linked to liquor. Excise targets “But the State government seems to be giving targets to the Excise Department to increase liquor sales. How can such crimes be arrested, particularly in villages, when unauthorised liquor vends are not checked?,” he wondered. Congress’ Member of Parliament from Bhongir Komatireddy Venkat Reddy criticised efficiency of the police department in preventing crimes. He alleged that liquor and contraband products -- such as ganja -- are easily available and unchecked in small stores on the village side. Preventive measures “More than ex gratia and double bedrooms for victim families post-crime, women in particular and citizens in general need protection, and preventive measures need to be taken against such crimes,” he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-rape-murder-victim-mourned/article36661896.ece
25 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Administrative sanction for two lift irrigation schemes||In a move that would provide assured irrigation to large areas in the district the State government has accorded administrative approval for two lift irrigation projects — Basaveswara and Sangameswara — in Sangareddy. The projects, to be taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,409 crore, together would irrigate 3.84 lakh acres in Andol, Sangareddy, Zaheerabad and Narayanakhed constituencies. “After careful examination of the proposal of Engineer-in-Chief (General), I&CAD, in his letter read above, government here by accorded administrative approval for the amount of Rs. 2,635 crore to the provisional estimate for the earth work, excavation, formation of canal embankment, including construction of CD and CM Works, approach canal, canal lining, construction of pump house, pressure mains, strengthening of existing reservoirs and development of entire canal network system to irrigate an ayacut of 2.19 lakh acres in Zaheerabad, Andol and Sangareddy Assembly constituencies under Sangameswara Lift Irrigation Scheme and seek financial assistance from NABARD,” read the order issued on September 23 by Special Chief Secretary Rajat Kumar. Basaveshwara Lift Irrigation Scheme, for which administrative approval was accorded for Rs. 1774 crore, would irrigate about 1.65 lakh acres in Narayankhed and Andol Assembly constituencies. Financial assistance is being sought from NABARD for this as well. Irrigation prospects “Both these projects will change the face of Sangareddy district and abundant irrigation will be available. We thank Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao for sanctioning these projects,” said Andol MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran. Finance Minister Harish Rao accompanied Andol legislator, Narayankhed legislator M. Bhupal Reddy and Zaheerabad legislator Manick Rao met and thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the Assembly premises on Friday.  We thank Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao for sanctioning these projects. Ch. Kranthi Kiran, Andol MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/administrative-sanction-for-two-lift-irrigation-schemes/article36661899.ece
25 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Open Trident Sugar factory, says Revanth Reddy||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy urged the State government to see to it that Trident Sugar factory is opened and arrangements made for milling by the end of the season. Mr. Reddy was here to inaugurate a cricket tournament at the revenue divisional headquarters on Friday. Interacting with farmers on the occasion, Mr. Reddy said that sugarcane farmers are completely dependent on private sugar factories, thus forcing them to transport their produce to other places, leading to more costs for farmers. “Why not government spare Rs. 2,000 crore for farmers of Zaheerabad area and take over Trident Sugar to protect interests of farmers? Can’t the government spare that amount which has been introducing about Rs. 2 lakh crore budget?” asked Mr. Reddy adding a conspiracy is on to transform the land belonging to the factory into real estate ventures. The TPCC president demanded that the government must make arrangements for farmers to shift their produce to Karnataka for milling in case the factory is not opened despite best efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/open-trident-sugar-factory-says-revanth-reddy/article36661902.ece
25 September 2021||suryapet,TELANGANA||Free coaching for Civils exam||Applications are invited from eligible candidates belonging to Backward Classes, OBCs, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, minority and persons with disability for free coaching for Civil Services examination or the preliminary CSAT-2022. Candidates who are graduates, not employed and whose parents’ annual income does not exceed Rs. 3 lakh can apply online at tsstudycircle.co.in by October 10. Selected candidates will be provided free training, food and accommodation. Details can be had at 9989129935.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-coaching-for-civils-exam/article36661905.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Love Story’ movie review: Sekhar Kammula’s sensitive film draws winsome performances from Naga Chaitanya and Sai Pallavi||How does one define honour? Does it lie in adhering to caste norms, or does it lie in creating a safe environment and instilling confidence in a child to speak up when things go awry? Director Sekhar Kammula uses the platform of a mainstream entertainer to make family audiences introspect.  Love Story has all the trappings of a Kammula film. The music (debut composer Pawan Ch) can sweep us off our feet, the strong-willed leading lady dances like a dream and the hero is a thorough gentleman. Romance blossoms on the terraces of middle-class homes in Padmarao Nagar, Secunderabad. As the film unfolds in modest settings, without larger-than-life frills, it shows how absorbing a film can be when there’s a good script. In Armoor, Telangana, Revanth (Naga Chaitanya) grows up listening to his mother (Easwari Rao) reiterate the importance of earning and living with dignity. She tells him that it’s better to be in a position where you can give financial assistance than having to receive it. Revanth’s is a success story; he runs a small Zumba centre in the big city. There are challenges, but he is in a position where he can employ someone. Sekhar contrasts this with Mounica (Sai Pallavi), an upper-caste girl who arrives in the city with dreams in her eyes. Her family owns acres of land, but she has to battle for her rights — financial and otherwise. She realises that her low score in engineering won’t get her a fat paycheck. Long after Happy Days (2007), in which Kammula focussed on engineering campuses, he shows us the other side — of an engineer embracing her innate flair for dance to get ahead in life. In the city, there are no ‘us’ and ‘them’ caste differences, at least on a surface level. Revanth and Mouncia can take Zumba and dance classes together and earn a living. However, the cracks in society are laid bare through the story of another couple. Back in Armoor, there are telling scenes where Revanth and his mother continue to be looked down upon by an upper-caste household. His work is mocked and someone doesn’t think twice before offering him second-hand shirts. Mounica and Revanth’s respective baggage from the past run as an undercurrent to the romance. He is tired of caste disparities. She too is battling something complex. In a cleverly written scene, she tells Revanth that she will dance on the condition that he always maintains two feet distance. We know that she isn’t referring to caste; something else has left her scarred. It’s a film where everything comes together in synergy. Chaitanya is natural and emotes with all sincerity, triumphing in a career-defining role. Sai Pallavi is excellent, expressing the minute fears of Mounica. Props to Easwari Rao and the fun cameo by Gangavva. Rajeev Kanakala acts like an embodiment of arrogance and evil so effectively, that I ended up hating him thoroughly. Romance is one of the most commonly explored genres in commercial cinema and after a point, one tends to view it with cynicism. But this one kept me invested; I watched with bated breath, hoping that Revanth and Mounica cross the hurdles in their path.  (For longer review, check www.thehindu.com)   Love Story  Cast: Naga Chaitanya, Sai Pallavi, Easwari Rao, Rajeev Kanakala  Direction: Sekhar Kammula  Music: Pawan Ch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/love-story-movie-review-sekhar-kammulas-sensitive-film-draws-winsome-performances-from-naga-chaitanya-and-sai-pallavi/article36661671.ece
25 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Congress summons Channi to Delhi again||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was again called to Delhi by the Congress high command to discuss the expansion of the State Cabinet, just hours after he returned from the national capital, according to sources. Mr. Channi has left for the national capital from here, they added. Third visit It is the CM’s third visit to Delhi in the past few days. Mr. Channi had gone to Delhi on Thursday evening where he discussed the formation of his Cabinet with Rahul Gandhi. He had also held discussions with All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Harish Rawat. After the meeting, Mr. Channi returned on early Friday morning. Meanwhile, former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar is learnt to have met party leader Rahul Gandhi. There is now speculation that Mr. Jakhar, who narrowly missed out on succeeding Amarinder Singh as the CM, may be rehabilitated with some post. Mr. Jakhar was the front runner for the post of the Congress Legislature Party leader. However, party leaders, including Ambika Soni, suggested that a Sikh should occupy the top post in the State. The Congress the picked Mr. Channi, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste community. New faces likely The State Cabinet is likely to see some fresh faces, the sources said. The names of Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Surjit Dhiman, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra are doing the rounds. Pargat Singh, considered close to Navjot Singh Sidhu, is at present the party general secretary and Mr. Gilzian is a working president of the party’s State unit. There is speculation that Capt. Amarinder’s staunch loyalists — Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, who is the Sports Minister, and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, who is the Social Justice Empowerment Minister — may be dropped from the Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-summons-punjab-cm-to-delhi-again/article36661554.ece
25 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Badal demands hike in compensation for ‘Bharat Mala’ highway project||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Friday demanded at least a 100% hike in compensation to the farmers for the land being acquired under the “Bharat Mala” project for different highways in the State. The party submitted a memorandum in this regard to Governor Banwari Lal Purohit here. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal said Punjab farmers have been put at a loss of over Rs. 25,000 crore by the State government’s “devious and surreptitious” decision to substantially reduce the collector rates for their lands affected by the acquisition. Mr. Badal said the SAD would fight for justice for the farmers till it succeeded in getting the government to withdraw or suitably change its decision. He announced that the party would organise a ‘tractor march’ to the residence of the Chief Minister Charanjeet Singh Channi on September 29 to put pressure on the government to heed to the just demands of the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/badal-demands-hike-in-compensation-for-bharat-mala-highway-project/article36661556.ece
25 September 2021||Dehradun,||Court acquits Uttarakhand Minister in Shaktiman horse assault case||A court in Uttarakhand has acquitted Cabinet Minister Ganesh Joshi and four other accused of causing injuries to police horse Shaktiman during a clash between the BJP protesters and the police here in 2016 due to lack of credible evidence. The Uttarakhand Mounted Police horse had sustained injuries during the clashes following which one of its hind legs had to be amputated. It was treated and given a prosthetic leg but it died of infection one month later. Dehradun Chief Judicial Magistrate Lakshman Singh acquitted Mr. Joshi and four others on Thursday. He and the four others were booked under different sections of the IPC besides section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act following the incident in March 2016. On his acquittal in the case, Mr. Joshi said truth has finally won as he had all along been saying that he was innocent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-acquits-uttarakhand-minister-in-shaktiman-horse-assault-case/article36661558.ece
25 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Rakesh Tikait asks Biden to focus on farm laws during talks with Modi||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first bilateral meeting with the U.S. President Joe Biden on Friday evening, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait raised a social media storm by appealing to Mr. Biden to focus on the farm laws brought by the Modi government. “These black laws should be repealed to save us. Please focus on our concerns while meeting PM Modi,” tweeted Mr. Tikait, tagging @POTUS, the Twitter handle of the U.S. President. Mr. Tikait is the national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union and one of the foremost leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha that is leading the agitation against the farm laws. Mr. Tikait added, “We, the farmers of India are protesting against the 3 farm laws brought by PM Modi’s govt. 700 farmers have died in the last 11 months protesting (sic)”. This is perhaps the first time that the farmer leader has tweeted in English from his handle. The BKU had termed the UN Food Systems Summit hogwash and described it as a threat to people’s food security. ‘International issue’ Dharmendra Malik, media in-charge of BKU, said agriculture was an “international issue” and most laws were being made to protect the interests of the MNCs. “That’s why we have appealed to the U.S. President to focus on the farm laws as well during the talks with the PM. We haven’t asked for his intervention,” he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tikait-asks-biden-to-focus-on-farm-laws/article36661559.ece
25 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Campaign launched for social accountability law||A State-wide campaign has been launched in Rajasthan for demanding passage of the social accountability law in the next Assembly session, while reminding the Congress government of its commitment to bring the legislation in the 2018 election manifesto. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had reiterated his resolve to enact the law in his budget speech in 2019. Activists pointed out that countless citizens were suffering from an inability to access their rights and have their complaints redressed in a time-bound manner, while there was “no accountability of errant government officials”. The State government is yet to take an action on the report submitted by a committee in February 2020 along with the draft of the proposed statute. The committee, headed by former civil servant Ram Lubhaya, strongly emphasised the need for a legal framework to guarantee accountability to the citizens and highlighted the limitations in the existing administrative system which prevented timely delivery of services. ‘Right based approach’ Representatives of Suchna Evum Rozgar Adhikar Abhiyan, who were members of the committee, also made representations. The Abhiyan activists felt that the State government should adopt a rights based approach and ensure delivery of services and redress the citizens’ grievances within a stipulated time frame. Nikhil Dey of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) said the legislation, as a composite architecture, would empower every person to hold the government institutions and officials accountable to them to deliver their rights as citizens. “Our campaign will raise awareness about the law and take up a sustained advocacy for passage of the Bill in the next Assembly session,” he said. The draft Bill has incorporated the suggested provisions for transparency in governance, citizens’ participation, public hearing, social audit, information and facilitation centres, decentralisation of the process and establishment of an independent grievance redressal structure. The mechanism for redressing grievances will start from village panchayats and involve public hearings at the block level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/campaign-launched-for-social-accountability-law/article36661557.ece
25 September 2021||Kolkata,||ZSI, NHS U.K. join hands for knowledge sharing||The Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding with The Natural History Museum, United Kingdom, on implementing relevant national and regional laws and regulations concerning biodiversity, including laws relating to access to faunal specimens, associated benefit sharing and traditional knowledge. A press statement issued by the ZSI said both the institutions are committed to implementing the 1973 Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Fauna (CITES) and the 1992 Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). “The NHM, London, and the ZSI will be working together to collect, study and conserve faunal specimens for science and to create and exchange associated data and images. There are plans for conducting of joint fieldwork expeditions, transfer of duplicate animal material and associated data and images by the ZSI, Kolkata, to the NHM, London, and vice versa,” the press statement said. Dhriti Banerjee, director of the ZSI, remarked that the MoU will be mutually beneficial on the faunal diversity research through scientific exchange between the two great institutions and develop a long-standing relationship. The MoU was signed between Dr. Banerjee and Dr. Douglas Gurr, NHM Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/zsi-nhs-uk-join-hands-for-knowledge-sharing/article36661779.ece
25 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to reopen schools on Oct. 4, religious places from Oct. 7||The Maharashtra government on Friday announced its decision to reopen schools in the State from October 4 and religious places from October 7. The decision to reopen schools was taken after the SOPs (standard operating procedure) were cleared by the Chief Minister’s Office, the State’s Paediatric Task Force on COVID-19, and the Health Department, said School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad. “We had issued directions to restart schools earlier. But there was then the fear of a third wave. The SOPs prepared by the department were discussed in meetings with the task force along with experts in the field of education. We were all unanimous on resuming classes. But we decided to come out with more comprehensive SOPs for the safety of students,” Ms. Gaikwad said. The Minister said that Classes V to XII in rural areas, and Classes VIII to XII in urban areas, will re-commence from October 4. The decision is not applicable to residential schools. Ms. Gaikwad said that a survey by her department had shown than more than 80% parents favoured reopening schools. Guidelines issued “The safety of our students is the priority. Based on that, we have issued guidelines under which parents’ approval is a must for students to join the classes in school. Neither attendance nor exams will be mandatory. If necessary, the option of calling students on alternate days can be tried. Sanitation and physical distancing should be maintained,” she said. The State government’s additional SOPs included a health clinic in every school to check students’ temperatures; and aid from doctor parents, if available. Students are encouraged to walk to school. In the case of school buses, the precaution of one student per seat is to be followed. Teaching and non-teaching staff would constantly issue directions to wash hands. Homework is to be done online, and as far as possible, homework is to be avoided. No outdoor games The SOPs have directed that there should be no outdoor games as of now. Special attention is to be given in case a student shows symptoms of fever, cold, cough, etc. Ms. Gaikwad said that teachers are also being directed to keep look out for the students’ psychological condition as they have lived inside their homes for more than one-and-a-half years. “Let students get used to school instead of forcing them to study right away,” she said. Schools have been advised to keep uniforms optional. Parents are also advised to “send students directly to the bathroom after coming home from school”. Ms. Gaikwad said that vaccination of teaching as well as non-teaching staff is a priority. District Collectors in rural areas and Municipal Commissioners in corporation areas must carefully look in to it, she said. Norms at religious places Meanwhile, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced the reopening of all religious places in the State from October 7, the first day of Navratri. Mr. Thackeray said that even though the decision to open religious places has been taken, all COVID protocols must be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-to-reopen-schools-on-oct-4-religious-places-from-oct-7/article36661771.ece
25 September 2021||Mumbai,||COVID-19: Bombay HC extends interim orders till Oct. 8||The Bombay High Court on Friday extended all interim orders related to demolition, eviction, possession passed by various courts and authorities in Maharashtra and Goa till October 8 or until further orders, whichever is earlier, owing to the pandemic. A full Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta along with Justices A.A. Sayed, K.K. Tated and P.B. Varale asked Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni to apprise the court if the lockdown will continue. Mr. Kumbhakoni said the State has not taken any decision yet, but reports show an encouraging picture. However, experts have suggested to monitor 10 days after last day of Ganesh Visarjan. He added that these 10 days will show the trend of COVID-19 as there is a lot of movement of people during the festival season. The Bench then responded that, “What we propose to do is we don’t want to vacate the interim orders immediately, as there will be a lot of hardship for the people who are enjoying the benefits of the order. We will record in the order that the protection is extended till October 8.” “Having regard to the gradually improving situation, we will not extend beyond October 8, unless the situation deteriorates,” the Bench added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-bombay-hc-extends-interim-orders-till-oct-8/article36661776.ece
25 September 2021||Mumbai,||Duty hours of women police cut short||The Maharashtra police have reduced working hours of its women constables from 12 hours to eight hours, to help them balance their professional and personal lives, a senior official said on Friday. State Director General of Police Sanjay Pandey confirmed the implementation of the initiative, which was first tried out in Nagpur city, Amarvati city and Pune Rural. The initiative was implemented on an experimental basis in the three regions last month, and will come into force in other cities and districts in some days, the official said. The initiative was started a month ago and gave good results, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/duty-hours-of-women-police-cut-short/article36661773.ece
25 September 2021||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao gets interim medical bail||The Bombay High Court on Friday extended the interim medical bail for 81-year-old poet Varavara Rao, accused in Bhima Koregaon caste violence case, till October 13. On September 6, a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar had granted an extension till September 24. On Friday, due to paucity of time the interim relief has been extended till October 13. On February 22, 2021, Mr. Rao was granted medical bail on a cash bond of Rs. 50,000 by a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Manish Pitale. Due to delay in obtaining a solvency certificate, Mr. Rao was released on March 6. Mr. Rao seeks an extension on grounds that he takes 13 medicines daily for neurological problems, cholesterol, blood pressure, prostate, acidity, gastroesophageal reflux, constipation, cardiac issues and pain relief. A neurologist at Jaslok Hospital said he has asymptomatic parkinson’s ailment and has retention problems, movement disorders with tremors and gait instability. Previously, senior advocate Anand Grover, appearing for Mr. Rao, informed court that Mr. Rao was living in a rented flat in Mumbai with his wife. His plea urges the court to allow him to reside in Hyderabad with his family instead of Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/varavara-rao-gets-interim-medical-bail/article36661553.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||20 students coached at JMI clear UPSC exam||As many as 20 students coached at the Jamia Millia Islamia Residential Coaching Academy (JMI-RCA) have cleared the 2020 civil services examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission. The results were announced on Friday A total of 761 candidates have been recommended by the UPSC for appointment to various services. JMI said 15 students from the RCA — run by the Centre for Coaching and Career Planning of the university — who appeared for the exam in January 2021, followed by personality tests taken in August and September 2021, have been selected. Five other students who were provided coaching and guidance only for the personality test at the RCA have also been selected. Out of the students selected from the RCA, Faizan Ahmed secured rank 58. Shahid Ahmed, Shahansha KS and Shreya Singhal secured ranks 129, 142 and176 respectively. One of the candidates who was trained for the personality test by the institute, Radhika Gupta, secured rank 18. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ahmed, who came to Delhi from Kota, Rajasthan, in 2018 to start his preparation for the civil services examination, said: “The RCA at Jamia gave me the best environment for my preparation as it not only provided me with the facilities and guidance but also introduced me to like-minded people who were in different stages of their preparation and attempts. It is definitely the best holistic environment to ensure success.” JMI-RCA is funded by the University Grants Commission, it provides free coaching and residential facilities to students belonging to SC, ST, Women, and the Minorities categories. Students are selected for the coaching on the basis of an all-India written test followed by interviews. The entrance test for the next batch, the university said, will be held on October 21 and the last date to fill the online form is October 6.  The Residential Coaching Academy at Jamia gave me the best environment for my preparation... it not only provided me with guidance but also introduced me to like-minded people Faizan Ahmed Secured rank 58 in exam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/20-students-coached-at-jmi-clear-upsc-exam/article36661544.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Shooting in court felt like a terror attack’||Advocate Sunil Tomar was inside courtroom number 207 on the second floor of the Rohini Courts Complex when he saw gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi being escorted by officers of Delhi Police and Central Reserve Police Force. Just a few mintues later, he heard several gunshots and witnessed the ensuing bloodshed.   Mr. Tomar had a bail matter in the court of Additional Sessions Judge Gagandeep Singh. While there, he saw a large group of police officers entering the premises. “I thought some high-risk prisoner must be coming. Then I heard Gogi was coming,” he said. “Within five minutes of Gogi being brought in for hearing, two men (wearing black suits and white shirts) entered the courtroom and got close to Gogi before they started shooting at him. The policemen retaliated and killed the shooters,” Mr. Tomar told reporters. “The bullets hit Gogi’s chest. They must have fired off around eight bullets at him,” the advocate said. He added that the courtroom is not very big and there were around 15-17 people present. “There were four more accused and they thought they were being targetted. They leaped behind the judge’s seat, so did a few advocates. The Judge also managed to take cover behind his desk,” Mr. Tomar recalled. “For the next 15 minutes, I didn’t know what was happening. I did not know who was dead,” he said. In the ensuing retaliatory fire by the security officers, the two assailants were shot dead.  Advocate Rajiv Agnihotri, who was on the same floor when the incident took place, said: “When I heard the firing, I thought it was a terrorist attack.” As he attempted to see what was happening, CRPF officers sweeped in to control and protect the crowd. “If the Delhi police officials had not shot the two assailants, they might have attacked more people,” he said. When Gogi, 30, was arrested in March 2020 from an apartment complex in Gurugram, he had a reward of Rs. 10.5 lakh on his head. He and his associates had been running an organised crime syndicate for nearly a decade and were involved in extortion, collecting ransom, protection money and committing car-jackings.  Bitter rivals The rivalry between Gogi and Tillu of Tajpur Kalan village dates back to 2010 when Gogi was new to the world of crime and his close associate Sunil Mann had joined the Tillu gang. Another turning point was Deepak alias Raju, an associate of Tillu, pursuing Gogi’s cousin and teasing Gogi that he was his “brother-in-law”. Deepak was murdered by Gogi in 2015. The same year, Tillu’s associates killed a close associate of Gogi, Arun alias Commando. The rivalry has been for supremacy ever since and over a dozen members from each side have been murdered. In 2016, Gogi escaped Delhi Police’s custody when he was being taken to Haryana in a bus and managed to remain on the run till last year. In 2018, he and his associates gunned down four residents of Tajpur village and two passersby in a shoot-out in north Delhi’s Burari. A month before his arrest, Gogi and his associates waylaid a man who they thought was supporting his rivals and pumped 48 bullets into him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shooting-in-court-felt-like-a-terror-attack/article36661549.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Cloud kitchens’ are cooking up a storm||Amid pandemic-induced closures, hygiene concerns and high retail costs, technology has come to the rescue of restaurant businesses in the city. Restaurateurs and chefs are now able to move their kitchens to obscure locations and deliver food at the doorstep of their clients. Known as ‘cloud kitchens’, these units have mushroomed across the city and have helped restaurants re-invent themselves by taking advantage of the growth of app-based food discovery platforms to reach out to their clientele and deliver quality food without having to bear the cost of skyrocketing overheads. Some of the popular restaurants at Khan Market and other prominent markets have jumped on the bandwagon. CEO and MD of Impresario, Riyaaz Amlani, known for his chain of ‘Social’ restaurants across the city, says COVID-19 has gently nudged the restaurant industry towards digitisation and people are approaching the business from many different sides. Food delivery Commenting on the food delivery boom, he says; “Earlier, dining-in restaurants had 5-10% of the delivery business but in COVID era, most of the restaurants have tripled their delivery business over the past 5-6 quarters. However, delivery is not competing with the dine-in business and dine-out will always continue to be a celebration for our guests. I am happy that both businesses have their own stakes and it’s beautiful that both the businesses co-exist and are growing together.” In the delivery business, packaging plays a crucial role as that is the only way to enhance the customer’s experience as it is a brand’s story-telling, he adds. The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) recently organised a workshop for those who want to start cloud kitchens or convert their existing businesses into cloud kitchens so that they can keep track of the fast-changing industry. NRAI chief Kabir Suri says the biggest advantage of cloud kitchens is that it helps expansion into new markets. “We all spend years building a brand and hence, I believe that instead of launching new brands, one should always bank on existing brands and brand equity built over years.” Technology has played an important role in helping restaurants identify their target customers and chart their online growth while optimising their sales. It is important for businesses to have control over the data of who is ordering, he says, adding that the association has been trying to resolve this issue with various partners. About nine years ago, the restaurant industry realised that people want the convenience of quick food delivery, but it was difficult to set up restaurants in all corporate hubs, says Anshul Gupta, co-founder of Box8, an on-demand food delivery firm, “We thought of setting up cloud kitchens very early and that gave us an edge over other players. Technology has played a pivotal role in our growth, we invested in building our delivery fleet and app which has proved to be very advantageous in reaching customers directly.” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cloud-kitchens-are-cooking-up-a-storm/article36661543.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Restructure cadre to open up promotion options: DASS officers||Mohan  (name changed), a 51-year-old section officer, joined the Delhi government in 1998 as a Grade 2 officer. In 2007 he got promoted to Grade 1 — the last promotion he got in the past 14 years. “Every year, we get an increment, but there is no option for our cadre to get further promotion. After 2007, I have not got any promotion. Promotion is about dignity, about more respect at work and society. It feels good to be at a higher post,” the officer said. Like Mohan, there are around 1,500 officials under the Delhi Administration Subordinate Services (DASS). The DASS Officers’ Association has been demanding that the government restructure the cadre so that they get an option for promotions. On Thursday, about 50 officials under the association protested outside the office of the Chief Secretary (CS) inside the Delhi Secretariat building. They put up banners asking ‘how many more years?’. The CS met with the representatives of the association on Friday. “The CS has promised to take up the matter with the Services Department. Our cadre was last restructured in 1967. It should be restructured to create more avenues of promotions and pay scales. This has been a long pending demand of ours,” said Manoj Kumar Ambasta, general secretary of the association. CS Vijav Dev did not respond to calls and messages. The Centre had in July written to Chief Secretaries of different UTs and Delhi, directing them to review the cadres every five years. Periodic review “Cadre review of civilian cadres falls under the jurisdiction of the respective cadre-controlling authorities and is required to be undertaken periodically. However, it has been observed that proposals for cadre review for group B and group C categories are received in the Department of Expenditure after long periods of 20-30 years, or even for the first time. The delay is not in consonance with good HR management practices,” the letter written by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba read. In Delhi, the Services Department, which looks into these matters, is under the ambit of the Centre. Around four years back, the then CS had formed a committee headed by S.N. Sahai, then Principal Secretary of Finance Department to look into the matter. Mr. Ambasta said the committee had recommended more promotions and the Services Department should implement it at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/restructure-cadre-to-open-up-promotion-options-dass-officers/article36661552.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lawyers say scanners and metal detectors at gates defunct||Advocates at the Rohini Courts Complex raised concerns over security inside the premises following the shoot-out in which gangster Jitender Mann was killed. Advocate Ashish Sharma, who was on the premises at the time of the incident, said there is no frisking of people coming to court. “This is the fourth time a shooting has taken place. When it happened the first time, we had brought it to the notice of police officers,” he said, adding that none of the gates have ‘fully functional’ metal detectors. “No one is frisked here. Anyone can come in with a weapon,” he said. Another advocate Manoj Kumar Nigam said the scanner machine inside the court is also not functioning. “There is no checking for weapons. People in khaki and black coats are not checked at all,” he said. Police sources said advocates in district courts discourage checking and frisking. “The lawyers create a ruckus if they are checked. Delhi Police also secures the High Court and Supreme Court where the advocates and judges agree to checking,” an officer said.  When asked if advocates would now cooperate with frisking, the district court lawyers said: “From now on, we will… it should not be a matter of dignity but safety”. The Rohini Court Bar Association has issued a notice asking members to cooperate with all security checks at the entry and exit gates. Delhi Police said it regularly coordinates with the Rohini Court Administration and other stakeholders regarding security of the premises. “The Joint Commissioner of Police is inquiring into the incident and is conducting a review for further strengthening the court’s security,” police said in a statement. The Bar Council of Delhi announced that all district courts will abstain from work on Saturday to protest against the security lapse inside the court premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lawyers-say-scanners-and-metal-detectors-at-gates-defunct/article36661545.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||North corporation has fired 687 teachers: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Friday alleged that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has dismissed 687 teachers in corporation-run schools. “North body has stopped providing education to primary students by firing 687 teachers. About 70,000 students have dropped out of the schools because the BJP-ruled civic body is not providing education to children of Classes I to V,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. He said Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan is a Central government-led initiative under which the Central and State governments collaboratively pay the salaries of teachers in corporation-run schools. “It is shocking that on September 7, 2020, North body Education Department wrote a letter to the Delhi government, conveying that they were firing their primary school teachers because the schools were shut during the pandemic and they are not educating children during the pandemic. Subsequently, North body fired 687 teachers,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. He alleged that for the last one and a half years, the North body has not been providing primary education. ‘Waiting for DDMA nod’ Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Mr. Bharadwaj lost all respect for political accountability while making statements. He said Mr. Bharadwaj should know that North body primary schools, like all primary schools, have not been opened for physical attendance due to lack of permission for the same from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/north-corporation-has-fired-687-teachers-aap/article36661541.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Event organiser granted bail in hate speech case||The Delhi High Court Friday granted bail to Preet Singh, an organiser of the Jantar Mantar event where communal slogans were allegedly raised last month, saying his custodial interrogation in the hate speech case is not required any longer. Justice Mukta Gupta directed that the accused be released on bail on a personal bond of Rs. 50,000 with two sureties of the like amount. “The petitioner has been in custody since 9/10.08.2021.The petitioner is no more required for custodial interrogation...,”the judge stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/event-organiser-granted-bail-in-hate-speech-case/article36661540.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal initiates process to make bio-decomposer||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal initiated the process of making a bio-decomposer solution, created in collaboration with the Pusa Institute, at the Kharkhari Nahar village here on Friday. Mr. Kejriwal appealed to all States to help their farmers in smelting stubble and bear the entire cost of spraying the bio-decomposer in agricultural land just like the Delhi government. The number of farmers who had applied for the spraying of the solution on their fields had almost gone up threefold compared to last year with the Delhi government scheduled to spray it on over 4,000 acres of land this time, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-initiates-process-to-make-bio-decomposer/article36661538.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||HC should pull up police chief over lapse: AAP||The shoot-out inside the crowded Rohini courtroom was a “big security lapse” and the High Court should take cognisance and “haul up” the Delhi police chief, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said on Friday. AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said, “The Centre appointed their favourite officer Rakesh Asthana as police chief by bypassing all rules. The High Court should take note and haul up the top cop.”  Meanwhile, the Delhi Congress said ‘jungle raj’ prevails in the Capital as Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal are “absent”. “Mr. Shah and Mr. Kejriwal have totally failed in checking crime in Delhi,” said Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-should-pull-up-police-chief-over-lapse-aap/article36661550.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||No new death for seventh day||The national capital reported no new COVID-19 deaths over 24 hours for the seventh consecutive day, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. The total number of deaths stood at 25,085. Twenty-four new cases of the virus were reported over the past 24 hours, taking the total to 14,38,658.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-new-death-for-seventh-day/article36661539.ece
25 September 2021||Pune,||Kirit Somaiya’s graft allegations ‘selective’, says Raju Shetti||Farmer leader and Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti has accused Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya of targeting leaders of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government with ‘political malice’ rather than being genuinely interested in uncovering corruption. Debunking Mr. Somaiya’s posturing as an impartial anti-corruption crusader, Mr. Shetti dared the BJP leader to unravel irregularities in the Mumbai District Central Cooperative Bank (MDCCB) headed by Mr. Somaiya’s party colleague Pravin Darekar, BJP’s Leader of the Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council. Retaliatory gesture The MVA government on Thursday had initiated an inquiry against the MDCCB for alleged irregularities over the last five years. The move is viewed as a retaliatory gesture against the BJP after Mr. Somaiya recently accused Maharashtra Minister and senior NCP leader Hasan Mushrif and his kin of being embroiled in a Rs. 127-crore money laundering scandal as well of irregularities to the tune of Rs. 100 crore in a cooperative sugar factory owned by the latter. “It appears Mr. Somaiya's corruption ‘exposes’ are selective. They are designed to target leaders of particular parties only. If he has the guts, why not blow the whistle on the MDCCB case?” said Mr. Shetti, a former two-time MP from Kolhapur district.  At the same time, he ticked off the MVA administration as well, rebuking Mr. Thackeray’s government for failing to provide compensation to the victims of the recent floods which ravaged Konkan and western Maharashtra. Mr. Shetti had severed ties with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in August 2017, turning into a vociferous critic of the Narendra Modi and the Devendra Fadnavis governments at the Centre and the State. Before the 2019 Parliamentary election, Mr. Shetti had backed Sharad Pawar’s NCP and the Congress. But the new alliance proved costly with Mr. Shetti’s seemingly sure grip on Hatkanangale undercut by the Shiv Sena’s Dhairyasheel Mane, who defeated him to snare the vital constituency in Kolhapur. Since then, he has focused on farmer issues, reserving his censure for both the ruling MVA and the Opposition BJP.  If he has the guts, why not blow the whistle on the MDCCB case? Raju Shetti Farmer leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kirit-somaiyas-graft-allegations-selective-says-raju-shetti/article36661775.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Quad will find no support, says China||China on Friday repeated its increasingly frequent denunciations of the India, U.S., Australia and Japan Quad grouping ahead of the four countries’ first in-person leaders summit in Washington, saying the group would “find no support”. “China always believes that any regional cooperation mechanism should not target or harm the interests of a third party. A closed, exclusive clique targeting other countries runs counter to the trend of the times and the aspirations of regional countries. Doomed to fail It will find no support and is doomed to fail,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in Beijing, calling on “relevant countries” to “view China's development in a correct light and do more to promote solidarity and cooperation among countries in the region.” China’s Ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, also took aim at the Quad in remarks made at a virtual Track II dialogue held on Thursday, and published on Friday on the website of the Chinese Embassy in New Delhi. “At present, some countries, with their ideological bias and Cold War mentality, vigorously seek closed and exclusive 'small cliques' with the aim of containing a third party, stoking bloc confrontation and geopolitical games,” Mr. Sun said. In remarks apparently aimed to serve as a warning to India on its increasingly close ties with the U.S., Mr. Sun added, "Once getting on someone else's ship, one is no longer able to have the steer in control.” “Twenty years ago, when the U.S. started the Afghan war, many countries boarded its chariot. Twenty years later, what benefits have these countries gained? We should uphold true strategic autonomy, not only in words, but more importantly, in deeds,” he said, adding that “both sides should remove disruptions to mutual trust, refrain from interference in each other's internal affairs or engagement in any ‘alliance’ or 'quasi alliance’ targeting the other, and avoid being alienated by third party.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/quad-will-find-no-support-says-china/article36661026.ece
25 September 2021||Beijing,||China’s central bank rules all crypto transactions are illegal||China’s central bank on Friday said all financial transactions involving cryptocurrencies are illegal, sounding the death knell for the digital trade in China after a crackdown on the volatile currencies. The global values of cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin have massively fluctuated over the past year partly due to Chinese regulations, which have sought to prevent speculation and money laundering. “Virtual currency-related business activities are illegal financial activities,” the People's Bank of China (PBOC) said in an online statement on Friday, adding that offenders would be “investigated for criminal liability in accordance with the law”. The notice bans all related financial activities involving cryptocurrencies, such as trading crypto, selling tokens, transactions involving virtual currency derivatives and “illegal fundraising”. Widespread fraud The People’s Bank of China said that in recent years, trading of Bitcoin and other virtual currencies had become “widespread, disrupting economic and financial order, giving rise to money laundering, illegal fund-raising, fraud, pyramid schemes and other illegal and criminal activities”. This was “seriously endangering the safety of people's assets,” the PBOC said. While crypto creation and trading have been illegal in China since 2019, further crackdowns this year by Beijing warned banks to halt related transactions and closed much of the country’s vast network of bitcoin miners. The crypto crackdown also opens the gates for China to introduce its own digital currency, already in the pipeline, allowing the central government to monitor transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-central-bank-rules-all-crypto-transactions-are-illegal/article36661021.ece
25 September 2021||Seoul,||North Korea offers talks in a bid to relax restrictions||The influential sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong-un said on Friday that her country is willing to resume talks with South Korea if conditions are met, indicating that it wants Seoul to persuade Washington to relax the crippling economic sanctions. Kim Yo Jong’s statement came days after North Korea performed its first missile tests in six months, which some experts said were intended to show it will keep boosting its weapons arsenal if the U.S.-led sanctions continue while nuclear diplomacy remains stalled. She offered the talks while mentioning South Korean President Moon Jae-in’s call, issued in a speech at the UN General Assembly, for a political declaration to end the 1950-53 Korean War as a way to bring peace to the peninsula. She said North Korea is willing to hold “constructive” talks with South Korea to discuss how to improve and repair strained ties if the South stops provoking the North with hostile policies, far-fetched assertions and double-dealing standards. South Korea’s Unification Ministry said it is carefully reviewing Ms. Kim’s statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-offers-talks-in-a-bid-to-relax-restrictions/article36661023.ece
25 September 2021||Washington,||U.S. House approves $1 bn to resupply Iron Dome||U.S. lawmakers green-lit $1 billion on Thursday to resupply Israel’s Iron Dome missile defense system after funding was controversially stripped from a separate Bill following a revolt from the Democrats’ left flank. The money had originally been included in legislation addressing a looming government shutdown and a potential October debt crisis. But a group of progressives in the Democrat-controlled House of Representatives said they would tank that unless Iron Dome funding was yanked from the wording. The cash transfer ultimately advanced from the House on a comfortable 420-9 vote. “Passage of this Bill reflects the great unity in Congress... for Israel’s security,” Nancy Pelosi, the leader of the House Democrats, said in a speech on the chamber floor. ‘Vital to U.S. security’ “Assistance to Israel is vital, because Israel’s security is an imperative for America's security,” Ms. Pelosi said. Iron Dome has destroyed thousands of short-range rockets and shells launched by Hamas militants. The system has been backed by the United States since it was launched a decade ago to the tune of $1.6 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-house-approves-1-bn-to-resupply-iron-dome/article36661024.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Google plea against 'information leak' attempt to frustrate proceedings, CCI tells HC||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) told the Delhi High Court on Friday that Google's plea against the alleged leak of confidential probe information was wholly misplaced and an attempt to frustrate the proceedings related to its Android smartphone agreements. The CCI stated that it stood by the legal obligation with respect to the maintenance of confidentiality and clarified that there was no lapse on its part.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/google-plea-against-information-leak-attempt-to-frustrate-proceedings-cci-tells-hc/article36661072.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A swanky makeover for weathered chawls||In 1933, friends and relatives gathered at chawl number 14 of the Bombay Development Department (BDD) at Delisle Road to celebrate Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s birthday. The event was organised by Comrade R.B. More, one of the important forces behind the Chavdar Tale Satyagraha, a protest against the practice of disallowing the so-called ‘untouchables’ from using water from a public tank. At the programme, balladeer M.K. Kamble sang a paean to honour Ambedkar, mentioning him as ‘Babasaheb’ for the first time. With this event, the Red Chawl, as it was known then, strode into the history books. Constructed between 1920 and 1925, BDD chawls, standing in the heart of Mumbai, have been witness to many such historical events. They have seen the rapid development of Bombay and then Mumbai as a prosperous island city. They have watched Bombay, found suitable by the British rulers for setting up textile mills, become the financial capital of independent India. The inhabitants of these chawls — poor and lower-middle class Marathi migrant labour and their families — have been spectators as well as participants in not only the city’s industrial growth, but also the freedom struggle, the Left-led labour movement, the Dalit Panther movement, and the Shiv Sena’s growth. But today, almost 100 years after they were built, the chawls are the last citadel of the Marathi population, which is shrinking in every corner of the city. Of the total 16,553 rooms in these chawls, 15,593 are on State government land and the rest are on the Bombay Port Trust land in Sewri. On August 1, the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government performed a ‘bhoomi pujan’ greenlighting what many in the government believe is going to be one of the biggest redevelopment projects in Asia, worth more than Rs. 16,000 crore. (This amount does not include the commercial market sale of the space that this project will create.) The project involves razing a number of chawls — old, weathered and historic structures — and rebuilding them. The new, imposing structures will house commercial and residential tenants, who will be given ownership of their new apartments. A total of 207 chawls are located at Sewri, Naigaon, N.M. Joshi Road (Delisle Road) and Worli in south Mumbai. The redevelopment project plans to demolish and rebuild 195 of these chawls. The families of the 15,593 rooms will get apartments of 500 sq ft each. While residents and stall owners have been promised in-situ rehabilitation within eight years, around 17 towers will be built for market sale and more than 20 lakh sq ft of commercial space will be made available in the heart of Mumbai. The Maharashtra government has appointed the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA) as the nodal and planning agency for this mammoth project which could transform the landscape of south and central Mumbai. Need for housing “In the later part of the 19th century, it was evident that as mills started running, labour was streaming into the city. The British government decided that it had to provide housing to these workers. It encouraged private landlords to build chawls. The government also began to contemplate building houses. So, Bombay City Improvement Trust (BIT) or BDD chawls was the State push to create housing,” says Pankaj Joshi, Principal Director, Urban Centre Mumbai, which works on urban planning, research, design, advocacy and community outreach. While the need for housing for single, male migrant labour is the widely accepted reason behind the housing push by the British rulers, documents suggest that the requirement especially arose after the 1896 epidemic. The bubonic plague, which broke out in Bombay, killed more than 29,000 people. In February 1898, the British Parliament discussed the plague. Records say that 30%-40% of the population was concentrated in barely 3%-4% of land. On February 14, 1898, Lord Sandhurst presented the City of Bombay Improvement Bill in the British Parliament. The aim of this Bill was to build new roads, repair old roads, restructure old buildings or rebuild them, and create more open space. Once it was passed, the BIT was formed on November 9, 1898. “From 1898 to 1920, the BIT demolished 24,428 buildings and built 21,387 new ones, which came to be known as BIT chawls,” notes Chalitale Tower , a book published by the MHADA on Bombay’s chawls. But the BIT was largely focused on building and widening roads, land reclamation, etc. As a result, it ran out of funds and the city continued to face problems of housing. Sir George Lloyd was appointed Bombay Governor in 1918. He sensed the need for housing and decided that the houses would be built by the government. He raised money through a developmental loan which was described as ‘By Bombay, For Bombay’. A town duty of Rs. 1 was levied on each bale of cotton entering the city. The BDD was formed in 1920 for the purpose of housing. It constructed 217 chawls at Worli, Naigaon, N.M. Joshi Road and Sewri. Chawls are ground-plus-three-storied structures spread over 92.70 acres. Each chawl has 80 rooms measuring 160 sq ft each. Typically, a building has 10 rooms on either side of the corridor and each room has a ‘nahani’ and a kitchen area with a loft above. Two toilet blocks — one for women and one for men — with three lavatories are provided at the end of the corridor along with a spiral staircase as a fire escape. The entrance to the building is at the end of the ground floor, while stairs run through the middle of the length of the building. “Historical records show that these chawls were constructed in black stone. It was difficult to drill a nail into the walls,” says Vaishali Gadpale, Chief Public Relations Officer, MHADA. Gadpale points out that over time, the quality of external infrastructure such as water supply pipes,and sewerage and storm water drainage deteriorated. Now, the Public Works Department (PWD) of Maharashtra maintains and safeguards the chawls. The residents of the chawls are tenants who pay a monthly rent of Rs. 70 to the PWD. The receipt carries the name of the leaseholder. “These chawls and their tiny rooms gave shelter to nearly three to four generations of migrant labour coming to Mumbai in search of a better life. All of them may not have succeeded in life, but these chawls offered them safety. We have planned the redevelopment to ensure that these families get their rightful homes in-situ. They will not have to go anywhere. We are committed to that,” promised Maharashtra’s Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad, who spent his childhood in a chawl in the Tardeo area of Mumbai. Plans for redevelopment It was not only the MVA government that conducted a ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the project on August 1; the previous Bharatiya Janata Party–led government, headed by Devendra Fadnavis, performed an identical ceremony five years ago. On December 27, 2016, the then Maharashtra government issued a modification to Regulation 33(9) of Development Control Regulations, which deals with the reconstruction or redevelopment of cessed buildings/urban renewal schemes on extensive areas in Mumbai city. It read, “For reconstruction or redevelopment of cluster(s) of buildings under Urban Renewal Scheme(s) in the island city of Mumbai undertaken by the Planning Authority, the FSI shall be 4.00 or the FSI required for rehabilitation of existing tenants / occupiers certified by competent authority appointed by the government for this purpose.” Prashant Dhatrak, Executive Engineer, City, MHADA, says: “We will be rehabilitating the residents of 15,593 rooms in Naigaon, N.M. Joshi Road, and Worli, of which 374 are non-residential. Each eligible family will be getting a flat of 500 sq ft, stall owners will get the existing size stalls, and slum-dwellers will get a 269 sq ft flat which we propose to increase to 300 sq ft.” Worli, which is the largest among the three land samples, has 121 chawls spread over 54.70 acres and 9,689 rooms. Of these rooms, 9,394 are residential, while the rest are non-residential. A consortium of Capacite Infraprojects, Tata Projects and CITIC Construction will execute this redevelopment project worth Rs. 11,744.26 crore. A total of 33 towers will accommodate the eligible beneficiaries with each structure being 40 storeys tall, including a a six-storey parking facility. On the commercial side, 3,224 rooms (flats available for comemrcial sale) with 807 sq ft of carpet area and 1,772 rooms with 1,076 sq ft of carpet area will be available for market sale in 10 towers of 66 storeys. In addition, 13,64,368 sq ft of commercial space will be available. Naigaon has 42 chawls with 3,344 rooms spread across 15.93 acres. Of these, 3,289 are residential and 55 are non-residential. Larsen & Toubro is the contractor for the project worth Rs. 2,937.76 crore. A total of 20 towers will accommodate the beneficiaries. Each will be 22 storeys tall with three floors of basement parking. The project will give 1,408 rooms with 860 sq ft of carpet area and 448 rooms with 1,076 sq ft of carpet area for market sale in four towers of 60 storeys. It will also have one commercial tower with 2,57,256 sq ft area. The N.M. Joshi road in Lower Parel has 32 chawls spread over an area of around 13.49 acres with 2,560 rooms. A consortium of Shapoorji Pallonji & Co and SD Corporation are the contractors for the redevelopment project, estimated at Rs. 2,438.99 crore. A total of 14 towers, each 22 storeys tall, will accommodate the residents. For market sale, the project will give 728 rooms of 807 sq ft of carpet area and 540 rooms with 1,022 sq ft of carpet area. A commercial tower with 2,86,707 sq ft of area will be available as well. “These chawls have been in existence for almost 100 years and residents have an emotional bond with their homes. They have open spaces, gardens, clinics, playgrounds, schools, community centres and religious centres which have been functioning for years,” says Dhatrak. The redevelopment plan promises to replicate all of this with additional open spaces. Aaditya Thackeray, the State’s Environment Minister, who represents the Worli Assembly constituency, and Awhad have also promised to accommodate the families of policemen in the redevelopment project, who have been staying there for years. The demand for this has been pending for many years. The MHADA has identified towers built on textile mill lands to make residential arrangements for the residents of BDD chawls once the demolition begins. It has identified approximately 3,200 rooms. In case more houses are required, the government agency will provide Rs. 22,000 as monthly rental to those families which will not be given a flat so that they can make arrangements themselves. The space and rooms available for commercial use will be sold at the market rate, MHADA officials say. Identifying the beneficiaries In Worli, the task is to identify eligible flat owners. Residents have demanded an agreement guaranteeing a flat before moving to transit camps. “A permanent residential agreement gives a clear picture about future houses, amenities to be offered, etc. This is offered during any slum redevelopment project in Mumbai or any other reconstruction project. This is a legal protection to tenants which we must get,” says Raju Waghmare, President, Akhil BDD Chawl Rahivashi Mahasangh, an umbrella body of residents of these chawls. He is also the State Congress spokesperson. Waghmare, who returned to India after studying in the U.S., has lived in Naigaon BDD chawl for years since his birth. His son is a fourth-generation resident of the chawl. He points out the “bizarre” condition put forward by the previous State government seeking documentary evidence of residence in the chawl from before 1996. “We pay rent to the PWD, which means they have all the receipts and papers from all these years. What is the logic of 1996,” he asks, pointing out that almost 30% of the current residents purchased flats in chawls post-1996. “They wouldn’t be able to produce papers from before 1996, making them ineligible for rehabilitation in the new towers,” he says. The present government has withdrawn that condition and has raised the eligibility deadline to January 1, 2021. This means that those who lived or have registration papers from before January 1 will be eligible for rehabilitation in the new towers. It has also proposed that the PWD check the authenticity of documents. Disputes within family members are now arising with the announcement of the redevelopment project. Brothers who had parted ways in search of better living or because of little space now have to decide who will own the new house. A police officer with the Worli police station says the number of disputes regarding tenancy rights on BDD chawl rooms has significantly increased. The MHADA, which cannot stall the redevelopment plan simply because there are family disputes, has now proposed that in case of disagreements between family members over ownership and failure to sort out such differences, the new flat will be registered in the name of the Director of the BDD. Once the family settles its differences, the flat will be transferred to the mutually agreed person’s name. As of now, the MHADA’s plan is to have a transit agreement with eligible residents to move them to alternate accommodations and then have a lottery whereby tenants get their final flat number in a designated tower. Based on that, the permanent agreement will be signed. The State Cabinet recently announced that it will charge only Rs. 1,000 as stamp duty from the qualified residents when they get their flats. One of the concerns of shifting families from lower-income groups to high-rise buildings is the inability to pay for maintenance once the construction is completed. The MHADA has announced that it will pay for upkeep for 10 years after construction is completed. A shot in the arm for real estate While residents worry about maintenance charges, the real estate industry is pleased. The project is likely to open up new avenues for development in the region. Anuj Puri, Chairman, ANAROCK Property Consultants, an independent real estate services company, says: “The acute shortage of land in the core parts of Mumbai has compelled the city to expand northwards into the adjoining districts of Navi Mumbai, Thane and Raigad and the peripheral suburban locations along the central and western rail network. Redevelopment of this scale in south Mumbai will free up land which will provide a fillip to the real estate sector in the city.” Ashok Mohanani, President, NAREDCO Maharashtra, says, “It is anticipated that property prices will drop with the completion of the BDD redevelopment project. Areas such as Worli, which are a luxury destination for investors and residents, have a price ranging from upwards of Rs. 50,000 per sq ft of carpet area. Post-BDD development, prices are likely to come down to Rs. 30,000-40,000 per sq ft of carpet area to accommodate the growth in the sector. This development can redefine the housing market of south-central Mumbai in the coming years.” Culture of chawls However, many fear that redevelopment will end the unique culture of chawls. Sachin Rohekar, a journalist who spent more than three decades in the BDD chawl at N.M. Joshi, recalls how 12 family members used to live in a single room. “Textile mills were growing, and workers were given accommodation here. The first wave of migrants was from the Konkan region. Those from the Ghats (western Maharashtra) came later without their families and they lived in chawls around the BDD. The dabbawala service was started for them,” he says. Rohekar remembers how ‘desi’ games like kabaddi and kho-kho used to be played with huge fanfare. “Boys from the BDD used to play in the national and State kabaddi teams,” he says. People from the chawls would also react to every social and political event, he adds. Anand Bhandare, a fourth-generation resident of BDD chawl in Worli, says these structures are few of the last remaining areas in Mumbai with a concentrated Marathi population. “We always tend to glorify social integration, but the reality is that even these structures have caste-wise chawls. Our part celebrates Ambedkar’s birth anniversary with fanfare, the others don’t. Redevelopment might change this,” he says. Bhandare says the State government isn’t doing anyone a favour by giving free flats to the residents. “Nobody demanded 40-storey towers for rehabilitation. Has anyone given a thought to how poor families will pay for maintenance? Why should we depend on the government by demanding a corpus fund? In addition, the open spaces may significantly reduce (after redevelopment),” he says. Culture survives only if the community endures, says Joshi. “Space does not create culture; it only promotes it. Ultimately it is the people who create culture. So, the focus should be on how people can remain here. We cannot say that the previous culture was better or that the present one is better. Only coexistence of different cultures and communities can make a city richer, not exclusion,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-swanky-makeover-for-weathered-chawls/article36661020.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||When global firms disengage, employment suffers||The most recent labour statistics, for August 2021, released by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) shows that the unemployment rate has increased from around 7% in July to 8.3% for August 2021. In absolute terms, employment shrunk from 399.7 million in July to 397.8 million, that is, 1.9 million jobs were lost in one month. Sectoral analysis shows that most of the jobs lost were farm jobs; while non-farm jobs did increase to absorb some of these, the quality of new jobs generated is a matter of concern. While employment in agriculture fell by 8.7 million, non-farm jobs increased by 6.8 million, mainly in business and small trade, but the manufacturing sector shed 0.94 million jobs. Thus, much of the labour shed by agriculture has been absorbed in low-end service activities. Employment sustainability During normal times, seasonal labour released from agriculture gets accommodated in the construction sector, even though the ideal situation would be their movement to the factory sector. But, currently, the construction sector itself is shedding jobs, forcing workers to find employment in the household sector and low-end services. This non-availability of sufficient jobs in manufacturing and higher end services could be the dampener for economic recovery in the subsequent quarters of the current fiscal year. Elementary economic theory suggests that raising the level of investments is the key to output and employment growth. While public investments are important, especially in the current context of sluggish aggregate demand, there is a dire need to complement public investments with even more private investments. The economy has been waiting for private investments to flow in for quite some time, but their levels have been very low, accentuating the unemployment situation. Resorting to Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) to augment domestic capital formation is an approach that India has been pursuing by making ‘ease of doing business’ more enticing. While inward FDI does generate jobs both directly and indirectly through an increase in production activities (which increases demand for labour), the magnitude of employment generated especially in the manufacturing sector, needs closer scrutiny. Further, the sustainability of increased employment is often threatened as it depends on the business avenues which other competing economies open up leading to corporate restructuring at the global level and firm exits from erstwhile locations. An exit and disruptions Tepid employment growth in the manufacturing sector is not a recent phenomenon in India. However, some sub-sectors within the manufacturing sector have generated both direct and indirect employment by attracting FDI and entering into global networks of production. A prominent segment, often projected as a driver of the manufacturing sector’s output and employment growth, is the auto sector. Estimates show that the automobile sector employs 19.1 million workers, directly and indirectly. Currently, more than 70% of the auto component companies are small and medium enterprises. It was expected that by 2022, the employment in this sector would reach 38 million with a higher generation of indirect employment. However, three factors have created roadblocks to the expansion of the sector. First, due to the novel coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown, aggregate demand in the economy is low, which is being reflected in vehicle sales. Second, the shortage of semiconductors continues to impact production even when customer sentiments are slowly turning positive. Third, the recent exit of Ford from the Indian market would release a large number of employees, who would be in search of jobs that are hard to find. The exit of Ford raises some important issues regarding the unbridled attraction of FDI. While FDI might help in creating a manufacturing ecosystem in certain locations, the uncertainties of global corporate restructuring and changes in the economic environment in the lead firm’s home economy are factors to reckon with. More frequent global production re-arrangements are becoming a part of the strategy of big firms in this phase of globalisation, as markets tend to be more volatile due to repeated demand fluctuations. Other examples We have had the experience of Nokia, which at its peak, in its Sriperumbudur factory (Tamil Nadu) was one of the world’s largest mobile phone plant, with 8,000 permanent employees working three shifts, producing more than 15 million phones a month and exporting products to over 80 countries. But in 2014, Nokia halted its production operations from this location, disrupting the livelihoods of thousands of workers. Recently, Citibank announced that it would shut India retail banking business as part of a global decision to exit 13 markets. The U.S.-based bank wants to focus on a ‘few wealthy regions’ around the world. Citibank’s exit from the retail segment is after more than three decades; the bank has 35 branches employing approximately 4,000 people in the consumer banking business. Closely following this, after 25 years of operations is auto manufacturer Ford deciding to exit India. This will affect about 4,000 direct employees as it stops making cars at its factories in Sanand, Gujarat, and Chennai, Tamil Nadu. Estimates show that another 35,000 indirect employees would also be lost at various levels, creating a massive disruption in the local economy. Impact on job generation The exits of high-profile global firms affect employment generation in two ways. First, it creates apprehensions among potential investors about choosing that location for greenfield investments or for scaling up existing facilities. Such circumstances generally lead to a ‘wait and watch’ approach, affecting private investments even if an economy claims to have the tag of investor friendliness. A downturn in private investments leads to slower employment growth. Second, the process of the ‘destruction’ of jobs through exits creates mismatches in the labour market. That is, there is a sudden release of high skilled workers which could block possible new entrants who have already invested in their skills; this leads to a levelling down of wages which occurs when high-end services firms exit. When large assembly firms exit there would be a big influx of low-skilled workers to other sectors as the same sector might not be able to absorb the workforce released. This churn in the labour market aggravates an existing unemployment problem. A waning of permanency The euphoria on the inflow of FDI and associated benefits needs to be tempered with the reality of the emergence of modern transnational corporations (TNC) with ‘agility, rapidity and mobility’. When these TNCs emerge as key players in an industry, a proliferation of mergers and consolidations across national and international borders might be frequent. These are efforts to open up new opportunities in new markets. Such waves of expansions and contractions are aimed at acquiring new markets and new trade opportunities. This process of an internationalisation of production is driven by the big firms by investing in and out of developing economies. Growing scepticism towards more open trade policies and the rise of protectionism have increased the risk and unpredictability of policy environments, leading to deeper reflection on both existing and new investments by global firms. Thus, the ‘next to near’ permanency of large foreign firms operating for decades is slowly waning. It is here that domestic capital formation and private investments should step in. We are still waiting for it to happen. M. Suresh Babu is Professor of economics at IIT Madras. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/when-global-firms-disengage-employment-suffers/article36661014.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||India is not a bystander in the AUKUS saga||The announcement last week of AUKUS — a new security pact between the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia — is making waves around the world. The announcement is significant not only because it involves the transfer of nuclear submarine technology to Australia but also since it implies the cancellation of an ongoing U.S.$90 billion project by France to manufacture conventional submarines for Australia. Understandably, France is indignant. Paris has recalled its Ambassador to Australia, accusing Canberra of “backstabbing” and betrayal. When Australian and French Ministers met less than a month ago, French officials said there had been no talk of cancelling the deal. The two sides had even issued a joint statement indicating the continuation of the submarine programme. But Australia, it seems, had been secretly negotiating a deal with the U.K. and the U.S. Beyond Canberra’s unceremonious termination of the submarine contract, France is angry because it was kept in the dark about the discussions surrounding the new pact. For observers in India, the AUKUS saga evokes mixed feelings. Many are happy for Australia — a partner in the Quad (of India, the U.S., Japan and Australia) — to receive top quality nuclear submarine technology from the U.S. and the U.K., strengthening China deterrence in the Indo-Pacific. But there is no mistaking a sense of commiseration with France, India’s foremost partner in the Indian Ocean. “Why couldn’t France have been taken into confidence,” many ask. “It would have prevented an unseemly spat between friends, all big players in the Indo-Pacific region.” Some Quad-sceptics see this as a sign of what the future might hold for India. If Australia and the U.S. could deceive France, a North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) partner, they ask, what is to prevent them from doing the same with lesser allies? New Delhi is uncomfortable There is another reason why Indian officials are seeing this differently. There is apprehension that the deal could eventually lead to a crowding of nuclear attack submarines (SSNs/submersible ship nuclear) in the Eastern Indian Ocean, eroding India’s regional pre-eminence. The Indian Navy presently dominates the space, but its conventional underwater capability has been shrinking. An Indian plan to develop a fleet of nuclear attack submarines has elicited no offer of help from the U.S. that does not share its prized nuclear submarine technology with even its closest allies; all except Australia, evidently. Washington’s willingness to help Canberra build SSNs raises the possibility that Australia could deploy nuclear submarines in the Eastern Indian Ocean well before India positions its own. This is not merely hypothetical. The Indian Navy, the principal security provider in the Eastern Indian Ocean, is not building submarines at a pace commensurate with needs. Notwithstanding shared concerns over China’s growing submarine presence in the region, however, Indian officials are not comfortable with the prospect of friendly SSNs in India’s backyard. AUKUS versus the Quad It does not help that AUKUS has taken the focus away from the Quad. Regardless of how the Joe Biden administration frames the argument, there is no denying a sense of wariness in New Delhi. There is for one thing more than a subtle hint of U.S. favouritism for Australia in the new deal. The agreement suggests preferential treatment on the part of Washington for a close Anglo-alliance partner. A senior American official who briefed the media about the AUKUS deal last week underscored the “very rare” nature of the arrangement and the “extremely sensitive” technology that will be shared with Australia. “This is an exception to our policy in many respects,” he observed. “I do not anticipate that this will be undertaken in any other circumstances going forward; we view this as a one-off.” That leads some in Delhi to wonder why the U.S. should make an allowance for one Quad partner and not another. The technology pursuit While it has rarely received any submarine technology from the U.S., New Delhi has been accepting of American discretion on the matter. India has instead relied on Russia for nuclear submarine technology, including in the construction of the reactor of India’s first SSBN/submersible ship ballistic missile nuclear (Arihant) and in the acquisition (on lease) of a nuclear attack submarine. The Indian Navy’s indigenous SSN programme, however, requires a nuclear reactor more powerful than the one installed in the Arihant (a non war-fighting platform). Following the deepening of Quad ties, some in India were hopeful that the U.S. would consider providing the Indian Navy with nuclear submarine propulsion technology. The clarification by Washington that the deal with Australia is a “one-off” puts paid to Indian expectations. There is now speculation that Delhi might consider seeking French help with nuclear submarines. There is a view that New Delhi must seize the opportunity to push France to transfer its nuclear propulsion technology. Despite the less than satisfactory experience with the Project 75 ‘Scorpene’ class submarine programme, India, some say, should accept French assistance with building an SSN reactor. For the moment, however, India is being careful in its official response to AUKUS. The bottom line for New Delhi is that it cannot be seen to be taking sides in a feud among friends. France, the U.S., the U.K. and Australia are some of India’s closest partners, and Indian officials would like to be spared the awkwardness of having to support one ally over the other. Despite worries over the prospect that Australia’s nuclear submarine capability could overtake India’s own in coming years, Indian officials recognise Canberra’s need to reappraise its strategic environment and reinforce deterrence against China. Likewise, many in New Delhi feel France’s anguish. The deal Australia just cancelled was a critical part of France’s struggle to maintain an indigenous naval industry, and a key component of its Indo-Pacific vision. India, by some accounts, would like to deepen bilateral strategic ties, and play a part in restoring French confidence and pride. Abhijit Singh is a Senior Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation and a retired naval officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-is-not-a-bystander-in-the-aukus-saga/article36661016.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Complex count||The idea of a national caste census might be abhorrent when the stated policy is to strive for a casteless society, but it will be useful to establish statistical justification for preserving caste-based affirmative action programmes. It may also be a legal imperative, considering that courts want ‘quantifiable data’ to support the existing levels of reservation. Political parties with their base in particular social groups may find a caste enumeration useful, if their favoured groups are established as dominant in specific geographies; or they may find the outcome inconvenient, if the precise count turns out to be lower and has a negative bearing on perceptions about their electoral importance. In this backdrop, the Union government’s assertion in the Supreme Court that a census of the backward castes is “administratively difficult and cumbersome” may evoke varying responses. There are two components to the Government’s stand. First, it asserts that it is a policy decision not to have caste as part of the regular census and that, administratively, the enumeration would be rendered so complex that it may jeopardise the decennial census itself. Second, it cites the difficulties and complexities inherent in getting an accurate count of castes, given the mind-boggling numbers of castes and sub-castes, with phonetic variations and similarities, that people returned as their caste in the Socio-Economic Caste Census (SECC) conducted in 2011. The Government has said data from the 2011 SECC were not acted upon because of “several infirmities” that rendered them unusable. Even in the Censuses up to 1931, when caste details were collected, they were wanting in completeness and accuracy. Further, the data contained 46 lakh different caste names, and if subcastes were considered, the ultimate number may be exponentially high. These points do merit consideration, and even those clamouring for a caste census cannot easily brush them aside. However, these need not mean that an enumeration of the social groups in the country is impossible. A caste census need not necessarily mean caste in the census. It may be an independent exercise, but one that needs adequate thought and preparation, if its ultimate goal is not for political or electoral purposes, but for equity in distribution of opportunities. A preliminary socio-anthropological study can be done at the State and district levels to establish all sects and sub-castes present in the population. These can be tabulated under caste names that have wider recognition based on synonymity and equivalence among the appellations that people use to denote themselves. Thereafter, it may be possible to do a field enumeration that can mark any group under castes found in the available OBC/BC lists. A caste census may not sit well with the goal of a casteless society, but it may serve, in the interim, as a useful, even if not entirely flawless, means of addressing inequities in society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/complex-count/article36661008.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||A flicker of hope||India’s count of active COVID-19 cases has hit a six-month low with the number dropping to 3,00,162, according to a Friday bulletin from the Health Ministry. Helped by the nearly 56 crore tests done so far, positivity rates — or the percentage of those tested who turn out positive — have also been showing encouraging trends. The weekly positivity rate has been less than 3% for the last 91 days and the daily positivity rate has been around 2% for the last 25 days. But this is no time to be complacent. Last September, active cases in India appeared to have peaked at a little over 10 lakh after which there was a steady decline. Around December 20 it had gently descended to a little around 3,00,000 or the levels seen today. Around the same time, the first reports of the clinical trial successes of the Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca vaccine brought cheer. Even India’s home-grown vaccines seemed to be around the corner, and all of these triggered an optimism that India may have passed the worst. The lack of alacrity in hunting for new mutations, underlying dangerous new variants, meant that the insidious emergence of the Delta variant, which caused the catastrophic peak in April-May, was only understood in hindsight. The nature of the virus, its propensity to evade antibodies and the inevitable socialisation that normal life entails means that there is no absolute nadir in a country's pandemic trajectory at which it can be sure that a fresh threatening wave will not rise again. The 3,00,000 active cases last December, saw around 300 deaths being reported every day. Even today, those numbers are fairly similar. While the spread of infection can be controlled in limited ways, the availability of vaccines and the fact that many large countries now are getting closer to having half their population inoculated with at least one dose means that the biggest threat associated with the pandemic — severe disease and death — is much more tractable than last year. Because crores of Indians have been vaccinated, and Government officials have optimistic projections that most adults will be vaccinated with at least a single dose by the year end, there is again an air of optimism. This time, however, the Government messaging is more cautious with warnings that the second wave was yet to abate, and recommendations of continued behavioural caution. This is also accompanied by projections that say, at its worst, a possible third wave cannot be as catastrophic as the second wave peak, even accounting for significantly more infectious and lethal variants suddenly emerging. Thus, to expand vaccination and track new variants are the only real ways forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-flicker-of-hope/article36661009.ece
25 September 2021||Chandigarh,||Economy on sustained revival path: FM||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the Indian economy was on a sustained path of revival and cited rise in GST collections and direct taxes to support her assertion. She further said that the confidence in the Indian stock market was growing as retail and small investors were keenly investing money in the market. “I can see very clearly signs of revival and good signs of revival,” Ms. Sitharaman told mediapersons. “Otherwise my revenue collection would not be where it is, both the GST and direct taxation,” she said while replying to a question on whether the economy had come back on track . She said the half-yearly target had already been achieved in direct taxes. “And GST’s collections on an average per month is somewhere in the range of Rs. 1.11 lakh crore and Rs. 1.12 lakh crore. Probably it can safely be said it will be somewhere in the range of Rs. 1.15 lakh crore per month,” the Finance Minister disclosed. ‘Not sporadic’ “These are not small indicators, these are not some sporadic indicators. They clearly show that the economy is on a sustained path of revival,” she said. The Finance Minister said there was transparency in the listing process of companies and related regulations. She said “today retail and small investors are taking keen interest in the stock market and investing in it. Earlier, retail investors were participating through mutual funds”. “Now they are going through mutual funds and also go directly and participate through demat accounts... and all of it is happening in a transparent manner,” Ms. Sitharaman added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/economy-on-sustained-revival-path-fm/article36660994.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Consumer-durable firms eye festive season for sales boost||Consumer durable firms are expecting sales to recover from the pandemic lows with markets fully open and positive sentiment. While the sector is looking at 20% growth, hurdles such as a potential third wave, short supply and price hike may play spoilsport. “Consumer sentiment seems positive, post the second wave,” Kamal Nandi, president, Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association (CEAMA) told The Hindu . “There is pent-up demand which will boost sales during the season.” Consumers are encouraged by the rise in the pace of vaccination, he added. Rohit Mathur, president, electric fans, water heaters and pumps, Usha International, said, “ We are optimistic there will be the typical festive upsurge in demand across categories. The onset of wedding season will also help sales.” Deepak Bansal, VP, corporate planning, LG Electronics India, said, “As far as the demand is concerned, we are optimistic.” He, however, cautioned that as raw material cost continued to increase, there is a possibility of a further rise in prices. “Additionally, the rural economy is doing really well in these last few months and this has made the demand and therefore spends more evenly distributed,” Mr. Mathur added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/consumer-durable-firms-eye-festive-season-for-sales-boost/article36660989.ece
25 September 2021||new delhi,||Anti-dumping duty likely on pharma API from China||The Commerce Ministry has recommended the imposition of anti-dumping duty on a pharma raw material — Ceftriaxone Sodium Sterile — from China to guard local players from cheap imports. Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) has recommended the duty after concluding in its probe that the API (active pharma ingredient) from China has been exported at dumped prices into India, impacting the domestic industry. “The authority recommends the imposition of the anti-dumping duty on the imports of subject goods,” the Directorate has said in a notification. Ceftriaxone Sodium Sterile is an API used in formulation for treating diseases such as lower respiratory tract infection, skin and surgical prophylaxis. DGTR had conducted the probe following a complaint from Nectar Life Sciences and Sterile India about the dumping of the chemical. The recommended duty is $ 12.91 per kg. The Finance Ministry takes the final decision to impose duty. In a separate notification, DGTR said it has started a sunset review probe to review the need for continued imposition of anti-dumping duties on aluminium foil from China. The imposition of anti-dumping duty is permissible under the World Trade Organization regime. It is aimed at ensuring fair trading practices and creating a level-playing field for local producers vis-a-vis foreign producers and exporters.  The Finance Ministry will take the final decision on imposing the duty||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/anti-dumping-duty-likely-on-pharma-api-from-china/article36660991.ece
25 September 2021||MUMBAI,||Sensex scales 60,000 as stocks continue to rally||The S&P BSE Sensex on Friday scaled the 60,000 mark to close at 60,048.47, gaining 163.11 points, or 0.27%, led by bank and IT stocks. The index has risen about 10,000 points in a few days short of eight months, since closing above 50,000 on February 3. The market had been performing well over the last few quarters owing to ‘huge liquidity, upward earnings cycle, economic revival owing to fading COVID-19 effect’, said Piyush Garg, CIO, ICICI Securities. “However, market participants should be wary of rising inflation and resulting removal of liquidity from the system. During 2021, some central banks, namely Russia, Korea, Ukraine have raised rates,” he said. “Rising inflation risk and hence withdrawal of ultra-easy monetary policy by global central banks (mainly the U.S. Federal Reserve) may trigger a sharp rise in bond yields which can cause risk assets to correct sharply,” Mr. Garg cautioned. “One can remain invested with a vigilant eye on the move in yields world over which can result in sharp 10-15% correction from the current levels,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-scales-60000-as-stocks-continue-to-rally/article36660987.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||CCI fines UBL, Carlsberg for cartelisation in beer||Competition Commission on Friday imposed penalties totalling more than Rs. 873 crore on United Breweries Ltd. (UBL), Carlsberg India, All India Brewers’ Association (AIBA) and 11 individuals for cartelisation in the sale and supply of beer. In its 231-page order, that comes almost four years after ordering a detailed probe, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) has also directed the companies, association and individuals to ‘cease and desist’ from anti-competitive practices in the future.  The regulator did not impose any fine on Ab InBev, while lesser penalties have been slapped on others.  The fines on UBL and Carlsberg India are almost Rs. 752 crore and Rs. 121 crore, respectively. A fine of more than Rs. 6.25 lakh has been imposed on AIBA and various individuals have also been fined by the regulator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cci-fines-ubl-carlsberg-for-cartelisation-in-beer/article36660998.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||DoT seeks TRAI views ahead of 5G auction||The Telecom Department has approached TRAI seeking its recommendations on pricing, quantum and other modalities pertaining to radio waves in multiple bands as it prepares the groundwork for holding 5G spectrum auction in the coming months. The last round of spectrum auction, held in March, had raked in winning bids of more than Rs. 77,800 crore for 855.6 MHz. When contacted, TRAI Secretary V. Raghunandan confirmed TRAI had received a reference from Department of Telecom (DoT) on 5G spectrum but declined to divulge details. The regulator is currently examining the reference made by DoT, he said. The reference is with regard to multiple bands and Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) will seek further information, if needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dot-seeks-trai-views-ahead-of-5g-auction/article36661000.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gross direct tax receipts 17% higher than 2019-20||Net direct tax receipts for the current fiscal had crossed Rs. 5.7 lakh crore by September 22, rising 74% from a year earlier, and 27% over the pre-COVID levels of 2019-20, the finance ministry said on Friday. Gross receipts grew 17% over the same period of 2019-20.  ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar said the 17% rise in gross tax collections, was an “enthusing signal of the waning impact” of the pandemic and expected the upturn to sustain in the second half as well, albeit at a slower pace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gross-direct-tax-receipts-17-higher-than-2019-20/article36660982.ece
25 September 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI issues new norms on bad loan transfers||The RBI has effected major changes to the norms governing the transfer of bad loans and standard assets by lenders. On Friday, the central bank issued Master Circulars on ‘Transfer of Loan Exposure’ and ‘Securitisation of Standard Assets’ to bring in transparency in the process and improve liquidity besides corporate governance. It has made it mandatory for lenders to put in place a comprehensive board-approved policy for transfer and acquisition of loan exposures under these guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-issues-new-norms-on-bad-loan-transfers/article36660985.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||FinMin notifies RoDTEP duty credit process||The finance ministry has notified the procedure to issue duty credit for goods exported under the tax refund scheme Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP). The rates for 8,555 products were announced under the RoDTEP scheme in August this year. The value of goods for calculation of duty credit to be allowed under the scheme will be the declared export freight on board value or up to 1.5 times the market price of that item, whichever is less, a notification of the revenue department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/finmin-notifies-rodtep-duty-credit-process/article36660992.ece
25 September 2021||new delhi,||Ford India MD to step down by month-end||Weeks after declaring stoppage of vehicle production in India, U.S. auto major Ford on Friday announced a leadership change in its operations in the country with Anurag Mehrotra, currently president and managing director of Ford India, set to leave the company by the end of the month. Post announcement of transformation of its business in India, Balasundaram Radhakrishnan, director, manufacturing, has been appointed to the role of transformation officer of the company, a spokesperson of Ford India said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ford-india-md-to-step-down-by-month-end/article36660995.ece
25 September 2021||Mumbai,||Govt. borrows 58%, despite tax mop-up||Despite collecting a whopping 74% more direct taxes so far this fiscal on an annualised basis at Rs. 5.7 lakh crore, the Centre has borrowed a massive 58% of the budgeted amount during the same period by selling Rs. 7.02 lakh crore worth debt securities in the market. At the weekly auction of G-secs on Friday, the Centre mopped up Rs. 31,000 crore in long-term and short-term debt at an average price of 6.15%. Total market borrowings so far this fiscal are Rs. 7.02 lakh crore, which is 8% less than it had mopped up this time last fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-borrows-58-despite-tax-mop-up/article36660996.ece
25 September 2021||Hyderabad,||Shilpa Medicare arm to make ZyCoV-D drug substance||Cadila Healthcare has signed an agreement with a Shilpa Medicare arm for the production and supply of ZyCoV-D vaccine drug substance from the latter’s integrated biologics R&D-cum-manufacturing centre in Karnataka. Cadila will be responsible for filling, packaging, distribution and marketing of the vaccine, the company said in a filing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/shilpa-medicare-arm-to-make-zycov-d-drug-substance/article36660981.ece
25 September 2021||New Delhi,||Hero Electric joins hands with Massive Mobility to set up 10,000 EV charging stations||Hero Electric said it has joined hands with EV start-up Massive Mobility to set up 10,000 charging stations in India in one year. Through this, Hero looks to ramp up the charging infrastructure to help drive adoption of electric mobility.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hero-electric-joins-hands-with-massive-mobility-to-set-up-10000-ev-charging-stations/article36660984.ece
25 September 2021||Chennai,||Bedi, a throwback to a utopian past, turns 75||In the slow-art of spin, Bishan Singh Bedi remains a high-priest. Arguably the finest left-arm spinner to grace cricket, Bedi, with B.S. Chandrasekhar, E.A.S. Prasanna and S. Venkatraghavan, constituted a magical quartet of diverse strengths. It is a reflection of Bedi’s larger-than-life stature that though he was one among the four greats, he was seen as a leader of that unit and, at times, deemed the oldest too. In reality it is only on Saturday (Sept. 25) that he will join the ‘75 Club’ in which his former team-mates are already members with Prasanna being the senior-most at 81! Donned many hats Bedi donned many hats, as a player, a captain under whom Kapil Dev made his Test debut, or later as a coach. But Bedi wasn’t just about cricket. He had a world-view and his friendships cut across nationalities as evident in his enduring bond with former Pakistan captain Mushtaq Mohammed. As a mentor, Bedi was both tough and fatherly in his affections, a facet that wards like Sunil Joshi, Murali Kartik and England’s Monty Panesar would vouch for. The rules of the game were sacred and if they were breached as when England bowler John Lever was perceived guilty of using Vaseline on the ball in 1977, Bedi spoke his mind. Decades later during the 2008 Sydney Test’s ‘Monkeygate’ controversy, he texted Indian skipper Anil Kumble: “As a captain, take a decision you will be proud of when you look back in history.” His deliveries may have seemed like polite enquiries but they were actually euphemisms that masked the fatal conclusion which awaited the willow-wielder. In life, Bedi, of the ‘how-are-you-son?’ query, could equally reveal a sharp tongue. He praised generously, criticised without concealing the hard edge, laughed with abandon and his humour was tongue-in-cheek. Once at Bengaluru’s Chinnaswamy Stadium, Bedi asked Prasanna, “How was Calcutta?”. Prasanna had briefly relocated to the Bengal capital and while he answered, Bedi cut in: “So dadagiri ?” There was instinctive laughter at the obvious reference to Kolkata’s Dada — Sourav Ganguly. Quest for perfection Bedi saw in sport both art and a quest for perfection. This obsession made him question Muttiah Muralitharan’s bowling action when he said: “He looks like a good javelin thrower.” Perceived as anti-establishment, Bedi ruffled feathers when he requested the Delhi District Cricket Association (DDCA) to remove his name from a stand in the Feroz Shah Kotla Ground after its nomenclature evolved into Arun Jaitley Stadium and the late political leader’s statue too was installed. In a universe that has blurred lines between sport, commerce, politics and showbiz, Bedi remains a throwback to a utopian past. And as he clocks 75 while recovering from a health-crisis, here is wishing him many more summers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bedi-a-throwback-to-a-utopian-past-turns-75/article36661397.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Bravo, openers deliver as Super Kings regain top spot||A brilliant bowling performance led by Dwayne Bravo (3/24) helped Chennai Super Kings restrict Royal Challengers Bangalore to just 156/6 and set up a comfortable six-wicket win here at Sharjah on Friday. With this win, CSK once again moved to the top of the table with seven wins from nine matches. Asked to bat first, RCB started strongly in the first ten overs making 90/0 before fizzling out. A sandstorm delayed the start of the match by 15 minutes before Virat Kohli (53) and Devdutt Padikkal (70) put on 111-run stand for the opening wicket. Good start In reply, CSK openers Ruturaj Gaikwad (38) and Faf du Plessis (31) started well with a quick 71-run stand. RCB had a small chance when the spinners removed the openers in successive overs, but Ambati Rayudu (32) and Moeen Ali’s (23) valuable contributions ensured CSK stayed on course. Earlier, on a day when there was no swing, Deepak Chahar came under pressure as Kohli and Padikkal went after the pacer, picking five boundaries in his first two overs. Kohli was exquisite with his shotmaking as he used his powerful wrists to flick deliveries that were on the stumps through midwicket and wide off long-on. Shot of the day The shot of the day came in the fifth over when Kohli whipped Shardul Thakur over the long-on fence. At the other end, Padikkal played some elegant strokes, hitting Josh Hazelwood and Ravindra Jadeja down the ground effortlessly. However, after the PowerPlay, the openers did not take the attack to the CSK bowlers and let the Men in Yellow get in some quiet overs through Jadeja. Bravo gave the breakthrough removing Kohli as he applied the squeeze with his slower ones and well-executed wide yorkers. RCB lost momentum as Bravo, Chahar and Thakur chipped in with crucial wickets to bring CSK back into the game. The Bengaluru side managed only 66/6 in the last ten overs with just six runs coming off the last two and, in the end, did not have enough on the board to give a tougher fight.   CSK wins by six wickets  CSK reached the target of 157 in 18.1 overs, losing four wickets. Raina (17) and Dhoni (11) were unbeaten Ruturaj (38) and du Plessis (31) added 71 for the opening wicket Moeen (23) and Rayudu (32) sustained the momentum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-innings-fizzles-out-after-kohli-padikkal-flourish/article36661105.ece
25 September 2021||Jalandhar:,||Double delight for Farhat Aleen Qamar||Farhat Aleen Qamar fought her way past Anjali Rathi 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 to clinch the title in the Rs. One lakh AITA women’s ranking tennis tournament at the Joygaon Academy on Friday. It was a double crown for Farhat Aleen as she combined with Kashish Bhatia to clinch the doubles title.  The results (finals): Farhat Aleen Qamar bt Anjali Rathi 4-6, 6-4, 6-3. Doubles: Kashish Bhatia & Farhat bt Anjali Rathi & Renee Singh 6-2 (retd.).   Bhushan’s day out Bhushan Akut beat Nishit andey 7-5, 6-3 to win the over-55 title in the ITF seniors’ tennis tournament at the Singha Sports Academy on Friday. It was a double crown for Bhushan as he won the doubles with Nishit Pandey, beating Ajeet Bhardwaj and Sanjiv Mehra 6-0, 2-6, 10-4.  The results: Over-35 (final): Narendra Singh Choudhary bt Sachin Patil 6-4, 6-0. Semifinals: Narendra Choudhary bt Rewant Datta 7-5, 5-7, 6-1; Sachin Patil bt Arjun Uppal 2-6, 7-6(3), 6-1.   Doubles (final): Vipin Sirpaul & Arjun Uppal bt Narendra Choudhary & Avinash Kunwar 6-2, 1-6, [10-3].   Over-45 (final): Himanshu Bhatia bt Dinesh Laungani 6-1, 6-1. Semifinals: Dinesh Laungani bt Vijay Kumar 6-1, 6-1; Himanshu Bhatia bt Akhil Mathur 6-1, 6-0.   Doubles (final): Akhil Mathur & Sheetal Sharma bt Himanshu Bhatia & Dinesh Laungani 0-6, 6-4, [12-10].   Over-55 (final): Bhushan Akut bt Nishit Pandey 7-5, 6-3. Semifinals: Nishit Pandey bt Ashish Sen 6-3, 6-3; Bhushan Akut bt Rakesh Kohli 6-3, 6-1.   Doubles (final): Bhushan Akut & Nishit Pandey bt Ajeet Bhardwaj & Sanjiv Mehra 6-0, 2-6, [10-4].   Over-65 (final): Murthati Suresh bt Vinay Gujrathi 6-4, 6-4 .  Ranjeet-Chinmay final Top seed and former National champion V.M. Ranjeet cruised into the final with a 6-2, 6-1 victory over Raghav Jaisinghani in the Rs. One lakh AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament at the Tennis Project in Baliawas on Friday. In the final, Ranjeet will play Chinmay Dev Chauhan, who was equally efficient in his 6-2, 6-3 win over Neeraj Yashpaul.  The results: Semifinals: V.M. Ranjeet bt Raghav Jaisinghani 6-2, 6-1; Chinmay Dev Chauhan bt Neeraj Yashpaul 6-2, 6-3.   Doubles (final): Parikshit Somani & Jagmeet Singh bt Amit Bzad & Mohit Bhardwaj 7-6(11), 7-5 .  Niyati enters final Niyati Kukreti beat Sonal Patil 7-5, 7-5 to make the girls’ final of the AITA National series junior tennis tournament at the Accelerate Tennis Academy on the Gurugram Pataudi Road on Friday. In the final, Niyati will play the eighth seed Lakshmi Gowda. The boys’ final will be between the top two seeds Aditya Nandal and Parv Nage.  The results: Boys: Semifinals: Aditya Nandal bt Pragathesh Shivashankar 6-2, 6-3; Parv Nage bt Abhay Chhabra 6-4, 7-5. Quarterfinals: Aditya bt Jaishnav Bajirao Shinde 6-0 6-1; Pragathesh bt Bhavya Singhmar 6-3, 7-5; Abhay bt Vansh Nandal 6-1, 6-1; Parv bt Sarthak Sharma 6-0, 6-4.   Girls: Semifinals: Niyati Kukreti bt Sonal Patil 7-5, 7-5; Lakshmi Gowda bt Radhika Mahajan 6-1, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-delight-for-farhat-aleen-qamar/article36661526.ece
25 September 2021||Yankton (USA),||Ankita upsets Chae-young||Three Indian archers — Ankita Bhakat, Abhishek Verma and V. Jyothi Surekha — made it to the individual quarterfinals and stayed in the hunt for a medal at the World archery championships here on Thursday. Ankita, ranked 20th, was the lone recurve archer from the country to keep alive her hopes. She got a first-round bye before beating Jindriska Vaneckova of the Czech Republic 7-3, Alexandra Mirca of Moldova 7-1 and fourth-ranked Korean Kang Chae-young — who had eliminated World junior champion Komalika Bari in the previous round — 6-4 to reach the last eight in the women’s individual competition. Ankita will meet fifth-seeded American Casey Kaufhold in the quarterfinals. Komalika exited the competition in the third round, while Ridhi lost in the second. Among men, Parth Salunkhe and Atul Verma’s journey ended in the first and second rounds respectively. Aditya Choudhary lost to Miguel Garcia of Spain 6-0 in the fourth round. In men’s compound, seventh-ranked Abhishek, who received two byes, put up a flawless performance to beat Turkey’s Furkan Oruc 150-149. Abhishek, who was elected to the World Archery athletes’ committee a day earlier, then defeated Jozef Bosansky of Slovakia 145-142 to set up a quarterfinal date with Mike Schloesser of the Netherlands. Rishabh Yadav and Sangampreet Singh Bisla lost in the second round. Even as Muskan Kirar and Priya Gurjar’s campaigns ended in the third round, sixth-ranked Jyothi Surekha stayed in search of her third medal in women’s compound. She got two byes before getting past Inge van der Ven of the Netherlands 147-144 and So Chae-won of Korea 146-142. She will face Amanda Mlinaric of Croatia in the quarterfinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-bhakat-upsets-chae-young/article36661005.ece
25 September 2021||Mackay,||India loses last-ball thriller, Mooney helps Australia seal series||India and its premier bowler Jhulan Goswami failed to keep their nerves in a dramatic final over as Beth Mooney’s brilliant unbeaten hundred ensured a five-wicket win for Australia in the second women’s ODI here on Friday. Australia took an unbeatable 2-0 lead in the three-match ODI series. The contest was in India’s favour till the 25th over of the Australian innings, but Mooney, with an unbeaten 125, swung the hosts’ way in what was the third highest chase of all-time in women’s cricket by overhauling the target of 275. The Indians celebrated when Jhulan’s waist high full-toss was hit straight to the midwicket fielder by Carey, but to their horror, it was called a no-ball. With two needed off the last ball, Carey and Mooney scampered home, sparking celebrations in the Australian camp. Earlier, Smriti Mandhana hit a fluent 86 to guide India to a competitive 274/7. Smriti hit 11 boundaries to register her 19th half-century after the visitors were sent in to bat. She shared two crucial partnerships — 74 with opening partner Shafali Verma (22) and 76 with Richa Ghosh (44). India were off to a flying start with the openers Smriti and Shafali racing to 68 in the first 10 overs, their best in the 10 ODIs they have played this year. However, it was Mooney and Carey who won the day for Australia.   Third and final ODI: Sept. 26 , 5.35 a.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-loses-last-ball-thriller-mooney-helps-australia-seal-series/article36661101.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Kings look for a turnaround||Sunrisers Hyderabad, on the brink of elimination, will take on Punjab Kings in Sharjah on Saturday. Sunrisers have just one win in eight matches, and Kings three wins in nine. They occupy the bottom rung of the table, indicative of the problems the two have endured, particularly with the bat. While the Punjab side has been guilty of not closing out matches from commanding positions, Hyderabad has been pining for an uptick in batting form. The Sunrisers batting disintegrated against Delhi Capitals on Wednesday. David Warner's horror time in the IPL continued as he was dismissed for a three-ball duck, and the absence of Jonny Bairstow has increased the pressure on the likes of Kane Williamson. Sherfane Rutherford, Bairstow's replacement, has left the IPL bubble to return home after the death of his father. His exit is a big blow. Sunrisers may consider sending Manish Pandey to open. Since IPL 2019, Pandey has been striking at nearly 149 in PowerPlay. Umran for Natarajan The bowling has been a problem for Sunrisers. Their pace looks ill-equipped for UAE conditions and spin is inadequate with the exception of Rashid Khan. They have signed medium-pacer Umran Malik as a short-term COVID-19 replacement for T. Natarajan. Meanwhile, in the last match against Rajasthan Royals, Kings needed only four off the final over with eight wickets in hand, but fell short. The Punjab side has relied on K.L. Rahul and Mayank Agarwal for brisk starts. It has got depth in its batting, but must steer clear of a panic-stricken approach. Punjab left-arm pacer Arshdeep Singh will be one to watch out for after a five-wicket haul against Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kings-look-for-a-turnaround/article36661357.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||DC looks to seal playoff spot||A win away from the playoffs, Delhi Capitals will look to achieve its primary objective at the expense of Rajasthan Royals in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. Fresh from snatching a dramatic last-over victory from Punjab Kings, even RR has reasons to be hopeful of repeating the dose it handed out to DC in Mumbai in the first phase of the competition. A win will get RR back into the top-four bracket. DC, the clear favourite, has only complacency to guard against. With an Indian top-order and a pair of South African speedsters ready to fire, DC looks good to start well — whether batting or bowling. The team can afford to give all-rounder Marcus Stoinis a much-needed rest after he left the field against Sunrisers Hyderabad with a suspected hamstring injury. A trustworthy middle-order and variety in bowling leaves wicketkeeper-captain Rishabh Pant in much better mind space than his counterpart, Sanju Samson. Dealt a setback by the quartet of withdrawn players — Ben Stokes, Jos Buttler, Jofra Archer and Andrew Tye — RR has to hit the ground running. There is not much time for its fresh imports to settle down. Sanju’s form holds the key for RR. After his 119 on captaincy debut, he has not done much of note this season. How he shows up against DC’s quality bowling will be interesting to watch. The contest in the afternoon is sure to test the preparedness of the players in warmer conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dc-looks-to-seal-playoff-spot/article36661107.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prolific Kushagra and Prachi voted the best||Kushagra Rawat and Prachi Tokas of Jugla Singh Tairak Sangh emerged the best swimmers in the men’s and women’s sections respectively in the 56th Delhi State swimming championship at the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee swimming pool here on Friday. Kushagra added the 400m freestyle gold to the gold medals he had won in the 200, 800 and 1500 events. Prachi Tokas added the 50m and 400m freestyle gold to the 100, 200, 800 and 1500 events she had won.  The results: Men: 50m freestyle: 1. Vishal Grewal 23.68s, 2. Samit Sejwal 24.04, 3. Sameer Sejwal 24.75; 400m freestyle: 1. Kushagra Rawat 3:59.90, 2. Vishal Grewal 4:06.33, 3. Sanskar Tokas 4:24.70.   200m backstroke: 1. Siddhant Sejwal 2:09.79, 2. Tanmay Das 2:13.92, 3. Bhavya Singh 2:44.73; 50m breaststroke: 1. Aditya Dubey 31.95, 2. Ritish Malik 32.25, 3. Kartik Sharma 34.29; 200m butterfly: 1. Vinayak Parihar 2:11.46, 2. Sanskar Tokas 2:17.00, 3. Parth Lakhina 2:35.24.   Individual championship: Kushagra Rawat (32 points).   Boys: Group-1: 50m freestyle: 1. Madhur Aggarwal 24.57, 2. Rakshit Chitkara 25.90, 3. Mayank Solanki 26.53; 400m freestyle: 1. Tejasvi Arora 4:36.64, 2. Aditya Kumar 4:38.95, 3. Neerav Kumar 4:39.23; 200m backstroke: 1. Madhur Aggarwal 2:20.05, 2. Ishaan Rathi 2:31.31, 3. Aditya Kumar 2:33.49.   50m breaststroke: 1. Abhinav Gogoi 34.34, 2. Utkarsh Sarkar 34.73, 3. Gaurav Chauhan 34.88.   200m butterfly: 1. Pratham Sharma 2:11.57, 2. Divyansh Arora 2:22.90, 3. Lakshay Vashisht 2:30.00; Individual championship: Madhur Aggarwal (35 points).   Group-2: 50m freestyle: 1. Bhhagya Gahlaut 26.880, 2. Prateek Singh 27.36, 3. Mihir Ramchandani 28.14; 400m freestyle: 1. Yuvraj Singh 4:56.80, 2. Ravit Kharb 5:22.11, 3. Prakhyat Mohan 5:24.84; 200m backstroke: 1. Pranav Singh 2:37.05, 2. Ravit Kharb 2:48.18, 3. Rehaan Sejwal 2:57.07; 50m breaststroke: 1. Bhhagya Gahlaut 33.69, 2. Akshat Kumar 35.99, 3.Aryan Joon 38.58; 200m butterfly: 1. Robin Sen 2:57.31, 2. Prakhyat Mohan 3:09.78, 3. Lakshay Badhwan 3:33.72; Individual championship: Robin Sen and Dhruv Sejwal (33 points).   Women: 50m freestyle: 1. Prachi Tokas 29.79, 2. Pallavi Sejwal 30.05, 3. Rinki Bordoloi 30.06; 400m freestyle: 1. Prachi Tokas 4:37.25, 2. Surbhi Sharma 5:36.47, 3. Gungun 7:30.26; 200m backstroke: 1. Yashwani Suhag 2:45.54, 2. Deepali Malhotra 3:24.57, 3. Surbhi Sharma 6:41.36; 50m breaststroke: 1. Vaishali Grewal 38.86, 2. Simran Badhwar 41.13, 3. Mehak Hasija 42.49; 200m butterfly: 1. Rinki Bordoloi 3:06.55; Individual championship: Prachi Tokas (35 points).   Girls: Group-1: 50m freestyle: 1. Muskan Kaur 29.55, 2. Saanvi Sood29.77, 3. Ananya Bisht 29.98; 400m freestyle: 1. Bhavya Sachdeva 4:48.03, 2. Simran 5:56.89, 3. Vanshikaa Chowdhary 6:44.13; 200m backstroke: 1. Saanvi Sood 2:38.04, 2. Utsav 2:43.00; 50m breaststroke: 1. Saisha Sehrawat 39.82, 2. Koushiki Singh 40.83, 3. Prajna Jadhav 43.27; 200m butterfly: 1. Hema 2:39.93, 2. Nandini Sharma 3:21.30, 3. Vanshikaa Chowdhary 4:23.30.   Individual championship: Bhavya Sachdeva (35 points).   Group-2: 50m freestyle: 1. Titiksha Rawat 31.52, 2. Suhani Sharma 31.64, 3. Harshita Lakhina 33.01; 400m freestyle: 1. Ananya Rawat 4:58.62, 2. Sanya Zutshi 5:25.07, 3. Nitika Saini 5:25.18; 200m backstroke: 1. Ananya Chauhan 2:54.84, 2. Manya Bisht 2:57.68, 3. Sanya Zutshi 3:07.31; 50m breaststroke: 1. Suhani Sharma 38.13, 2. Amandhaa Singpho 46.18, 3. Unnati Garg 47.10; 200m butterfly: 1. Nitika Saini 3:05.23, 2. Yajusha Dahiya 3:21.40, 3. Ebha Dudi 3:46.70.   Individual championship: Ananya Rawat (35 points) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prolific-kushagra-and-prachi-voted-the-best/article36661529.ece
25 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Santosh ready for National duty||For 42-year-old P.S. Santosh, the wait has finally ended. He will be part of the coaching team for the Indian basketball team at the FIBA World Cup qualifiers in November. Santosh, who will be a deputy to coach Veselin Matic, says it is a great honour to work with the national team for such a prestigious championship. Santosh, who the head coach with Keystone Basketball Academy here, is conscious of the responsibilities and expectations that come with the post. “Being a certified instructor from the Ganon Baker Basketball Academy in the USA, and also having attended a player development coaching programme from GBA Czhech Republic, I am aware of the demands and challenges of modern day sport,” he said in a chat with The Hindu . Bright future With the national federation hiring the services of foreign coaches, Santosh feels the sport is growing, and in another five years, the national teams should be a force to reckon with because of the kind of exposure and training programmes being conducted. The former National basketballer from the then-united Andhra Pradesh, who was also a gold medallist in the junior nationals, will be joining the Indian team on Vidyanagar Campus (Bengaluru) preparing for the major challenge ahead. “I feel proud to be the first from Telangana to be nominated for the senior national team. It is a huge moment for me and I am hopeful of playing my part in the team’s progress,” said Santosh, who also represented Services at the Nationals. Santosh said his qualifications — which include being an NIS coach, a FIBA Level-2 coach, certified member of the World Association of Basketball Coaches and having worked with coaches and scouts from the NBA, NCAA, and Europe Pro League — should come handy in living up to the expectations. “ I have worked as a scouting team member of Indian women’s team at the 2019 FIBA Asian meet and also for the Telangana state team,” he said, and thanked the Federation and the Telangana Basketball Association officials for all the support and encouragement extended to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/santosh-ready-for-national-duty/article36661648.ece
25 September 2021||KOLKATA,||No sweat for FC Goa||Former Indian Super League (ISL) runner-up FC Goa proved too strong for second division side Delhi FC, winning 5-1 in the quarterfinals of the Durand Cup football tournament at the Kalyani Stadium on Friday. Devendra Murgaokar opened the scoring for the Gaurs while Muhammed Nemil and Brandon Fernandez added two more before the break. Leander D’Cunha and Romario Jesuraj netted once each after resumption to complete the FC Goa’s tally. Delhi, which beat the other ISL side Kerala Blasters to progress to the last-eight, failed to match FC Goa’s strength and could manage only one reply through Nikhil Mali. FC Goa will play the winner of the last quarterfinal between Bengaluru FC and Army Green on Saturday.  The result (quarterfinals): FC Goa 5 (Devendra Murgaokar 15, Muhammed Nemil 18, Brandon Fernandes 45+3, Leander D’Cunha 84, Romario Jesuraj 90+2) bt Delhi FC 1 (Nikhil Mali 82) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-sweat-for-fc-goa/article36661398.ece
25 September 2021||Madrid,||Barca woes mount after Cadiz draw||Barcelona made it three games without a victory on Thursday as a goalless draw with Cadiz further weakened Ronald Koeman’s position as coach. Frenkie de Jong was sent off in the 65th minute at the Ramon de Carranza stadium but holding on for a draw will earn little credit for Koeman, who was also shown a red card in injury-time. Whether Koeman is still in the post for Barca’s game at home to Levante on Sunday remains to be seen but it appears now to be more a matter of when the club can find a replacement than if he will continue in charge. Barcelona is already seven points behind La Liga’s early leader Real Madrid, albeit having played a game fewer, to go with a poor start in the Champions League after last week’s 3-0 opening defeat by Bayern Munich. Victor Osimhen scored twice as Napoli crushed Sampdoria, 4-0, on Thursday to remain perfect in Serie A and return to the top of the table. Meanwhile, Ciro Immobile converted an added-time penalty to give Lazio a 1-1 draw at Torino.  The results: LaLiga: Granada 2 (Sanchez Barahona 9, Milla 70-pen) lost to Real Sociedad 3 (Elustondo 52, 82, Merino 60); Osasuna 1 (Kike 39) lost to Real Betis 3 (Hermoso 21, Juanmi 80, Willian Jose 90+3); Cadiz 0 drew with Barcelona 0.   Serie A: Sampdoria 0 lost to Napoli 4 (Osimhen 10, 50, Fabian 39, Zielinski 59); Torino 1 (Pjaca 76) drew with Lazio 1 (Immobile 91-pen); Roma 1 (Abraham 36) bt Udinese 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barca-woes-mount-after-cadiz-draw/article36661007.ece
25 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Aces bounce back to beat Formidables||Texan Aces bounced back in the third set to take a lead of 16 IMPs over Formidables in the final of the Team of four Gold contest in the 18th HCL International Bridge championship played virtually on the Real Bridge platform on Friday. While Formidables was steady in collecting 26, 29 and 15 IMPs in the three sets, Texan Aces fluctuated dramatically with a collection of 44, 1 and 41 in getting into a commanding position before the fourth and last set. In the match for the third place play-off, Solaris gained a lead of 24 IMPs over Shree Cement, following a steady collection of 37, 27 and 32 IMPs over the three sessions. In the team of four Silver final, Dr. SSMC gained a lead of 17 IMPs after three sets, over Ganga Gomti. In the play off, Dr. Sanghi led Prayas by 34 IMPs, after having got off to a strong start with a lead of 24 IMPs in the first set. Meanwhile, in the Open match point pairs event, Uttam Swarup Gupta & Animesh Raj led with 78.76% in the first session of the second elimination stage. The team was followed by Anindya Bhattacharya & Soumya Das (69.40), Bharat Rao & Himanshu Joshi (67.50), Sekhar Bandopadhyay & JB Sengupta (66.97%), Rana Roy & Swarnendu Banerjee (66.80), Subhash Gupta & Sapan Desai (65.49), Abhirup Ghosh & Arnab Basu Roy (65.37) and Puneet Gangal & Satyabrata Mukherjee (64.65) from among the 124 teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aces-bounce-back-to-beat-formidables/article36661528.ece
25 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Bashers triumph||Captain Sudip Chatterjee and young Ankur Paul scored fine half-centuries as Barrackpore Bashers beat Kolkata Heroes by five runs in a thrilling final to emerge champion of the second edition of the Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens here on Thursday night. Sudip (62, 35b, 4x4, 4x6) and Ankur Paul (61, 42b, 5x4, 2x6) came up with a century stand in quick time to help Bashers aggregate 154 for three in the stipulated 15 overs, after a delayed start due to rain. Koushik Maity of Heroes took two wickets. Karan Lal’s gritty 49 and Suvankar Bal’s unbeaten 28 were not enough to carry Heroes, which scored 23 runs off the last over, to victory. Sujit Yadav captured two wickets for Bashers.   The scores:   Barrackpore Bashers 154/3 in 15 overs (Sudip Chatterjee 62, Ankur Paul 61) bt Kolkata Heroes 149/6 in 15 overs (Karan Lal 49).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bashers-triumph/article36661837.ece
25 September 2021||Umag (Croatia),||Tanwar wins mixed bronze in seniors Worlds||India’s Jagdish Tanwar and Michelle Paroubek of Switzerland won the over-45 mixed doubles bronze in the World seniors tennis championships here. It was the second medal in the Worlds for Tanwar, a Superintendent with the Central Goods Service Tax and Customs Department in Jaipur. He had claimed the mixed doubles silver in the last edition in the USA. Tanwar and Michelle lost 3-6, 7-6(5), 10-5 in the semifinals to second seeds Stefanie Kolar and Toby Mitchell of Germany. The Indo-Swiss pair had won the first two rounds, dropping a mere nine games in all, which included a victory over third seeds Alina Agafonova and Ryan Pang.  The results:   Over-45 mixed doubles (semifinals): Stefanie Kolar & Toby Mitchell (Ger) bt Michelle Paroubek (Sui) & Jagdish Tanwar 3-6, 7-6(5), [10-5]; Quarterfinals: Paroubek & Tanwar bt Sonja Vogt Sven Schulz (Ger) 6-0, 6-3; Pre-quarterfinals: Paroubek & Tanwar bt Alina Agafonova (Rus) & Ryan Pang (USA) 6-2, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tanwar-wins-mixed-bronze-in-seniors-worlds/article36661531.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||An incredible innings from Mooney: Smriti||Smriti Mandhana batted her way back into form on Friday with a 94-ball 86, but the Indian women could not deny Australia a 26th victory on the trot in ODIs. The Indian opener said she would have loved to bat till the end of the innings. “I could have added 15 or 20 runs more. I was timing the ball well,” she said after the second ODI against Mackay. She praised Australia opener Beth Mooney, whose unbeaten 125 proved the difference in the thrilling match. “It was an incredible innings,” Smriti said. “Chasing 275 for your team (after being 52 for four) and scoring a century is the best knock (possible) for an opener.” She said India had a perfect game till the final 20 overs. “We did a great job with the bat and started well with our bowling too; the pacers looked really good. It was perfect a game over for us till the 30th over. Things changed for us in the last 20 overs.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/an-incredible-innings-from-mooney-smriti/article36661095.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Hardik being handled with kid gloves||Mumbai Indians bowling coach Shane Bond said Hardik Pandya had been kept out of action in the second leg of the IPL so far keeping in mind his utility value for India in the T20 World Cup. “We are obviously balancing the needs of our team with Team India’s. The one thing that this franchise does really well is look after its players with an eye on not only winning this competition but also on the T20 World Cup that follows,” said Bond after MI’s loss against KKR on Thursday. “Hopefully, Hardik will be fit for the next match. He trained today and trained pretty well by all counts,” he said. “I think we are doing the right thing and, hopefully, we will get him back shortly and he’ll have an impact on the back-end of the tournament,” said Bond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hardik-being-handled-with-kid-gloves/article36661097.ece
25 September 2021||RIO DE JANEIRO,||Brazil call up English players for WC qualifiers||Brazil coach Tite on Friday included English-based players in a strong squad for three upcoming World Cup qualifiers in October. Brazil, who lead the South American group, face Venezuela, Colombia and Uruguay. Tite has called up eight English Premier League players, including the seven whose clubs stopped them travelling to the last rounds of matches in September due to a potential Covid quarantine. No suspension After the players failed to show for three matches, Brazil opted not to ask for them to be suspended from club games. The three September games included a meeting with Argentina in Sao Paulo which was aborted minutes after kick-off over alleged Covid-19 quarantine breaches by Argentina's English-based players. Liverpool trio Liverpool trio Alisson Becker, Fabinho and Roberto Firmino, Manchester City's Ederson and Gabriel Jesus, Fred of Manchester United, Chelsea defender Thiago Silva and Leeds midfielder Raphinha are all recalled. Emerson Royal, who joined Tottenham from Barcelona on the last day of the summer transfer window, is also in the squad. Clean record Brazil has won all eight of their qualifiers and play Venezuela on October 7 in Caracas, Colombia in Barranquilla three days later and Uruguay on the October 14 at Manaus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brazil-call-up-english-players-for-wc-qualifiers/article36661818.ece
25 September 2021||London,||UEFA against WC proposal||European clubs joined forces on Friday to rebuke FIFA for trying to railroad through plans for biennial World Cups, warning of a destructive impact on world football. FIFA President Gianni Infantino has infuriated the European Club Association, which is accusing the global governing body of being in breach of legal obligations with its rush to radically overhaul the sport and gain more control. European governing body UEFA has already expressed its concerns about FIFA’s conduct and that has been echoed by the ECA, which represents 234 clubs. The ECA said it would back a more balanced approach to club and international football by reducing the five windows typically in the year for players to be released for national team games to reduce the burden on players. It is the lack of apparent engagement by FIFA on the required new international match calendar (IMC) from 2024 that is troubling the clubs. “ECA has therefore followed with grave concern and alarm FIFA’s launch of active PR campaigns and much pretence,” the club body said in a statement, “apparently seeking to railroad through reforms to the IMC, particularly the introduction of a biennial World Cup.” The plans surfaced again in May when Saudi Arabia’s national federation nominally proposed at the congress in May for FIFA to explore biennial World Cups. The Saudis have emerged as one of the closest allies of Infantino, who has made trips this year to see Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. FIFA was “in light of the range of predisposed decisions and communications in direct and unilateral breach of certain legal obligations,” the ECA said. “Aside from the notable lack of genuine (or indeed any) consultation, and as many stakeholders have pointed out in recent days, FIFA’s proposals would lead to a direct and destructive impact on the club game, both domestically and internationally,” the ECA added. “In addition, the proposals would put players’ health and well-being at risk. They would dilute the value and meaning of club and country competitions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uefa-against-wc-proposal/article36661821.ece
25 September 2021||KOLKATA,||New WFI rules for coaches||The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) has introduced some new regulations for coaches at National-level championships. As per the WFI circular issued on Thursday, coaches will need to fill in name, date of birth, father’s name and Aadhar number in the entry form. The WFI will issue license books, at Rs. 500 per copy, to all coaches selected by State associations for National championships. Also the WFI will issue T-shirts to coaches so that authorised coaches may be easily identified. A meeting with coaches at all National championships will be convened before the referees’ clinic. Other than selected coaches, no other coach will be allowed to enter the arena. The new regulations will be applicable from the National championship, to be held at Nandini Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, from November 19 to 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-wfi-rules-for-coaches/article36661532.ece
25 September 2021||SOCHI,||Bottas bests Hamilton in practice||Valtteri Bottas led teammate Lewis Hamilton at the top of the time-sheets as Mercedes dominated the opening day of Formula One practice for the Russian Grand Prix, with Red Bull’s Max Verstappen set to start Sunday’s race from the back of the grid. Bottas, who led Hamilton in both of Friday’s sessions, ended the day with a fastest time of one minute 33.593 seconds, with the Briton just 0.044 seconds behind. Inviting a penalty Hamilton’s hopes of finally clinching a landmark 100th win and possibly retaking the championship lead received a boost, with Red Bull opting to fit title rival and championship leader Verstappen’s car with a fresh engine that triggered penalties. The Dutchman, who leads Hamilton by five points in the overall standings and was already carrying a three-place grid penalty for a crash that took both drivers out of the last race in Monza, was third and sixth quickest, respectively, in Friday’s two sessions. Bottas, a Sochi specialist who took his maiden Formula One victory at the track in 2017, is targeting his first win of the season. But the 32-year-old, who is joining Alfa Romeo next season and has not won since last year’s race in Russia, said he would be prepared to “take one for the team” and let Hamilton win if the situation arose. Mercedes, 18 points clear of Red Bull in the constructors’ championship, has won all seven races held in Sochi since the 2014 Winter Olympic venue first hosted a grand prix that year. Pierre Gasly was third quickest for AlphaTauri, but he lost his front wing after going over the kerbs in the closing seconds of the session. Lando Norris, who completed a one-two for McLaren behind race winner Daniel Ricciardo at the last race in Italy, was fourth quickest ahead of Alpine’s Esteban Ocon. Carlos Sainz was seventh for Ferrari ahead of Fernando Alonso in his Alpine and Aston Martin’s Sebastian Vettel. Charles Leclerc in the other Ferrari, who like Verstappen will start from the back after a power unit change, rounded out the top 10. Giovinazzi crashes Antonio Giovinazzi crashed his Alfa Romeo heavily at the Turn 9 complex, forcing a nine-minute halt to the session. Hamilton also ran into one of his pitcrew after overshooting his marks while stopping. Kimi Raikkonen returned for Alfa Romeo after missing the last two races after having tested positive for COVID-19. He ended Friday’s running 12th.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bottas-bests-teammate-hamilton-in-practice/article36661527.ece
25 September 2021||Czech Republic,||Sania-Shuai duo in semis||Sania Mirza and Shuai Zhang of China beat Anna Danilina and Lidziya Marozava 6-3, 3-6, [10-6] in the doubles quarterfinals of the $565,530 WTA tennis tournament here on Friday. In the semifinals, the second seeded Indo-Chinese pair will meet Eri Hozumi and Makoto Ninomiya of Japan.  The results: $565,530 WTA, Ostrava, Czech Republic: Doubles (quarterfinals): Shuai Zhang (Chn) & Sania Mirza bt Anna Danilina (Kaz) & Litziya Marozava (Blr) 6-3, 3-6, [10-6].   $52,080 Challenger, Columbus, US: (quarterfinals): Mikael Torpegaard (Den) bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 6-1, 6-4.   €44,820 Challenger, Biel, Switzerland: Quarterfinals: Liam Broady (GBR) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-6(2), 6-2. ; Doubles (quarterfinals): Ruben Bemelmans (Bel) & Daniel Masur (Ger) bt Maxime Janvier (Fra) & Arjun Kadhe 6-4, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Quarterfinals: Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) bt Zeel Desai 7-6(3), 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Cairo, Egypt: Doubles (quarterfinals): Jasmijn Gimbrere & Demi Tran (Ned) bt Yasmin Ezzat (Egy) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 7-6(2), 7-6(2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-shuai-duo-in-semis/article36661447.ece
25 September 2021||COLOMBO,||SLC ropes in Jayawardene||Mahela Jayawardene has been roped in as the consultant of the Sri Lankan team for the first round of the upcoming T20 World Cup in UAE and Oman. The decision by Sri Lanka Cricket has been taken keeping in mind Jayawardene’s tremendous track record with Mumbai Indians. His tenure with the national side will last for a period of seven days between October 16 and 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/slc-ropes-in-jayawardene/article36661361.ece
25 September 2021||DOHA,||Archana loses in quarters||India’s Archana Kamath lost 11-9, 11-13, 8-11, 6-11 to second seed Doo Hoi Kem of Hong Kong in the World Table Tennis Star Contender women’s singles quarterfinals on Friday.  Archana beat three higher-ranked players on her way to the last eight. Archana felt happy after having pulled off her best performance in a major international event. Speaking to The Hindu , she said: “This was a good tournament where I got an opportunity to play some good matches and it was definitely a great learning experience. I need to improve and get better. I would love to thank Manav Thakkar for helping me [as coach] in my matches here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/archana-loses-in-quarters/article36661001.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Tyagi — killing it at the death!||Earlier this week in Dubai, Kartik Tyagi bowled one of the greatest last overs of the IPL. Punjab Kings needed just four runs to win with eight wickets in hand, but the 20-year-old seamer bowled Rajasthan Royals to a stunning two-run victory. He said when Mustafizur Rahman began the penultimate over, he didn’t think the match would go into the final over. “A left-hander was batting, a left-arm fast bowler was bowling and it was the shorter end,” Tyagi said on Friday. “But he gave away only four runs. There was pressure on me, but I was also excited,” Tyagi said. He was not sure if he could defend the total when he began his final over. “But after three balls (off which only one run was conceded), I started to believe that I could do it.” Tyagi was delighted when his feat was acknowledged on Twitter by Jasprit Bumrah. “On the Australian tour, I was nervous, but he came up to me and discussed things, put me at ease,” revealed Tyagi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tyagi-killing-it-at-the-death/article36661099.ece
25 September 2021||Chennai,||Sujay, Tushar star in MCC’s easy win||Opener S. Sujay slammed a match-winning 103 to help MCC beat UFCC (T Nagar) by seven wickets in Group-A of the V.A. Parthasarathy Memorial Trophy on Friday.  The scores: Group-A: Swaraj 217 in 50 overs (B. Rahul 42, R.S. Mokit Hariharan 35, R. Vivek 71, J. Kousik 3/36, Bhargav Bhatt 3/36) lost to Vijay 218/4 in 46 overs (V. Ganga Sridhar Raju 74, Daryl S. Ferrario 31, J. Kousik 50, Pradosh Ranjan Paul 31 n.o., B. Praanesh 3/39). Toss: Vijay. Points: Vijay 4(12); Swaraj 0(8).   UFCC (T. Nagar) 228/7 in 50 overs (K. Vishal Vaidhya 74, Adhithya Giridhar 33, Kedhar Devdhar 41, R. Vivek 35 n.o.) lost to MCC 232/3 in 45 overs (Tushar Raheja 64, S. Sujay 103, U. Mukilesh 37 n.o.). Toss: MCC. MCC 4(8); UFCC 0(2).   Nelson 261/8 in 50 overs (P. Praveen Kumar 59, S. Sunil Rithik 31, V. Subramania Siva 81 n.o., M. Prabhu 40, R. Rohit 4/44) bt Young Stars 221 in 46.4 overs (M. Kamalesh 40, R. Sathyanarayan 84 n.o., S. Mohan Prasath 51, M. Prabhu 3/53). Toss: Young Stars. Nelson 4(14); Young Stars 0(4).   Group-B: Grand Slam 162 in 41 overs (Nidhish S. Rajagopal 36, D.T. Chandrasekar 3/14) lost to Jolly Rovers 164/4 in 30.2 overs (B. Sai Sudharsan 84, Dhruv Shorey 48 n.o.). Toss: Rovers. Jolly Rovers 4(16); Grand Slam 0(10).   India Pistons 186 in 39.5 overs (M. Mithul Raj 42, S. Guru Raghavendran 48, S. Nikhilesh 3/45, P. Nirmal Kumar 3/43) bt IOB 177 in 37.3 overs (Abhishek M. Hegde 67, A. Ranjan 3/22). Toss: IOB. Pistons 4(6); IOB 0(4).   MRC-A 247/7 in 50 overs (B. Anirudh Sitaram 55, Kaushik U. Ram 38, M. Affan Khader 58 n.o.) lost to Globe Trotters 249/4 in 43.4 overs (Arjun P. Murthy 134, Maan K. Bafna 40 n.o.). Toss: MRC. Trotters 4(8); MRC-A 0(4) .      Aditya Balaji (six for 41) enabled Sriher defeat Aththis by three wickets in the third division of the Tiruvallur DCA league. However, P. Harshaa’s effort (five for 27) went in vain.  The scores: III div.: Aththis 138 in 29.5 overs (K. Nirmal Kumar 61, N. Gowri Shankar 35, Aditya Balaji 6/41) lost to Sriher 141/ 7 in 29 overs (Nihal Chinnadurai 34, Harith Raghuram 38, P. Harshaa 5/27) .    P. Praveen Kumar (125) starred in Elite NN & RPS’s huge 221-run win over CCCA in the final of the CCCA-S.Sriraman memorial trophy open tournament.  The scores (final): Elite NN & RPS 304/5 in 50 overs (J. V. Sanjey Raman 63, A. Suren Vijay 27, P. Praveen Kumar 125, Avinash 31, M. R. Aditya Vygnesh 3/25) bt CCCA 83 in 27.3 overs (Keerthi Bushan 4/22).    Tamilnadu Triathlon Association (TTA) will host the CSS multi-sport Indian Triathlon Federation event on Sept. 25 and 26 at the Centre for Sports Science, Sri Ramachandra University, Porur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sujay-tushar-star-in-mccs-easy-win/article36661445.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Kishan at the helm||Kishan S. Bedare will lead the Mysore in the KSCA inter-zonal under-25 tournament to be held from October 2 in Bengaluru.  The team: Kishan S. Bedare (Capt.), S.J. Nikin Jose (Vice-Capt.), S. Dheemanth, Vishnu Priyan, M. Venkatesh, Tushar Harikrishna, K. Shashank, Kruthik Krishna (wk), K. Gourav, Lankesh, L.R. Kumar, L.R. Chethan, Saishiv Narayan, Uttam Aiyappa, Gowtham Sagar.   Coach: R. Madhusudhan; Manager: A.C. Chethan Kumar.     R. Raaj (67 n.o.) and B.S. Gurukiran (53 n.o.) helped National CC register a facile six-wicket win over CPCP in the KSCA Mysore zone under-16 inter-club tournament.  The scores: CPCP 209/8 in 50 overs (M.D. Ayush 69, H.M. Ganapreeth 56 n.o., Daksh N. Gowda 30) lost to National CC 210/4 in 36.5 overs (R. Raaj 67 n.o., B.S. Gurukiran 53 n.o., Ajay Jayashankar 36).   Bellur CC 203/9 in 50 overs (Dhanush Mannar 50, Manish Gowda 29, Md. Abdulla 27; Adarsh three for 33) bt Parashuram CC 67 in 24.3 overs. (Dhanush 4/26).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kishan-at-the-helm/article36661799.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy for SS Interiors||SS Interiors scored a 77-run win over Best Sports Club in the Bezawada T20 invitation cricket tournament, organised by GoSports Cricket Academy. D. Harshavardhan, who scored 39 and took two for eight for the winner, was named man-of-the-match.  The scores: SS Interiors 178/6 in 20 overs (Kranti Kumar 44, D. Harshavardhan 39) bt Best SC 101 in 17.3 overs (Ananth Chintu 34) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-for-ss-interiors/article36661846.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Lord Siva’s valour||Eight valorous deeds of Lord Siva are celebrated by His devotees. There are eight pilgrim centres in Tamil Nadu associated with each of these deeds, said R. Narayanan, in a discourse. The eight places are: Thiruvadhigai, Thirukkovilur, Thirukkadavur, Vazhuvur, Thirukkurukkai, Thiruppariyalur, Thirukkandiyur and Thiruvirkudi. Thiruvadhigai is associated with the burning of the three cities. The demons who ruled these cities could not be defeated by anyone because they had a boon. All three had to be felled with one arrow. Finally, it was Siva who vanquished the three demons and burnt their cities, earning the name of Tripurantaka. Thiruvadhigai is the place where Thilakavathiyar, the sister of Thirunavukkarasar served Siva. It was here that Thirunavukkarasar was cured of the pain in his stomach and became Siva’s devotee. In Thirukkovilur, Andakasura was killed. Siva killed him and hoisted him on His trident. Thirukkadavur is where Siva was the nemesis of Kala — the God of death. Siva is therefore referred to as Kalari. This is the place where Markandeya, destined to die young, was saved because of his devotion to Siva. Markandeya hugged the linga, and when Yama tried to drag Markandeya away, Siva emerged from the linga and kicked Yama away. Vazhuvur is the place where Siva killed Gajasura, the demon in elephant form. In Thirukkurukkai, Siva burnt Kama, the god of love. Kama had to get Siva to end His penance, so that Siva and Parvati could get back together, and so he shot his arrows at Siva. Siva opened His third eye and burnt Kama. Thiruppariyalur is the place where Siva killed Daksha, through Virabhadra. In Thirukkandiyur, Siva punished Brahma, by cutting off one of his heads. In Thiruvirkudi, Siva, using a chakra, killed the demon Jalandhara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/lord-sivas-valour/article36661061.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 07:40 IST,||Sudoku — September 25, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-25-2021/article36662009.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Ban the ban||Dear parents, Let’s start with how much you love me. (No, I haven’t broken anything). Remember also how you’ve lectured me on ‘destructive foreign influences’. Finally, I see your wisdom. Let’s take this Made-in-China ban on online gaming. We shouldn’t let it get anywhere near us, and here’s why:  Money: Remember how Uncle crashed his car and spent lakhs of rupees in hospital bills and repairs? And in lawyer fees to the wife driving the car, who was not his (the wife, not the car). When I crash my car (a million-dollar model which I paid nothing for) I lose a few points in my racer ranking. Thank me for money I’m saving you and in tearful gratitude, offer to buy me the new console.     Health: Dads, across the globe, tell tall stories of childhoods spent climbing taller trees, and how healthy that was. You, Dad, fell off a fruit tree and broke your nose. Sorry! But that’s not so healthy. Mum says your broken nose has turned you selectively deaf too. Now, I will avoid fruit, trees, fruit trees and marital disputes. Mainly, of course, because I will never get married. But my future partner and I will spend hours side by side, happily gaming online, breaking off only to happily chat – online, too. Noses won’t enter the picture, except to support the thick spectacles we will have by then.     Success: Look at the awesome skills I’m building. I’m so competitive, Elon Musk will look out from his rocket to see mine shooting past him in outer space. I will win since I’ve already played space zombie gadzillion times online. Next, look at my focus towards a goal. Mum screams, the doorbell rings, my baby bro swallows a worm, the upstairs neighbour falls through the roof (oh, that may have been an ad), and I’m still at my game.     Happiness: You parents swear you want us to be happy. You aren’t, though. Mum, you watch hours of web series, sobbing through most. Dad’s shows have so much bloodshed that they’re sponsoring the ketchup industry. On the other hand, I’m always so happy to game that Dad says I’m turning into a vegetable. Mum, you should approve, you’re always going on about how great vegetables are. If you’re still going to complain about screen time and its disastrous effects, let me surprise you — and agree. I hereby refuse to sit for another online class. Let’s ban school.  Where Jane De Suza, the   author ofHappily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ban-the-ban/article36661244.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind Bulgari’s wedding gift||Bulgari, the Rome-based jewellery company, recently unveiled its first India-specific product offering alongside brand ambassador Priyanka Chopra Jonas. The 18k gold necklace is a mangalsutra with five discs, set with black onyx and pavé diamonds. With this, the brand, which first entered India in 2014, when single brand retail was permitted, is laying out its ambitious intentions for a market where traditional jewellery dominates. In an exclusive interview with The Hindu Weekend , jewellery director Mauro di Roberto, a 42-year veteran of Bulgari, explained why the brand is betting big on India, which has long been a source of important gemstones for the company. In fact, the large gem on the recent eye-popping 93-carat emerald necklace sported by actor Zendaya at the Venice Film Festival was sourced in Jaipur. Now, the brand hopes to court the well-heeled Indian, someone who doesn’t mind paying global prices for luxurious designs. As Roberto says, Lucia Silvestri, Bulgari’s creative director (and self-declared ‘gem hunter’) adores India. So it’s befitting that they attempt to make inroads here. Edited excerpts from the interview:  What was the idea behind introducing a  mangalsutra  as Bulgari’s first India inspired and specific offering?   The project is very dear to us because it encapsulates our DNA [while] trying to integrate the Indian aspects of the product. The mangalsutra has an important meaning for the Indian woman [because it symbolises] the sacred bond between two persons. There is also a value behind the gesture of receiving a gift for the wedding. We believe [ours] is a contemporary way of looking at a mangalsutra.   There has been some criticism on the choice of the  mangalsutra  , which some view as a patriarchal symbol, as the first product for India.    Bulgari has always professed the independence of the woman. We do believe the connotation is a contemporary one, where a jewel can be purchased by the woman. When we look at our creativity, we can agree that it is jewellery that is meant to be purchased by the person going to wear it, not necessarily to be given as a gift.  It is a North Indian design . What was taken into consideration for the design, especially with our varied religions and cultures?    The concept was to have discs [the origins of which are antique coins] with the Bulgari logo, and beads, which are more integrated to Indian culture. This is what went into the working, to evaluate a product that can work for the local community.  You said it took several years to come up with the design.    It took three years. We usually do not make special products for specific countries. This was an important project, [and it was] not easy. We needed to be able to present the local experience, but also personalise it. For us, when we put the logo on a product, it is an important form of personalisation, but also whoever wears that jewel has a certain type of independence and freedom.  With Priyanka Chopra Jonas as brand ambassador and this offering, there is greater focus on the Indian market.      We know India’s huge potentiality as a market. But we also know the difficulties in capturing the market. The fact that India comes from a historical and cultural value in jewellery. The reality is that today many Indians buy outside of the country. And because Indians have an important tradition of jewellery, they know how to give value to the artists, the craftsmanship, the value of the gems, the design. And the young [generation] is much more exposed through social media. So we are quite bullish on the Indian market.     Bulgari unveiled Magnifica in June, a fabulous collection of 350 spectacular jewels. It included 60 jewels valued at over €1 million each. Does this reflect confidence in the future?    In different parts of the world, there’s been important growth in jewellery, especially post pandemic. I am talking from September 2020 onwards. We are not travelling as much as we did, so there has to be other ways to spend. Are we bullish? We are. But when we talk of high jewellery, we are talking about jewels that are unique. When it comes to one-of-a-kind pieces, our creativity begins when Lucia [Silvestri] finds a unique stone; that’s when the idea comes to make the product. Like the Spinel necklace or the Serpenti [from the Magnifica collection] worn by Zendaya. You won’t have a client for all these products, but what you do have is the opportunity to create a jewel that is unique and will remain in history.  Indian men have been wearing jewellery for centuries. Do you envision introducing more unisex or gender fluid offerings?    We need to consider a much wider market in general. Jewellery can be worn by different types of people. Our creativity is such that it allows us to play beyond women. The B.zero1 or Serpenti have been worn by men and transgender [people]. We don’t believe we need to tweak our jewellery or revise our strategy because we believe the design and colours cater to different segments of clients.  Two years ago, the house re-acquired an iconic necklace that became the inspiration for the Barocko necklace.    Looking back at our heritage is extremely strategic. The creativity we come up with tomorrow would be much better if there’s an inspiration to our history, which is 130 years old. Watch Gayatri Rangachari Shah in conversation with Mauro di Roberto on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/behind-bulgaris-wedding-gift/article36661231.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Yohan Poonawalla’s Salon Privé moment||The first week of the month saw a well-attended lobster luncheon, Pommery champagne and tyre-screeching action at UK’s historic Blenheim Palace. Also known as the ancestral home of Sir Winston Churchill, this country house was the venue for the Salon Prive Concours d’Elegance, one of the world’s leading automotive events. It was also where industrialist Yohan Poonawalla’s trio of cars took home prestigious prizes – from the 1949 Bentley MK VI to the 1927 Rolls-Royce 20HP Tourer by Barker and the 1979 Rolls-Royce Phantom VI. Talking about the 1949 Bentley MK VI, which belonged to Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, the Maharaja of Mysore, and went on to win the Duke of Marlborough Award at Salon Privé, Poonawalla says, “When I bought her 15 years ago, I didn’t know she was the Maharaja of Mysore’s car. She was one of my first Bentleys.” It was only when his team returned with the car and its original build sheet to Pune that he realised its provenance. “She was in another blue and silver colour scheme. This avatar, her original colour scheme, was prepared for the 21 Gun Salute Concours last year in New Delhi.” Speaking to The Hindu Weekend from his office in the UK, Poonawalla recalls how this beauty was restored by Allan Almeida in Viveck Goenka’s restoration workshop in Mumbai and got itself the ‘Rhubarb and Custard car’ nickname. In fine company A collector of cars and watches, Poonawalla is joined by his wife and painter, Michelle, and his two children, at most rare and vintage car shows. “Both my children are involved and I know my collection will be in safe hands,” he says of his large collection in Pune that includes Sir Malcolm Campbell's Phantom II and the Lincoln Continental imported in 1964 by the Vatican for Pope Paul VI’s visit to India. He, 49, adds that he focusses on quality not quantity with his collection. Having worked with the country’s leading restorers, including Manvendra Singh of Barwani, he says he invests in cars that celebrate India’s rich automotive heritage. Often it is a split-second decision - the 1927 Rolls-Royce 20HP Tourer by Barker, which won the Most Exceptional Coachwork Award at Salon Privé is one example. “Someone happened to send me a picture of it at the Cartier Concours d'Elegance (Rambagh Palace in 2019). I fell in love with the car when I saw those pictures and sent two of my boys there to negotiate and bring it home,” concludes the collector who started an Instagram account for his cars last year. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/yohan-poonawallas-salon-priv-moment/article36661241.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Where it all began: How Ford drove into Madras||There was an air of excitement around the automobile industry in the early 90s. The country had opened up, and India was a huge untapped market stuck with the now vintage car models such as Ambassadors and Premier Padminis. Suzuki, a Japanese company, had set up a joint venture with the government and introduced the Maruti 800 in 1983, which became a super hit ‘affordable, family automobile’ in a car-starved country. Nothing more happened in the next 10 years. Then, in the early 90s, American auto major Ford announced its decision to come to India when the government started allowing joint ventures in the auto sector. Ford tied up with Maharashtra’s Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) and Ford Mahindra was set up. The international manufacturer announced its decision to put up a plant to manufacture locally, and that’s when the fun began. Business journalists began to learn how difficult it was to deal with a large American multinational which followed strict procedures and processes regarding media relations. Information came in trickles. Given the tie-up, it was assumed that Ford would put up their factory in Maharashtra. The company shortlisted three probable locations: Pune, Gurgaon and Madras. Madras had a strong auto component industry, a trained workforce, engineers, and a port. The city already had commercial vehicles, two-wheeler and tractor companies, among others, and a strong ecosystem was in place. Although the industry knew Madras was a good choice, the rest of the country could not believe sleepy Madras stood a chance. The city did not have an industry-friendly image. Tamil Nadu was seen as a corrupt state, though this was far from the truth. J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister when Ford made its entry. She understood that getting Ford to come to Madras was not only prestigious, but would also create jobs, and downstream industries. She impressed the various teams which trooped in from Dearborn, Michigan (Ford’s headquarters) to her office in Madras, having facts and figures at her fingertips. She was punctual, spoke fluent English, and served refreshments in the best bone China available. Poor Manohar Joshi, Maharashtra’s CM, was no match for her. Ford sent a 200-query questionnaire covering every aspect of Madras imaginable. The site chosen had to pass 40 parameters — for example, they did not want any other industry within 20 kilometers of their factory (to avoid dust pollution at their ultra-modern paint shop). There were tough negotiations for a year, but the Tamil Nadu government worked everything out and Ford came to Madras. When the MOU was signed there was a celebratory dinner, and I was one of the privileged few to get an invitation. I asked John Parker, the managing director of Ford Mahindra what he thought of the newcomer Hyundai, the South Korean auto manufacturer, who was also coming to the city sans the fanfare. He looked amused. “You guys may get along better with them,” he said. Parker did not know how prescient he was.  The writer is a journalist and author.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/where-it-all-began-how-ford-drove-into-madras/article36661263.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||fierce and||There was no big a-ha moment but sometime over the last few years, Richa Chadha realised that she did not care about others’ opinion of her choices. And this applies to different facets of her life. “I am less afraid to embrace my own whimsy, to write a book or get into production. I want to chart my own growth and create my own opportunities,” the actor and newly-minted producer explains. While she was never short on confidence, this new attitude has helped the 34-year-old stand up a little taller. “I’ve had people who I knew on Gangs of Wasseypur (2012) tell me to my face that they didn’t expect me to last in the industry. I don’t know if they realised how offensive they were being but I just didn’t care.” In the decade plus years that she’s been in the movies, not only has Chadha survived but she’s positively thriving. Her latest long-format offering alongside Ronit Roy, Voot Select’s Candy , a psychological whodunit set in the hills, is getting favourable reviews for her role as a cop. The third season of Amazon Prime’s Inside Edge will drop soon and she is shooting for The Six Suspects, which is based on Vikas Swaroop’s bestseller and is directed by Tigmanshu Dhulia. There is also Fukrey 3 that will go on the floors soon and Anubhav Sinha’s Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hua Hai . Film projects aside, there is the production house Pushing Buttons Studios where she’s partnered with her real-life partner Ali Fazal. Their first film, Girl Will Be Girls is an Indo-French production to be directed by her long-time friend and director, Shuchi Talati. The film’s script has already been a part of the Berlinale Script Station, the Jerusalem Script Lab, and the recently-concluded Gotham Week. An all-female crew The inception of Pushing Buttons was triggered not just by Chadha’s new boost of confidence but also ‘wanting more creative control’. “There’s nothing more heart-breaking than watching a film with great potential not go anywhere because it wasn’t edited properly or someone turned out to be a sleazebag,” she says. The couple’s vision for the production house is to bridge ‘the tremendous disconnect between the kind of people we are and the stories we are telling’. “Also being able to fearlessly approach stories and ideas,” adds Chadha. In what would be a radical move of sorts, both Talati and Chadha are keen on having an all-female crew for the film. “This is a coming-of age story of a girl and it has a lot to do with her gender, her space in her school, and her relationship with her mother. There have been times when I have wished that there were only women on a set, and I have been on sets where, apart from the actors, the only women were hairdressers.” Playing producer Turning producer brings with it a whole new world of challenges, one that Chadha is prepared for. “Both Ali and I have seen the struggles, so we wanted to do our homework right and tick all the boxes in terms of what we have always wished for. This could be something as simple as writers and directors getting their due and more of a star status. Girls Will Be Girls has been in development for over two years. We’ve worked on the script, done the casting right, and applied for grants.” While Chadha and Fazal have worked together in the past, this is their first experience of partnering on a venture. “It’s all very new right now but I am looking forward to it. He’s a smart guy who knows his mind, our aesthetics match and we’ve both done the grind. I don’t think there’s any place for ego in our relationship, but I do anticipate some amount of creative disagreements. It’s natural,” she says. Another new experience for Chadha has been writing a film script. While she doesn’t share details of the story, the actor describes the experience of writing as ‘surreal and interesting’. “I started about five years ago and I had a male writing partner. Again, this was an area that I didn’t have a lot of confidence in. I remember being always worried if he’d feel bad if I had a counterpoint. Again, it’s something I no longer worry about.” In Chadha’s words A non-film commitment that Chadha is hoping to complete this year is a book of ‘personal essays that examine the long-term effects of colonialism’ for Penguin. “I’ve written close to 30,000 words, which includes interviews with people and all the research. But now, when I read what I have written, it doesn’t feel right because I have changed — my belief systems or understanding of body positivity, feminism or the industry isn’t what it used to be. So, I am very confused about whether I should go back and rewrite.” Whatever her decision, Chadha is mindful of not wanting to be ‘just another Bollywood acquisition for a publishing firm’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fierce-and/article36661236.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The descendants||“The producers actually asked if I’m ‘100% Indian’,” recalls Sujata Day about an unfortunate audition experience for a major sitcom in 2018. The actor-filmmaker, along with four other Indian-American actors, was vying for the role of the fiancée of one of the show’s lead characters. “In response to the producers’ query of my ethnicity, I said, ‘My parents are from Kolkata and I speak fluent Bengali, so yes.’ But the fact that I had to defend my Indianness was very strange. I know I didn’t book the role because I clearly didn’t look ‘Indian enough’ to them.” Day, during a video call with The Hindu Weekend , shakes her head as she talks about the then-and-now of South Asian representation in western film spaces. But the 37-year-old is not alone in her views of a culturally-stagnant cinema industry in the West. The industry boxed its South Asian actors and filmmakers into what they deemed acceptable. But in the past five years, creatives have continually expressed their dissent, announcing on social media, as well as during roundtables, protests and even stand-up routines that they are tired of the ‘identikit Indian’ roles. More South Asian-origin actors, such as Dev Patel, Janina Gavankar, Rahul Kohli, Geraldine Viswanathan, Utkarsh Ambudkar, Kuhoo Verma, and Anya Chalotra, are shunning reductive roles in favour of fully-rounded characters that had long been reserved for only a few actors of colour. For example, in Hulu’s Plan B , Verma’s portrayal as a sexually-curious teen who has to come to terms with the reproductive rights in her conservative state of South Dakota as she tries to purchase Plan B resonated with many women of colour. Prior to this, Indian girls were the one-dimensional personification of purity culture across western cinema. More recently, Dev Patel’s casting as the historically assumed-white Sir Gawain in The Green Knight turned the tables on the scope of open ethnicities.  Creating a community  The changes, however, are slow and not simultaneous; some generations of creatives will reap the rewards of those who have toiled for years in the murky industry. Things now could be looking up for casting as well as attention to details in South Asian roles and script. In Disney Channel’sSpin, Avantika Vandanapu plays a young Gujarati high school student who is an ace coder and who, through a happenstance crush on a boy at school, discovers and nurtures talent for DJing. Vandanapu’s Telugu roots have seen her appear in 2015’s Brahmotsavam alongside Mahesh Babu and 2016’s Premam with Naga Chaitanya and Shruti Haasan. The 16-year-old says her auditioning process for Spin was a far cry from the horror stories minority actors have experienced, and she owes it all to their resistance and perseverance over the years. “From the moment I saw the script, I was so glad Disney had not generalised the Indian ethnicity, but had narrowed on the specificities of the Gujarati culture,” she says. “Seeing an Indian girl written as someone who is comfortable in her identity rather than having an identity crisis was exciting.” Of course, Vandanapu understands identity conflicts are a prevalent matter, but she hopes it is not the only narrative for people of the Indian diaspora.  To be or not to be Indian  The identity struggle is never easily reconciled. Take that episode of The Mindy Project where Mindy (Mindy Kaling) goes on a date with the ‘ideal Indian man’ but he, unimpressed by her lack of knowledge about India, says he “could never date a coconut — brown on the outside, white on the inside”. This lights a flare to the tough dichotomy the diaspora tackles every day while forging their identity; embracing their surrounding culture and holding onto tradition. Some address this by not taking on the ‘Indian-origin’ tag. Kuhoo Verma — who starred in Kumail Nainjani’s The Big Sick and Hulu comedy Plan B — identifies as a woman of colour, as her family moved to the United States from South India, but prefers to be known as ‘just an actor’ in the industry.  On their own terms  Meanwhile, actors and filmmakers such as Nik Dodani, Sujata Day and Kiran Deol are also taking matters into their own hands — by either creating their own support structures for South Asian actors or producing their own films and taking them to international stages such as the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF). One of the happy results is The Salon, co-founded in 2019 byAtypicalandEscape Roomactor Dodani, along with Bash Naran and Vinny Chhibber. “It started out as an informal way for us to connect,” says the 27-year-old. “Vinny, Bash and I were chatting and we found we all knew different folks in the South Asian film industry but not everyone knew everyone. For the first year, our goal was to just get people in the same room, to have the most basic form of community. Our vision is to help the next generation of South Asian talent. This industry is white-dominated, and the Black and Latinx communities in Hollywood have organised and supported each other in ways that are so inspiring; we hope to replicate that.” Day is not blind to the industry’s flaws either, one of the most prominent being its unwillingness to change. “Green-lighters in the film community were, and still are, slow, but now we are giving ourselves the green light,” she says. So, the filmmaker pooled her money and directed, wrote and starred in comedy-drama Definition Please , which has been a favourite on the festival circuit in the US, having won ‘Outstanding Directorial Debut for a Feature Film’ at the South Asian Film Festival in America, and Best Narrative Feature at CAAMFest. Toldthrough the Indian female gaze, the indie film follows an Indian-origin woman who is living in the past glory of her spelling bee champion days while trying to move forward and dealing with her grief-stricken family. The film, which also stars Ritesh Rajan, succinctly explores themes of female friendships, familial pressures, mental health, and toxic masculinity in the Indian community.  Money talks  Having travelled to many film festivals when it came out in 2017, Day’s eight-minute short, Cowboy and Indian (a drama-thriller about a Bengali bride who collapses in the street and is rescued by a cowboy) is now being made into a television series — made possible by a South Asian film executive reaching out to her. “It absolutely matters who’s also buying stories for production. We need representation there too!” she says. Agreeing with her, actor-filmmaker Kiran Deol elaborates, “I feel like funding for filmmakers is always the 21-million-dollar question. This is true for folks of any colour trying to get their projects made.” A growing space that is increasingly getting more funding is book-to-screen adaptations. Diksha Basu’s Destination Wedding , which was shortlisted for the Wodehouse Prize, is currently being adapted to a series. Meanwhile, Rakesh Satyal and Dodani have long been working on an adaptation of Satyal’s 2009 bestseller Blue Boy , which tells the story of a young gay Indian-American boy who is bullied through his school years. For the film, Dodani turns screenwriter. “We’re trying to find the right home and financing for it. We want to make sure it’s done right and gets the right budget and talent,” he says. So, while many creatives are all-too-happy to bid goodbye to ‘brownface’, casting appropriation and tokenism — as Deol sees it, this farewell is rather fresh — there is still a lot to look forward to and to demand in terms of inclusion. “The changes showcase for me both how far we have come, and how far we have to go,” Deol sums up, adding, “I’d love to get to a place in representation where we have the room to tell extremely specific stories that don’t have to speak for the entire diaspora because there is enough variety in the shows and movies that get airtime, that there is a multiplicity of voices and points of view to choose from.” It will be a frustrating wait for this level of change and some unfortunate barriers are inevitable. But as more creatives of colour vocalise their needs and rights, and also hold studios and casting agencies accountable, things are bound to change. The OTT Problem Continued on page 3  “The conversation around inclusion and equity has been changing for a few years now, but has accelerated immensely after last summer. The Black Lives Movement is directly responsible for that; every community of colour in the US is benefiting from the work the activists have done over the years. The real test, if the industry starts walking the walk, is in the next five to ten years” — Nik Dodani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-descendants/article36661271.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Academy Museum of Motion Pictures: Hollywood’s $482 million museum designed by architect Renzo Piano is making waves before its opening next week. The Los Angeles museum features artefacts (the typewriter from Alfred Hitchcock’sPsycho, the shark fromJaws) and tech exhibits, but also addresses stories of exclusion and discrimination in the industry. academymuseum.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article36661246.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Wendell in Mumbai||Mumbai is now home to the lateWendell Rodricks’ first flagship store, courtesy Purple Style Labs. Alongside personal memorabilia, it features his first-ever jewellery collection and the latest capsule, Reminiscence, comprising shirts, dresses,kunbiandmundutextiles. Rs. 2,000 onwards on wendellrodricks.com Tomorrow, stay tuned for the launch ofOnitsuka Tiger’s Spring/Summer 2022 collection at the ongoing Milan Fashion Week. onitsukatiger.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/wendell-in-mumbai/article36661248.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from the sea||Bengaluru-based Amrut Distilleries — that gave us the iconic Fusion, Spectrum, Naarangi and Amalgam single malts — has now unveiled a new umbrella brand, ‘Single Malts of India’. The aim, they say, is to showcase India’s ‘hidden gem malts’. The first chapter of this release ‘Neidhal’ is all set to be a limited collection of 12,000 bottles (Rs. 5,900 each). Slotted for a worldwide release, only 1,200 are allocated for domestic sales in Bengaluru.  amrutdistilleries.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/notes-from-the-sea/article36661250.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||When Oprah talks||In the latest episode of wellness expert Deepak Chopra's podcast ‘Mind Body Zone: Living Outside The Box’,Oprah Winfreyopens up about her past challenges, personal shortcomings, and dealing with the pandemic. Steaming on audible.com. Also, Instagram and Facebook’s upcoming 2021 edition ofCreator Daywill feature virtual sessions for new and upcoming creators. Includes brand launches, masterclasses, a conversation with rapper Badshah, and more. On September 30. creatordayindia.splashthat.com/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/when-oprah-talks/article36661252.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||F1 2021 reaches Russia: After 14 races, it’s time for the 2021 Russian Grand Prix in Sochi Autodrome this weekend. All eyes are on Max Verstappen and Lewis Hamilton — the duo is separated by just five points in the race for the driver’s title. Meanwhile, Fernando Alonso has spoken out against the F1 Sprint Race concept trialled at Silverstone and Monza, calling it an unnecessary change. formula1.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article36661254.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweet monsoon stops||Chowman has opened a new dine-in space at Kalyan Nagar, Bengaluru. They have a special menu for the IPL season ‘Match Mania’ and diners get 50% off on the final bill. For details, call 18008902150. The iconic French pâtisserieLaduree’s India debutat New Delhi’s chic Khan Market is lighting up social media. Sprawled across 1,800 sq ft, it has the popular double-decker macarons and 12 other flavours, candies and teas. @ladureeindia on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sweet-monsoon-stops/article36661255.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Over to the artists||The children’s literary fest is back. The 2021 edition of theNeev Book Awardthis afternoon will include a keynote address by author Ruskin Bond, and panel discussions with the shortlisted authors. 3 pm on neevliteraturefestival.org In time for Navratri, the National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) will host‘Stories from the Womb’, a virtual storytelling session by dancer Anita Ratnam. September 30, 4 pm. Rs. 1,000. 8879114939||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/over-to-the-artists/article36661257.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Hammer down||Paintings, drawings, sculptures, and installations by 87 contemporary artists including Bharti Kher, Ravinder Reddy, and Rana Begum will be up for auction atAstaGuru’s ‘Present Future’. A total of 120 lots will be on offer at India’s ‘largest contemporary art auction’. September 28, 29 on astaguru.com. Come November, and theChristie’s Rare Watches Auctionwill feature the rare Rolex Experimental Deep Sea Special N°1 that made the first dive attached to Auguste Piccard’s bathyscaphe Trieste in 1953. November 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/hammer-down/article36661259.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Chiming in NYC||Watch majorJaeger-LeCoultrecelebrated the American debut of The Sound Maker exhibition in New York City this week. It has a curated selection of the earliest of the Manufacture LeCoultre's chiming masterworks. Also, Questlove of The Roots has curated a Spotify playlist. Till October 5. thesoundmakernyc.com. Elevenartists including Sarah Singh and Gigi Scaria have come together for‘Poetry of Lived Spaces’, a photography exhibition curated by Georgina Maddox. Until March 2022. artspeaksindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/chiming-in-nyc/article36661261.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Ban the ban||Dear parents, Let’s start with how much you love me. (No, I haven’t broken anything). Remember also how you’ve lectured me on ‘destructive foreign influences’. Finally, I see your wisdom. Let’s take this Made-in-China ban on online gaming. We shouldn’t let it get anywhere near us, and here’s why:  Money: Remember how Uncle crashed his car and spent lakhs of rupees in hospital bills and repairs? And in lawyer fees to the wife driving the car, who was not his (the wife, not the car). When I crash my car (a million-dollar model which I paid nothing for) I lose a few points in my racer ranking. Thank me for money I’m saving you and in tearful gratitude, offer to buy me the new console.     Health: Dads, across the globe, tell tall stories of childhoods spent climbing taller trees, and how healthy that was. You, Dad, fell off a fruit tree and broke your nose. Sorry! But that’s not so healthy. Mum says your broken nose has turned you selectively deaf too. Now, I will avoid fruit, trees, fruit trees and marital disputes. Mainly, of course, because I will never get married. But my future partner and I will spend hours side by side, happily gaming online, breaking off only to happily chat – online, too. Noses won’t enter the picture, except to support the thick spectacles we will have by then.     Success: Look at the awesome skills I’m building. I’m so competitive, Elon Musk will look out from his rocket to see mine shooting past him in outer space. I will win since I’ve already played space zombie gadzillion times online. Next, look at my focus towards a goal. Mum screams, the doorbell rings, my baby bro swallows a worm, the upstairs neighbour falls through the roof (oh, that may have been an ad), and I’m still at my game.     Happiness: You parents swear you want us to be happy. You aren’t, though. Mum, you watch hours of web series, sobbing through most. Dad’s shows have so much bloodshed that they’re sponsoring the ketchup industry. On the other hand, I’m always so happy to game that Dad says I’m turning into a vegetable. Mum, you should approve, you’re always going on about how great vegetables are. If you’re still going to complain about screen time and its disastrous effects, let me surprise you — and agree. I hereby refuse to sit for another online class. Let’s ban school.  Where Jane De Suza, the   author ofHappily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ban-the-ban/article36661296.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||U nited K ingdom||Creating new routines: “In my daughter’s school, they staggered start times for different year groups [instead of the 8.20 am start, they began from 7.30 am all the way until 9.15 am, which also meant a staggered finish]. They also staggered the lunch hour so everybody would not be in the cafeteria at the same time,” says London-based Smriti Jha, executive director, Morgan Stanley, and mum to a 15-year-old. “All the children have been given rapid antigen test kits that they are required to take at home every Sunday and Wednesday,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/u-nited-k-ingdom/article36661323.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind Bulgari’s wedding gift||Bulgari, the Rome-based jewellery company, recently unveiled its first India-specific product offering alongside brand ambassador Priyanka Chopra Jonas. The 18k gold necklace is a mangalsutra with five discs, set with black onyx and pavé diamonds. With this, the brand, which first entered India in 2014, when single brand retail was permitted, is laying out its ambitious intentions for a market where traditional jewellery dominates. In an exclusive interview with The Hindu Weekend , jewellery director Mauro di Roberto, a 42-year veteran of Bulgari, explained why the brand is betting big on India, which has long been a source of important gemstones for the company. In fact, the large gem on the recent eye-popping 93-carat emerald necklace sported by actor Zendaya at the Venice Film Festival was sourced in Jaipur. Now, the brand hopes to court the well-heeled Indian, someone who doesn’t mind paying global prices for luxurious designs. As Roberto says, Lucia Silvestri, Bulgari’s creative director (and self-declared ‘gem hunter’) adores India. So it’s befitting that they attempt to make inroads here. Edited excerpts from the interview:  What was the idea behind introducing a  mangalsutra  as Bulgari’s first India inspired and specific offering?   The project is very dear to us because it encapsulates our DNA [while] trying to integrate the Indian aspects of the product. The mangalsutra has an important meaning for the Indian woman [because it symbolises] the sacred bond between two persons. There is also a value behind the gesture of receiving a gift for the wedding. We believe [ours] is a contemporary way of looking at a mangalsutra.   There has been some criticism on the choice of the  mangalsutra  , which some view as a patriarchal symbol, as the first product for India.    Bulgari has always professed the independence of the woman. We do believe the connotation is a contemporary one, where a jewel can be purchased by the woman. When we look at our creativity, we can agree that it is jewellery that is meant to be purchased by the person going to wear it, not necessarily to be given as a gift.  It is a North Indian design . What was taken into consideration for the design, especially with our varied religions and cultures?    The concept was to have discs [the origins of which are antique coins] with the Bulgari logo, and beads, which are more integrated to Indian culture. This is what went into the working, to evaluate a product that can work for the local community.  You said it took several years to come up with the design.    It took three years. We usually do not make special products for specific countries. This was an important project, [and it was] not easy. We needed to be able to present the local experience, but also personalise it. For us, when we put the logo on a product, it is an important form of personalisation, but also whoever wears that jewel has a certain type of independence and freedom.  With Priyanka Chopra Jonas as brand ambassador and this offering, there is greater focus on the Indian market.      We know India’s huge potentiality as a market. But we also know the difficulties in capturing the market. The fact that India comes from a historical and cultural value in jewellery. The reality is that today many Indians buy outside of the country. And because Indians have an important tradition of jewellery, they know how to give value to the artists, the craftsmanship, the value of the gems, the design. And the young [generation] is much more exposed through social media. So we are quite bullish on the Indian market.     Bulgari unveiled Magnifica in June, a fabulous collection of 350 spectacular jewels. It included 60 jewels valued at over €1 million each. Does this reflect confidence in the future?    In different parts of the world, there’s been important growth in jewellery, especially post pandemic. I am talking from September 2020 onwards. We are not travelling as much as we did, so there has to be other ways to spend. Are we bullish? We are. But when we talk of high jewellery, we are talking about jewels that are unique. When it comes to one-of-a-kind pieces, our creativity begins when Lucia [Silvestri] finds a unique stone; that’s when the idea comes to make the product. Like the Spinel necklace or the Serpenti [from the Magnifica collection] worn by Zendaya. You won’t have a client for all these products, but what you do have is the opportunity to create a jewel that is unique and will remain in history.  Indian men have been wearing jewellery for centuries. Do you envision introducing more unisex or gender fluid offerings?    We need to consider a much wider market in general. Jewellery can be worn by different types of people. Our creativity is such that it allows us to play beyond women. The B.zero1 or Serpenti have been worn by men and transgender [people]. We don’t believe we need to tweak our jewellery or revise our strategy because we believe the design and colours cater to different segments of clients.  Two years ago, the house re-acquired an iconic necklace that became the inspiration for the Barocko necklace.    Looking back at our heritage is extremely strategic. The creativity we come up with tomorrow would be much better if there’s an inspiration to our history, which is 130 years old. Watch Gayatri Rangachari Shah in conversation with Mauro di Roberto on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/behind-bulgaris-wedding-gift/article36661325.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||London film fest returns||After all the excitement of festivals past, the British Film Institute London Film Festival is always a comforting autumn blanket with a range of discoveries to choose from. Top of my list is the western The Harder They Fall , which opens the festival on October 6. It is directed by Londoner Jeymes Samuel, projected by Netflix’s Ted Sarandos as one of the brightest talents to watch, and boasts of a cast including Idris Elba and Regina King. The Bard is very much in evidence with the festival’s closing film, The Tragedy of Macbeth , starring Frances McDormand and Denzel Washington and directed by one half of the brothers Coen, Joel. There are other galas aplenty, but I’ve already seen all of them elsewhere, which gives me the opportunity to do a proper deep dive into the festival programme. Sadie Frost’s directorial debut, Quant , on the life and legacy of 1960s British fashion icon Mary Quant, promises to be a riveting watch and hopefully Quant herself, who is 91, will make an appearance at the screening. Like Quant , another best of British film promises to be The Phantom of the Open , starring Mark Rylance, Sally Hawkins and Rhys Ifans. Rylance plays a terrible golfer who secures a place in the 1976 British Open qualifying round. Welsh-language horror, The Feast, is a project I’ve been tracking for a while and I can’t wait to watch the film, which promises a ‘dinner party from hell.’ Another British horror, Shepherd , is set on a remote Scottish island where all hell promises to break loose. Lest you think I am obsessed with horror, The Wolf Suit sees filmmaker Sam Firth piece together her parents’ relationship in a documentary that deploys a plethora of narrative devices. While on documentaries, 8 Bar - The Evolution of Grime traces the enormous impact that particular kind of electronic music has had in the UK. And The Afterlight is a collage of actors from the early part of film history with one thing in common — they are all deceased. Elsewhere, Debbie Tucker Green’s Ear for Eye , an adaptation of her own stage play about racial injustice in the UK and the US, is particularly relevant, given the times we live in. And so to home — I’ve already watched Rahul Jain’s Invisible Demons at its Cannes world premiere and look forward to watching it again because it is a masterly document of climate change. Prasun Chatterjee’s Two Friends — which was showcased at the Hong Kong Asia Film Financing Forum in 2020 — and Natesh Hegde’s Kannada film Pedro — one of the projects that won Film Bazaar 2019 — are two more to look forward to from India. Then there is Rehana, from Bangladesh; I plan to rewatch this one as well due to its takedown of deeply-entrenched patriarchy anchored by a powerful central performance from Azmeri Haque Badhon.  Rehana is co-produced by Singapore’s Jeremy Chua. The island nation is a cinematic powerhouse and one of my must-watch films from there is the short A Man Trembles by Mark Chua and Lam Li Shuen, produced by Judith Tong. It is set during the Asian Tigers economic crisis of 1998, a period that shaped my formative years. In all, the pickings are rich in London, and I’m there for it fully this year, as travelling to Busan is impractical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/london-film-fest-returns/article36661294.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Yohan Poonawalla’s Salon Privé moment||The first week of the month saw a well-attended lobster luncheon, Pommery champagne and tyre-screeching action at UK’s historic Blenheim Palace. Also known as the ancestral home of Sir Winston Churchill, this country house was the venue for the Salon Prive Concours d’Elegance, one of the world’s leading automotive events. It was also where industrialist Yohan Poonawalla’s trio of cars took home prestigious prizes – from the 1949 Bentley MK VI to the 1927 Rolls-Royce 20HP Tourer by Barker and the 1979 Rolls-Royce Phantom VI. Talking about the 1949 Bentley MK VI, which belonged to Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, the Maharaja of Mysore, and went on to win the Duke of Marlborough Award at Salon Privé, Poonawalla says, “When I bought her 15 years ago, I didn’t know she was the Maharaja of Mysore’s car. She was one of my first Bentleys.” It was only when his team returned with the car and its original build sheet to Pune that he realised its provenance. “She was in another blue and silver colour scheme. This avatar, her original colour scheme, was prepared for the 21 Gun Salute Concours last year in New Delhi.” Speaking to The Hindu Weekend from his office in the UK, Poonawalla recalls how this beauty was restored by Allan Almeida in Viveck Goenka’s restoration workshop in Mumbai and got itself the ‘Rhubarb and Custard car’ nickname. In fine company A collector of cars and watches, Poonawalla is joined by his wife and painter, Michelle, and his two children, at most rare and vintage car shows. “Both my children are involved and I know my collection will be in safe hands,” he says of his large collection in Pune that includes Sir Malcolm Campbell's Phantom II and the Lincoln Continental imported in 1964 by the Vatican for Pope Paul VI’s visit to India. Poonawalla, 49, adds that he focusses on quality not quantity with his collection. Having worked with the country’s leading restorers, including Manvendra Singh of Barwani, Poonawalla says he invests in cars that celebrates India’s rich automotive heritage. Often it is a split-second decision - the 1927 Rolls-Royce 20HP Tourer by Barker, which won the Most Exceptional Coachwork Award at Salon Privé is one example. “Someone happened to send me a picture of it at the Cartier Concours d'Elegance (Rambagh Palace in 2019). I fell in love with the car when I saw those pictures and sent two of my boys there to negotiate and bring it home,” concludes the collector who started an Instagram account for his cars last year. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/yohan-poonawallas-salon-priv-moment/article36661295.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Where it all began: How Ford drove into Madras||There was an air of excitement around the automobile industry in the early 90s. The country had opened up, and India was a huge untapped market stuck with the now vintage car models such as Ambassadors and Premier Padminis. Suzuki, a Japanese company, had set up a joint venture with the government and introduced the Maruti 800 in 1983, which became a super hit ‘affordable, family automobile’ in a car-starved country. Nothing more happened in the next 10 years. Then, in the early 90s, American auto major Ford announced its decision to come to India when the government started allowing joint ventures in the auto sector. Ford tied up with Maharashtra’s Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) and Ford Mahindra was set up. The international manufacturer announced its decision to put up a plant to manufacture locally, and that’s when the fun began. Business journalists began to learn how difficult it was to deal with a large American multinational which followed strict procedures and processes regarding media relations. Information came in trickles. Given the tie-up, it was assumed that Ford would put up their factory in Maharashtra. The company shortlisted three probable locations: Pune, Gurgaon and Madras. Madras had a strong auto component industry, a trained workforce, engineers, and a port. The city already had commercial vehicles, two-wheeler and tractor companies, among others, and a strong ecosystem was in place. Although the industry knew Madras was a good choice, the rest of the country could not believe sleepy Madras stood a chance. The city did not have an industry-friendly image. Tamil Nadu was seen as a corrupt state, though this was far from the truth. J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister when Ford made its entry. She understood that getting Ford to come to Madras was not only prestigious, but would also create jobs, and downstream industries. She impressed the various teams which trooped in from Dearborn, Michigan (Ford’s headquarters) to her office in Madras, having facts and figures at her fingertips. She was punctual, spoke fluent English, and served refreshments in the best bone China available. Poor Manohar Joshi, Maharashtra’s CM, was no match for her. Ford sent a 200-query questionnaire covering every aspect of Madras imaginable. The site chosen had to pass 40 parameters — for example, they did not want any other industry within 20 kilometers of their factory (to avoid dust pollution at their ultra-modern paint shop). There were tough negotiations for a year, but the Tamil Nadu government worked everything out and Ford came to Madras. When the MOU was signed there was a celebratory dinner, and I was one of the privileged few to get an invitation. I asked John Parker, the managing director of Ford Mahindra what he thought of the newcomer Hyundai, the South Korean auto manufacturer, who was also coming to the city sans the fanfare. He looked amused. “You guys may get along better with them,” he said. Parker did not know how prescient he was.  The writer is a journalist and author.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/where-it-all-began-how-ford-drove-into-madras/article36661308.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||‘It was awkward and surreal’||One of the best parts of Mumbai Diaries 26/11 , Amazon Prime Video’s new thriller — set during the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks — is Tina Desai’s character Ananya Ghosh. Her role is based on several members of the Taj hospitality team, whose courage showcased when under fire and the ‘guests first’ culture later became the subject of aHarvard Business Reviewstudy. “It’s challenging when you have to recreate a situation that caused so many people a huge amount of trauma in real life,” says Desai, who was also seen in Netflix’s science fiction showSense8. “While shooting the segments set at the Taj, I was admiring the sets, the design, but at the same time I had to remind myself that this actually happened, that people actually died. It was awkward and surreal and we knew we had to be as true to the real-life sequence of incidents as possible,” she says.      Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/it-was-awkward-and-surreal/article36661289.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||fierce and||There was no big a-ha moment but sometime over the last few years, Richa Chadha realised that she did not care about others’ opinion of her choices. And this applies to different facets of her life. “I am less afraid to embrace my own whimsy, to write a book or get into production,” the actor and newly-minted producer explains. While she was never short on confidence, this new attitude has helped the 34-year-old stand up a little taller. “I’ve had people who I knew on Gangs of Wasseypur (2012) tell me to my face that they didn’t expect me to last in the industry. I don’t know if they realised how offensive they were being but I just didn’t care.” In the decade plus years that she’s been in the movies, not only has Chadha survived but she’s positively thriving. Her latest long-format offering, Voot Select’s Candy , a psychological whodunit set in the hills, is getting favourable reviews for her role as a cop. The third season of Amazon Prime’s Inside Edge will drop soon and she is shooting for The Six Suspects, which is based on Vikas Swaroop’s bestseller and is directed by Tigmanshu Dhulia. There is also Fukrey 3 that will go on the floors soon and Anubhav Sinha’s Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hua Hai . Film projects aside, there is the production house Pushing Buttons Studios where she’s partnered with her real-life partner Ali Fazal. Their first film, Girl Will Be Girls is an Indo-French production to be directed by her long-time friend and director, Shuchi Talati. The film’s script has already been a part of the Berlinale Script Station, the Jerusalem Script Lab, and the recently-concluded Gotham Week. An all-female crew The inception of Pushing Buttons was triggered not just by Chadha’s new boost of confidence but also ‘wanting more creative control’. “There’s nothing more heart-breaking than watching a film with great potential not go anywhere because it wasn’t edited properly or someone turned out to be a sleazebag,” she says. The couple’s vision for the production house is to bridge ‘the tremendous disconnect between the kind of people we are and the stories we are telling’. “Also being able to fearlessly approach stories and ideas,” adds Chadha. In what would be a radical move of sorts, both Talati and Chadha are keen on having an all-female crew for the film. “This is a coming-of age story of a girl and it has a lot to do with her gender, her space in her school, and her relationship with her mother. There have been times when I have wished that there were only women on a set, and I have been on sets where, apart from the actors, the only women were hairdressers.” Playing producer Turning producer brings with it a whole new world of challenges, one that Chadha is prepared for. “Both Ali and I have seen the struggles, so we wanted to do our homework right and tick all the boxes in terms of what we have always wished for. This could be something as simple as writers and directors getting their due and more of a star status. Girls Will Be Girls has been in development for over two years. We’ve worked on the script, done the casting right, and applied for grants.” While Chadha and Fazal have worked together in the past, this is their first experience of partnering on a venture. Another new experience for Chadha has been writing a film script. While she doesn’t share details of the story, the actor describes the experience of writing as ‘surreal and interesting’. “I started about five years ago and I had a male writing partner. I remember being always worried if he’d feel bad if I had a counterpoint. Again, it’s something I no longer worry about.” In Chadha’s words A non-film commitment that Chadha is hoping to complete this year is a book of ‘personal essays that examine the long-term effects of colonialism’ for Penguin. “I’ve written close to 30,000 words, which includes interviews with people and all the research. But now, when I read what I have written, it doesn’t feel right because I have changed — my belief systems or understanding of body positivity, feminism or the industry isn’t what it used to be. So, I am very confused about whether I should go back and rewrite.” Whatever her decision, Chadha is mindful of not wanting to be ‘just another Bollywood acquisition for a publishing firm’.  Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fierce-and/article36661288.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The descendants||“The producers actually asked if I’m ‘100% Indian’,” recalls Sujata Day about an unfortunate audition experience for a major sitcom in 2018. The actor-filmmaker, along with four other Indian-American actors, was vying for the role of the fiancée of one of the show’s lead characters. “In response to the producers’ query of my ethnicity, I said, ‘My parents are from Kolkata and I speak fluent Bengali, so yes.’ But the fact that I had to defend my Indianness was very strange. I know I didn’t book the role because I clearly didn’t look ‘Indian enough’ to them.” Day, during a video call with The Hindu Weekend , shakes her head as she talks about the then-and-now of South Asian representation in western film spaces. But the 37-year-old is not alone in her views of a culturally-stagnant cinema industry in the West. The industry boxed its South Asian actors and filmmakers into what they deemed acceptable. But in the past five years, creatives have continually expressed their dissent, announcing on social media, as well as during roundtables, protests and even stand-up routines that they are tired of the ‘identikit Indian’ roles. More South Asian-origin actors, such as Dev Patel, Janina Gavankar, Rahul Kohli, Geraldine Viswanathan, Utkarsh Ambudkar, Kuhoo Verma, and Anya Chalotra, are shunning reductive roles in favour of fully-rounded characters that had long been reserved for only a few actors of colour. For example, in Hulu’s Plan B , Verma’s portrayal as a sexually-curious teen who has to come to terms with the reproductive rights in her conservative state of South Dakota as she tries to purchase Plan B resonated with many women of colour. Prior to this, Indian girls were the one-dimensional personification of purity culture across western cinema. More recently, Dev Patel’s casting as the historically assumed-white Sir Gawain in The Green Knight turned the tables on the scope of open ethnicities.  Creating a community  The changes, however, are slow and not simultaneous; some generations of creatives will reap the rewards of those who have toiled for years in the murky industry. Things now could be looking up for casting as well as attention to details in South Asian roles and script. In Disney Channel’sSpin, Avantika Vandanapu plays a young Gujarati high school student who is an ace coder and who, through a happenstance crush on a boy at school, discovers and nurtures talent for DJing. Vandanapu’s Telugu roots have seen her appear in 2015’s Brahmotsavam alongside Mahesh Babu and 2016’s Premam with Naga Chaitanya and Shruti Haasan. The 16-year-old says her auditioning process for Spin was a far cry from the horror stories minority actors have experienced, and she owes it all to their resistance and perseverance over the years. “From the moment I saw the script, I was so glad Disney had not generalised the Indian ethnicity, but had narrowed on the specificities of the Gujarati culture,” she says. “Seeing an Indian girl written as someone who is comfortable in her identity rather than having an identity crisis was exciting.” Of course, Vandanapu understands identity conflicts are a prevalent matter, but she hopes it is not the only narrative for people of the Indian diaspora.  To be or not to be Indian  The identity struggle is never easily reconciled. Take that episode of The Mindy Project where Mindy (Mindy Kaling) goes on a date with the ‘ideal Indian man’ but he, unimpressed by her lack of knowledge about India, says he “could never date a coconut — brown on the outside, white on the inside”. This lights a flare to the tough dichotomy the diaspora tackles every day while forging their identity; embracing their surrounding culture and holding onto tradition. Some address this by not taking on the ‘Indian-origin’ tag. Kuhoo Verma — who starred in Kumail Nainjani’s The Big Sick and Hulu comedy Plan B — identifies as a woman of colour, as her family moved to the United States from South India, but prefers to be known as ‘just an actor’ in the industry.  On their own terms  Meanwhile, actors and filmmakers such as Nik Dodani, Sujata Day and Kiran Deol are also taking matters into their own hands — by either creating their own support structures for South Asian actors or producing their own films and taking them to international stages such as the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF). One of the happy results is The Salon, co-founded in 2019 byAtypicalandEscape Roomactor Dodani, along with Bash Naran and Vinny Chhibber. “It started out as an informal way for us to connect,” says the 27-year-old. “Vinny, Bash and I were chatting and we found we all knew different folks in the South Asian film industry but not everyone knew everyone. For the first year, our goal was to just get people in the same room, to have the most basic form of community. Our vision is to help the next generation of South Asian talent. This industry is white-dominated, and the Black and Latinx communities in Hollywood have organised and supported each other in ways that are so inspiring; we hope to replicate that.” Day is not blind to the industry’s flaws either, one of the most prominent being its unwillingness to change. “Green-lighters in the film community were, and still are, slow, but now we are giving ourselves the green light,” she says. So, the filmmaker pooled her money and directed, wrote and starred in comedy-drama Definition Please , which has been a favourite on the festival circuit in the US, having won ‘Outstanding Directorial Debut for a Feature Film’ at the South Asian Film Festival in America, and Best Narrative Feature at CAAMFest. Toldthrough the Indian female gaze, the indie film follows an Indian-origin woman who is living in the past glory of her spelling bee champion days while trying to move forward and dealing with her grief-stricken family. The film, which also stars Ritesh Rajan, succinctly explores themes of female friendships, familial pressures, mental health, and toxic masculinity in the Indian community.  Money talks  Having travelled to many film festivals when it came out in 2017, Day’s eight-minute short, Cowboy and Indian (a drama-thriller about a Bengali bride who collapses in the street and is rescued by a cowboy) is now being made into a television series — made possible by a South Asian film executive reaching out to her. “It absolutely matters who’s also buying stories for production. We need representation there too!” she says. Agreeing with her, actor-filmmaker Kiran Deol elaborates, “I feel like funding for filmmakers is always the 21-million-dollar question. This is true for folks of any colour trying to get their projects made.” A growing space that is increasingly getting more funding is book-to-screen adaptations. Diksha Basu’s Destination Wedding , which was shortlisted for the Wodehouse Prize, is currently being adapted to a series. Meanwhile, Rakesh Satyal and Dodani have long been working on an adaptation of Satyal’s 2009 bestseller Blue Boy , which tells the story of a young gay Indian-American boy who is bullied through his school years. For the film, Dodani turns screenwriter. “We’re trying to find the right home and financing for it. We want to make sure it’s done right and gets the right budget and talent,” he says. So, while many creatives are all-too-happy to bid goodbye to ‘brownface’, casting appropriation and tokenism — as Deol sees it, this farewell is rather fresh — there is still a lot to look forward to and to demand in terms of inclusion. “The changes showcase for me both how far we have come, and how far we have to go,” Deol sums up, adding, “I’d love to get to a place in representation where we have the room to tell extremely specific stories that don’t have to speak for the entire diaspora because there is enough variety in the shows and movies that get airtime, that there is a multiplicity of voices and points of view to choose from.” It will be a frustrating wait for this level of change and some unfortunate barriers are inevitable. But as more creatives of colour vocalise their needs and rights, and also hold studios and casting agencies accountable, things are bound to change. The OTT Problem Continued on page 3  “The conversation around inclusion and equity has been changing for a few years now, but has accelerated immensely after last summer. The Black Lives Movement is directly responsible for that; every community of colour in the US is benefiting from the work the activists have done over the years. The real test, if the industry starts walking the walk, is in the next five to ten years” — Nik Dodani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-descendants/article36661312.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Academy Museum of Motion Pictures: Hollywood’s $482 million museum designed by architect Renzo Piano is making waves before its opening next week. The Los Angeles museum features artefacts (the typewriter from Alfred Hitchcock’sPsycho, the shark fromJaws) and tech exhibits, but also addresses stories of exclusion and discrimination in the industry. academymuseum.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article36661297.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Wendell in Mumbai||Mumbai is now home to the lateWendell Rodricks’ first flagship store, courtesy Purple Style Labs. Alongside personal memorabilia, it features his first-ever jewellery collection and the latest capsule, Reminiscence, comprising shirts, dresses,kunbiandmundutextiles. Rs. 2,000 onwards on wendellrodricks.com Tomorrow, stay tuned for the launch ofOnitsuka Tiger’s Spring/Summer 2022 collection at the ongoing Milan Fashion Week. onitsukatiger.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/wendell-in-mumbai/article36661298.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||At the makers’ market||The biannualBy Hand From the Heartis back today. It features Flames of the Forest’s jewellery, Mumbai’s Woven Traditions, food workshops, a session on coffee appreciation, and more. Hanu Reddy Residences, Poes Garden. 10 am to 8 pm. Also today, a pop-up by holistic living platformElemental Stories. Doodlage, Asa Beauty, Maati, Amazing Greys, are a few participating brands across categories of apparel, skincare, home decor, and organic products. The Folly at Amethyst, Whites Road. 11 am to 8 pm.044 45991633||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/at-the-makers-market/article36661300.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||When Oprah talks||In the latest episode of wellness expert Deepak Chopra's podcast ‘Mind Body Zone: Living Outside The Box’,Oprah Winfreyopens up about her past challenges, personal shortcomings, and dealing with the pandemic. Steaming on audible.com. Also, Instagram and Facebook’s upcoming 2021 edition ofCreator Daywill feature virtual sessions for new and upcoming creators. Includes brand launches, masterclasses, a conversation with rapper Badshah, and more. On September 30. creatordayindia.splashthat.com/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/when-oprah-talks/article36661301.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||F1 2021 reaches Russia: After 14 races, it’s time for the 2021 Russian Grand Prix in Sochi Autodrome this weekend. All eyes are on Max Verstappen and Lewis Hamilton — the duo is separated by just five points in the race for the driver’s title. Meanwhile, Fernando Alonso has spoken out against the F1 Sprint Race concept trialled at Silverstone and Monza, calling it an unnecessary change. formula1.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article36661302.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweet monsoon stops||Pricol Gourmet (Double Roti, Soy Soi) have launchedDelish, a dessert studio in Anna Nagar. Savour tarts, cakes, bonbons and breads. Check out @delish_dessertstudio on Instagram. Meanwhile, iconic French pâtisserieLaduree’s India debutat New Delhi’s chic Khan Market is lighting up social media. Sprawled across 1,800 sq ft, it has the popular double-decker macarons (approx 15,000 sold daily) and 12 other flavours, candies and teas. Prepare to wait in line. @ladureeindia on Instagram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sweet-monsoon-stops/article36661304.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Over to the artists||The children’s literary fest is back. The 2021 edition of theNeev Book Awardthis afternoon will include a keynote address by author Ruskin Bond, and panel discussions with the shortlisted authors. 3 pm on neevliteraturefestival.org In time for Navratri, the National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) will host‘Stories from the Womb’, a virtual storytelling session by dancer Anita Ratnam. September 30, 4 pm. Rs. 1,000. 8879114939||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/over-to-the-artists/article36661305.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Hammer down||Paintings, drawings, sculptures, and installations by 87 contemporary artists including Bharti Kher, Ravinder Reddy, and Rana Begum will be up for auction atAstaGuru’s ‘Present Future’. A total of 120 lots will be on offer at India’s ‘largest contemporary art auction’. September 28, 29 on astaguru.com. Come November, and theChristie’s Rare Watches Auctionwill feature the rare Rolex Experimental Deep Sea Special N°1 that made the first dive attached to Auguste Piccard’s bathyscaphe Trieste in 1953. November 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/hammer-down/article36661306.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Chiming in NYC||Watch majorJaeger-LeCoultrecelebrated the American debut of The Sound Maker exhibition in New York City this week. It has a curated selection of the earliest of the Manufacture LeCoultre's chiming masterworks. Also, Questlove of The Roots has curated a Spotify playlist. Till October 5. thesoundmakernyc.com. Elevenartists including Sarah Singh and Gigi Scaria have come together for‘Poetry of Lived Spaces’, a photography exhibition curated by Georgina Maddox. Until March 2022. artspeaksindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/chiming-in-nyc/article36661307.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Ban the ban||Dear parents, Let’s start with how much you love me. (No, I haven’t broken anything). Remember also how you’ve lectured me on ‘destructive foreign influences’. Finally, I see your wisdom. Let’s take this Made-in-China ban on online gaming. We shouldn’t let it get anywhere near us, and here’s why:  Money: Remember how Uncle crashed his car and spent lakhs of rupees in hospital bills and repairs? And in lawyer fees to the wife driving the car, who was not his (the wife, not the car). When I crash my car (a million-dollar model which I paid nothing for) I lose a few points in my racer ranking. Thank me for money I’m saving you and in tearful gratitude, offer to buy me the new console.     Health: Dads, across the globe, tell tall stories of childhoods spent climbing taller trees, and how healthy that was. You, Dad, fell off a fruit tree and broke your nose. Sorry! But that’s not so healthy. Mum says your broken nose has turned you selectively deaf too. Now, I will avoid fruit, trees, fruit trees and marital disputes. Mainly, of course, because I will never get married. But my future partner and I will spend hours side by side, happily gaming online, breaking off only to happily chat – online, too. Noses won’t enter the picture, except to support the thick spectacles we will have by then.     Success: Look at the awesome skills I’m building. I’m so competitive, Elon Musk will look out from his rocket to see mine shooting past him in outer space. I will win since I’ve already played space zombie gadzillion times online. Next, look at my focus towards a goal. Mum screams, the doorbell rings, my baby bro swallows a worm, the upstairs neighbour falls through the roof (oh, that may have been an ad), and I’m still at my game.     Happiness: You parents swear you want us to be happy. You aren’t, though. Mum, you watch hours of web series, sobbing through most. Dad’s shows have so much bloodshed that they’re sponsoring the ketchup industry. On the other hand, I’m always so happy to game that Dad says I’m turning into a vegetable. Mum, you should approve, you’re always going on about how great vegetables are. If you’re still going to complain about screen time and its disastrous effects, let me surprise you — and agree. I hereby refuse to sit for another online class. Let’s ban school.  Where Jane De Suza, the   author ofHappily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ban-the-ban/article36661336.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Behind Bulgari’s wedding gift||Bulgari, the Rome-based jewellery company, recently unveiled its first India-specific product offering alongside brand ambassador Priyanka Chopra Jonas. The 18k gold necklace is a mangalsutra with five discs, set with black onyx and pavé diamonds. With this, the brand, which first entered India in 2014, when single brand retail was permitted, is laying out its ambitious intentions for a market where traditional jewellery dominates. In an exclusive interview with The Hindu Weekend , jewellery director Mauro di Roberto, a 42-year veteran of Bulgari, explained why the brand is betting big on India, which has long been a source of important gemstones for the company. In fact, the large gem on the 93-carat emerald necklace sported by actor Zendaya at the Venice Film Festival was sourced in Jaipur. Now, the brand hopes to court the well-heeled Indian, someone who doesn’t mind paying global prices for luxurious designs. Edited excerpts from the interview:  Introducing a  mangalsutra  as Bulgari’s first India specific offering.  The project is very dear to us because it encapsulates our DNA [while] trying to integrate the Indian aspects of the product. The mangalsutra has an important meaning for the Indian woman [because it symbolises] the sacred bond between two persons. There is also a value behind the gesture of receiving a gift for the wedding. We believe [ours] is a contemporary way of looking at a mangalsutra.   Is there greater focus on the Indian market?  We know India’s huge potentiality as a market. But we also know the difficulties in capturing the market. The reality is that today many Indians buy outside of the country. And because Indians have an important tradition of jewellery, they know how to give value to the artists, the craftsmanship, the gems, the design. And the young [generation] is much more exposed through social media. So we are quite bullish on the Indian market.  Bulgari unveiled Magnifica in June. It included 60 jewels valued at over €1 million each. Does this reflect confidence in the future?  In different parts of the world, there’s been important growth in jewellery, especially post pandemic. I am talking from September 2020 onwards. We are not travelling as much as we did, so there has to be other ways to spend. When it comes to one-of-a-kind pieces, our creativity begins when Lucia [Silvestri] finds a unique stone. Like the the Serpenti worn by Zendaya. You won’t have a client for all these products, but what you do have is the opportunity to create a jewel that is unique and will remain in history. Watch Gayatri Rangachari Shah in conversation with Mauro di Roberto on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/behind-bulgaris-wedding-gift/article36661335.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Where it all began: How Ford drove into Madras||There was an air of excitement around the automobile industry in the early 90s. The country had opened up, and India was a huge untapped market stuck with the now vintage car models such as Ambassadors and Premier Padminis. Suzuki, a Japanese company, had set up a joint venture with the government and introduced the Maruti 800 in 1983, which became a super hit ‘affordable, family automobile’ in a car-starved country. Nothing more happened in the next 10 years. Then, in the early 90s, American auto major Ford announced its decision to come to India when the government started allowing joint ventures in the auto sector. Ford tied up with Maharashtra’s Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) and Ford Mahindra was set up. The international manufacturer announced its decision to put up a plant to manufacture locally, and that’s when the fun began. Business journalists began to learn how difficult it was to deal with a large American multinational which followed strict procedures and processes regarding media relations. Information came in trickles. Given the tie-up, it was assumed that Ford would put up their factory in Maharashtra. The company shortlisted three probable locations: Pune, Gurgaon and Madras. Madras had a strong auto component industry, a trained workforce, engineers, and a port. The city already had commercial vehicles, two-wheeler and tractor companies, among others, and a strong ecosystem was in place. Although the industry knew Madras was a good choice, the rest of the country could not believe sleepy Madras stood a chance. The city did not have an industry-friendly image. Tamil Nadu was seen as a corrupt state, though this was far from the truth. J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister when Ford made its entry. She understood that getting Ford to come to Madras was not only prestigious, but would also create jobs, and downstream industries. She impressed the various teams which trooped in from Dearborn, Michigan (Ford’s headquarters) to her office in Madras, having facts and figures at her fingertips. She was punctual, spoke fluent English, and served refreshments in the best bone China available. Poor Manohar Joshi, Maharashtra’s CM, was no match for her. Ford sent a 200-query questionnaire covering every aspect of Madras imaginable. The site chosen had to pass 40 parameters — for example, they did not want any other industry within 20 kilometers of their factory (to avoid dust pollution at their ultra-modern paint shop). There were tough negotiations for a year, but the Tamil Nadu government worked everything out and Ford came to Madras. When the MOU was signed there was a celebratory dinner, and I was one of the privileged few to get an invitation. I asked John Parker, the managing director of Ford Mahindra what he thought of the newcomer Hyundai, the South Korean auto manufacturer, who was also coming to the city sans the fanfare. He looked amused. “You guys may get along better with them,” he said. Parker did not know how prescient he was.  The writer is a journalist   and author.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/where-it-all-began-how-ford-drove-into-madras/article36661328.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Yohan Poonawalla’s Salon Privé moment||The first week of the month saw a well-attended lobster luncheon, Pommery champagne and tyre-screeching action at UK’s historic Blenheim Palace. Also known as the ancestral home of Sir Winston Churchill, this country house was the venue for the Salon Prive Concours d’Elegance, one of the world’s leading automotive events. It was also where industrialist Yohan Poonawalla’s trio of cars took home prestigious prizes – from the 1949 Bentley MK VI to the 1927 Rolls-Royce 20HP Tourer by Barker and the 1979 Rolls-Royce Phantom VI. Talking about the 1949 Bentley MK VI, which belonged to Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, the Maharaja of Mysore, and went on to win the Duke of Marlborough Award at Salon Privé, Poonawalla says, “When I bought her 15 years ago, I didn’t know she was the Maharaja of Mysore’s car. She was one of my first Bentleys.” It was only when his team returned with the car and its original build sheet to Pune that he realised its provenance. “She was in another blue and silver colour scheme. This avatar, her original colour scheme, was prepared for the 21 Gun Salute Concours last year in New Delhi.” Speaking to The Hindu Weekend from his office in the UK, Poonawalla recalls how this beauty was restored by Allan Almeida in Viveck Goenka’s restoration workshop in Mumbai and got itself the ‘Rhubarb and Custard car’ nickname. In fine company A collector of cars and watches, Poonawalla is joined by his wife and painter, Michelle, and his two children, at most rare and vintage car shows. “Both my children are involved and I know my collection will be in safe hands,” he says of his large collection in Pune that includes Sir Malcolm Campbell's Phantom II and the Lincoln Continental imported in 1964 by the Vatican for Pope Paul VI’s visit to India. He, 49, adds that he focusses on quality not quantity with his collection. Having worked with the country’s leading restorers, including Manvendra Singh of Barwani, Poonawalla says he invests in cars that celebrate India’s rich automotive heritage. Often it is a split-second decision - the 1927 Rolls-Royce 20HP Tourer by Barker, which won the Most Exceptional Coachwork Award at Salon Privé is one example. “Someone happened to send me a picture of it at the Cartier Concours d'Elegance (Rambagh Palace in 2019). I fell in love with the car when I saw those pictures and sent two of my boys there to negotiate and bring it home,” concludes the collector who started an Instagram account for his cars last year. Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/yohan-poonawallas-salon-priv-moment/article36661334.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||fierce and||There was no big a-ha moment but sometime over the last few years, Richa Chadha realised that she did not care about others’ opinion of her choices. And this applies to different facets of her life. “I am less afraid to embrace my own whimsy, to write a book or get into production. I want to chart my own growth and create my own opportunities,” the actor and newly-minted producer explains. While she was never short on confidence, this new attitude has helped the 34-year-old stand up a little taller. “I’ve had people who I knew on Gangs of Wasseypur (2012) tell me to my face that they didn’t expect me to last in the industry. I don’t know if they realised how offensive they were being but I just didn’t care.” In the decade plus years that she’s been in the movies, not only has Chadha survived but she’s positively thriving. Her latest long-format offering alongside Ronit Roy, Voot Select’s Candy , a psychological whodunit set in the hills, is getting favourable reviews for her role as a cop. The third season of Amazon Prime’s Inside Edge will drop soon and she is shooting for The Six Suspects, which is based on Vikas Swaroop’s bestseller and is directed by Tigmanshu Dhulia. There is also Fukrey 3 that will go on the floors soon and Anubhav Sinha’s Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hua Hai . Film projects aside, there is the production house Pushing Buttons Studios where she’s partnered with her real-life partner Ali Fazal. Their first film, Girl Will Be Girls is an Indo-French production to be directed by her friend and director, Shuchi Talati. The film’s script has already been a part of the Berlinale Script Station, the Jerusalem Script Lab, and the recently-concluded Gotham Week. An all-female crew The inception of Pushing Buttons was triggered not just by Chadha’s new boost of confidence but also ‘wanting more creative control’. “There’s nothing more heart-breaking than watching a film with great potential not go anywhere because it wasn’t edited properly or someone turned out to be a sleazebag,” she says. The couple’s vision for the production house is to bridge ‘the tremendous disconnect between the kind of people we are and the stories we are telling’. “Also being able to fearlessly approach stories and ideas,” adds Chadha. In what would be a radical move of sorts, both Talati and Chadha are keen on having an all-female crew for the film. “This is a coming-of age story of a girl and it has a lot to do with her gender, her space in her school, and her relationship with her mother. There have been times when I have wished that there were only women on a set, and I have been on sets where, apart from the actors, the only women were hairdressers.” Playing producer Turning producer brings with it a whole new world of challenges, one that Chadha is prepared for. “Both Ali and I have seen the struggles, so we wanted to do our homework right and tick all the boxes in terms of what we have always wished for. This could be something as simple as writers and directors getting their due and more of a star status. Girls Will Be Girls has been in development for over two years. We’ve worked on the script, done the casting right, and applied for grants.” While Chadha and Fazal have worked together in the past, this is their first experience of partnering on a venture. “It’s all very new right now but I am looking forward to it. He’s a smart guy who knows his mind, our aesthetics match and we’ve both done the grind. I don’t think there’s any place for ego in our relationship, but I do anticipate some amount of creative disagreements. It’s natural,” she says. Another new experience for Chadha has been writing a film script. While she doesn’t share details of the story, the actor describes the experience of writing as ‘surreal and interesting’. “I started about five years ago and I had a male writing partner. Again, this was an area that I didn’t have a lot of confidence in. I remember being always worried if he’d feel bad if I had a counterpoint. Again, it’s something I no longer worry about.” In Chadha’s words A non-film commitment that Chadha is hoping to complete this year is a book of ‘personal essays that examine the long-term effects of colonialism’ for Penguin. “I’ve written close to 30,000 words, which includes interviews with people and all the research. But now, when I read what I have written, it doesn’t feel right because I have changed. So, I am very confused about whether I should go back and rewrite.” Whatever her decision, Chadha is mindful of not wanting to be ‘just another Bollywood acquisition for a publishing firm’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fierce-and/article36661327.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The descendants||“The producers actually asked if I’m ‘100% Indian’,” recalls Sujata Day about an unfortunate audition experience for a major sitcom in 2018. The actor-filmmaker, along with four other Indian-American actors, was vying for the role of the fiancée of one of the show’s lead characters. “In response to the producers’ query of my ethnicity, I said, ‘My parents are from Kolkata and I speak fluent Bengali, so yes.’ But the fact that I had to defend my Indianness was very strange. I know I didn’t book the role because I clearly didn’t look ‘Indian enough’ to them.” Day, during a video call with The Hindu Weekend , shakes her head as she talks about the then-and-now of South Asian representation in western film spaces. But the 37-year-old is not alone in her views of a culturally-stagnant cinema industry in the West. The industry boxed its South Asian actors and filmmakers into what they deemed acceptable. But in the past five years, creatives have continually expressed their dissent, announcing on social media, as well as during roundtables, protests and even stand-up routines that they are tired of the ‘identikit Indian’ roles. More South Asian-origin actors, such as Dev Patel, Janina Gavankar, Rahul Kohli, Geraldine Viswanathan, Utkarsh Ambudkar, Kuhoo Verma, and Anya Chalotra, are shunning reductive roles in favour of fully-rounded characters that had long been reserved for only a few actors of colour. For example, in Hulu’s Plan B , Verma’s portrayal as a sexually-curious teen who has to come to terms with the reproductive rights in her conservative state of South Dakota as she tries to purchase Plan B resonated with many women of colour. Prior to this, Indian girls were the one-dimensional personification of purity culture across western cinema. More recently, Dev Patel’s casting as the historically assumed-white Sir Gawain in The Green Knight turned the tables on the scope of open ethnicities.  Creating a community  The changes, however, are slow and not simultaneous; some generations of creatives will reap the rewards of those who have toiled for years in the murky industry. Things now could be looking up for casting as well as attention to details in South Asian roles and script. In Disney Channel’sSpin, Avantika Vandanapu plays a young Gujarati high school student who is an ace coder and who, through a happenstance crush on a boy at school, discovers and nurtures talent for DJing. Vandanapu’s Telugu roots have seen her appear in 2015’s Brahmotsavam alongside Mahesh Babu and 2016’s Premam with Naga Chaitanya and Shruti Haasan. The 16-year-old says her auditioning process for Spin was a far cry from the horror stories minority actors have experienced, and she owes it all to their resistance and perseverance over the years. “From the moment I saw the script, I was so glad Disney had not generalised the Indian ethnicity, but had narrowed on the specificities of the Gujarati culture,” she says. “Seeing an Indian girl written as someone who is comfortable in her identity rather than having an identity crisis was exciting.” Of course, Vandanapu understands identity conflicts are a prevalent matter, but she hopes it is not the only narrative for people of the Indian diaspora.  To be or not to be Indian  The identity struggle is never easily reconciled. Take that episode of The Mindy Project where Mindy (Mindy Kaling) goes on a date with the ‘ideal Indian man’ but he, unimpressed by her lack of knowledge about India, says he “could never date a coconut — brown on the outside, white on the inside”. This lights a flare to the tough dichotomy the diaspora tackles every day while forging their identity; embracing their surrounding culture and holding onto tradition. Some address this by not taking on the ‘Indian-origin’ tag. Kuhoo Verma — who starred in Kumail Nainjani’s The Big Sick and Hulu comedy Plan B — identifies as a woman of colour, as her family moved to the United States from South India, but prefers to be known as ‘just an actor’ in the industry.  On their own terms  Meanwhile, actors and filmmakers such as Nik Dodani, Sujata Day and Kiran Deol are also taking matters into their own hands — by either creating their own support structures for South Asian actors or producing their own films and taking them to international stages such as the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF). One of the happy results is The Salon, co-founded in 2019 byAtypicalandEscape Roomactor Dodani, along with Bash Naran and Vinny Chhibber. “It started out as an informal way for us to connect,” says the 27-year-old. “Vinny, Bash and I were chatting and we found we all knew different folks in the South Asian film industry but not everyone knew everyone. For the first year, our goal was to just get people in the same room, to have the most basic form of community. Our vision is to help the next generation of South Asian talent. This industry is white-dominated, and the Black and Latinx communities in Hollywood have organised and supported each other in ways that are so inspiring; we hope to replicate that.” Day is not blind to the industry’s flaws either, one of the most prominent being its unwillingness to change. “Green-lighters in the film community were, and still are, slow, but now we are giving ourselves the green light,” she says. So, the filmmaker pooled her money and directed, wrote and starred in comedy-drama Definition Please , which has been a favourite on the festival circuit in the US, having won ‘Outstanding Directorial Debut for a Feature Film’ at the South Asian Film Festival in America, and Best Narrative Feature at CAAMFest. Toldthrough the Indian female gaze, the indie film follows an Indian-origin woman who is living in the past glory of her spelling bee champion days while trying to move forward and dealing with her grief-stricken family. The film, which also stars Ritesh Rajan, succinctly explores themes of female friendships, familial pressures, mental health, and toxic masculinity in the Indian community.  Money talks  Having travelled to many film festivals when it came out in 2017, Day’s eight-minute short, Cowboy and Indian (a drama-thriller about a Bengali bride who collapses in the street and is rescued by a cowboy) is now being made into a television series — made possible by a South Asian film executive reaching out to her. “It absolutely matters who’s also buying stories for production. We need representation there too!” she says. Agreeing with her, actor-filmmaker Kiran Deol elaborates, “I feel like funding for filmmakers is always the 21-million-dollar question. This is true for folks of any colour trying to get their projects made.” A growing space that is increasingly getting more funding is book-to-screen adaptations. Diksha Basu’s Destination Wedding , which was shortlisted for the Wodehouse Prize, is currently being adapted to a series. Meanwhile, Rakesh Satyal and Dodani have long been working on an adaptation of Satyal’s 2009 bestseller Blue Boy , which tells the story of a young gay Indian-American boy who is bullied through his school years. For the film, Dodani turns screenwriter. “We’re trying to find the right home and financing for it. We want to make sure it’s done right and gets the right budget and talent,” he says. So, while many creatives are all-too-happy to bid goodbye to ‘brownface’, casting appropriation and tokenism — as Deol sees it, this farewell is rather fresh — there is still a lot to look forward to and to demand in terms of inclusion. “The changes showcase for me both how far we have come, and how far we have to go,” Deol sums up, adding, “I’d love to get to a place in representation where we have the room to tell extremely specific stories that don’t have to speak for the entire diaspora because there is enough variety in the shows and movies that get airtime, that there is a multiplicity of voices and points of view to choose from.” It will be a frustrating wait for this level of change and some unfortunate barriers are inevitable. But as more creatives of colour vocalise their needs and rights, and also hold studios and casting agencies accountable, things are bound to change. The OTT Problem Continued on page 3  “The conversation around inclusion and equity has been changing for a few years now, but has accelerated immensely after last summer. The Black Lives Movement is directly responsible for that; every community of colour in the US is benefiting from the work the activists have done over the years. The real test, if the industry starts walking the walk, is in the next five to ten years” — Nik Dodani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-descendants/article36661348.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Academy Museum of Motion Pictures: Hollywood’s $482 million museum designed by architect Renzo Piano is making waves before its opening next week. The Los Angeles museum features artefacts (the typewriter from Alfred Hitchcock’sPsycho, the shark fromJaws) and tech exhibits, but also addresses stories of exclusion and discrimination in the industry. academymuseum.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article36661337.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Wendell in Mumbai||Mumbai is now home to the lateWendell Rodricks’ first flagship store, courtesy Purple Style Labs. Alongside personal memorabilia, it features his first-ever jewellery collection and the latest capsule, Reminiscence, comprising shirts, dresses,kunbiandmundutextiles. Rs. 2,000 onwards on wendellrodricks.com Tomorrow, stay tuned for the launch ofOnitsuka Tiger’s Spring/Summer 2022 collection at the ongoing Milan Fashion Week. onitsukatiger.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/wendell-in-mumbai/article36661338.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||When Oprah talks||In the latest episode of wellness expert Deepak Chopra's podcast ‘Mind Body Zone: Living Outside The Box’,Oprah Winfreyopens up about her past challenges, personal shortcomings, and dealing with the pandemic. Steaming on audible.com. Also, Instagram and Facebook’s upcoming 2021 edition ofCreator Daywill feature virtual sessions for new and upcoming creators. Includes brand launches, masterclasses, a conversation with rapper Badshah, and more. On September 30. creatordayindia.splashthat.com/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/when-oprah-talks/article36661339.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Inclusivity on the canvas||Goethe-Zentrum Hyderabad presents a virtual exhibition featuring 12 specially-abled artists in a show titled ‘Art From The Heart.’ A joint effort by four organisations, it features inspiring works from intriguing abstract imagery through acrylic colors to simple portraits. Till October 16 @ Goethe-Zentrum Hyderabad website. 18 Graphic prints from a printmaking art camp conducted at the State Gallery of Art, Hyderabad will be on display as ‘Exhition of Intaglio’ at Chitramayee Gallery, Madhapur till September 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/inclusivity-on-the-canvas/article36661341.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||F1 2021 reaches Russia: After 14 races, it’s time for the 2021 Russian Grand Prix in Sochi Autodrome this weekend. All eyes are on Max Verstappen and Lewis Hamilton — the duo is separated by just five points in the race for the driver’s title. Meanwhile, Fernando Alonso has spoken out against the F1 Sprint Race concept trialled at Silverstone and Monza, calling it an unnecessary change. formula1.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article36661342.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweet stylish steps||If lockdown awakened your inner baker, level up with an advanced decoration-only class? Learn to turn your regular cakes into bespoke designer cakes to satiate your Instagram feed. Arundati Rao teaches you to decorate tall cakes, naked cakes, monogrammed cakes, how to use decorative accents with sails and wafer paper, all while developing your signature style. For fully- vaccinated folks only. September 27 @ Culinary Escapades Studio.Rs. 8,000. For details9959202255||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sweet-stylish-steps/article36661344.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Over to the artists||The children’s literary fest is back. The 2021 edition of theNeev Book Awardthis afternoon will include a keynote address by author Ruskin Bond, and panel discussions with the shortlisted authors. 3 pm on neevliteraturefestival.org In time for Navratri, the National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) will host‘Stories from the Womb’, a virtual storytelling session by dancer Anita Ratnam. September 30, 4 pm. Rs. 1,000. 8879114939||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/over-to-the-artists/article36661345.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Hammer down||Paintings, drawings, sculptures, and installations by 87 contemporary artists including Bharti Kher, Ravinder Reddy, and Rana Begum will be up for auction atAstaGuru’s ‘Present Future’. A total of 120 lots will be on offer at India’s ‘largest contemporary art auction’. September 28, 29 on astaguru.com. Come November, and theChristie’s Rare Watches Auctionwill feature the rare Rolex Experimental Deep Sea Special N°1 that made the first dive attached to Auguste Piccard’s bathyscaphe Trieste in 1953. November 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/hammer-down/article36661346.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Chiming in NYC||Watch majorJaeger-LeCoultrecelebrated the American debut of The Sound Maker exhibition in New York City this week. It has a curated selection of the earliest of the Manufacture LeCoultre's chiming masterworks. Also, Questlove of The Roots has curated a Spotify playlist. Till October 5. thesoundmakernyc.com. Elevenartists including Sarah Singh and Gigi Scaria have come together for‘Poetry of Lived Spaces’, a photography exhibition curated by Georgina Maddox. Until March 2022. artspeaksindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/chiming-in-nyc/article36661347.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The home buyer’s 2021 checklist||While the COVID-19 pandemic’s impact has been greatly felt across all industries, in the real estate sector, it has significantly altered consumer behaviour and preferences. While some of these changes will be fleeting in nature, others will be permanent. In the residential real estate sector, for instance, there is still a great deal of uncertainty around the permanent changes industry players and buyers are likely to witness in the days to come. While long-term structural changes are often only apparent with the luxury of hindsight, one can be certain of a few things, states The Hindu ’s RoofandFloor and JLL’s Homebuyer Preference Survey 2021. Given the multitude of forces at play within the industry and the pandemic catalysing the pace of transformation, the Survey was aimed at understanding how homebuyer preferences have changed (or not) over the course of the last few quarters. Here are its key findings: What are the reasons to purchase a new home? The report reveals that self-use continues to be the primary reason, while investor interest increases in certain markets. Considering everyone was forced to spend an inordinate amount of time in the comfort of their homes during the rigorous lockdowns, it led many to re-evaluate their buying preferences. The period also highlighted the sense of security that comes with having a roof over one’s head. In certain markets like Hyderabad — which have seen a reasonable appreciation in home prices over the last few years — an increasing interest from investors was witnessed as they found this to be an opportune time to strike a good deal with developers. There is also a growing interest in owning larger homes and holiday homes. A majority of the buyers making a home purchase for self-use can be classified into three distinct categories: first-time home buyers, those upgrading to larger or better houses, and clients purchasing a second asset to be used as a holiday home. Over the course of the pandemic, the proportion of buyers in the two latter categories has increased. This is driven by the need for larger spaces to work or study from home and the desire to use the second home as a retreat in the event of future outbreaks Budget and configuration preferences   Increased demand for larger apartments:  Nearly 80% of the prospective home buyers indicated a preference for properties in the sub-Rs. 50 lakh and Rs. 50-Rs. 75 lakh categories. This hasn’t changed much over the course of the pandemic. Nevertheless, the size of the apartment has assumed greater significance and there is a clear preference for larger, more spacious homes. Prospective buyers are showing a greater willingness to relocate to suburban/peripheral markets in order to get larger homes while keeping the budget intact.   Emphasis on floor plans:  In addition to larger homes, prospective buyers are keenly looking into the layout of apartments, the presence of balconies, and an additional room for work/online classes. This trend is more prominent in the cities of Mumbai and Pune where 1BHK and 2BHK are usually the most sought-after configurations.   Connectivity to office and schools no longer dictate home purchase decisions:  The factors and features that a prospective home buyer considers while making a purchase has not changed to a great extent. However, there has been a shuffle in the relative importance of these aspects. Lower density environments, access to open green spaces, healthcare and the size of the apartment have moved up in importance in the decision-making matrix. Developers have also taken cognizance of the changing preferences and are open to customisation in order to suit buyer needs. Additionally, the developer profile now occupies an even more significant position in the decision-making matrix. There is an increased preference and willingness to pay a premium for projects by developers with an established track record.   Changing definitions:  The location of a property has always been and will be one of the most important factors influencing home purchase decisions. Nevertheless, the definition of a ‘great location’ has changed over the course of the pandemic. Earlier, connectivity to office hubs and schools was the primary concern. This has now changed with equal or even greater emphasis being given to features such as access to healthcare and proximity to open spaces such as parks, gardens and green areas. This being said, it is important to note that connectivity to public transport hubs is still an important factor in the decision-making matrix.   Affordable locations attracting buyers:  The Work-From-Home (WFH) phenomenon is here to stay and this has tilted homebuyer preferences towards peripheral sub-markets. Today, prospective buyers are more willing to take up the occasional longer travel to work in exchange for spacious homes at affordable rates in less crowded spaces. Construction status preferences  Ready or underconstruction apartments in demand:Prospective clients continue to prefer ready-to-move-in apartments by reputed developers. However, the ready home inventory by established developers has gone down in certain markets. In such cities, prospective buyers are becoming more open to making purchases in under construction projects by developers with an established track record. This shift is further driven by the fact that the price differential between ready projects and under construction projects has gone up over the past few quarters. Developers are offering more flexibility and price discounts in under construction projects, whereas the price of ready to move in projects by reputed developers has witnessed an uptick. Furthermore, structural reforms within the real estate industry seen over the last few years started the process of weeding out smaller, unorganised developers from the market. The COVID-19 pandemic was the final nail in the coffin as it tilted the scale further in favour of established developers. Most of the new launches, especially during the pandemic months, have been driven by reputed developers. Buying timelines The Survey has stated that prospective buyers are planning on making a purchase within the next three months. Developers have been operating on very thin margins for the past few years, and as the market recovers, reputed players are becoming less flexible in terms of offering price discounts and other benefits to buyers. New clients want to make the most of this ‘great time to buy a house’, with more than 80% of the prospective buyers inclined towards buying a house in the next 3 months. Residential market’s recovery path  Activity levelshave definitely increased, but there is still some way to go before the market reaches pre-COVID levels. This being said, it is important to point out that even though the current business environment and consumer sentiments remain volatile, home buyers remain cautiously optimistic about the future. The recovery process, which started in Q3 2020, was derailed in Q2 2021 because of the second COVID-19 wave. With a majority of the prospective clients expected to make a purchase in the next three months, the residential market is expected to get back on the recovery path and 2021 is likely to end on an optimistic note. New launches are expected to go up in H2 2021 as developers launch new projects in order to monetize their land banks. Moreover, we might even see a reversal in trends with developers launching larger sized houses and apartments in order to capture the changing preferences of consumers in the post-pandemic era. Most of the changes witnessed in the sector have been structural in nature and demand for homes is only expected to increase. Importantly, lockdown restrictions across cities are being eased and the vaccination drive is gaining significant momentum. If the impending Covid-19 wave can be contained and consumer sentiments improve further with the festive season, the sector is expected to make a healthy recovery in the second half of 2021.   In a nutshell   Residential real estate is an enabler of our existence and contrary to popular belief, recovery in the residential sector was quick and more resilient   Post ‘Unlock 1.0’ of 2020, the uptick in residential sales was primarily driven by pent-up demand and the presence of ‘affordable synergy’ in the market  The sustained recovery in the next few quarters and the resilience shown during the second COVID-19 wave are indicative of a fundamental shift in the sentiment towards home ownership   The remote working trend is here to stay and will continue to significantly impact homebuyer preferences  Digital transformation will be the key to staying relevant in the next normal world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-home-buyers-2021-checklist/article36661350.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The beauty of brick cladding||Exposed terracotta buildings always exude a rustic charm. They bring back the feel of traditional earthy architecture that was seen in most parts of the world at some point in time. Exposed bricks also add a distinct character to a structure. Having said that, even if it is not possible to use full wire cut bricks today, a wide range of cladding brick options are available. These are thinner and can be used as a facade on top of other masonry, both for new as well as existing buildings. When it comes to building exteriors, cladding brick is a good option for reasons beyond just aesthetics. Here are a few:  Protectingmain walls from weathering: Brick cladding provides an additional layer of protection for a building from harsh weather conditions such as heat, rain, mold and other pollutants. This then helps prevent cracking and deterioration of the main structure.  Addingstrength and support: The technique provides an additional layer of material adding mass and strength to the existing structure. This is especially useful for older buildings which need additional strength and protection to ensure the main structure lasts longer.  Thermal insulation: Being fairly thick, brick cladding offers a layer of thermal insulation from extreme heat outside, thus keeping the interiors cool and lowering cooling costs.  Low maintenance: Good quality cladding bricks require very little maintenance over time when compared to paint and other coatings. This is one of the reasons why cladding brick has gained popularity in recent times. Most of the kinds of brick cladding only have to be washed to stay looking good. Putting them to use Today, a wide range of terracotta bricks are available in the market. They vary in colour, size and thickness, and the variation in colour is due to the method of firing, manufacturing, and also due to the addition of natural oxides. Handmade bricks for cladding are also available and can be used for a more natural finish. Differing shapes of cladding bricks are manufactured for use in corners and to achieve a distinct aesthetic. It is imperative that utmost care be taken while fixing cladding bricks, to ensure evenness of joints over the facade. Special adhesives can be used for fixing cladding bricks in lieu of cement mortar. Use of adhesives would ensure a clean finish and avoid stains from spillage of cement during fixing.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-beauty-of-brick-cladding/article36661352.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Study on lead pollution||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras and Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur are now working on a study to find out the appropriate policy instruments that can help India to reduce lead pollution. The research groups have joined forces to look collectively at the problem of lead recycling in India as lead pollution not only harms the mental and physical health of people, but contaminates the environment. The experts state that the workers who recycle lead in an informal setting break the lead-acid batteries in a fashion causing spillage of acid and lead dust in the soil and surroundings. Also, the lead is melted in open furnaces due to which poisonous gases reach the air. This way of lead recycling is not only harmful to the environment but also the health workers engaged in the recycling process. However, the low operational cost of this manoeuvre makes it an attractive choice. The presence of the informal sector and its undesirable consequences are more predominant in developing countries where the costs and lenient regulations and laws have helped the unregulated sector to grow at a faster pace, states a press release. Elaborating on the importance of research on lead pollution, Professor R K Amit, Department of Management Studies, IIT Madras, says, “The insufficiency of primary lead sources to satisfy the demand makes the recycling of used batteries necessary. However, the unscientific way of recycling by the unregulated sector poses serious environmental and health threats due to the high amount of lead excretion. We studied to quantitatively assess the impact of different policy instruments on shifting the recycling business from unorganised to the organised sector in India.” The study suggests that policy guidelines such as reducing the tax on the regulated recycling sector and providing subsidies to regulated recycling and re-manufacturing sectors reduce lead pollution from lead-acid battery recycling. Another important finding was that a very high subsidy to the formal re-manufacturing sector can lead to the shutting down of both regulated and unregulated recycling sectors. In their publication, Brahmesh Vinayak Joshi, B Vipin, Janakarajan Ramkumar, R K Amit assessed the impact of policies such as reducing the tax on regulated recyclers, subsidies to organized recyclers and formal battery remanufacturers on the performance of battery recycling to name a few. The researchers used a system dynamics model to explore the implications of economic policies quantitatively on the recycling of used lead-acid batteries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/study-on-lead-pollution/article36661355.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||The home buyer’s 2021 checklist||While the COVID-19 pandemic’s impact has been greatly felt across all industries, in the real estate sector, it has significantly altered consumer behaviour and preferences. While some of these changes will be fleeting in nature, others will be permanent. In the residential real estate sector, for instance, there is still a great deal of uncertainty around the permanent changes industry players and buyers are likely to witness in the days to come. While long-term structural changes are often only apparent with the luxury of hindsight, one can be certain of a few things, states The Hindu ’s RoofandFloor and JLL’s Homebuyer Preference Survey 2021. Given the multitude of forces at play within the industry and the pandemic catalysing the pace of transformation, the Survey was aimed at understanding how homebuyer preferences have changed (or not) over the course of the last few quarters. Here are its key findings: What are the reasons to purchase a new home? The report reveals that self-use continues to be the primary reason, while investor interest increases in certain markets. Considering everyone was forced to spend an inordinate amount of time in the comfort of their homes during the rigorous lockdowns, it led many to re-evaluate their buying preferences. The period also highlighted the sense of security that comes with having a roof over one’s head. In certain markets like Hyderabad — which have seen a reasonable appreciation in home prices over the last few years — an increasing interest from investors was witnessed as they found this to be an opportune time to strike a good deal with developers. There is also a growing interest in owning larger homes and holiday homes. A majority of the buyers making a home purchase for self-use can be classified into three distinct categories: first-time home buyers, those upgrading to larger or better houses, and clients purchasing a second asset to be used as a holiday home. Over the course of the pandemic, the proportion of buyers in the two latter categories has increased. This is driven by the need for larger spaces to work or study from home and the desire to use the second home as a retreat in the event of future outbreaks Budget and configuration preferences   Increased demand for larger apartments:  Nearly 80% of the prospective home buyers indicated a preference for properties in the sub-Rs. 50 lakh and Rs. 50-Rs. 75 lakh categories. This hasn’t changed much over the course of the pandemic. Nevertheless, the size of the apartment has assumed greater significance and there is a clear preference for larger, more spacious homes. Prospective buyers are showing a greater willingness to relocate to suburban/peripheral markets in order to get larger homes while keeping the budget intact.   Emphasis on floor plans:  In addition to larger homes, prospective buyers are keenly looking into the layout of apartments, the presence of balconies, and an additional room for work/online classes. This trend is more prominent in the cities of Mumbai and Pune where 1BHK and 2BHK are usually the most sought-after configurations.   Connectivity to office and schools no longer dictate home purchase decisions:  The factors and features that a prospective home buyer considers while making a purchase has not changed to a great extent. However, there has been a shuffle in the relative importance of these aspects. Lower density environments, access to open green spaces, healthcare and the size of the apartment have moved up in importance in the decision-making matrix. Developers have also taken cognizance of the changing preferences and are open to customisation in order to suit buyer needs. Additionally, the developer profile now occupies an even more significant position in the decision-making matrix. There is an increased preference and willingness to pay a premium for projects by developers with an established track record.   Changing definitions:  The location of a property has always been and will be one of the most important factors influencing home purchase decisions. Nevertheless, the definition of a ‘great location’ has changed over the course of the pandemic. Earlier, connectivity to office hubs and schools was the primary concern. This has now changed with equal or even greater emphasis being given to features such as access to healthcare and proximity to open spaces such as parks, gardens and green areas. This being said, it is important to note that connectivity to public transport hubs is still an important factor in the decision-making matrix.   Affordable locations attracting buyers:  The Work-From-Home (WFH) phenomenon is here to stay and this has tilted homebuyer preferences towards peripheral sub-markets. Today, prospective buyers are more willing to take up the occasional longer travel to work in exchange for spacious homes at affordable rates in less crowded spaces. Construction status preferences  Ready or underconstruction apartments in demand:Prospective clients continue to prefer ready-to-move-in apartments by reputed developers. However, the ready home inventory by established developers has gone down in certain markets. In such cities, prospective buyers are becoming more open to making purchases in under construction projects by developers with an established track record. This shift is further driven by the fact that the price differential between ready projects and under construction projects has gone up over the past few quarters. Developers are offering more flexibility and price discounts in under construction projects, whereas the price of ready to move in projects by reputed developers has witnessed an uptick. Furthermore, structural reforms within the real estate industry seen over the last few years started the process of weeding out smaller, unorganised developers from the market. The COVID-19 pandemic was the final nail in the coffin as it tilted the scale further in favour of established developers. Most of the new launches, especially during the pandemic months, have been driven by reputed developers. Buying timelines The Survey has stated that prospective buyers are planning on making a purchase within the next three months. Developers have been operating on very thin margins for the past few years, and as the market recovers, reputed players are becoming less flexible in terms of offering price discounts and other benefits to buyers. New clients want to make the most of this ‘great time to buy a house’, with more than 80% of the prospective buyers inclined towards buying a house in the next 3 months. Residential market’s recovery path  Activity levelshave definitely increased, but there is still some way to go before the market reaches pre-COVID levels. This being said, it is important to point out that even though the current business environment and consumer sentiments remain volatile, home buyers remain cautiously optimistic about the future. The recovery process, which started in Q3 2020, was derailed in Q2 2021 because of the second COVID-19 wave. With a majority of the prospective clients expected to make a purchase in the next three months, the residential market is expected to get back on the recovery path and 2021 is likely to end on an optimistic note. New launches are expected to go up in H2 2021 as developers launch new projects in order to monetize their land banks. Moreover, we might even see a reversal in trends with developers launching larger sized houses and apartments in order to capture the changing preferences of consumers in the post-pandemic era. Most of the changes witnessed in the sector have been structural in nature and demand for homes is only expected to increase. Importantly, lockdown restrictions across cities are being eased and the vaccination drive is gaining significant momentum. If the impending Covid-19 wave can be contained and consumer sentiments improve further with the festive season, the sector is expected to make a healthy recovery in the second half of 2021.   In a nutshell   Residential real estate is an enabler of our existence and contrary to popular belief, recovery in the residential sector was quick and more resilient   Post ‘Unlock 1.0’ of 2020, the uptick in residential sales was primarily driven by pent-up demand and the presence of ‘affordable synergy’ in the market  The sustained recovery in the next few quarters and the resilience shown during the second COVID-19 wave are indicative of a fundamental shift in the sentiment towards home ownership   The remote working trend is here to stay and will continue to significantly impact homebuyer preferences  Digital transformation will be the key to staying relevant in the next normal world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-home-buyers-2021-checklist/article36661354.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Ban the ban||Dear parents, Let’s start with how much you love me. (No, I haven’t broken anything). Remember also how you’ve lectured me on ‘destructive foreign influences’. Finally, I see your wisdom. Let’s take this Made-in-China ban on online gaming. We shouldn’t let it get anywhere near us, and here’s why:  Money: Remember how Uncle crashed his car and spent lakhs of rupees in hospital bills and repairs? And in lawyer fees to the wife driving the car, who was not his (the wife, not the car). When I crash my car (a million-dollar model which I paid nothing for) I lose a few points in my racer ranking. Thank me for money I’m saving you and in tearful gratitude, offer to buy me the new console.     Health: Dads, across the globe, tell tall stories of childhoods spent climbing taller trees, and how healthy that was. You, Dad, fell off a fruit tree and broke your nose. Sorry! But that’s not so healthy. Mum says your broken nose has turned you selectively deaf too. Now, I will avoid fruit, trees, fruit trees and marital disputes. Mainly, of course, because I will never get married. But my future partner and I will spend hours side by side, happily gaming online, breaking off only to happily chat – online, too. Noses won’t enter the picture, except to support the thick spectacles we will have by then.     Success: Look at the awesome skills I’m building. I’m so competitive, Elon Musk will look out from his rocket to see mine shooting past him in outer space. I will win since I’ve already played space zombie gadzillion times online. Next, look at my focus towards a goal. Mum screams, the doorbell rings, my baby bro swallows a worm, the upstairs neighbour falls through the roof (oh, that may have been an ad), and I’m still at my game.     Happiness: You parents swear you want us to be happy. You aren’t, though. Mum, you watch hours of web series, sobbing through most. Dad’s shows have so much bloodshed that they’re sponsoring the ketchup industry. On the other hand, I’m always so happy to game that Dad says I’m turning into a vegetable. Mum, you should approve, you’re always going on about how great vegetables are. If you’re still going to complain about screen time and its disastrous effects, let me surprise you — and agree. I hereby refuse to sit for another online class. Let’s ban school.  Where Jane De Suza, the   author ofHappily Never After, talks about the week’s quirks, quacks and hacks||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ban-the-ban/article36661755.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||$482 mn museum||Academy Museum of Motion Pictures: Hollywood’s $482 million museum designed by architect Renzo Piano is making waves before its opening next week. The Los Angeles museum features artefacts (the typewriter from Alfred Hitchcock’sPsycho, the shark fromJaws) and tech exhibits, but also addresses stories of exclusion and discrimination in the industry. academymuseum.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/482-mn-museum/article36661756.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Russian Grand Prix||F1 2021 reaches Russia: After 14 races, it’s time for the 2021 Russian Grand Prix in Sochi Autodrome this weekend. All eyes are on Max Verstappen and Lewis Hamilton — the duo is separated by just five points in the race for the driver’s title. Meanwhile, Fernando Alonso has spoken out against the F1 Sprint Race concept trialled at Silverstone and Monza, calling it an unnecessary change. formula1.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/russian-grand-prix/article36661760.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Wendell in Mumbai||Mumbai is now home to the lateWendell Rodricks’ first flagship store, courtesy Purple Style Labs. Alongside personal memorabilia, it features his first-ever jewellery collection and the latest capsule, Reminiscence, comprising shirts, dresses,kunbiandmundutextiles. Rs. 2,000 onwards on wendellrodricks.com Tomorrow, stay tuned for the launch ofOnitsuka Tiger’s Spring/Summer 2022 collection at the ongoing Milan Fashion Week. onitsukatiger.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wendell-in-mumbai/article36661757.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Notes from the sea||Bengaluru-based Amrut Distilleries has now unveiled a new umbrella brand, ‘Single Malts of India’. The aim, they say, is to showcase India’s ‘hidden gem malts’. The first chapter of this release ‘Neidhal’ is all set to be a limited collection of 12,000 bottles (Rs. 5,900 each). Slotted for a worldwide release, only 1,200 are allocated for domestic sales in Bengaluru.  amrutdistilleries.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/notes-from-the-sea/article36661758.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||When Oprah talks||In the latest episode of wellness expert Deepak Chopra's podcast ‘Mind Body Zone: Living Outside The Box’,Oprah Winfreyopens up about her past challenges, personal shortcomings, and dealing with the pandemic. Steaming on audible.com. Also, Instagram and Facebook’s upcoming 2021 edition ofCreator Daywill feature virtual sessions for new and upcoming creators. Includes brand launches, masterclasses, a conversation with rapper Badshah, and more. On September 30. creatordayindia.splashthat.com/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/when-oprah-talks/article36661759.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Over to the artistes||The children’s literary fest is back. The 2021 edition of theNeev Book Awardthis afternoon will include a keynote address by author Ruskin Bond, and panel discussions with the shortlisted authors. 3 p.m. on neevliteraturefestival.org In time for Navratri, the National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) will host‘Stories from the Womb’, a virtual storytelling session by dancer Anita Ratnam. September 30, 4 p.m. Rs. 1,000. 8879114939||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-to-the-artistes/article36661761.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Hammer down||Paintings, drawings, sculptures, and installations by 87 contemporary artists, including Bharti Kher, Ravinder Reddy, and Rana Begum will be up for auction atAstaGuru’s ‘Present Future’. A total of 120 lots will be on offer at India’s ‘largest contemporary art auction’. September 28, 29 on astaguru.com. Come November, and theChristie’s Rare Watches Auctionwill feature the rare Rolex Experimental Deep Sea Special N°1 that made the first dive attached to Auguste Piccard’s bathyscaphe Trieste in 1953. November 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hammer-down/article36661762.ece
25 September 2021||September 25 2021 00:00 IST,||Chiming in NYC||Watch majorJaeger-LeCoultrecelebrated the American debut of The Sound Maker exhibition in New York City this week. It has a curated selection of the earliest of the Manufacture LeCoultre's chiming masterworks. Also, Questlove of The Roots has curated a Spotify playlist. Till October 5. thesoundmakernyc.com. Elevenartistes, including Sarah Singh and Gigi Scaria have come together for‘Poetry of Lived Spaces’, a photography exhibition curated by Georgina Maddox. Until March 2022. artspeaksindia.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chiming-in-nyc/article36661763.ece
