26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India is the mother of all democracies, PM says at UNGA||Terming India the “mother of all democracies”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a defence of the state of democracy in India at the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday, referring to his own journey as a politician as an example in his speech. In a wide-ranging address, that began with a condolence message for victims of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Modi spoke about climate change, poverty alleviation, developments in Afghanistan, and UN Security Council reform. He also took aim at Pakistan and China respectively with references to support to terror groups and violating the international rules-based order. However, Mr. Modi did not mention either country by name, in contrast to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan who named India more than a dozen times, in a speech that focused on Kashmir. India later responded to his speech. “I represent a country known as the mother of all democracies,” Mr. Modi said, adding that India has entered its 75th year of Independence but had democratic traditions for thousands of years. Personal example “Our diversity is a symbol of our strong democracy, where dozens of languages and hundreds of dialects are examples of a vibrant democracy. It is Indian democracy’s strength that a small child who once helped his father at a tea stall is today representing India as its Prime Minister at the UN General Assembly,” said Mr. Modi, referring to himself in the third person. The Prime Minister’s statement at the United Nations came a day after his visit to Washington, where both U.S. President Joseph Biden and Vice-President Kamala Harris had underlined the need for strengthening democracy and respecting human rights. In his response to those comments, Mr. Modi had said that democracy was a shared value, with his remarks at the United Nations adding to that response, particularly his decision to provide his own personal example at the world body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-is-the-mother-of-all-democracies-says-pm-at-unga/article36676868.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Shortfall in Cauvery water realisation a worry||With the depleting availability of water at the Mettur dam and the rising shortfall in the realisation of the State’s share of Cauvery water, farmers and officials are keeping their fingers crossed over the prospects of paddy being raised during the Samba cultivation season. “As the present storage — 35.96 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) — is hardly sufficient for our requirements in the coming weeks, the government should exert enough pressure on the Centre to get our due from Karnataka,” said V. Sathyanarayanan, a farmer from Tiruvarur district. Conscious of the situation, officials of the Water Resources Department are going to New Delhi to attend the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA)’s meeting on Monday. “Our deficit is about 28 tmc ft. We are going to demand that Karnataka wipes it out immediately,” said the officials. Till September 23, the total quantity realised by the State was 85.8 tmc ft since the beginning of the current water year (June 1), according to readings of the Central Water Commission. For the period, the stipulated quantity was 114.6 tmc ft. On Saturday morning, the water level of the Mettur dam was 73.69 ft (full level- 120 ft). Inflow was around 8,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) with the discharge being about 7,800 cusecs. Even though the northeast monsoon, the State’s wettest period in a year, ordinarily sets in during the third week of October, it is well known that rain spells, experienced in the delta normally in November, are torrential in nature, which can cause damage to the crop. Keeping the current situation in mind, officials of the Agriculture Department have advised farmers in the delta region to go for direct sowing during the Samba season more than the conventional form of raising paddy. Arupathy Kalyanam, a farmer from Maylidauthurai, wanted the government to ensure that agriculturists are supplied more short-term varieties than what was being done. The officials, however, draw satisfaction over the fact that the coverage of paddy in the Cauvery delta, under the Kuruvai cultivation season this year, is higher than that of the previous year. As on September 20, harvesting is over on about 47% of the cultivated area. As against 1.984 lakh hectares, harvesting has been completed on around 94,200 hectares. In the last five or six days, the pace of harvesting is said to have picked up momentum, the farmers and officials point out. Likewise, in the remaining parts of the State, 1.376 lakh hectares have been covered for coverage against a total planted area of 2.12 lakh hectares. In the case of the Samba crop, 83,200 hectares in the delta region are covered through direct sowing and 7,000 hectares in the rest of the State. Officials say fertilisers and other inputs are available in adequate quantity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shortfall-in-cauvery-water-realisation-a-worry/article36677006.ece
26 September 2021||Mangaluru,||Upgrading of 150 govt. ITIs in State will be over by November: Ashwath Narayan||Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan said on Saturday that the technology and infrastructure upgrade at 150 government industrial training institutes (ITIs) in the State, being done at a cost of Rs. 5,000 crore, will be completed by November. The newly created facilities will be dedicated in the same month. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating a Government Tool Room and Training Centre (GTTC) at Uppur, under Brahmavar taluk, in Udupi district, the Minister said that the government has invested Rs. 1,000 crore for upgrading those ITIs. The balance Rs. 4,000 crore has been raised by a consortium of companies. The Minister, who also holds the portfolios of Information Technology, Bio-Technology, Science and Technology, Skill Development, Livelihood and Entrepreneurship, said that those ITIs are being provided with advanced technologies, laboratory facilities, and workshops. The facilities are being created within a year. The State has 1,200 ITIs of which 270 are government ITIs. Students at private ITIs will also be allowed to make use of the facilities at the 150 government ITIs. The Minister said that all ITIs in the State had 1 lakh seats. Of them, the government seats in all ITIs have been filled up this year. Dr. Narayan said that the government will open two more GTTCs in the State. The Minister said that the emerging technologies are being taught for students in GTTCs which are also being into manufacturing. Earlier, the Minister inaugurated a Government Polytechnic at Belapu in Kaup Taluk of Udupi district. Speaking at Belapu, the Minister said that the government has introduced automation and robotics and cloud computing and bid data in the Belapu polytechnic. The two courses are relevant and highly employment-oriented. The government has revised and revamped the syllabi of polytechnic courses this year as per the New Education Policy 2020. The syllabi has been revised in consultation with industry experts to make the courses more relevant and job oriented. The polytechnics will provide hands on experience to students. Of 120 seats allocated to the Belapu polytechnic, 44 students have joined now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/upgrading-of-150-govt-itis-in-state-will-be-over-by-november-ashwath-narayan/article36677292.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,||FSSAI raid at Kodaikanal hotel||The Designated Officer (Central Licence) Tamil Nadu State and Technical Officers, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) Southern Region Office, Chennai, conducted a surprise inspection on Saturday on the premises of The Carlton Hotel, Lake Road, Kodaikanal. They noticed that the hotel was continuing the operations in spite of suspension of their FSSAI licence and the inspection findings of the FSSAI team were of serious nature. “Expired products like salt, fruit crush, mixed fruit flavour, and sago were found in raw material store as well as in bakery and hence seized. The hotel was also not complying with many provisions of sanitary and hygienic conditions stipulated in Schedule IV of Licensing Regulation,” said a press release from office of FSSAI. In the light of the above serious contraventions, the Designated Officer (Central Licence) Tamil Nadu State has issued a notice for cancellation of licence for unauthorised operation and other provisions of FSSAI Act and Regulations made thereunder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fssai-raid-at-kodaikanal-hotel/article36677282.ece
26 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Kin protest as woman dies after giving birth to stillborn baby in Kalaburagi||Tension broke out at the Kalaburagi district general hospital here on Saturday as people staged a protest, after a woman died after being delivered of a stillborn baby on Friday night. The victim has been identified as Kanyakumari, 23, from Naduvinahalli in Kalaburagi district. Alleging negligence on the part of the doctors, her family members and relatives on Saturday protested outside the hospital. Kanyakumari, wife of Mallikarjun, complained of uneasiness on Friday night and was rushed to the Jewargi taluk hospital, but the staff allegedly denied admission. She was then taken to the district general hospital in Kalaburagi , where doctors diagnosed her with a serious complication. At around 2 a.m., she gave birth and after the delivery her condition deteriorated, and she died early on Saturday. Her relatives alleged that no doctor attended to her properly. Refuting the allegations, director of the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) Kavita Patil said that the hospital received the woman in a critical condition, and appropriate medical attention was given by the staff, but it was a case of an intra-uterine death. Police officer H.S. Raghvendra said that the victims’ family members had lodged a complaint. The post-mortem report will be marked for an inquiry by a medical board, if the board finds medical negligence, a case will be filed against doctor concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kin-protest-as-woman-dies-after-giving-birth-to-stillborn-baby-in-kalaburagi/article36677152.ece
26 September 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,||Three fishermen injured in mid-sea attack by Sri Lankans||Three fishermen from Arcottuthurai near Vedaranyam were injured in an alleged attack by Sri Lankan fishermen on Friday. According to official sources, Sivakumar, Siva and his father Chinnathambi had ventured into the sea on Friday on a boat owned by Sivakumar. When they were fishing in waters close to the International Maritime Boundary Line, southeast off Vedaranyam, 10 armed Sri Lankan nationals, on board two fibre boats of Sri Lanka, intercepted them. Claiming that the Indian fishermen trespassed into Sri Lanka’s territorial waters, the Sri Lankan nationals, apparently fishermen, attacked them. While Sivakumar was attacked with a knife, Siva and Chinnathambi were attacked with an iron rod. The Sri Lankan nationals seized the fishing gear, the GPS and the day’s catch, worth around Rs. 5 lakh, from the Indian fishing boat. The injured returned to the shore in Vedaranyam on Saturday, and were referred to the Government Hospital in Nagapattinam. Collector Arun Thamburaj told The Hindu that the matter had been taken to the notice of the Indian Coast Guard and the Coastal Security Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-fishermen-injured-in-mid-sea-attack/article36677008.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Cooperative Society Act will be amended soon, says Amit Shah||Union Home and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah said on Saturday that the Centre will soon bring amendments to the Multi State Cooperative Society Act, and a new policy for the cooperatives is on the anvil. He added that the question that cooperatives are a State subject could be responded to in legal terms but the newly created Ministry will work in tandem with the States and “there will be no friction”. Cash-rich cooperatives in many States are controlled by the Opposition parties, such as the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress. The cooperatives decide the political fortunes in States such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Gujarat, parts of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. The formation of the Ministry of Cooperation was announced on July 5, and Home Minister Amit Shah was allocated the portfolio during the Cabinet expansion. Mr. Shah said the Centre was also planning amendments to the laws that govern the Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS), following which the States will be sent an advisory, and they will also have to amend the relevant laws. Easy access to credit He said the PACS should be strengthened and taken to the grassroots, so that even the marginalised can avail credit. “Suppose Diwali is round the corner and someone needs Rs. 1,000 to celebrate the festival. He had an income two months ago but does not immediately have the money due to a medical emergency. Only PACS can help here. No bank will help, banks require documents, if the person had those papers why would he seek help from a credit society? These units extend credit on the basis of compassion,” Mr. Shah said. He added that in the next five years the government planned to increase the number of PACS from the existing 65,000 to 3 lakhs across the country. Speaking at the first Sehkarita Sammelan or National Cooperative Conference, where he addressed over 2,100 representatives of different cooperatives and nearly six crore online participants, Mr. Shah said some people wondered why the Centre created this new Ministry as cooperatives are a State subject. On the proposed new cooperative policy, Mr. Shah said a policy was brought in 2002 by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and now the Modi government would start working on a new policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cooperative-society-act-to-be-amended-soon-shah/article36676866.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,||3 Registration Dept. officials suspended||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday suspended three Registration Department officials, including two District Registrars, for “fraudulent registrations” and causing “huge loss” to the State exchequer and committing “serious irregularities”, in violation of the registration rules and procedures. The orders, issued by the Commercial Taxes and Registration Department, said it had been brought to the notice of the government by the appropriate investigation authority that some documents were registered fraudulently in 2014, with an ulterior motive, without considering the protest petition filed by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board in the office of the Sub-Registrar, Gandhipuram, Coimbatore. Disciplinary proceedings were hence contemplated against District Registrar M. Selvakumar for the alleged registration of fraudulent documents. “A lot of complaints are being persistently received about fraudulent registration of documents without following the prescribed guidelines, with ulterior motives, thereby causing a huge loss to the State exchequer… the complaints are serious in nature, and the post of District Registrar involves direct interface with the public.” In the circumstances of the case, the order said it was necessary in the interest of the public to place Mr. Selvakumar under suspension from service with immediate effect. ‘Grave charges’ Another order said charges were framed against R. Periyasamy, District Registrar, Erode, against whom an inquiry into grave charges was pending. He was charged with the fraudulent registration of documents, causing a huge loss to the government. The officials were directed not to leave their respective headquarters without prior permission from the authority concerned. In separate proceedings of the Inspector-General of Registrations, the Sub-Registrar, Neelankarai, Chennai South Registration District, S. Saravana Kumar was placed under suspension for committing serious irregularities in two documents registered in 2017, in violation of registration rules and procedures. Disciplinary proceedings initiated against Mr. Kumar were pending, and the suspension was necessary in public interest, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-registration-dept-officials-suspended-for-irregularities/article36677026.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||P. Satheedevi is women’s commission chairperson||P. Satheedevi will assume charge as chairperson of the Kerala Women’s Commission on October 1. Seventh chairperson The Vadakara native will be the seventh chairperson of the commission. The government notification in this regard was published recently. Ms. Satheedevi was MP representing Vadakara in the Lok Sabha from 2004 to 2009. She has served as Kozhikode district cooperative bank president, State cooperative bank director, consumer disputes redressal forum northern region member and so on. She has practised in the Kannur and Kozhikode district courts. Mahila Association She was Mahila Association State secretary, chief editor of the Sthree Shabdam magazine, and president of the Centre for Gender and Legal Studies, Kozhikode. She was a student representative in the University of Calicut Senate. She has authored a book Paramadhikarikal Nammal Thanne .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/p-satheedevi-is-womens-panel-chairperson/article36677227.ece
26 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VISAKHAPATNAM,||Special teams formed to rescue people||Officials in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts are gearing up to face Cyclone Gulab which is expected to cross the coast on Sunday. Srikakulam Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar said that one control room (08942-240557) has been set up at the Collector’s office and local control rooms were set up at all the mandal offices. All officials and staff were directed to attend dutys on Sunday too. The employees who are on leave were asked to report for duty immediately. Special teams have been were formed in Vizianagaram district to rescue people in case of emergency. Officials in Puspatirega and Bhogapuram have been told to be alert for the next 36 hours. Visakhapatnam Collector A. Mallikarjuna has cancelled leaves of all the government employees. He has appointed constituency and mandal level Special Officers for monitoring and taking precautionary measures. The administration has also readied NDRF teams, rescue teams of Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and SDRF team of the Police Department, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-teams-formed-to-rescue-people/article36677467.ece
26 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Alert sounded in Odisha, A.P. over Cyclone Gulab||The Odisha government on Saturday sounded a warning for the cyclonic storm Gulab, which is expected to cross the coast between its southern districts and north Andhra Pradesh at wind speeds of 75-85 kmph on Sunday evening. The associated heavy rain is likely cause landslips and floods in southern districts. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed the National Crisis Management Committee that the cyclone was likely to hit Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Vishakhapatnam districts in Andhra Pradesh, and Ganjam and Gajapati districts in Odisha. Emphasising the need for preventive and precautionary measures to combat the natural disaster, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba instructed the two State governments to make efforts keep the loss of lives to near zero, and minimise damage to property and infrastructure. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with extremely heavy rain at one or two places is very likely to occur over Odisha’s Kandhamal, Ganjam, Rayagada, Malkangiri, Koraput, Nabarangpur and Gajapati districts, and north coastal Andhra Pradesh covering Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, East and West Godavari districts, on Sunday. The system will also bring rain over Telangana, north and interior Odisha and in Chhattisgarh. Visakhapatnam DC A. Mallikarjuna convened an emergency meeting to take stock. A senior officer from Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited said all personnel are on alert and men, material and equipment had been moved to strategic locations to handle the situation.  (With inputs from Sumit Bhattacharjee in Visakhapatnam )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alert-in-ap-odisha-over-cyclone-gulab/article36676873.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Oppn. seeks clarity over PM-CARES Fund||A day after the Centre told the Delhi High Court that the PM-CARES Fund was not a “fund of the Government of India”, Opposition parties called for greater transparency, pointing out that government employees were asked to donate to the fund, and government websites had also canvassed for donations. Official government websites, including the national portal india.gov.in, carried links to donate to the PM-CARES Fund. Some, such as the Department of Expenditure under the Ministry of Finance, still have links to the PM-CARES website, which has an official .gov.in portal of its own, as on September 25. Official websites of Central Ministries and departments encouraged users to donate to the fund, which was launched in March 2020. Many of them have since taken down the links directing users to the PM-CARES portal. Government staff were also asked to donate a day’s salary to the fund in 2020 as part of efforts to combat the pandemic. Government officials declined to comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppn-seeks-clarity-over-pm-cares-fund/article36676869.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Leaders to work jointly on tech plan||The Quad summit of the leaders of India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. in Washington saw the four countries for the first time outline joint principles on technology, underlining their ambition to work more closely together in developing common standards in particularly critical technologies of the future.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/leaders-to-work-jointly-on-tech-plan/article36676871.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Practice flight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/practice-flight/article36677063.ece
26 September 2021||Patna,||Tejashwi writes to parties for caste census||Leader of the Opposition in the Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday wrote to 33 senior leaders of political parties across the country on the demand for a caste-based census. Recently, the Central government had informed the Supreme Court that conducting a caste-based census was not feasible. Leaders of 10 political parties in Bihar, led by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar whose party JD(U) has been an ally of BJP, had earlier met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to put forth their demand for a caste-based census. “The demand for a caste-based census needs to be seen as an essential step in nation building. The caste census would actually bring to the forefront the pressing concerns that... India must attend to with a sense of urgency,” Mr. Yadav wrote in his letter to the leaders. “This is a historic opportunity before us to push for an agenda that is essential for making this country more just and egalitarian.” “It would play a pivotal role in ensuring social harmony and social cohesion,” he said. The letters were addressed to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, National Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, West Bengal chief minister and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samajwadi Party leader Ms Mayawati, Orissa CM Naveen Patnaik, Left leaders D Raja, Sitaram Yechury, Former J & K CM Farooq Abdullah, Tamil nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister O Paneerselvam among others. “I’m sure you will agree with me that we need to join hands and push the government to see this absolutely crucial need to set the priorities of the socio-economic development of our country. I am open to suggestions and inputs so that we immediately prepare our plan of action in this regard without any further delay,” the RJD leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tejashwi-writes-to-parties-for-caste-census/article36676902.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Quad echoes terror concerns||The Quad leaders said they would closely coordinate their “diplomatic, economic and human rights policies” towards Afghanistan and deepen their counter-terrorism and humanitarian cooperation . “Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists.”page 8||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/quad-to-check-afghan-origin-terrorism/article36676872.ece
26 September 2021||Kolkata,||Abhishek Banerjee is infusing fresh blood into TMC||Abhishek Banerjee, the national general secretary of the Trinamool Congress and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, is slowly and steadily recruiting new talent to restructure the party organisation and looking for new areas for expansion. Post 2019, as his clout grew in the party, he has tried to transform the party by bringing in poll strategist Prashant Kishor and improving both its image and messaging across social media platforms. The induction of fresh blood is also evident in the party’s campaign in Tripura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/abhishek-banerjee-is-infusing-fresh-blood-into-tmc/article36677059.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Over 11% rise in State’s cancer burden by 2025’||New cancer cases in Karnataka are likely to increase by 11.4% by 2025.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-11-rise-in-states-cancer-burden-by-2025/article36676903.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ahead of shoot-out, court security was reviewed||Over two weeks ago, a security review of each of the seven district courts in Delhi was conducted under the chairmanship of a judge from each court. One of the corrective suggestions made was frisking of lawyers on the court premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ahead-of-shoot-out-court-security-was-reviewed/article36677061.ece
26 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Cabinet expansion today, says Punjab CM Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said the expansion of his Cabinet will take place on Sunday. Mr. Channi also met the Governor. He said, “Tomorrow all the Ministers will take oath of office.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-expansion-today-says-punjab-cm-channi/article36677060.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,||‘Form special teams to deal with gangsters’||Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu at review meetings held on Saturday asked all district police and commissionerates to form special teams to deal with rowdy elements and gangsters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/form-special-teams-to-deal-with-gangsters/article36677134.ece
26 September 2021||Mangaluru,||After a lull, vigilante groups active in DK||After over four months, vigilante groups appear to have become active again in Dakshina Kannada, waylaying and attacking inter-religious couples or heterogeneous groups of friends. At least four such incidents came to light in the district during August-September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-a-lull-vigilante-groups-active-in-dk/article36677293.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Presiding officers’ meet next month: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday said a presiding officers’ conference would be held for three days from October 26 at Shimla in Himachal Pradesh and it would see discussions on a report on the anti-defection law prepared by a committee headed by C.P. Joshi, Speaker of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly, and the diminishing quality of debates in Parliament and in the State legislatures||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/presiding-officers-meet-next-month-om-birla/article36677294.ece
26 September 2021||MANGALURU,||‘Project design not yet available for NH 75 work’||The NHAI, which had said that the four-lane work of NH75, between B.C. Road and Addahole in Dakshina Kannada district, will commence from this month, has now informed a citizen that the contractor is yet to submit design and drawings to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/project-design-not-yet-available-for-nh-75-work/article36677296.ece
26 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Alert sounded in Odisha over Cyclone Gulab||The Odisha government on Saturday sounded a warning for the cyclonic storm Gulab, which is expected to cross the coast between its southern districts and north Andhra Pradesh at wind speeds of 75-85 kmph on Sunday evening. The associated heavy rain is likely to cause landslips and floods in southern districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alert-sounded-in-odisha-over-cyclone-gulab/article36677246.ece
26 September 2021||Chennai,||T.N. records 1,724 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 cases exceeded 1,700 for the third day in a row. As many as 1,724 people tested positive on Saturday. Twenty-two persons died. Coimbatore logged 198 new cases while Chennai recorded 194 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-records-over-1700-fresh-covid-19-cases/article36676968.ece
26 September 2021||Chennai,||Govt. has fulfilled over 200 poll promises: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the DMK government had fulfilled 202 of its 505 electoral promises in the first four months of being elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-has-fulfilled-over-200-poll-promises-stalin/article36677090.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘grey rhino’ of China’s property boom||For observers of China’s highly leveraged real estate market, the ongoing collapse of Evergrande, the country’s second largest — and the world’s most indebted — property developer, looks much less like the “black swan” event seen by many foreign investors than what officials in China like to call a “grey rhino” — a danger that lurks in plain sight. This past week, the company, laden with liabilities in excess of $300 billion, was struggling to make interest payments. News of an impending default sent shock waves across global markets. If Evergrande’s precarious financial situation was hardly a secret in China, what was less clear is how far China’s Communist Party, and its leader Xi Jinping who has repeatedly called for reducing debt and attacked what he has called “fictional growth”, were prepared to go to tackle these grey rhinos. Poster child After all, for all the obvious risk, firms like Evergrande remained key cogs in keeping ticking a debt-fuelled growth model. Would allowing them to fail send a clear message about the need for structural change? Or would it unleash a hard-to-manage contagion that would bring growth in the world’s second-largest economy, at a sensitive moment for global economic recovery, to its knees? “Evergrande is a poster child of what is the most indebted industry in China,” Dexter Roberts, author of The Myth of Chinese Capitalism and a senior fellow at the Atlantic Council, told The Hindu . “A poster child of the model of real estate which is bringing on excessive leverage to build apartments, and usually pre-selling them before they're even built.” Evergrande (known as Hengda in China) was founded in Shenzhen, in southern Guangdong province, by businessman Xu Jiayin in 1996 just as China’s property boom was beginning to take off. Rapid success in real estate — the group manages more than half a billion square metres of land and projects in China, or the equivalent of 5 million 100-square metre apartments, or the size of a small city — saw Mr. Xu branch into new, more flashy ventures, including taking over Guangzhou Football Club in 2010 (the club would hire renowned Italian coach Marcello Lippi and go on to become the first Chinese winners of the Asian Champions League in 2013, as Mr. Xu splashed the cash.) The politics of land What distinguishes China’s real estate sector, as Mr. Roberts put it, is the unique politics behind its growth model. Local governments in China are highly reliant on land sales for revenues, which account for, by some estimates, half of local revenues, needed for everything from infrastructure projects to social welfare. “This means that they need to continually develop new commercial and residential real estate in order to continue to make enough local revenues to run the government,” he says. This model explains how China’s real estate sector — and key players like Evergrande — grew so big, and grew so big so quickly. According to a paper by Kenneth S. Rogoff and Yuanchen Yang published by the National Bureau of Economic Research last year, the “upstream and downstream contribution to GDP of China’s real estate sector” is as high as 29%. A 20% fall in real estate activity, they estimated, could lead to a 5%-10% fall in GDP. Tackling debt But as China’s economy — powered in part by real estate growth — boomed, so did its debt levels. If Chinese authorities, over the years, sought to introduce a slew of new measures to slow growth, such as raising the requirements for down payments and forcing banks to cut down on mortgage loans, they were reluctant to take more extreme steps to reduce debt, worried primarily about the impact on GDP growth. That changed last year, with Mr. Xi’s government introducing the toughest measures yet. The central bank put in place what it called “three red lines” that would force indebted developers to start deleveraging and bar them from getting new loans unless they fulfilled certain financial targets. Indeed, Mr. Xi had given strong signals since the Party’s National Congress in 2017, which marked the start of his second five-year term, when he declared that “houses are built to be lived in, not for speculation”, a comment that rattled real estate developers. Since then, the rise of housing prices has continued to slow in many second and tier cities with new measures that, for instance, make it tougher to buy second homes. With the Evergrande crisis, the real estate model now stands at a crossroads. Beijing-based economist Michael Pettis, writing for the Carnegie Endowment this week, wrote that managing a calibrated landing will be far from straightforward with the spillover effects. Financial distress “The problem of spreading financial distress is a much more serious problem and one that the regulators seem not to have expected — at least to this extent,” he said. “Property purchases have fallen very quickly, and retail investors in wealth management products have already organised visible protests in many cities. Meanwhile, suppliers and contractors are reeling from potential losses, and since many of them have been paid in real estate, they are likely to try to sell these assets as quickly as possible to satisfy their own liquidity needs. This cannot help but disrupt the real estate market further.” If Evergrande may be allowed to fail with a state-led restructuring process, the Party will certainly be concerned about the fall-out: the impact on homeowners who may never see homes they have paid for, on thousands of others who have purchased the company’s wealth management products, on the real estate driven sub-economy that sustains millions of livelihoods, on local governments and their financial vehicles that rely on land sales to balance the books. A targeted bailout is one likely option that comes to the aid of some but not all creditors. At the same time, the Party is aware that actions taken to mitigate their losses in the short-term would, however, end up only making a longer term structural change, which every economist says is inevitable, all that more difficult. “The central government is in a really hard place,” Mr. Roberts observed. “They made it clear they need to reduce leverage in order to have a more stable economy. But now they see as they do that, the pain starts to appear.” “The dilemma then is, do they continue to pursue this course of deleverage, show that they’re serious about it, do what they need to do long term? Or do they decide to step back because of the fact that it is becoming abundantly clear that there could be real economic pain? The signs are they are ready to push further this time. They are ready to accept some pain.”  In Focus Evergrande (known as Hengda in China) was founded in Shenzhen, in southern Guangdong province, by businessman Xu Jiayin in 1996 just as China’s property boom was beginning to take off The group manages more than half a billion square metres of land and projects in China, or the equivalent of 5 million 100-square metre apartments, or the size of a small city The company, laden with liabilities in excess of $300 billion, is now struggling to make interest payments   The ‘upstream and downstream contribution to GDP of China’s real estate sector’ is as high as 29%; a 20% fall in real estate activity could lead to a 5%-10% fall in the country’s GDP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-grey-rhino-of-chinas-property-boom/article36676579.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Courtroom shooting adds to SC’s concern over security||The gunfight and deaths in the Rohini court complex on Friday come just days after the Centre rejected a suggestion by the Supreme Court to form a “special force” centrally to protect court complexes and judges across the country. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, in August, expressed doubts about the security measures provided inside court complexes. Lack of funds One of the judges on the Bench, Justice Surya Kant, after perusing the affidavits filed by some States on security arrangements, said how they present a “lazy picture”. Many, Justice Kant had pointed out, have complained of lack of funds to even having no money for CCTV cameras. The top court said merely installing CCTVs in these complexes would not prevent lethal attacks. The court had questioned whether the States were even implementing security guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs for courts. Friday witnessed two men dressed as lawyers intrude into a courtroom in the Rohini complex and shoot dead Delhi’s most wanted gangster Jitender Mann, alias Gogi. The duo was killed in retaliatory fire from police officers. State’s responsibility On August 17, the Centre, however, did not appear keen on taking up the Supreme Court’s suggestion of forming a central security force to protect courts and the judiciary on the lines of the Railway Protection Force. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had said the move would not be advisable and the security of courts was best left to the respective State governments. Mr. Mehta had argued that the problems of security vary in every State. The Supreme Court had taken suo motu cognisance of violence committed within court complexes following the murder of a judge in Jharkhand, Uttam Anand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/courtroom-shooting-adds-to-scs-concern-over-security/article36676532.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Injustice cannot win: Rajnath||The developments in Afghanistan emphasised the reality of our times, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday. He said the world was witnessing the destabilising effects of terror and the especially dangerous precedence of violent radical forces attempting to gain legitimacy by creating a new normal. “The only certainty about evolving geopolitics is its uncertainty. Changes in state boundaries may not be as frequent today. However, the fast-transforming structure of states and the influence that external powers can have on it are clearly evident,” Mr. Singh told graduates of the 59th course of the National Defence College (NDC) at the convocation ceremony. He stressed drawing lessons from the situation in Afghanistan, far beyond the immediate reverberations being felt in the region and beyond. Teachings from history In light of the events, the Defence Minister said, it was tempting to believe that terrorism, fear, medieval thoughts and actions, discrimination on the basis of gender, and practices of inequality could sweep aside the wishes of people, pluralistic ideas and inclusive structures. But nothing could be farther from reality, he said. “And human history is a great teacher. Injustice, however powerful, cannot and will not defeat the collective power of the goodness that is inherent to human existence. This sentiment is evident from an increasing number of world capitals that have lent their voice in favour of liberalism, inclusivity and respect for international norms of governance and behaviour. “There is now widespread realisation amongst responsible nations to come together against the menace of terrorism,” Mr. Singh said. Reiterating that India was a peace-loving nation but would give a befitting reply to anyone who threatened its integrity and sovereignty, Mr. Singh said, “Threats to internal and external security will no longer be tolerated. Our actions in Balakot and Galwan are clear signals to all aggressors.” Mr. Singh called for proactive synergy among the armed forces in strategies and responses to safeguard the interests of the nation. He exhorted the NDC to focus more on the new and fast-emerging areas such as cyber technology, artificial intelligence and big data analytics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/injustice-cannot-win-rajnath/article36676564.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The common man CM||Charanjit Singh Channi was the Technical Education Minister in the Cabinet of Captain Amarinder Singh (retd.). He was one of those Congress leaders in Punjab who revolted against the Chief Minister in recent months in a State that is going to the polls in 2022. But he may not have expected then that he would succeed the captain as Punjab’s Chief Minister. On September 20, after Capt. Amarinder announced his resignation and said he “felt humiliated” by the actions of the Congress’s leadership, Mr. Channi, 58, took oath as Chief Minister. He is the first Chief Minister of the State from the Scheduled Caste community. Soon after assuming office, Mr. Channi, who comes from rural Punjab with a humble background, said his government “is of the poor, for the poor and with the poor”. A law graduate with a Master’s degree in business administration and currently pursuing doctoral research on “Indian National Congress: a study of its central organisation and electoral strategies” in Panjab University, Mr. Channi had accused Capt. Amarinder of failing to fulfil the Congress’s 2017 Assembly election promises. As Minister, he had demanded creating a regular post of ‘Class D’ employees in the State government instead of “outsourcing” them. Within days after becoming the Chief Minister, Mr. Channi announced that all ‘Class D’ employees would be regularised. He also announced curtailing his security cover. Political journey Born in Makrona Kalan village near Chamkaur Sahib, the three-time legislator saw hardship closely in the early years of his life. Mr. Channi began his political journey by contesting the municipal council elections from Kharar town, where his family had eventually settled. He remained a municipal councillor for three terms and then he became the President of the Kharar Municipal Council twice. He was first elected to the Punjab Assembly in 2007 as an Independent. In 2010, he joined the Congress, and retained the seat in the 2012 and 2017 elections. During 2015-16, when the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party combine was in power, Mr. Channi was the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. In 2017, Mr. Channi became a Cabinet Minister. A handball player and Bhangra (Punjab’s folk dance) enthusiast, Mr. Channi has had his share of controversies as well. In 2018, a woman IAS officer had accused him of sending an “inappropriate text” message. The Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and sought a response from the government. Capt. Amarinder had then asked Mr. Channi to apologise to the woman officer, and said he believed the matter was “resolved” to her satisfaction. But amid the infighting in the party and Mr. Channi’s strident opposition to Capt. Amarinder, the issue resurfaced in May when the women’s panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the State government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on the issue. After Mr. Channi was announced as the new Chief Minister, the National Commission for Women Chairperson, Rekha Sharma, demanded his resignation, citing the allegation. In 2018, Mr. Channi got embroiled in another controversy when, as a Minister, he chose to flip a coin to decide on a posting for lecturers at a polytechnic institute. While two candidates, chosen by the Punjab Public Service Commission, wanted the same station to work in Patiala, Mr. Channi decided to toss a coin, which he said “was done after both the candidates had agreed to it”. Mr. Channi found himself in a piquant situation in 2017 when a road was built through a park outside his official residence in Chandigarh, apparently on the advice of an astrologer. The local administration later dismantled the road. Challenges ahead Now that he is the CM, Mr. Channi is looking beyond the controversies. In his public interactions, he has emphasised his common man image, and said the government’s priority was to listen to and resolve the problems of the poor. The challenge before him is to rally the Congress, weakened by infighting, behind his leadership and reach out to the voters for a fresh mandate, with only months left for the Assembly poll amid mounting political challenges from a resurgent opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-common-man-cm/article36676577.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Rising star in Canadian politics||Canada’s New Democratic Party (NDP) may not have succeeded yet in tipping the scales in its favour in the recent federal election, but under its charismatic leader and son of India-born parents, Jagmeet Singh, 42, it could well be the party to reckon with in the future of the country’s politics. Mr. Singh, whose training in Brazilian ju-jitsu makes him no stranger to a fight, helped his party garner 25 seats — and counting — at least one seat more in the Canadian Parliament than during the previous election in 2019. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s Liberal Party won 158 seats, short of the 170 seats needed for majority. Like in 2019, Mr. Singh is expected to play the role of king maker. His rise will be watched closely in India, as indeed the Canadian Sikh community has always been on the radar of South Block for the occasional, apparently irksome, comments made among the latter regarding Khalistan and Sikh interests in the Indian political milieu. In 2013, Mr. Singh was reported to have been denied a visa to India after he spoke out for justice for victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Fighting in the trenches Although today Mr. Singh rivals the style-icon, Gen Z-embracing status of Mr. Trudeau, and has even exceeded the latter’s accomplishments by becoming a Tik Tok star and gracing the pages of a men’s fashion magazine, he rose from humble beginnings and gritty trench warfare as a criminal defence lawyer in Ontario. Born in Scarborough, Ontario, to Harmeet Kaur and Jagtaran Singh, Mr. Singh had a difficult childhood in some regards as their family moved regularly for his father’s work, and his father struggled with alcoholism. In a memoir published in 2019 he revealed that he had been sexually abused by a school coach when he was 10 years old, and he came out with the details because he “had a platform where I could say a lot of things that might help people out,” he said, adding, “I hope that in the struggles that I faced, I can help people that are facing similar struggles to feel less alone.” At the time Mr. Trudeau praised Mr. Singh’s courage, tweeting that Mr. Singh was helping to “fight against stigma.” As part of the multiple relocations that his family went through during his early years, he also moved to Punjab and lived there briefly until his father joined medical school in Newfoundland, to train to become a psychiatrist. At that point the Singh family returned to Canada and settled down in Windsor, Ontario, on the east bank of the Detroit River. During 2006-2011, Mr. Singh served as a criminal defence lawyer, first for a private firm and then on his own, a stint that he has said shaped his desire to enter politics. “Criminal defence is a bit more liberal, more left-wing because of the... social justice aspect of it,” he said in a 2012 interview. Filling a political gap In that regard, Mr. Singh apparently fills a vacuum in Canadian politics, blending the growing appreciation of left-of-centre politics in the context of the pandemic, with 21-century digital savvy that helps him translate his political intentions to a generation that consumes news and political information in a purely online ecosystem. Among the key issues that he fought for in the most recent federal election are writing off student-loan debt, tackling inflated housing and rental markets, and reducing emissions to 50% of 2005 levels by 2030. At a broad cut, the NDP under Mr. Singh does not shy away from talking about tackling income distribution and taxing the ultra-wealthy, not to mention putting critical issues facing Canada’s indigenous minorities front and centre, including attacking Mr. Trudeau for failing to provide clean drinking water to these communities. Polling suggests that indigenous voters may be losing confidence in Mr. Trudeau’s Liberal Party. After veering to the right under the influence of Donald Trump in the U.S., Brexit in the U.K., and similar impulses elsewhere, world politics appears to be returning to the centre or centre-left in some cases as nations are still reeling under the debilitating health and economic effects of the pandemic. If the appetite for state interventionism deepens in Canadian politics too, then Mr. Singh and his party may well be poised to play an even bigger role in shaping their country’s future in the years ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rising-star-in-canadian-politics/article36676581.ece
26 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Himanta alleges instigation by PFI||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday that the total area under encroachment in Assam was more than the size of Goa. He said the State government had evidence of members of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and some individuals, including a college lecturer in Assam, instigating the people where an eviction drive was carried out on September 23. Two persons died in the operation. “We have evidence that a few elements collected Rs. 28 lakh from the poor, landless families of Darrang district in the last three months, promising them that they would convince the government against eviction,” Dr. Sarma told journalists on Saturday. “When they could not resist the drive, they mobilised people and created havoc. We have the names of six people, including the lecturer of a college. We have also found out that PFI members had gone to the site a day prior to the incident in the name of distributing food items to the evicted families,” he said. He slammed the Congress for its criticism of his government on the issue. He accused the Congress of “exporting” people to other constituencies to try and capture seats by changing the pattern of population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/himanta-alleges-instigation-by-pfi/article36676534.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Quad leaders draw up tech plan||Friday’s Quad summit of the leaders of India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. in Washington saw the four countries for the first time outline joint principles on technology, underlining their ambition to work more closely together in developing common standards in particularly critical technologies of the future. While China did not find explicit mention in any of the Quad statements, its presence still loomed large in many of the outcomes, including in the first Quad “Principles on Technology Design, Development, Governance, and Use” document which said the four countries would ensure that technology “should be shaped by our shared democratic values and respect for universal human rights”. Not to be misused The joint principles said technology should be “developed through a multi-stakeholder approach that is adaptive and dynamic and aligns with universal values, including respect for freedom of expression and privacy” and “should not be misused or abused for malicious activities such as authoritarian surveillance and oppression, for terrorist purposes, or to disseminate disinformation”. The technology document followed the Quad setting up a new critical and emerging technologies working group in March, focusing on technical standards, 5G diversification and deployment and technology supply chains. At Friday’s summit, it was agreed that the four countries will also establish contact groups on Advanced Communications and Artificial Intelligence “focusing on standards-development activities as well as foundational pre-standardisation research”. Another key planned initiative is to launch a semiconductor supply chain initiative “to map capacity, identify vulnerabilities and bolster supply-chain security for semiconductors and their vital components”. 5G deployment On 5G deployment and diversification, the four countries said they would promote “a diverse, resilient and secure telecommunications ecosystem” and launch an industry dialogue aimed at jointly facilitating “enabling environments for 5G diversification, including with efforts related to testing and test facilities”. The Quad initiatives further underline India’s sharp move away from Chinese telecom firms, which played a major role in the roll-out of 3G and 4G and came to see India as among their biggest overseas markets. In May, India indicated it would not include Chinese telecom firms in 5G trials, with the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) giving permission to several Telecom Service Providers (TSPs) to conduct 5G trials but leaving out Huawei and ZTE, which had hoped to participate. China at the time expressed “concern and regret that Chinese telecommunications companies have not been permitted to conduct 5G trials with Indian Telecom Service Providers in India”. India last year put in place stricter curbs to scrutinise investments from China, particularly the acquisition of stakes in the tech sector which saw a surge from 2014 onwards, led by Alibaba and Tencent. Some of the curbs were announced in April 2020, prior to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) crisis that erupted in May. Following the border crisis, which remains unresolved, Delhi has made clear that trade and investment cannot carry on as normal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quad-leaders-draw-up-tech-plan/article36676555.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||IRCTC plans to expand e-catering on trains||Railway passengers may soon be spoilt for choice when looking to satisfy hunger during their journey, with the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) working on building a large-scale delivery network to enable fresh food delivery from restaurants to passengers at their seats. While the company currently does offer e-catering services, these are available at only some stations due to logistical issues. “Some of the branded players are reluctant to deliver meals at stations for various reasons such as logistical issues and locating passengers in coaches,” a company official told The Hindu . The official said the delivery aggregator concept was to support such branded players in managing delivery from their outlet to passengers on trains. These aggregators will pick up meals, which are booked on the IRCTC’s e-catering platform, from nominated restaurants and deliver the same to the passenger at his or her seat. “This will enable us to get more restaurants on board and expand services to more stations. We aim to make the service available at 400-450 major stations,” the official said. Since the resumption of e-catering in February 2021, the average meals booked a day have increased from 17,379 in August 2020 to 20,000 in August 2021. Currently, e-catering is available at over 200 stations. The company is also in talks with Zomato and Swiggy for these services, but the discussions have not been “very encouraging” so far due to some issues such high charges sought by these players, said the official. The IRCTC is also speaking to other service providers, and is exploring the possibility of bringing its own brand that can act as an aggregator. “IRCTC is also considering whether we can employ people for the delivery service… we have to see how the payments will work out, and other legal aspects related to contracts, EPF etc. Discussions are on to see if this is a feasible option,” another official aware of the development said. The official added that the focus was to ensure that the service did not become costly for the customer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/irctc-plans-to-expand-e-catering-on-trains/article36676571.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stuck EVMs worry EC ahead of polls||The Election Commission may continue to be in a bind regarding the availability of electronic voting machines (EVMs) for use in the crucial Assembly elections, including in Uttar Pradesh in early 2022, though the Supreme Court has lifted its relaxation of the period of limitation for legal proceedings in courts due to the pandemic. The EC, represented by senior advocate Vikas Singh, urgently moved the Supreme Court on September 1 about EVMs ‘stuck’ in Delhi and five other States/Union Territory which had gone to the polls in 2021. Mr. Singh had said in an oral mention before the court that the poll body needed to quickly move these EVMs to States bound for polls next year. Period of limitation The EC had pointed to a Supreme Court order of April 27, which open-endedly extended the “period of limitation” or the deadline for moving court due to the pandemic, as the problem. On September 23, a three-judge Bench of Chief Justice of N.V. Ramana, L. Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant directed that limitation period would be back in play from October 3. However, Mr. Singh told The Hindu that the ECI may still have a problem with the second direction in the court order extending the limitation period up to 90 days, starting from October 3, in cases in which the limitation time had expired between March 15 last year and October 2, 2021. “The Representation of the People Act of 1951 gives a 45-day window from the date of declaration of election results for a candidate or elector to move the High Court concerned… Here, the court order gives 90 days from October 3. Ninety days means an aggrieved person has time till January 3… The Election Commission will need at least six months to get the EVMs ready for the election in 2022,” Mr. Singh said. The EC had said there were back-to-back Assembly elections lined up in Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Punjab in March 2022. The election in Uttar Pradesh is on May 14, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stuck-evms-worry-ec-ahead-of-polls/article36676857.ece
26 September 2021||Srinagar,||Unemployment causing a swell of discontent in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir is grappling with rising unemployment in the face of dismissal of employees, mergers of government departments and snail pace recruitments. Recently, the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) “disengaged” 918 supervisors and helpers who were working for the welfare of women and children. The government said their engagement had been unauthorised. Working as a helper for around 20 years, Mehjabeen Akhtar, now in her 50s, is among those who have lost their jobs. The ICDS helpers earned a meagre salary of Rs. 2,500 per month, but even that was not paid of late, she said. “One of the reasons for my divorce was the ICDS job. I refused to accompany my husband to Bengaluru and preferred to be independent here because of the job. Now I am at a crossroads because of the government decision,” Ms. Akhtar, a resident of Anantnag, told The Hindu.  Ms. Akhtar, who is president of the ICDS Helpers and Supervisors Association, is planning a weekly protest, which will see the participation of widows, orphans and other destitute people who were affected. Ironically, the Social Welfare Department has around 6,000 vacancies, official sources said. Farooq Ahmad Khan, adviser to J&K Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha, has defended the government’s decision. “All these helpers were brought into the department through backdoor entries as none of them have any appointment order,” Mr. Khan said. However, Ms. Akhtar showed an order of engagement issued by a senior officer. Several government schemes are not functioning, said young men who were part of self-help groups working on low-budget government projects. Qaiser Ahmad, was among 4,433 engineering professionals who ran 1,145 self-help groups. Dysfunctional schemes “The scheme has been dysfunctional since 2019. We are struggling to make ends meet,” Mr. Ahmad said. CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said 234 supernumerary posts of forest guards created for the engagement of registered unemployed forestry graduates and postgraduates have also been abrogated. Officials said the unbundling and restructuring of the Power Development Department; merger of the State Industrial Development Corporation (SIDCO) and the Small Scale Industrial Development Corporation (SICOP); and revamping of the J&K Cements Limited have also resulted in fewer job opportunities. Around 48,908 unemployed youth have registered with the J&K Department of Employment up to June 2021, which included 21,205 post-graduates. The government departments remain the highest employers in the Union Territory because of lack of big industries or corporates. However, L-G Manoj Sinha said he was expecting the creation of five lakh jobs as the Union Territory is all set to get Rs. 25,000-30,000 crore of private investment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unemployment-causing-a-swell-of-discontent-in-jk/article36676567.ece
26 September 2021||Kolkata,||Abhishek Banerjee and the remaking of the Trinamool Congress||On June 2, exactly a month after the Trinamool Congress registered one of its most emphatic electoral victories in the 2021 Assembly election, Abhishek Banerjee, among the party’s most prominent MPs, visited a private hospital in Kolkata to enquire about the health of an elderly woman. Krishna Roy, wife of BJP leader Mukul Roy, was ailing from COVID-19 and Mr. Banerjee’s visit to her created a flutter in State political circles — not only because Mr. Roy was a BJP legislator but also because none from the State BJP leadership had reached out to him. A few days later, Mr. Roy, national vice-president of the BJP, returned to the Trinamool Congress, a party he helped set up in 1998. And Mr. Roy was not the only high-profile entrant to the Trinamool thanks to the quiet outreach of Mr. Banerjee. He was crucial in bringing in Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev and nominating her to the Rajya Sabha within weeks. While making way for Ms. Dev, the Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha member Arpita Ghosh had addressed her resignation to Mr. Banerjee and asked for an opportunity to work for the party. Most recently, former Union Minister and two-time BJP MP Babul Supriyo also spoke of being given an opportunity to be in the “playing 11” at the behest of the 33-year-old Diamond Harbour MP and the party’s general secretary. Trinamool chairperson Mamata Banerjee’s nephew is slowly and steadily recruiting new talent to restructure the organisation and looking for new areas for expansion. Post 2019, as his clout grew in the party, he has tried to transform the party by bringing in poll strategist Prashant Kishor and improving both its image and messaging across social media platforms. Mr. Banerjee has also been crucial in initiating a number of organisational changes within the party, nominating Saayoni Ghosh as the youth president and appointing former Communist Party of India (Marxist) member Ritabrata Banerjee as the head of the Trinamool’s labour wing. A few weeks ago, the party brought in a one person, one post policy which resulted in many Ministers giving up organisational posts and a new leadership emerging at the district level. The induction of fresh blood in the Trinamool is also evident in the party’s campaign in Tripura. Youth leaders were the first to visit the State, followed by Ministers of the West Bengal government and finally Mr. Banerjee himself visited the State, emphasising that his party would contest the Assembly polls in Tripura in earnest. Under the scanner In turn, Mr. Banerjee has come under the scanner of Central investigating agencies, facing summons from the CBI in a coal pilferage scam. The MP has repeatedly said the Trinamool will not be cowed down by summons and notices from investigating agencies. While he has been the subject of much debate and speculation in political circles, Mr. Banerjee has stayed away from the spotlight. The young Trinamool leader operates from his Camac Street office in the heart of Kolkata and not from the party headquarters on the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass. He seems to prefer to stay away from the public glare, unlike his aunt who is comfortable with the media’s presence. After the 2021 Assembly polls, even when Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee placed herself as the challenger to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Banerjee has strengthened his grip over the party, steadily expanding his sphere of influence and has created his own niche as the second most important leader of the Trinamool. Political observers, however, think it is not fair to compare the leadership skills of the two. “Mamata Banerjee is a self-made leader who started from scratch. She rose from student and local politics and made her mark in national politics. Abhishek is part of a dynasty, and his leadership is largely dependent on the support of the well-oiled political machinery of her party and administration,” Biswanath Chakraborty, Professor of Political Science at Rabindra Bharati University, said. Professor Chakraborty said all the electoral successes of the Trinamool could be largely attributed to the charisma of Ms. Banerjee, and a few defections from the BJP or Congress did not mean much if the Trinamool could not expand its footprint beyond West Bengal. “For Abhishek, the real test will be making Trinamool Congress a national player; the Assembly polls in Tripura in 2022 could be the first challenge for him,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abhishek-banerjee-and-the-remaking-of-the-trinamool-congress/article36676569.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Trial run of cultural mapping of 75 villages soon||Having made little progress since its launch in 2017, the National Mission on Cultural Mapping (NMCM) has now been handed over to the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), which is gearing up for a trial run in 75 villages in October, according to officials. The Culture Ministry had approved the mission in 2017 with a Rs. 469 crore budget from 2017-2018 to 2019-2020, according to the administrative approval for the project. However, officials said the project had been slow to take off. In response to a question in the Lok Sabha on July 19, Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy said the Ministry was working on the cultural mapping mission to build a comprehensive database of artists, art forms and other resources from organisations under the Ministry. “So far 14.53 lakh artists/artisans have been registered on NMCM portal through secondary sources State/Union Territory-wise. However, no direct benefit or assistance has been extended through this Mission to the registered artists/institution,” the Minister’s written reply read. Five-year project IGNCA member secretary Sachidanand Joshi told The Hindu on Thursday that the work on creating a database for folk arts and mapping of heritage of villages would be carried out over five years. Volunteers from the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sanghathan, the National Service Scheme and students of sociology and social work would be deputed to collect such cultural data from villages, he said. “We will start the trial run in 75 villages next month. We are selecting one village in each State and UT as well as villages that have been a part of our freedom movement as we are celebrating 75 years of Independence,” he said. While the entire project would take five years and a budget of Rs. 89 crore had been approved for it, the IGNCA would aim to complete mapping in 5,000 villages by the end of financial year 2021-2022, Mr. Joshi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trial-run-of-cultural-mapping-of-75-villages-soon/article36676862.ece
26 September 2021||Washington,||India, U.S. find alignment on Indo-Pacific, fighting terrorism||Following the bilateral discussions between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Joe Biden, India and the U.S. released a joint statement on their ‘Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership’, that spoke of cooperation in regional groupings, defence manufacturing, and climate. The statement also denounced the use of “terrorist proxies”, and said Afghanistan should not become a safe haven for terror. However, it did not announce any major deliverables, especially so with trade, talks around which will recommence by the end of the year. Titled, ‘A Partnership for Global Good’, the statement said the two countries would work with regional groups like ASEAN and with Quad members to promote a “free and open Indo-Pacific” and developing a trade and investment partnership “that increases prosperity for working families in both countries”. On trade — which Mr. Modi, but not Mr. Biden, explicitly mentioned in his opening remarks at the Oval Office — the two sides said they looked forward to reconvening the India-U.S. Trade Policy Forum before the end of this year. They also said they would convene the CEO Forum and Commercial Dialogue early next year. Speaking at a briefing after the meeting, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said India’s access to the U.S.’s preferential trade programme via the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) programme, which was revoked under the Trump administration, was not off the table. “But obviously, when you have a meeting of 90 minutes you cannot go into each and every issue that is there,” he said. The Foreign Secretary said Mr. Biden confirmed that he stands committed to the position that the U.S. supports an India-South African initiative at the World Trade Organization for a TRIPS waiver (intellectual property rights) for COVID-19 vaccines. On terrorism, the leaders reaffirmed their commitment to fight terror (including bringing to justice those responsible for the 26/11 Mumbai attacks).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-find-alignment-on-indo-pacific-fighting-terrorism/article36676858.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Kamla Bhasin: feminist, poet, secularist||A feminist. A regular, diminutive figure at several protests in Delhi. An occasional appearance at music concerts, if time allowed her. A song writer whose songs have been a source of inspiration, sung across borders that divide. A poet whose verses are adrenalin shots for women. A secularist to the core. Call her a force of nature, if you will. In her 75 years, Kamla Bhasin was more than just a friendly, smiling face. She represented and touched women struggling for a toehold in public places denied to them, moving on in her later years to question the state and governments for their inability to put an equitable system in place. Quiet, firm and unrelenting, her passing away on Saturday found an outlet on Twitter where women acknowledged, in 147 characters, the debt they owed to her. ‘Learning is key’ “You may go into a village with an idea or a plan. But only if you’re willing to learn and be educated by the people you are there to serve, will you make progress. When you’re willing to listen to them, you will begin to see their reality, how caste and class operate, and how inequitable society is,” she had shared in the course of an interview. A developmental sociologist and author, she embraced feminism in the course of her journey across rural Rajasthan, after she returned from Germany in the 1970s. Bhasin’s travels through the countryside opened her eyes to the real world far removed from Delhi offices. The founder of women’s organisation Jagori, her energies were initially focussed on smashing the patriarchy responsible for the dismal state of women. Graduating further, she placed gender in systems and structures which abled gender imbalance, and moved a full circle to question the state and elected governments for perpetuating inequalities. The 1990s reform saw Bhasin connecting the dots between gender disparity and an unrelenting system, which often found an expression in songs that became popular. People could relate to the home-spun quality of her verses, shorn of highfalutin words. Everyone’s loss She took on multinational soft drinks manufacturers that drained out water from lakes, depriving people from accessing potable water — all of this found an expression in ditties penned by Bhasin. Making time in her life for women, and acknowledging the contribution of men who have furthered the cause of equality, embracing secularism as the life-breath of democracy, Bhasin will be certainly missed by half the population that makes up India’s numbers. The other half, too, will feel her absence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kamla-bhasin-feminist-poet-secularist/article36676538.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Buzz grows over Congress revamp with entry of activist-leaders||The possibility of prominent political activists such as Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani joining the Congress on September 28 and the buzz around election strategist Prashant Kishor indicate that the grand old party may be trying to build a new team ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha election through lateral entry. Coinciding with the birth anniversary of Bhagat Singh, Mr. Mevani and Mr. Kumar are likely to be inducted in the presence of former party chief Rahul Gandhi. It is, however, not clear if the new entrants would be given a national role or would be asked to focus on their respective States. While Mr. Kumar, one of the youngest members from Bihar in the Communist Party of India’s (CPI) national executive, met Mr. Gandhi earlier this month, Mr. Mevani, Dalit activist and Independent lawmaker from Gujarat, has been in touch with the leadership. About Mr. Kishor’s entry into the Congress, there is no clear indication about the timeline even though the issue has been debated among the members of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) as well as G-23, the group of 23 letter writers who sought internal reforms. The Congress is yet to officially comment on the speculation but remarks made by Mr. Gandhi on July 16 reflect the top leadership's thinking. “There are many people who are not scared [of BJP-RSS], but are outside the Congress. All these people are ours. Bring them in, and those scared within our party should be shunted out. They can go to RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh] people, let them enjoy. We do not want them, they are not needed. We want fearless people,” Mr. Gandhi told a meeting of social media volunteers. Besides Mr. Gandhi’s hope of adding “fearless” warriors, new faces could give the Congress a much-needed relief in terms of perception that it is only witnessing desertions. In the past year and half, younger leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, Jitin Prasada, and Sushmita Dev have quit, adding to the sense of drift that has prevailed since May 2019 after the Congress lost two successive Lok Sabha election. “When you allow lateral entry, it certainly creates a media frenzy but it has a demoralising effect on the workers who had aspirations to grow in the party,” said Professor Shri Prakash Singh of the Department of Political Science, Delhi University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/buzz-grows-over-congress-revamp-with-entry-of-activist-leaders/article36676551.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Opposition demands greater transparency over PM-CARES||A day after the Centre told the Delhi High Court that the PM-CARES Fund was not a “fund of the Government of India”, Opposition parties called for greater transparency, pointing out that government employees were asked to donate to the fund, and government websites had also canvassed for donations. Official government websites, including the national portal india.gov.in, carried links to donate to the PM-CARES Fund. Some, such as the Department of Expenditure under the Ministry of Finance, still have links to the PM-CARES website, which has an official .gov.in portal of its own, as on September 25. Official websites of Central Ministries and departments encouraged users to donate to the fund, which was launched in March 2020. Links taken down Many of them have since taken down the links directing users to the PM-CARES portal. However, screenshots of the websites over the past year show the link. Government staff were also asked to donate a day’s salary to the fund in 2020 as part of efforts to combat the pandemic. Government officials declined to comment. Requests for comments from Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions Jitendra Singh were not answered at the time of writing. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba wrote to all Secretaries on April 16, 2020, asking them to issue an appeal to all employees in their Ministries, departments and public sector undertakings to contribute to the fund. He had written that the amount deducted at source “may be sent” to the fund. The IAS Association in a tweet on April 22, 2020, supported the appeal and called upon IAS officers to contribute to the fund. Two officials, on condition of anonymity, said Ministries had issued orders regarding voluntary donations and that they did not know the PM-CARES Fund was not an official government fund at that time. In the wake of the developments in the Delhi High Court, Opposition leaders raised concerns over transparency. The court was hearing a petition asking that the fund be declared a “public authority” under the Right to Information Act. D. Raja, general secretary of the Communist Party of India, said: “In the past, questions were raised about PM-CARES Fund, both inside and outside Parliament. It is not a personal fund of the Prime Minister or the private fund of any individual or party. The public has contributed to this fund.” The government’s claim of transparency held good only if it revealed the names of all contributors and how the fund had been used so far, Mr. Raja added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-demands-greater-transparency-over-pm-cares/article36676860.ece
26 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha seeks review of rescue SOPs after journalist’s death||A day after a journalist died when an Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) boat that was sent to rescue a wild elephant stranded in the Mahanadi river capsized, the Odisha State Disaster Management Authority (OSDMA) on Saturday sought a review of the standard operating procedures (SOP) for carrying outsiders on any rescue mission. “I request Odisha’s Director-General of Police to review the SOP and order that no outsider, civilian or media personnel should be part of any rescue mission,” Pradeep Kumar Jena, Managing Director of OSDMA, posted on Twitter. An ODRAF boat was sent on Friday to drive to safety an elephant trapped in the Mahanadi floodwaters. The boat could not withstand the strong current and overturned close to the Mundali barrage, leading to the death of journalist Arindam Das. The body of a missing ODRAF personnel could not be traced in the Mahanadi river on Saturday. Mr. Jena, who had earlier said the decomposed body of ODRAF personnel Sitaram Murmu had been found, clarified that the body was yet to be traced. The condition of three ODRAF personnel admitted to the SCB Medical College Hospital, Cuttack continued to be critical, while a little improvement was noticed in the condition of Pravat Sinha, a video journalist, who is being treated in an intensive care unit. After the tragic loss of life, Odisha’s disaster response authorities drew flak for accommodating the journalist and camera person in a highly perilous rescue mission. Meanwhile, the elephant has been swept away by the river. The Forest and Environment Department, and the ODRAF, were not in a position to confirm the elephant’s location.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-seeks-review-of-rescue-sops-after-journalists-death/article36676562.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Opposition urges clarity over PM-CARES Fund||Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba wrote to all Secretaries on April 16, 2020, asking them to issue an appeal to all employees in their Ministries and departments to contribute to the fund. He had written that the amount deducted at source “may be sent” to the fund. The IAS Association in a tweet on April 22, 2020, supported the appeal and called upon IAS officers to contribute to the fund. Two officials, on condition of anonymity, said Ministries had issued orders regarding voluntary donations and that they did not know the PM-CARES Fund was not an official government fund at that time. In the wake of the developments in the Delhi High Court, Opposition leaders raised concerns over transparency. The court was hearing a petition asking that the fund be declared a “public authority” under the Right to Information Act. D. Raja, general secretary of the Communist Party of India, said: “In the past, questions were raised about PM-CARES Fund, both inside and outside Parliament. It is not a personal fund of the Prime Minister or the private fund of any individual or party. The public has contributed to this fund.” The government’s claim of transparency held good only if it revealed the names of all contributors. D. Raja, CPI general secretary, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-urges-clarity-over-pm-cares-fund/article36676543.ece
26 September 2021||United Nations,||Pak. an arsonist disguised as fire-fighter, says India||Pakistan, where terrorists enjoy free pass, is an “arsonist” disguising itself as a “fire-fighter”, and the entire world has suffered as it nurtures dreaded terrorists like Osama bin Laden in its backyard, India said in a blistering retort after Prime Minister Imran Khan raised the issue of Kashmir in his address to the United Nations General Assembly. “We exercise our Right of Reply to one more attempt by the leader of Pakistan to tarnish the image of this august Forum by bringing in matters internal to my country, and going so far as to spew falsehoods on the world stage,” First Secretary Sneha Dubey said in the UN General Assembly on Friday. “While such statements deserve our collective contempt and sympathy for the mindset of the person who utters falsehood repeatedly, I am taking the floor to set the record straight,” the Indian diplomat said. “We keep hearing that Pakistan is a ‘victim of terrorism’. This is the country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter. Pakistan nurtures terrorists in their backyard in the hope that they will only harm their neighbours. Our region, and in fact the entire world, has suffered because of their policies. On the other hand, they are trying to cover up sectarian violence in their country as acts of terror,” Ms. Dubey said. Mr. Khan had spoken about Article 370 and the death of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. In the Right of Reply, Ms. Dubey reiterated that the entire Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh “were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India. This includes the areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-an-arsonist-disguised-as-fire-fighter-says-india/article36676559.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC mulls deregistering inactive political parties||The Election Commission on September 23 notified the updated list of registered political parties. There are 2,796 registered unrecognised parties, and the panel has sought the power to deregister inactive parties. The EC has raised concern over the possible misuse of the income tax exemption by parties that do not contest elections. Senior EC sources said on Saturday the Law Ministry was yet to respond to the EC’s recent proposal seeking the power to deregister inactive parties. A senior official said only 673 parties, including recognised and unrecognised, had participated in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. In March 2019, the list of registered unrecognised parties had 2,293 names. On the latest list of parties are eight national recognised parties — the Trinamool Congress, the BSP, the BJP, the CPI, the CPI(M), the Congress, the NCP and the National People’s Party — and 54 recognised State parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-mulls-deregistering-inactive-political-parties/article36676528.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI laments reductive nature of justice system||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday said the justice delivery process was so deadening that what was basically a human problem transformed itself into “yet another case” by the end of the day. This is a “harsh reality”, Chief Justice Ramana said. “Sadly, our system is designed in such a way that by the time all the facts and law are churned out in the court of law, much gets lost in the process,” the CJI noted. The common man loses control over the fate of his own grievance in the labyrinth of the complex language of various statutes and the process of justice delivery, he said. The CJI said, “The lawmakers, the legislature, have to revisit their laws and simplify them to suit the practical needs and realities of the time. The executive has to make rules which correspond with these laws for the benefit and welfare of the people. The legal framework has to be drastically altered to make the justice delivery mechanism people-friendly.” The legislature and the executive should work in unison, Justice Ramana said. It is only then that people would get rid of the wrong notion that the judiciary, and not the legislature, makes the law. The CJI was speaking at the inauguration of the new building for the Odisha State Legal Services Authority in Cuttack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-laments-reductive-nature-of-justice-system/article36676530.ece
26 September 2021||Chennai,||Webinar on emerging careers in law||Law students, who want to practise in specialised areas, should first build a strong foundation in general law, experts opine. At a webinar on emerging careers in law hosted by The Hindu jointly with Sai University on Wednesday, panelists said without getting to know the basic civil law, civil procedure or criminal procedure, it is not going to be easy to deal with specialisation. They further said court and legal system are where the basics of law operate and students should start from there. Demands for lawyers They said the increasing number of regulatory bodies and specialisations have created a demand for lawyers in various fields like telecom and power. K.V. Ramani, founder and Chancellor of Sai University, said, “Law students at Sai University will have the privilege of interacting with students from School of Liberal Arts and School of Computing and Data Science as they can choose a minor from any school. At Sai University, law is a multi-disciplinary approach.” Sai University offers Daksha fellowship to learn advanced skills in Technology Law and Policy and Disputes and Regulatory Practice. The university also offers specialisation courses in regulatory state, competition law, environmental regulations and corporate governance. “Universities and colleges offer you a package of taking one major and two minors. It’s like retail shopping. Students should be allowed to pick subjects based on their interests,” Mr. Ramani said. Bahram N. Vakil, founder and senior partner of AZB & Partners, said the U.K. system offers a lot of specialised training. “Each firm puts a lot of time and effort in training their lawyers. In two years, one can do four rotations in corporate, banking, real estate and litigation,” he said. Changing law practice “In college, we need to keep it broad and relevant by focusing on issues like inequality and divisiveness.” On the changing nature of public law practice, Sriram Panchu, senior advocate, Madras High Court, said, “The arbitration law has been amended to make things a little smoother. In the last few years, one can find the judges speaking strongly in favour of mediation, a different way of approaching disputes. India has made remarkable progress in mediation basically through the court-annexed mediation systems. I think the time has come for private and professional mediation.” Adding sensitivity The panels also discussed how law graduates doing public service can add sensitivity to the work they are doing. When asked about the women in law, Prabha Sridevan, former judge, said, “When I became a lawyer, you either go into litigation or chamber practice conveyancing. But now, there are so many areas where advocacies and legal knowledge are useful. Women show great interest in environmental law, gender studies and gender advocacies. Times have changed and women are now practising with relatively greater ease than before.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-emerging-careers-in-law/article36676536.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||India is the mother of all democracies, says PM||“I represent a country known as the mother of all democracies,” Mr. Modi said, adding that India had entered its 75th year of Independence but had democratic traditions for thousands of years. “Our diversity is a symbol of our strong democracy, where dozens of languages and hundreds of dialects are examples of a vibrant democracy. It is Indian democracy’s strength that a small child who once helped his father at a tea stall is today representing India as its Prime Minister at the UN General Assembly,” said Mr. Modi, referring to himself in the third person. The Prime Minister’s statement at the United Nations came a day after his visit to Washington, where both U.S. President Joseph Biden and Vice-President Kamala Harris had underlined the need for strengthening democracy and respecting human rights. In his response to those comments, Mr. Modi had said that democracy was a shared value, with his remarks at the United Nations adding to that response, particularly his decision to provide his own personal example at the world body. Turning to veiled references on Pakistan’s role in Afghanistan, Mr. Modi said “regressive mindsets were giving terrorism a political meaning”. “We must be alert that no country uses Afghanistan's vulnerability for its own selfish interests to use it as a tool,” he added. Response to Imran Earlier, in response to Pakistan PM Khan’s UNGA speech, Indian diplomat at the UN mission Sneha Dubey said he had “misused the UN platform to spread propaganda”, and accused Pakistan of giving terrorists a “free pass”, actively “harbouring and aiding” them while minorities faced attacks in the country. “We keep hearing that Pakistan is a victim of terrorism. This country is an arsonist disguising itself as a firefighter,” Ms. Dubey said in her response to Mr. Khan, who had accused Mr. Modi’s government of promoting “hate-filled Hindutva ideology, propagated by the fascist RSS-BJP regime, [that] has unleashed a reign of fear and violence against India’s 200 million-strong Muslim community”. Mr. Modi spent a considerable part of his speech on India’s response to the coronavirus pandemic and the scientific development of vaccines, including a “DNA vaccine, an MRNA vaccine and a nasal vaccine”. He extended an invitation to global vaccine manufacturers to “come, come to India and make vaccines”. Confirming the government’s decision to restart vaccine exports through the international COVAX alliance, Mr. Modi said India has “resumed the process of providing vaccines to those who need it most in the world.” Credibility of UN Mr. Modi said the credibility of the UN and other global governance bodies had suffered on account of the climate crisis, COVID, the global proxy war and terrorism, as well as the outcome of events in Afghanistan. Quoting from Chanakya’s foreign policy treatise Arthashastra , Mr. Modi said “when the right action is not taken at the right time, then time ensures the failure of action.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-is-the-mother-of-all-democracies-pm-at-unga/article36676539.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Tejashwi Yadav writes to parties for caste census||“It would play a pivotal role in ensuring social harmony and social cohesion,” he said. The letters were addressed to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, National Congress Party leader Sharad Pawar, West Bengal chief minister and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, Bahujan Samajwadi Party leader Ms Mayawati, Orissa CM Naveen Patnaik, Left leaders D Raja, Sitaram Yechury, Former J & K CM Farooq Abdullah, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister O Paneerselvam among others. “I’m sure you will agree with me that we need to join hands and push the government of the day to see this absolutely crucial need to set the priorities of the socio-economic development of our country. I am open to suggestions and inputs from you so that we immediately prepare our plan of action in this regard without any further delay,” the RJD leader said. Earlier, on September 24, he had said that he would wait for Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s response on Central government’s decision that conducting caste based census would not be feasible in the country. Mr Yadav’s father and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad too had wondered why BJP/RSS had so much hatred against backward class people. Mr Yadav had also called for boycott of BJP ministers and party MPs belonging to Other and Extremely Backward Class.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tejashwi-yadav-writes-to-parties-for-caste-census/article36676540.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Cooperative Society Act to be amended soon’||He addressed over 2,100 representatives of different cooperatives and nearly six crore online participants, Mr. Shah said some people wondered why the Centre created this new Ministry as cooperatives are a State subject. On the proposed new cooperative policy, Mr. Shah said a policy was brought in 2002 by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and now the Modi government would start working on a new policy. Stressing that the cooperative movement was more relevant today than ever, Mr. Shah said cooperatives can contribute a lot in the development of the country. According to him, the cooperatives will play a crucial part in making India a $5 trillion economy. Referring to the problems being faced by cooperatives on taxation front and other issues, Mr. Shah said he was aware of the concerns and assured that there would be no injustice towards them “While cooperatives like IFFCO,Amul, Lijjat Papad and KRIBHCO have achieved a milestone in areas like milk and fertilisers, but there are many other areas like seed, food processing where cooperatives can tap the potential,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cooperative-society-act-to-be-amended-soon/article36676541.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Alert sounded in Odisha over Cyclone Gulab||The Odisha government on Saturday sounded a warning for the cyclonic storm Gulab, which is expected to cross the coast between its southern districts and north Andhra Pradesh at wind speeds of 75-85 kmph on Sunday evening. The associated heavy rain is likely cause landslips and floods in southern districts. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed the National Crisis Management Committee chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba that the cyclone was likely to hit Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Vishakhapatnam districts in Andhra Pradesh, and Ganjam and Gajapati districts in Odisha. Emphasising the need for all preventive and precautionary measures to combat the natural disaster, Mr. Gauba instructed the two State governments to make efforts keep the loss of lives to near zero, and minimise damage to property and infrastructure. “The depression over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal moved nearly westwards with a speed of seven kmph in last 6 hours, intensified into Cyclonic Storm ‘Gulab’ (pronounced as Gul-Aab) and lay centered over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal, about 370 km east-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) and 440 km east of Kalingapatnam (A.P.),” said an IMD bulletin. “The system is likely to move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh - south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur around evening of September 26 [Sunday],” it said. Earlier, Odisha Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena videoconferenced with Collectors of seven districts and instructed them to immediately start preparation for evacuation, keeping threats such as cyclonic winds, water logging, flooding and landslides in mind. As many as 42 Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force teams, 24 National Disaster Response Force teams and about 100 fire service teams have been instructed to move immediately towards the southern districts, Mr. Jena said. . Vijay Amruta Kulange, Ganjam District Collector (DC) said, “Preparations are in full swing to shift vulnerable sections of the population. We are also preparing to evacuate people from hilly areas. People should avoid low-lying areas and hilly regions.” ( Inputs from Sumit Bhattacharjee in Visakhapatnam )  The system is likely to move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh — south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur around evening of September 26 IMD bulletin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/alert-sounded-in-odisha-over-cyclone-gulab/article36676542.ece
26 September 2021||Patna,||Patna HC seizes powers of Jhanjharpur judge||The Patna High Court has seized the judicial powers of the additional district session judge-1 of the sub-divisional court at Jhanjharpur in Madhubani district. The judge, Avinash Kumar, recently passed several unusual orders that hit the headlines. A few days ago, the judge granted bail to Lalan Kumar Safi, a washerman by profession, on the condition that he wash and iron the clothes of all the women of his village free for six months. Earlier, in August, the judge granted bail to an accused, Nitish Kumar, who was arrested under the stringent State prohibition laws, on the condition that he offer free education to five underprivileged children of his village for three months, which their parents will have to certify.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patna-hc-seizes-powers-of-jhanjharpur-judge/article36676575.ece
26 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||NSCN(I-M) issues fiat to MLAs||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN(I-M), has ‘ordered’ the MLAs of three districts of Arunachal Pradesh to withdraw support to the Pema Khandu government. The official removal of ‘Naga’ tag from certain communities inhabiting these three districts is said to be the reason behind this diktat. Parliament had in August passed the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeking to change the nomenclature of certain tribes from Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nscni-m-issues-fiat-to-mlas/article36676535.ece
26 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Panel seeks review of Rajasthan Bill||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has sought a review of the Bill to amend the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, 2009, passed in the Assembly last week, in view of its likely impact on minor children. The commission said the Bill could “legitimise” child marriages. The Congress government has maintained that the amended provisions will only streamline the registration process for marriages, without changing the status of the nuptial ties of minors. The amendment authorises women above 18 years to submit the memorandum for registration on their own to the competent authority. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister’s Office, NCPCR Chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said the Bill would have a serious impact on the physical, psychological and social state of minors as well as their education. He asked the government to reconsider the Bill and review its provisions in accordance with the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-seeks-review-of-rajasthan-bill/article36676548.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Congress backs Bharat Bandh call by farmers||The Congress will join the September 27 Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to mark the first anniversary of the passage of the three controversial farm laws in Parliament, the party announced on Saturday. Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the Narendra Modi government had systematically assaulted the agriculture sector in the past seven years. It was the Modi government which for the first time imposed a tax on major farm implements, tractors, pesticides and seeds, the Congress spokesperson said. “As per one study, in the past seven years, per hectare cost of farming has increased by Rs. 25,000 because of the indirect taxes imposed on agriculture,” he added.  “The Modi government is responsible for all round ruin of the farm sector. And now they are turning a blind eye towards the farmers who have protesting for nine months,” Mr. Vallabh added. The Congress supported the demand of the farmers asking for withdrawal of the laws and giving MSP legal backing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-backs-bharat-bandh-call-by-farmers/article36676552.ece
26 September 2021||Srinagar,||People in J&K silenced, says Mirwaiz||Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Saturday said people in Jammu and Kashmir, especially the youth, feel suffocated and silenced and such a situation could have serious consequences. “The situation in J&K is simmering. It’s getting more and more repressive with each passing day. Extreme laws are introduced to curb people’s freedom and intimidate them into silence through fear of retribution,” the Mirwaiz, who remains under house arrest since August 5, 2019, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/people-in-jk-silenced-says-mirwaiz/article36676565.ece
26 September 2021||Aligarh (U.P.),||Hathras: Azad threatens indefinite protest||Azad Samaj Party national president Chandrashekhar Azad has threatened to begin an indefinite protest if the U.P. government fails to fulfil its promises to the family of the gang rape-murder victim in Hathras. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s promises made a year ago of providing financial support to the family, including job and housing, have become a cruel joke,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hathras-azad-threatens-indefinite-protest/article36677249.ece
26 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra postpones exam citing incomplete arrangements||In what is seen as a major embarrassment to the Maharashtra government, the State had to postpone the written examination scheduled on Saturday and Sunday for recruitment to the Health Department as the arrangements were incomplete. The State government said the arrangements had been outsourced to a company, which could not fulfil the task. The exam was for recruitment to 6,200 posts of group C and group D staff, for which over six lakh applications had been received. The announcement of the postponing of the exam was made on Friday night. The Opposition parties have demanded an inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-postpones-exam-citing-incomplete-arrangements/article36676560.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||I-T Dept. conducts raids on Gujarat diamond group||The Income Tax Department has conducted searches on the premises of a Gujarat-based diamond seller and exporter based on inputs about tax evasion. Over the years, the group had accounted for sale of small diamonds worth about Rs. 2,742 crore on its books, against which a substantial part of purchases were made in cash, but the bills were taken from accommodation entry providers, said the agency. The operation led to the seizure of documents pertaining to unaccounted purchases and sales, bogus invoices, movement of cash and stock through “courier” firms, use of unaccounted income for acquiring properties in the past five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-dept-conducts-raids-on-gujarat-diamond-group/article36676574.ece
26 September 2021||Mumbai,||Theatres to reopen in Maharashtra from Oct. 22||A day after announcing reopening of schools and religious places, the Maharashtra government on Saturday gave the go-ahead to theatres and auditoriums from October 22. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray made the announcement after a meeting with members of film and drama industry. Mr. Thackeray said the standard operating procedures for the same will be announced soon. On Friday, the State government announced the decision to reopen schools for Classes V to XII in rural areas and Classes VIII to XII in urban areas from October 4. Also, all religious places will reopen from October 7, the first day of Navratri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/theatres-to-reopen-in-maharashtra-from-oct-22/article36677250.ece
26 September 2021||Patna,||First phase of Bihar panchayat polls passes off peacefully||The first phase of Bihar panchayat elections passed off peacefully on Friday with webcast and biometric attendance of voters in place to maintain transparency and avoid bogus voting. The 11-phase panchayat elections is scheduled from September 24 to December 12. The first phase was held at 2,119 polling stations across 12 blocks of 10 districts and recorded 60% voter turnout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/first-phase-of-bihar-panchayat-polls-passes-off-peacefully/article36676547.ece
26 September 2021||Neemuch,||Constable gang-raped in Madhya Pradesh; two arrested||A 30-year-old police consta- ble was allegedly gang-raped by three men, who shot a video of the act and blackmailed her in Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district, an official said on Saturday. While the crime took place earlier this month, the constable lodged a complaint on September 13, following which a probe was conduc- ted. A case was registered this week against five persons. The police have arrested the main accused and his mother in connection with the crime, said Anuradha Girwal, the in-charge of the women’s police station.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/constable-gang-raped-in-madhya-pradesh-two-arrested/article36676549.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||CBI arrests AIIMS-Bhopal official for graft||The CBI on Saturday arrested a Deputy Director of the AIIMS-Bhopal on charges of graft. The accused official, Dhirendra Pratap Singh, had demanded Rs. 2 lakh from a chemist, who supplies medicines and other consumables to the hospital, for clearing pending bills. Based on a complaint from the chemist, the agency registered a First Information Report. The CBI officials then laid a trap and caught the accused red-handed when he was receiving Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-aiims-bhopal-official-for-graft/article36676573.ece
26 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab Cabinet expansion today, says CM Channi||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday said the expansion of his Cabinet will take place on Sunday. He met Governor Banwarilal Purohit during the day. “Tomorrow [September 26] all the Ministers will take oath of office,” he said. Sources said the new faces likely to be included are Raj Kumar Verka, Pargat Singh, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Gurkirat Kotli, Rana Gurjit Singh and Kuljit Nagra. Meanwhile, 1988-batch IPS officer, Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota has assumed additional charge of Punjab’s Director General of Police. He will continue to hold the charge of Special DGP, Armed Battalion, Punjab. The Ministers from the former Amarinder Singh Cabinet who could be left out include Balbir Singh Sidhu, Sunder Sham Arora, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Gurpreet Singh Kangar. Manpreet Singh Badal, Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Arunu Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana and Bharat Bhushan Ashu are likely to be retained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cabinet-expansion-today-says-cm-channi/article36676553.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Karvy scam: ED holds searches at properties linked to firm||The Enforcement Directorate has conducted searches at six locations linked to Karvy Stock Broking Limited (KSBL) in connection with bank fraud cases involving Rs. 2,873 crore. It has also issued an order freezing Karvy group shares worth Rs. 700 crore held directly or indirectly by the KSBL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) and others. The ED’s freezing order is with respect to the shares held by KSBL CMD Comandur Parthasarathy, his sons, Rajat and Adhiraj, and their entities. Their estimated worth has been arrived at as per the valuation for 2019-20. Last month, the Hyderabad police had arrested Mr. Parthasarathy for allegedly cheating IndusInd Bank of Rs. 137 crore. The ED recorded his statement when he was lodged in Chanchalguda Jail there. Another case against KSBL was lodged with the Telangana police by the HDFC Bank for illegally pledging the securities of its clients to take a loan of Rs. 329 crore, which was diverted. A First Information Report (FIR) has also been instituted by the Cyberabad police for cheating ICICI Bank of Rs. 562.50 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karvy-scam-ed-holds-searches-at-properties-linked-to-firm/article36676545.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNA,TAMIL NADU||Govt. has fulfilled most poll promises: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the DMK government had fulfilled 202 of its 505 electoral promises in the first four months of being elected. “Ours will probably be the only government in the Indian subcontinent that has achieved such a feat. I do not think this speed is initially expected from a new government. We will be always like this. I will meet you every three months to list out our achievements,” Mr. Stalin said in a video message. The Chief Minister said he would not be indifferent to the expectations of the people just because he had to meet them only after five years [at the time of the next Assembly election]. “I always feel that it is the people who motivate me to function. Order me and I am ready to work,” he said. He said the government had gone beyond its promises and even implemented schemes that were not part of DMK’s poll promises. Reiterating that he would always live up to the expectations of the people, Mr. Stalin said he could say with pride that the government had fulfilled most promises.  I do not think this speed is initially expected from a new government. We will be always like this. I will meet you every three months to list our achievements M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-has-fulfilled-most-poll-promises-stalin/article36677017.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin takes stock of northeast monsoon preparedness||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday inspected the cleaning of stormwater drains, desilting work and removal of water hyacinth on Gandhi Mandapam Road, Indira Nagar, Thiruvanmiyur, Pallikaranai and Velachery, which are under way as part of the northeast monsoon preparedness measures. On Gandhi Mandapam Road, 1,516 m of stormwater drains were constructed at a cost of Rs. 4.15 crore to prevent flooding and stagnation in the Adyar Cancer Institute and Anna University, an official release said. The water will be collected in a tank before being released into the Buckingham Canal . The Chief Minister also inspected the cleaning of the silt patch pit by the Greater Chennai Corporation, and advised officials to complete the work in a week. After that, he visited the Indira Nagar MRTS station and Lattice Bridge Road, where Robotic Excavators were being used to remove water hyacinth from the Buckingham Canal. He inspected the removal of waste in Pallikaranai Marshland and garbage under small bridges. Subsequently, he visited the Narayanapuram lake, where a major drain was being constructed at a cost of Rs. 18.79 crore. As water hyacinth has affected the flow of water and converted the Velachery lake into a mosquito breeding ground, the government is using amphibious machines to remove them. The Chief Minister inspected the spot. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, South Chennai MP Tamizhachi Thangapandian, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and other senior officials accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-takes-stock-of-northeast-monsoon-preparedness/article36676977.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tunnel work for Metro phase II set to begin||Preparatory work on the underground stretch of Metro’s phase II project has begun in areas like Madhavaram, Purasawalkam and Greenway’s Road. In the first week of November, full-fledged work, including excavation and building of diaphragm wall, will begin in eight locations across the city. The project will span 118.9 km and will be carried out at an estimated cost of Rs. 61,843 crore, comprising of three corridors — Madhavaram to Shollinganallur, Madhavaram to SIPCOT and Light House to Poonamallee — with many stretches running underground. Before constructing a tunnel, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) will have to first build a diaphragm wall, a box-like structure about 1 m thick, which is essential to prevent settling of soil. According to sources in CMRL, Madhavaram, Murari Hospital, Ayanavaram, Purasawalkam, Chetpet, Royapettah Government Hospital, Greenway’s Road and Thiruvanmiyur will be among the locations where diaphragm walls will be built. “The trench cutters will arrive from Germany shortly. Work to raise the walls will start in the first week of November. Six months later, when this work is finished, tunnel boring will be launched and the process will go on for a few years,” an official said. The first underground stretch of the phase II project will be opened in 2026 between Madhavaram and Taramani, for which the preliminary work has been kick-started in Madhavaram, Purasawalkam and Greenway’s Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tunnel-work-for-metro-phase-ii-set-to-begin/article36676981.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lakes along Outer Ring Road in Chennai get a new lease of life||Several waterbodies dot Outer Ring Road (ORR) between Vandalur and Minjur. The Environmentalist Foundation of India (EFI), a conservation group, has joined hands with the Water Resources Department (WRD) to structurally restore a few lakes along the route. These waterbodies have been reduced to vacant spaces ridden with vegetation like Prosopis juliflora ( seemai karuvelam ) and lack proper boundaries. The EFI has taken up restoration works in five lakes in Poonamallee, Kolappancheri, Panayanthangal, Konimedu and Vellacheri this year. The organisation has documented nearly 78 waterbodies along ORR and already rejuvenated those at Konimedu, Minjur and Vandalur. “We chose to rejuvenate the waterbodies located along ORR as it is easy to structurally restore such lakes before rapid urbanisation occurs in the region. We have started work with the administrative support of the Tiruvallur Collectorate. These lakes also fall in the zone that receive intense rainfall,” said Arun Krishnamurthy, EFI’s founder. Most of these waterbodies are intermediary storage points and surplus water from these lakes join various rivers, including Adyar, Cooum and Kosasthalaiyar. It was imperative to protect these waterbodies as a source of irrigation, groundwater recharge and freshwater habitat, he said. Spread over nearly 100 acre, Poonamallee lake is surrounded by arterial roads like ORR and Chennai-Bangalore Highway. It had only patches of water and was overrun by invasive Prosopis juliflora until a few months ago. Besides creating nesting islands for birds and defining the inlets and outlets, techniques like segmented restoration and dual embankment are being employed as part of the lakes’ restoration. Cavities have been created at different depths and levels of the lakes to better store floodwater and allow free flow across the lakes’ contour. Moreover, dual embankment would ensure improved stability. Regulatory trenches were developed in the foreshore area as a natural boundary to prevent encroachments. In addition, work is under way to plant 6,500 saplings by October in 12 lakes along ORR. Officials of the WRD said both the department and the Tiruvallur district administration had given permission to NGOs for such rejuvenation efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lakes-along-outer-ring-road-in-chennai-get-a-new-lease-of-life/article36677409.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,724 fresh COVID-19 infections, 22 more fatalities||On a day when 1,724 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, fresh infections fell below 200 in both Chennai and Coimbatore — while the former recorded 194 cases, the latter saw 198 on Saturday. The State’s daily count topped 1,700 for the third day in a row. Along with Chennai and Coimbatore, only Erode and Chengalpattu recorded 100-plus cases. There were 121 cases in Erode and 119 in Chengalpattu. In Tiruppur, 91 people tested positive for COVID-19. There were 74 cases in Tiruvallur and 73 in Thanjavur. Salem logged 69 cases, Tiruvarur 68 and Tiruchi 63 . The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 26,55,572. Another 1,635 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,02,833. At present, 17,263 people are under treatment for COVID-19. The State recorded 22 fatalities (eight in private hospitals and 14 in government facilities), taking its toll to 35,476. There was no death due to COVID-19 in 25 districts, including Chengalpattu and Salem. While Coimbatore reported four deaths, there were three fatalities in Chennai. As many as 1,56,490 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,62,30,987. Another 1,76,680 people were vaccinated, taking the total coverage in government centres to 4,19,26,755. They included 1,11,542 people aged 18 to 44 and 47,237 people in the 45 to 59 age group. Vaccination was held in a total of 2,280 sessions.  Another 1,635 people were discharged, taking the total figure to 26,02,833. At present, 17,263 people are under treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-1724-fresh-covid-19-infections-22-more-fatalities/article36677003.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||127 jumbos in captivity, Forest Dept. tells HC||The Forest Department on Friday informed the Madras High Court that 127 elephants are in captivity in the State and that 31 of them are in temples, 32 by individuals and 64 in special camps run by the department. The court was told that individuals residing in Assam and Kerala were holding the licences for many elephants kept in various temples in the State. Appearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu, government counsel C. Harsha Raj said the department had begun cataloguing all personal details, including the ancestry, of every individual elephant in captivity in the State as per orders passed by the court early this month and that the department would require one more month to complete the process and submit the details. However, Prakash Sasha, co-founder of New Delhi based animal protection organisation Elsa Foundation, said the State forest department, in its report submitted to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change in January 2019 had claimed that 86 elephants were in the custody of temples and private individuals. However, now, it had reported that only 63 elephants were in temple and private custody. He said the forest department must explain the discrepancy in numbers and how a huge number of 23 elephants could go off the radar since 2019. After recording his submission, the judges directed the forest department to submit by October 21 the statements furnished by it to the Union Ministry in the last five years with regard to the number of elephants in captivity in the State. The interim orders were passed on a public interest litigation petition filed by Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangamwho insisted upon taking good care of the elephants in the custody of temples. The litigant insisted that temples must allot huge tracts of lands with green cover to house the elephants and ensure free movement of the pachyderms whenever they were not required to be taken to the temples to participate in festivities. In an interim report filed on Friday, the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden Shekar Kumar Niraj said the department had 28 elephants in a camp at Aanamalai Tiger Reserve in Pollachi, 28 at a camp in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve in Udhagamandalam, two at Arignar Anna Zoological Park at Vandalur and six at an elephant rescue centre in Tiruchi. He said microchips containing unique identification numbers had been fixed on 51 elephants in the custody of the forest department and that they were yet to be fixed on the rest of the 13 elephants. As far as the 31 temple elephants were concerned, all of them had been fixed with microchips, he said and pointed out that the licences for many temple elephants had been issued in the names of individuals and not the temple management. The PCCF said one Lila Bora was holding the licence for 15-year-old female elephant Prerona maintained at Tirupparankundram Subramania Swamy Temple in Madurai. Similarly, Pradip Doley, also from Assam, was holding the licence for 14-year-old female elephant Joon alias Sundaravalli maintained at Kallazhagar temple in Madurai and Chidananda Hazarika was the licencee of 18-year-old elephant Moni alias Akila at Jambukeshwarar Akilandeswari Temple at Tiruvanaikaval in Tiruchi. The court was informed that the licence for 18-year-old female elephant Joymala alias Jayamalyatha of Srivilliputtur Andal Temple in Virudhunagar was held by Girin Moran of Assam and that Tuleswar Moran was the licence holder of 14-year-old female elephant Bhagyawati alias Abirami of the Amirthadadeshwarar Swamy Devasthanam at Tirukadaiyur. V. Ganesh of Kerala held the licence for Parvathi, the Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple elephant in Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/127-jumbos-in-captivity-forest-dept-tells-hc/article36677465.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sengadu villagers screened for chronic kidney disease||After four patients from the same locality were diagnosed with chronic kidney disease and required dialysis, a team from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) took up a survey, and launched a screening initiative in Sengadu village, Sriperumbudur, on Saturday. “Our team took up a preliminary survey and found that there were a total of eight patients with chronic kidney disease on Pillaiyar Koil Street of Sengadu. Residents told us that 10 persons had died earlier, but this needs to be clarified. While the department of community medicine took up a complete survey and general examination, the department of nephrology has started screening the families,” E. Theranirajan, dean of the RGGGH, said. A 62-member team from the hospital took up the initiative in Sengadu on Saturday. There are 387 families, comprising 1,550 members, in the village. Samples were lifted from the residents for running tests for complete blood count, creatinine and urine albumin levels. Blood pressure too was checked, the dean explained. “Early detection is key in treating kidney diseases. We started complete house-to-house screening to see if any of them had symptoms and signs of chronic kidney diseas. We will also ascertain why residents from the same locality suffered from chronic kidney disease,” Mr. Theranirajan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sengadu-villagers-screened-for-chronic-kidney-disease/article36677019.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore resident secures 33rd rank in civil services exam||Coimbatore resident Narayana Sarma, 25, has secured 33rd rank in the UPSC civil services examination 2020. Mr. Sarma, in his third attempt, had opted for Public Administration as his optional subject. “For current affairs, I followed newspapers on a daily basis. Continuous practice without giving up despite setbacks is the key to crack this exam,” said Mr. Sarma. He did his B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering from Amrita University, Coimbatore. “The most challenging aspect of the exam was to move on to the next attempt without thinking much about past failures. However, I was able to manage that transition well,” said Mr. Sarma. Tenkasi resident Shanmuga Valli, 26, has secured 108th rank in her third attempt. She did her Electronics and Communication Engineering in College of Engineering Guindy, Anna University, in 2017. “My family supported me and gave me confidence to work hard. I read The Hindu for current affairs. My optional subject was Sociology. I received free coaching at the All India Civil Services coaching centre, which is run by the State government,” said Ms. Shanmuga Valli, who also received coaching at Manidhaneyam and Aram IAS Academy. Guduvanchery resident Priyanga Rangasamy Annadurai has secured 181st rank in the exam. Her optional subject was Tamil literature. Her father retired as driver in Chennai Port Trust. She did her Computer Science and Engineering from Valliammai Engineering College. Priyanga Rangasamy Annadurai joined Tata Consultancy Services and started preparing for her civil services examination at Aram IAS Academy. Later she quit her job to focus on preparation. “A candidate has to learn from mistakes and get the right guidance for success in this examination. I thank my family and mentors,” she said. According to a press release from Manidhaneyam IAS Academy, 18 students who received free coaching cleared the exam. Coimbatore resident D.Ranjith, a candidate with hearing disability has secured 750th rank. His mother Amirthavalli, who is a school headmistress, said he worked hard utilising technology to clear the examination. Ranjith did his Mechanical Engineering from PSG Tech.  Tenkasi resident Shanmuga Valli, who received coaching at Manidhaneyam and Aram IAS Academy, has secured 108th rank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-man-secures-33rd-rank-in-civil-services-exam/article36677133.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Without regularisation, doctors ‘denied’ maternity leave benefits||The State government recently increased the maternity leave period for government employees from nine months to 12, but a group of doctors, who have been working for nearly four years, have been “denied” the benefits as their services are yet to be regularised. A number of non-service postgraduates, posted in institutions under the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS) since 2017, have not received their maternity leave benefits, as they are not regularised employees. The Special Qualifying Examination of Medical Services Recruitment Board (MRB) to regularise those appointed temporarily as assistant surgeons, medical officers and non-service PGs has not been held since 2016. “As a result, we continue to remain non-service PGs, with the same salary of Rs. 63,000, for four years. We were recruited under Rule 10(a) (i) (temporary appointments) of the Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate Services Rules. The special examination to regularise our services has not been conducted for five years. When I availed maternity leave, I went without pay. But those working in Directorate of Medical Education institutions have received maternity leave benefits,” said a doctor who has been working in a government hospital since 2017. It has been over a year since Prathibha (name changed) returned to duty after nine months of maternity leave, but there has been no sign of benefits. “It was a ‘loss of pay’ for nine months. I was made to run from pillar to post seeking the benefits, but to no avail. The leave was categorised as ‘medical leave’ and not ‘maternity leave’. When I took this to the officials, they said I was a non-regularised staff. I grew tired due to the lack of response,” she said. There are around 30-40 women doctors — all non-service PGs across batches from 2017 — working in DMS institutions, and they have not received maternity leave benefits, she said, adding: “We are few in number, and that is the reason why our plea has not been addressed. Many want to continue to work in the government sector.” Like her, Savitha (name changed), another doctor, had taken maternity leaves for two pregnancies. “In four years, I have gone without pay for nearly two years. At least the special exam can be held to regularise our services,” she said. “The problem persists since 2016 due to the delay in conducting the special qualifying exam. This is purely a case of administrative delay. These doctors have completed two years of service and their right to maternity leave salary benefits should not be denied. The government should consider sanctioning their salaries and conduct the exam immediately,” P. Saminathan, president of Service Doctors’ and Post Graduates’ Association, said. He pointed to the State government’s recent affidavit in the Madras High Court, which stated that there was no discrimination in the grant of maternity benefits between regularised and non-regularised employees. A policy decision Officials said it was a policy decision that non-permanent (temporary) staff, appointed on emergency provisions and not in regular capacity, did not receive maternity benefits. “Not in regular capacity” is peculiar to non-service PGs appointment under emergency provisions of the service rule. An official said the issue was explained to the government, which in turn had sought clarification from the Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/without-regularisation-doctors-denied-maternity-leave-benefits/article36676999.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||22 lakh people due for second dose, says Health Minister||Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Saturday said 22 lakh people were due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccines in the State, and urged them to come forward to get inoculated at the camps to be held in their neighbourhood as part of the third mega vaccination camp on Sunday. About 40,000 camps are being set up for the mega vaccination camp, he said, adding: “We request you to come forward to get your second dose. Both Covaxin and Covishield doses are available in all camps. Those who have received Covaxin can get the second dose after a gap of 28 days, while the gap is 84 days for those who have taken Covishield. Those who have crossed the prescribed gap and are waiting for the second dose can get it at the camps.” He said people with co-morbidities such as hypertension and diabetes, and those aged over 60 were the most affected by COVID-19. The Minister said while 56% of the eligible population in the State had received the first dose of the vaccines, 17% had received the second dose. Though the third mega vaccination camp has a target to administer 15 lakh doses, it could exceed that and 20 lakh to 25 lakh doses could be administered. Through this, the percentage of people who have received the first dose could reach 60%, he said. So far, government vaccination centres have inoculated 4,17,50,075 people, while 24,47,065 have been vaccinated at private centres. In total, 4,41,97,140 people have got the jabs in the State. He urged people to get vaccinated, so the figure of total number of vaccinated people in the State could reach five crore. He expressed gratitude to the staff of the Health Department who work for 15 hours during mega vaccination camps. He said the health staff could take a leave on Monday. The State has received 29 lakh vaccine doses now, he said. He took part in an event to mark the anniversary of the 108 ambulance service, entering its 14th year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-lakh-people-due-for-second-dose-says-health-minister/article36677001.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||60-year-old woman undergoes cardiac surgery for fifth time||Doctors at the SRM Institute of Medical Sciences (SIMS) Hospital have successfully performed a mitral valve replacement for a 60-year-old woman, for whom this was the fifth cardiac procedure. V.V. Bashi, director and senior consultant, Institute of Cardiac and Aortic Disorders, who headed the team that performed the surgery, said that though re-operative cardiac procedures were becoming common with advancement in the medical field, a person undergoing these many procedures at the age of 60 was extremely rare and risky. Mohammed Idhrees, consultant cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon at the hospital, said that K. Eswari, the patient, underwent two mitral valve repairs in the 1990s following damages to the valve due to rheumatic heart disease. In 2008, after the condition of her valve degenerated further, a mechanical valve was implanted. “Those receiving mechanical valve implants must be on blood thinners. If not, the mechanical valve will get damaged quickly,” he said. He said some people, however, failed to strictly adhere to the medication protocol due to several factors, including their socio-economic conditions. “As Ms. Eswari failed to be on blood thinners, her valve got damaged within a year,” he said. Consequently, in 2009, the damaged mechanical valve was replaced with a bio-prosthetic valve, which did not require patients to be on blood thinners. After 12 years, this valve was damaged, necessitating another replacement, the doctor said. Dr. Bashi said the open-heart procedure performed was complicated and life-threatening due to the patient’s history. “Since she has undergone four surgeries earlier, the internal scar tissues between the structures of the chest make it challenging to re-enter the chest and perform the surgery without damaging parts of the heart,” he said, adding that the surgery was necessary as the patient had severe breathlessness. Lauding the team of doctors and other staff, Raju Sivasamy, SIMS vice-president, said that such complex surgeries could be done due to the superior surgical skills of the doctors and the availability of latest technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60-year-old-woman-undergoes-cardiac-surgery-for-fifth-time/article36676974.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Campaign to support children with cancer||Cankids Kidscan, the National Society for Childhood Cancer, is organising a month-long cyclothon to raise awareness and funds for treatment. #CycleForGold is being held, recognising September as the childhood cancer awareness month. The cyclothon is being held from September 10 to October 8, and is an awareness and fundraising event, said Lata Mani, south regional head of the organisation. During the pandemic, many children had to abandon treatment. “We are seeing more relapse, and children are coming in at more advanced stages of the disease. Many families who have lost their livelihoods are in dire need of support for treatment, which called for such n event,” she said. The aim of the cyclothon is to cycle 80,000 km (one km for every case of childhood cancer detected in India annually). So far, over 21,000 km have been covered, she added.  Poonam Bagai, chairman, said: “The aim is to raise Rs. 1.25 crore via this campaign.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-to-support-children-with-cancer/article36677023.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t harass family cardholders, fair price shop staff told||The Commissioner of Civil Supplies has asked staff manning fair price shops not to harass family cardholders coming to collect the essential commodities, especially senior citizens or people with disabilities. He urged consumers, who are unable to go directly to the shop such as senior citizens or persons with disabilities and do not have anyone else to collect the items at home, to submit the necessary authorisation forms. The forms are available in plenty at all fair price shops. “The authorisation from such cardholders is enough to provide the provisions without the biometric authentication,” the official said in a press release here. There have been complaints from such persons that they were being harassed by shopkeepers, the release said. Shopkeepers have been told to provide the commodities to the cardholders even if biometric authentication does not work due to network issues. “They can do so by taking the signature of the cardholder in the register,” explained a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-harass-ration-cardholders/article36677131.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Emerging technologies are need of the hour’||“Emerging technologies with cross-functional applications are the need of the hour. We must future-proof ourselves. Irrespective of what stream of engineering you pursue, intercept emerging technologies, be aware of them and apply them, in order to stay relevant,” Dr. Sandhya Chintala, executive director - IT-ITeS Sector Skills Council, and vice-president, NASSCOM, said here on Friday. Dr. Sandhya was addressing a webinar on “Engineering Education Counselling: What Direction?” hosted by Sona College of Technology and The Hindu Education Plus. Relevant skills She also spoke about in-demand cloud skills with eligible job roles and pointed out that virtual worlds could become interoperable in future, culminating in what futurists deem as “the Metaverse”. Two factors Anil Sivadas, founder and president, Enventure Engineering LLP, said students should consider two factors while preparing for engineering. “One, what suits your interest? Figure out what skill you inherently have. Next, examine whether the area you have chosen has scope for growth in future.” Manufacturing boom Explaining why core engineering was becoming increasingly popular, he said, “Many indicators say that much of manufacturing is shifting to India and will explode over the next two decades. Another factor is that, as an engineer, modern manufacturing will drive data. You must be efficient, for which you need data-driven skills. This is where data science, internet of things, automation and robotics come into play.” Chocko Valliappa, vice-chairman, Sona Group of Institutions, and founder and CEO, Vee Technologies HireMee, said students should follow their passion. “Irrespective of what you study, the willingness to learn will define who you are,” he said, and elaborated on the programmes the college offered. Blended learning “Data Analysis is the next best thing, as are mechanical and electrical engineering, especially in the construction industry. Start-ups are gaining momentum. What’s more, blended learning will be the mode of the future.” He emphasised that in addition to acquiring new skills in technical fields, one should give equal importance to soft skills. The session ended with the speakers fielding questions from the audience. The session can be viewed athttps://bit.ly/3o1jmHM The webinar was hosted by R. Sujatha, Deputy Editor (Reporting), The Hindu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emerging-technologies-are-the-need-of-the-hour/article36676979.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Keshav Desiraju, a rare intellectual of great personal integrity’||Former Secretary of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Keshav Desiraju, who passed away earlier this month, was a rare intellectual of great personal integrity and moral independence, N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Group Publishing Private Limited, said on Friday. Speaking at an event organised online by the Chennai Chapter of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) to pay tributes to the late IAS officer, Mr. Ram said Desiraju left a deep imprint on everyone who knew him or encountered him. Exemplary work Desiraju achieved a great deal on the ground by standing by his values and well-considered views on what he believed was beneficial to society. He did this without drawing undue attention to his own exemplary contributions in the fields of health, education, consumer affairs, and even heritage, Mr. Ram noted. The discussion was organised as a reminiscence of a talk that Desiraju delivered in 2017 as part of INTACH’s ‘Those were the days’ series on eminent historian Sarvepalli Gopal, son of former President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and Desiraju’s uncle.  Mr. Ram said the talk, which was instructive, elegant and easy flowing, was a little gem that could take Gopal and his works to the present generation. Highlighting that Gopal could be considered the father of contemporary history in India without any exaggeration, he said the late historian was also a distinguished biographer. Highlighting Gopal’s focus on fine, clear and evocative writing of history as opposed to the mundane, pedestrian and dense style of writing history, Mr. Ram stressed the need to take Desiraju’s talk to a wider audience. Gopalkrishna Gandhi, former Governor of West Bengal, said the lecture of Desiraju, which was played at the event, was a revelation and lauded the professionalism with which he dealt with the subject. Echoing Mr. Ram’s suggestion, he appealed to INTACH to bring out the lecture in text format. Sujatha Shankar of INTACH’s Chennai Chapter recollected Desiraju’s association with the organisation and his contributions.  Desiraju achieved a great deal on the ground by standing by his values and well-considered views on what he believed was beneficial to society||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keshav-desiraju-a-rare-intellectual-of-great-personal-integrity/article36677446.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3 lakh penalty imposed on builder||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) has levied a penalty of Rs. 3 lakh on Ozone Projects Pvt. Ltd. for collecting more than 10% of the cost of the apartment from a homebuyer without first entering into a written sale agreement. The order came in a case filed by Priti Jaiswal, who had booked an apartment in the developer’s Metrozone Project, for which the sale and construction agreements were signed on January 18, 2020. TNRERA noted that the complainant also stated that there was a delay of 46 days from the date of payment to the date of execution of sales agreement. This is in contravention of Section 13 of the RERA Act, it noted and levied the penalty which should be paid before November 30, 2021. The Authority noted as per the agreements, the total sale consideration was about Rs. 1.78 crore and the homebuyer had paid Rs. 65 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-3-lakh-penalty-imposed-on-builder/article36677022.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City hospital launches liver transplant programme||A 62-year-old man from Bengaluru recently underwent a liver transplant surgery at Billroth Super Speciality Hospitals. The surgery also marked the launch of the Liver Transplant Centre at the hospital. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian formally commissioned the transplant programme on Thursday at an event here. The patient had been suffering from liver cirrhosis after being infected with Hepatitis B. He was diagnosed for hepato cellular carcinoma (primary liver cancer). Deceased donor Liver transplant and hepatobiliary surgeon K. Elankumaran said, “The patient was examined for the intensity of cirrhosis, and we found him to be fit for a liver transplant. A brain-dead patient’s family was willing to donate the organ needed for the transplant. Hence, the patient was taken up for deceased donor liver transplantation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-hospital-launches-liver-transplant-programme/article36676982.ece
26 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Registration officials placed under suspension||The State Government on Saturday suspended three Registration Department officials, including two District Registrars, on charges of “fraudulent registrations” and causing “huge loss” to the State exchequer and committing “serious irregularities” in violation of registration rules and procedures. The orders issued by the Commercial Taxes and Registration Department said that it has been brought to the notice of the Government by the appropriate investigation authority that with an ulterior motive some documents were registered fraudulently during 2014 without considering the protest petition filed by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board in the office of the Sub-Registrar, Gandhipuram, Coimbatore. Disciplinary proceedings were hence contemplated against District Registrar M. Selvakumar for the alleged registration of fraudulent documents. “A lot of complaints are being persistently received about fraudulent registration of documents without following the prescribed guidelines with ulterior motives thereby causing a huge loss to the State exchequer…the complaints are serious in nature and the post of District Registrar involves direct interface with the public.” In the circumstances of the case, the order said, it was necessary in public interest to place Mr. Selvakumar under suspension from service with immediate effect. Another order said that charges were framed against R. Periyasamy, District Registrar, Erode, against whom an inquiry into grave charges was pending. The charges against the official were also cited as fraudulent registration of documents causing a huge loss to the government. The officials were directed not to leave their respective headquarters without prior permission from the authority concerned. In separate proceedings of the Inspector-General of Registrations, the Sub-Registrar, Neelankarai, Chennai South Registration District, S. Saravana Kumar, was placed under suspension on charges of committing serious irregularities in two documents registered in 2017 in violation of registration rules and procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registration-officials-placed-under-suspension/article36677051.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Income-Tax raids reveal undisclosed income of over Rs. 300 crore||The Income-Tax (I-T) Department carried out searches and seizures at two private syndicate financing groups in Chennai and detected undisclosed income of over Rs. 300 crore. Apart from this, unaccounted-for cash of Rs. 9 crore has been seized so far. The searches were carried out on 35 premises in Chennai on Thursday. According to the details furnished by the department, evidence found on the premises of the financiers and their associates revealed that the groups had lent money to various big corporate houses and businesses in Tamil Nadu, a substantial portion of which was in cash. During the searches, it was detected that they were charging high rates of interest, a part of which was not offered to tax. The modus operandi adopted by the groups revealed that most of the interest payments by borrowers were received in dummy bank accounts, and the same had not been disclosed for tax purposes. Further, the unaccounted-for cash was brought into the books as unsecured loans and sundry credits. Other evidence found revealed numerous undisclosed property investments and other income suppression by the groups. Further investigations are in progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raids-reveal-undisclosed-income-of-over-rs-300-cr/article36677009.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Skill building workshop for chemical engineering graduates to be held||Three non-profit, public service oriented associations — Chemical Industries Association, Indian Chemical Council, Southern Region, and Manali Industries Association — signed a Memorandum of Understanding on September 23 to promote development and investment in large chemical industrial complexes for employment generation. According to a press release, they have set up a Chem Skill Development Centre in the city, and the first batch of the ‘Industry Oriented Knowledge Building Program for Graduate Engineer Trainees (Chemical) and Fresh Chemical Engineering Graduates’ will start on September 27 with lectures and 10 days of intensive training in chemical industries. The programme will be an online session, which will go on till October 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/skill-building-workshop-for-chemical-engineering-graduates-to-be-held/article36676971.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dr. Agarwal’s Institute of Optometry opens admission||Dr. Agarwal’s Institute of Optometry (DAIO) has opened admission for B. Sc and M. Sc Optometry programmes. The last date to submit applications is October 31. Physical classes will commence in Chennai when the government permits educational institutions to open for the same. For details visit https://www.dragarwal.com/study/ or call 9167398613. The four-year B.Sc Optometry, includes three years of academics and a year of internship. M.Sc Optometry is a two-year programme. The institute offers UG and PG programmes in association with Alagappa University, and Prist University, respectively. Students who have passed class XII from a recognised board with a minimum aggregate of 60% in Science stream with Biology as a subject can apply for B.Sc. Optometry. DAIO Dean Karpagam Damodaran said optometry, a healthcare profession, was regulated through licence and registration by Optometry Council of India. According to her, for each ophthalmologist there must be at least four optometrists. In India, there was just one optometrist. At present, there are 18,000 ophthalmologists but only 9,000 optometrists in the country, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dr-agarwals-institute-of-optometry-opens-admission/article36677029.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 3,000 graduate from Sathyabama||Twenty-four gold medals were distributed at the convocation of Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology, a deemed university, here on Saturday. Over 3,000 students, including 2,892 undergraduates, received their degrees. The medals and certificates were distributed by A. Rajarajan, Director of Satish Dhawan Space Centre. Chancellor of Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology Mariazeena Johnson spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3000-graduate-from-sathyabama/article36677030.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Statue of Savithri Vaithi unveiled||A statue of Savithri Vaithi, who set up the Vishranthi Home for Aged and Destitute Women, was unveiled on recently in Palavakkam. Savithri Vaithi passed away in October 2020. Her close associate and friend Kumudha Srinivasan was instrumental in installing the statue. Padmashri awardees V.S. Natarajan, a renowned geriatrician and close associate of Savithri, and D.K. Srinivasan, from the Hindu Mission Hospital, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/statue-of-savithri-vaithi-unveiled/article36676972.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MCC Board gets three new directors||Three directors were elected to the Madras Christian College Board at the 135th annual general meeting of the MCC Association on Saturday. A press release said P.C.R. Suresh, former head-legal, Standard Chartered Bank South; Mercy Pushpalatha, former principal, Lady Doak College, Madurai; and Ravi Santosham, consultant physician and pulmonologist, were declared elected. Ten newly inducted members of the MCC Association attended the meeting chaired by K.M. Mammen, chairman of the MCC Association. The MCC Association manages the Madras Christian College, the MCC Higher Secondary school, Chetpet, four other schools, three community college programmes and other educational activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mcc-board-gets-three-new-directors/article36676975.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constable praised for his brave act||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Saturday appreciated a police constable who rescued a 60-year-old woman and her 12-year-old grandson stranded on the second floor of a residential building that was on fire. On Wednesday, around 12.30 p.m, the fire broke out on the ground floor of the building on Portuguese Street, Kothwalchavadi. A police patrol team reached the spot and attempted to put out the fire. Residents managed to escape from the first floor when the fire was minor. However, it spread quickly to other parts of the building. S. Sundararaj, driver of the patrol vehicle, jumped from the adjacent building to the place where the woman and her grandson were stranded and rescued them with the help of a ladder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-praised-for-his-brave-act/article36677031.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK forms panel for Puducherry||The AIADMK on Saturday announced the formation of a six-member committee to oversee the party’s preparations for elections to local bodies in Puducherry to be held on October 21, 25 and 28. The panel includes S. Semmalai, Sellur K. Raju and M.C. Sampath, all former Ministers of Tamil Nadu, besides A. Anbalagan, Om Sakthi Sekar, both MLAs from Puducherry, and V. Omalingam, Karaikal district secretary of the party, according to a party release. The committee had been entrusted with the task of identifying candidates, holding negotiations with other parties for seat sharing and carrying out the election work in seats where the party’s nominees would be contesting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-forms-panel/article36677103.ece
26 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Farmer’s death: PMK seeks action||PMK founder S. Ramadoss criticised the alleged harassment of a disabled farmer, Manoharan, from Walajabad in Kancheepuram, by officials of a private finance company for not paying the instalment of a farm loan. The harassment led to the farmer dying by suicide. He demanded they should be arrested and the family of the farmer should be given Rs. 1 crore as compensation. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-death-pmk-seeks-action/article36677410.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cuban film festival in Chennai||The Indo-Cine Appreciation Foundation and the Embassy of Cuba in India, New Delhi, will organise a Cuban film festival on September 27, 28 and 30 in the city. The films will be screened at the Alliance Française of Madras at 6 p.m. For details, interested persons can call 9840151956 or 8939022618.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cuban-film-festival-in-chennai/article36677395.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS expresses concern over rising deaths||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday expressed concern over the increasing fatality rate due to COVID-19 in the State. In a statement, he said the number of people who succumbed to the infection had gone up from 20 on September 1 to 27 on September 23. Likewise, during the corresponding period, the tally of fresh cases reported had risen from 1,509 to 1,745. ‘People will panic’ Even though the figures per se did not reflect any alarming trend, people will panic over the emergence of a third wave of infections if the current situation continues, the AIADMK leader said. Rules regarding physical distancing and the assembly of people at shops and malls should be enforced, Mr. Panneerselvam said, appealing to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to ensure the strict implementation of restrictions on account of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-expresses-concern-over-rising-deaths/article36677004.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,837 govt. schoolchildren get engg. seats||A total of 5,837 candidates from government schools have been allotted B.E./B.Tech seats in the single-window counselling by the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission Committee, 2021. As many as 15,660 students were found eligible for seats under the 7.5% horizontal reservation, provided for State government from this year. The TNEA began counselling for candidates under the special category 10 days ago. This group included students from government schools, persons with disability, wards of ex-servicemen and sportspersons. In the persons with disability category in the academic stream, 115 persons got seats. One candidate has been allotted a seat in the vocational stream. As many as 130 wards of ex-servicemen have got seats in the academic stream and two in the vocational stream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5837-govt-schoolchildren-get-engg-seats/article36677007.ece
26 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Suj/Madras university to introduce course in Tirukkural||The University of Madras has proposed to include an elective course in Tirukkural for Professional Ethics for all undergraduate courses, Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri announced at the academic council on Saturday. The course is in addition to the elective on social justice that will be offered from the next academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sujmadras-university-to-introduce-course-in-tirukkural/article36677024.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘District administration to begin acquiring land for airport expansion’||The district administration will start acquiring land for expansion of the Coimbatore Internation Airport soon, Minister for Public Works and Highways E.V. Velu, said here on Saturday. Speaking at an interactive meeting organised by the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, and Kongu Global Forum, on the infrastructure needs of the western districts, he said the State government issued an order recently allocating Rs. 1,132 crore to acquire 600 acres for the expansion project. The district Collector will start works for the same immediately. Regarding metro rail project for Coimbatore, the Minister said a detailed study is on to find out the feasibility of the project on Avinashi Road, Trichy Road, Sathyamangalam Road, and Mettupalayam Road. The possibility on Avinashi Road is a challenge as works are going on for the flyover and taking the metro rail at ground level will involve acquiring more land. The 10 km flyover on Avinashi Road from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins will have 10 ramps (entry and exit ramps). The government has allocated Rs. 15 crore now to have pedestrian subways in select locations, he said. A detailed study is also on to widen Palladam-Kochi road for 54 km. Regarding the Karur-Coimbatore bypass road, he said the government will consider the issues raised by Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan that the proposal reduces the distance by only six km and the existing road can be widened instead. The State government plans to widen 2,000 km of existing roads in the State and wants to bring the L&T bypass here (Neelambur to Madukkarai) under it. Since the stretch is maintained by L&T, the State government will talk to the company, he said. Regarding better rail and air connectivity for Coimbatore region, the Minister urged the industry representatives to take up the issues with the MPs of the western districts so that they can represent to the Union government. Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran said the demands of the industry will be taken up with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Mr. Natarajan urged the industry to explore the possibility of construction of an airport in Coimbatore under Public Private Partnership. Karur MP S. Jothimani said the development of MSMEs is significant and the focus should be on these units and their requirements. A.K.P. Chinraj, Namakkal MP, urged the industry to interact with the MPs of the region. A. Sakthivel, president of Kongu Global Forum, said the industry welcomed the immediate efforts of the State government to acquire land for the airport expansion project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-administration-to-begin-acquiring-land-for-airport-expansion/article36677035.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||A sensory park for special children opened at CMCH||A sensory integration and therapeutic park is the new addition to the District Early Intervention Centre (DEIC) at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). Minister for Public Works Department E.V. Velu and Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran inaugurated the parkon Saturday. The park attached to the DEIC has facilities that are designed to treat sensory processing disorders in children. Various activities at the park help such children in learning to use their senses (touch, smell, taste, sight and hearing) through therapy sessions, said the staff. Children born at the CMCH or other government hospitals are referred to the DEIC if doctors suspect any disorder. Also, preterm babies, children born out of high risk pregnancies, those born with jaundice, low birth weight, birth asphyxia and respiratory distress syndrome are also referred to the DEIC. Children with conditions, including neuro motor impairment, club foot, squint, congenital cataract, congenital deafness, cleft lip, thalassemia, vision impairment, hearing impairment, learning disorder, dental caries are also treated at the DEIC. CMCH Dean A. Nimala said that 226 children benefited from cochlear implants done at the hospital so far. The DEIC has nodal officer, medical officer, dentist, dental technician, optometrist, psychiatrist, physiotherapist, speech therapist, occupational therapist, medical social worker, lab technician, system analyst and data entry operator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-sensory-park-for-special-children-opened-at-cmch/article36677039.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Burglars decamp with jewellery and cash||Unidentified burglars broke into a house at Kuniyamuthur between Thursday morning and Friday morning and decamped with a total of 30 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 3.22 lakh. The police said that the house of Mubarak Ali at Brindavan Circle, South Kuniyamuthur, was targeted by burglars when he and his family members were away. According to the police, Mr. Ali runs a tailoring shop. While he went to the tailoring shop on Thursday morning, his wife Fatima locked the house and left to her paternal house at Karumbukadai with two sons for the death anniversary of her mother. Mr. Ali also went to his wife’s house on Thursday evening and the family stayed there. The police said when Mr. Ali returned to his house on Friday morning, he found the front door and the cupboard broken open. A total of 30 sovereigns of jewellery, Rs. 3.22 lakh and a costly wrist watch were missing was found missing from the cupboard. Police have formed special teams to arrest the persons involved in the housebreak. A few fingerprints of suspected persons were lifted from the house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/burglars-decamp-with-jewellery-and-cash/article36677042.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Airport to get new communication devices||Coimbatore International Airport will soon have a set of new communication devices which will improve the reliability of communication between the Air Traffic Control (ATC) and pilots. Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan said that the communication devices manufactured by Jotron based in Norway and SITTI based in Italy would be installed at the airport. Assessment study A safety assessment study was carried out as per the requirements of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation for the concept, design, and implementation of the advanced communication system on Friday. The system operates based on internet protocol and has excellent radio frequency performance in congested areas which means that we can have more frequencies operating in close spaces with considerable reduction in radio interferences, said the airport director. This improves the reliability of communication with ATC and pilots, hence increases the air safety, he said. The system is smaller in size, light weight and consumes less power. According to him, Jotron system is superior in efficiency when compared with the existing systems. After integrating with voice controlled communication system from SITTI, Coimbatore airport will have state of art communication system for safe and effective ATC, said Mr. Senthil Valavan. The installation of the system is being carried out by the officials from the communication and navigation systems wing of the Airport Authority of India in coordination with the technicians from Jotron.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-to-get-new-communication-devices/article36677040.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 198 COVID-19 cases||A total of 198 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Saturday, registering a slight decline from Friday’s 210 cases. The district had 2,095 active cases of the disease. The Health Department said that 223 persons recovered from the disease in the district on Saturday. The district’s death toll increased to 2,329 after four more persons died in the last few days. Tiruppur district reported 91 fresh cases on Saturday, taking its tally to 92,584 cases. The overall toll went up to 953 after one new death was reported. Mega camps The civic body would administer COVID-19 vaccines at 196 places on Sunday during the third mega vaccination drive. The camps would start at 7 a.m. The locations of which the public could get by dialling 1077 or 0422-2302323 or 97505-54321. The camps would be held at the VOC Park Ground, bus stands and railway junction also. Meanwhile, the Tiruppur district administration has set a target of 80,210 COVID-19 vaccine doses on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-198-covid-19-cases/article36677043.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Farmer injured in elephant attack||A 40-year-old farmer suffered fractures in his legs when he was attacked by a wild elephant at Alandurai on Friday night. Forest Department sources said that S. Palanisamy had erected a platform on top of a tree in his farm to ward off wild animals that enter his premises at night. Firecrackers hurled On Friday, a wild tusker entered his farm and he hurled firecrackers at it from the elevated platform. Assuming that the elephant had left the place, he climbed down the tree. However, the elephant emerged from the darkness and attacked him. He managed to escape in spite of the injuries. Condition stable Boluvampatti forest range officer T. Saravanan said that Palanisamy was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore where his condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-injured-in-elephant-attack/article36677048.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||For Ranjith, nothing proved a hurdle to clearing civil services examination||D. Ranjith, a 27-year-old resident from Coimbatore with hearing impairment, has managed to clear the UPSC civil services examination 2020 in his first attempt, securing the 750th rank. His mother C.K. Amrithavalli, who is the headmistress of Kasturba Gandhi Oral School for the Hearing Impaired in Varadharajapuram, said he had been preparing on his own since 2019 and enrolled in a study circle for civil services examination run by PSG College of Arts and Science (PSGCAS) in August 2020. “He used to prepare for 16 hours a day,” she told The Hindu on Saturday. A mechanical engineering graduate from PSG College of Technology, Mr. Ranjith chose Tamil as his optional subject for the civil services examination, for which he was trained by S. Bharathiprakash, assistant professor at the Department of Tamil in PSGCAS. He recalled that in the initial days, the sessions in the study circle were held online, during which Ms. Amrithavalli would sit with him to sort out any communication issues. “Even after we resumed regular classes, his mother used to sit with him during all the classes,” he said. Mr. Ranjith told The Hindu that he aspired to help differently abled students in his career as a civil servant. “Whatever I get, whether it is IAS or IRS, I will be happy,” he said. Taking to Twitter, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday wrote that it brought him “additional joy” that Mr. Ranjith, “a differently abled candidate from Coimbatore,” has cleared the civil services examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-ranjith-nothing-proved-a-hurdle-to-clearing-civil-services-examination/article36677037.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Valparai forest range officer gets bail||Principal District and Sessions R. Sakthivel here on Saturday granted bail to K. Jayachandran, forest range officer of Valparai forest range, who was arrested by the police on Thursday on charges of misbehaving with three persons, including the son of a Madras High Court judge. The bail order was granted even as the Forest Department staff were staging protests condemning the arrest of Mr. Jayachandran. Sources close to the ranger said that a petition was filed before the district munsif-cum-judicial magistrate court, Valparai, on Thursday. The magistrate posted the case to September 28. Though the ranger submitted a petition seeking to advance the hearing, the court dismissed it. The officer submitted a bail plea before the District Court which was heard by the judge in a special sitting. Mr. Jayachandran was arrested and remanded on Thursday based on a complaint lodged by the head clerk of the Valparai court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/valparai-forest-range-officer-gets-bail/article36677044.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Farmer injured in elephant attack||A 40-year-old farmer from Alandurai sustained injuries when he was attacked by a wild elephant on Friday night. According to Forest Department sources, S. Palanisamy suffered fractures in his legs. Forest Department officials said Palanisamy had erected a platform on top of a tree to ward off wild animals that enter his farm at night. The incident happened around 10.15 p.m. on Friday when the farmer got down from the tree. Fire crackers hurled Sources said the farmer had hurled fire crackers at the elephant from the elevated platform. He thought that the elephant had left the place. However, as the man got down from the tree, the elephant emerged from the darkness and attacked him. He managed to escape despite the injuring to his legs. Boluvampatti forest range officer T. Saravanan said that Palanisamy was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore where his condition was stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-injured-in-elephant-attack/article36677150.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Shops sealed for not paying rent arrears||Coimbatore Corporation officials in Central Zone on Saturday sealed 25 shops in and around T.K. Market for not paying rent arrears. According to sources, the Corporation after identifying establishments that had not paid rent for over three years, sealed shops that together owed Rs. 67.47 lakh. The sealed shops housed jewellery shops, vegetable shops, grocery stores among others. The Corporation had since July this year served notices on the tenants to clear the dues, according to sources. The Corporation was likely to continue its sealing operation in and around T.K. Market as there were another 50-75 establishments that had not cleared dues, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-sealed-for-not-paying-rent-arrears/article36677033.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for sexual assault on minor girls||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Thudiyalur, on Friday arrested two persons on charges of sexual assault on two minor girls in separate cases. In one of the cases, the police arrested B. Gopinath (22), a resident of Mariamman temple street at Thuraiyur in Tiruchi, on charges of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl who hails from a place near Mettupalayam. In another case, the police on Friday arrested a 17-year-old boy from a place near Karamadai for alleged sexual assault on a 16-year-old girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girls/article36677041.ece
26 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaws to go off the roads on Monday||Federation of the Coimbatore District Auto Worker Unions announced that autorickshaws will not be operated across the district on Monday as part of the Bharat Bandh against the three farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/autorickshaws-to-go-off-the-roads-on-monday/article36677045.ece
26 September 2021||Devakottai,TAMIL NADU||Congress men hurl chairs at party meet||Intra-party rift within the Congress party here snowballed into a fistfight with some workers also hurling chairs. Due to this the meeting had to be abruptly called off on Saturday. Uneasy calm prevailed as two workers suffered multiple injuries and after police descended, the partymen were forcibly directed to leave the venue, even as Sivaganga MP Karti Chidambaram, MLAs Mangudi, K. R. Manickam and ex-MLA and senior leader K. R. Ramasami were present. The meeting was convened to discuss the strategy for the ensuing rural local body poll among other things. As the Congress had been allotted the Kannagudi union ward 3 councillor post, the leaders were present to select the candidate. As the meeting was under way, some speakers spoke about the manner in which MLA Mr Mangudi functioned ‘unilaterally’. Instantly, some of his supporters from the audience objected to it. After persuasion, the situation appeared to be in order. However, when a few workers started video graphing the proceedings through their cell phones, it was objected to by the other side. After a wordy altercation, the situation turned to be a ‘free for all’ and chairs were hurled and some among them were roughed up by their rivals. In the melee, the leaders had to leave the party office midway as a posse of police personnel led by DSP Ramesh descended and directed the workers to vacate the place. According to senior office-bearers, two workers identified as Balamurugan (33) of Vayakottai (a supporter of K. R. Ramasamy) and Vinod Kumar (30) of Devakottai (a supporter of MLA Mangudi) were injured and admitted to the Devakottai Government Hospital. In a brief chat with reporters later, Mr Karti Chidambaram said that it was natural for the party functionaries and workers to ask for tickets prior to elections. “I don’t see anything wrong in airing views, which may differ and need not be in agreement. It only showed that the Congress was alive at the grassroots level,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-men-hurl-chairs-at-party-meet-two-injured/article36677124.ece
26 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plan to vaccinate one lakh persons in Erode during mega drive today||The district administration has planned to vaccinate one lakh persons during the third mega vaccination camps to be held at 579 locations across the district on Sunday. The administration had successfully conducted the camps on September 12 and 19 following which Collector H. Krishnanunni conducted a meeting with officials at the Collectorate on Friday for smooth conduct of the camps. He said that one lakh persons should be vaccinated and asked officials to form a location team in each centre for effective conduct of the camp. The team would comprise village administrative officer, panchayat secretary, polling station officer and school headmaster/headmistress concerned for smooth conduct of the camps. Headmaster/headmistress should be present in the school on Sunday to ensure basic amenities are present. A minimum of 200 tokens should be distributed to the people. Mr. Krishnanunni said that even if the name of persons above 18 years was not in the voters’ list, they should be given tokens and officials should ensure they were vaccinated. Local bodies should create awareness among the public on the camps and ensure maximum people are covered. “To control the crowd at the camps and for data entry, service of college students, volunteers and local people should be utilised”, he added. Officials of the District Industries Centre, Joint Director of Industrial Safety and Health should take steps to vaccinate all workers in the industries, he added. The Collector said that the vaccine would be made available at all the primary health centres, urban primary health centres and government hospitals and asked the public to utilise it. Pratik Tayal, Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency, Ahem J. Singh, Assistant Collector (Training), Balaji, Personal Assistant (General) to Collector, Revenue Divisional Officers P. Premalatha (Erode) and Palanidevi (Gobichettipalayam), Deputy Director of Health Services Somasundaram, and City Health Officer Prakash participated. Salem The mega vaccination camp would be conducted at 1,392 places in Salem district. District Collector S. Karmegham said in a release that 1.11 lakh doses would be administered through the camps to be held between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. According to a release, till date, 15.84 lakh persons have taken first dose and 4.77 lakh have taken second dose in the district. In Salem Corporation limits, the camps will be conducted at 200 centres and over 1,750 persons have been deployed for administering the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-vaccinate-one-lakh-persons-in-erode-during-mega-drive-today/article36677142.ece
26 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Gear up to face North-East Monsoon, departments told||With the North-East Monsoon expected to set in next month, the district administration has asked all the departments to take necessary measures to prevent loss of life and property. Collector H. Krishnanunni chaired a meeting with heads of the departments at the Collectorate here on Friday during which steps that need to be taken to face the monsoon were discussed. The Collector said that encroachments on waterways need to be removed, besides desilting of major drains and carrying out repair works in check dams, if needed. He asked the executive engineers of the Water Resources Department to inspect the bunds of water bodies and take steps to ensure there was no breach during flooding. Also, officials should ensure that sluices of dams, lakes and water bodies were working properly, he added. Mr. Krishnanunni asked officials to keep sufficient stock of sand bags, casuarinas tree logs, medicines, and ration items for emergency needs. Also, doctors should work as teams during the monsoon while chlorine mixed with water should be supplied to the people. He asked officials to keep camps ready, carry out repair works on village roads and highways and remove damaged trees. Problems related to the disaster should be immediately informed to the district administration at 1077 or 0424-220211, he added. Tamil Nadu Electricity Board was asked to be alert during the monsoon and ensure that workers attend emergency works round-the-clock. Contact details of tahsildars should be disseminated to the public so that disaster-related information was passed on by volunteers and the public to the officials for swift action, he added. Pratik Tayal, Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency, Ahem J. Singh, Assistant Collector (Training), Balaji, Personal Assistant (General) to Collector, Revenue Divisional Officers P. Premalatha (Erode) and Palanidevi (Gobichettipalayam), and Deputy Director of Health Services Somasundaram participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gear-up-to-face-north-east-monsoon-departments-told/article36677137.ece
26 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Training for police personnel held||As many as 60 police personnel on Saturday underwent training on handling rescue operations during the monsoon. A four-member team from the Commando Training School, Chennai, trained 50 police personnel and 10 armed reserve personnel on Thursday and Friday on disaster management. On Saturday, along with the Fire and Rescue Services personnel, the participants were trained on rescuing persons from River Cauvery during floods and bringing them to safer places. Personnel were trained on using life-jackets and rubber boats and also on using various equipment for removing uprooted trees during floods. Senior officials said that since police personnel play a significant role during rescue operations, two personnel from each police station were trained for three days on disaster management. The officials added that the police personnel along with fire and rescue services carried out rescue operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-for-police-personnel-held/article36677139.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Dengue cases cross 3,000 in Telangana||Until recently, running a temperature made people rush for COVID-19 tests, but with the second wave of the pandemic subsiding and monsoon lashing several parts of Telangana, vector-borne diseases have resurfaced. Dengue figures in the State crossed an alarming 3,000-mark since the onset of monsoon in mid-June, indicating the rapid spread of the vector-borne disease. This number is set to increase in the coming days, thanks to the continuing intermittent spells of rain. Rapid jump The State recorded 265 dengue cases from January to June 10 this year — a period of 161 days. From June 11 to September 21 or a span of 93 days, the number has multiplied manifold to touch 3,059. A total of 3,324 cases have been recorded since the beginning of this year until September 21. Capital sees 843 cases State capital, Hyderabad, recorded the highest burden of 843 cases, which constitutes 25% of the total. Khammam has logged 394 cases so far followed by Rangareddy (246), Medchal (199) and Mahbubnagar (196). According to city-based NGO Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), the disease is progressing rapidly among children. Delay in initiating treatment or hospitalisation is proving fatal in many cases, volunteers of the NGO say. Senior consultant physician at KIMS Hospitals K. Shivaraju says dengue patients have to be watchful even after the fever subsides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dengue-cases-cross-3000-in-telangana/article36676864.ece
26 September 2021||KAKINADA,TAMIL NADU||Fire destroys cooling unit at Kakinada power plant||A major portion of a cooling plant of GMR Energy group’s 220 MW barge-mounted power plant was destroyed in a fire while it was being dismantled on Saturday morning at Kumbabhisekham near here. However, no casualties have been reported. East Godavari District Fire Officer Ch. Ratna Babu said that the fibre sheets in the cooling plant caught fire around 7.50 a.m. and the flames were brought under control by 11.30 a.m. The fire was reported from the seaside thus averting a major mishap as the plant is adjacent to Gas Authority of India Limited’s pipeline. Tension prevailed for four hours as the power plant site is also adjacent to the Kakinada Deep Sea Port. A few weeks ago, most of the power plant equipment had been transported to Turkey. The country’s only barge-mounted power plant was decommissioned in 2013. “A major portion of the 500-metre-long and 15-metre-tall plant was lost in the fire. The GMR authorities have been told to submit a report on the incident and loss of property,” said Mr. Ratna Babu.  GMR Energy corporate relations and plant in-charge (maintenance) K. Vijay Kumar told The Hindu that investigation was on to ascertain the cause of the incident and other details (including loss). Fire tenders have been deployed on the project site as a precautionary measure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-destroys-cooling-unit-at-kakinada-power-plant/article36676595.ece
26 September 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Kayaking, stand-up paddling on Periyar river on Sunday||Kayaking and stand-up paddling through the Periyar and initiatives to clean up waterbodies are among the activities lined up in Ernakulam district on Sunday, in the run-up to World Tourism Day on Monday. The Ernakulam DTPC decided to host the events on Sunday, considering the hartal pledging solidarity with agitating farmers, on Monday, it is learnt. “The aim is to drive home the need to clean up waterbodies and promote sustainable and adventure tourism, in sync with this year’s World Tourism Day theme ‘Tourism for inclusive growth’. After all, the Periyar is the main drinking water source for people of the district. The watersports events have been readied since the river also holds tremendous potential for eco-tourism trails, which in turn will ensure that local communities and others proactively protect the Periyar,” a DTPC source said. The events will commence at 7 a.m. from the arboratum at Aluva on the banks of the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kayaking-stand-up-paddling-on-periyar-river-on-sunday/article36676828.ece
26 September 2021||KURNOOL,TAMIL NADU||Two people hacked to death in A.P.||A couple was hacked to death allegedly by the woman’s father-in-law in the early hours of Saturday at Velugodu in the district. According to Atmakur police, Beetla Chinni, 30, wife of Mallikarjuna, and Chanda Obulesu, 25, were allegedly in a relationship, which Chinni’s father-in-law, B. Ramanaiah, disapproved of and reportedly warned them a week ago. Obulesu, a construction worker, who had worked for Mallikarjuna and Chinni’s house, allegedly developed intimacy with Chinni, while Mallikarjuna used to visit his first wife at Siddarampuram in Atmakur mandal. Obulesu left Velugodu last week after he was warned, but returned on Thursday, and on Friday when Mallikarjuna was away, Ramanaiah found them together and used a pickaxe and allegedly hacked them to death. The police are on the lookout for Ramanaiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-people-hacked-to-death-in-ap/article36676597.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC confirms man’s conviction for abetting wife’s suicide||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court confirmed the sentence imposed on a man by a trial court for the abetment of suicide of his wife. The man had commented on his wife’s physical appearance to his mother. Depressed, the woman died by suicide. According to evidence submitted by witnesses before a trial court, he allegedly told his mother that his wife was dark in complexion, had broad lips and was ugly. He said his friends teased him over this. It was alleged that he wanted to offer Rs. 25,000 in settlement to divorce her. Within 45 days of marriage, she died by suicide. In 2006, the Nagercoil Chief Judicial Magistrate convicted Rathinam under Sections 306 (Abetment of suicide) and 498 A (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code. He was sentenced to undergo four years rigorous imprisonment for abetment of suicide and two years rigorous imprisonment for subjecting her to cruelty. In 2016, the Nagercoil Mahila Court confirmed the sentence. Challenging the verdict, Rathinam moved the High Court in 2017 seeking to set aside the verdict. Justice Sathi Kumar Sukumara Kurup dismissed the criminal revision petition. The court said that the evidence in the case could not be ignored by any court of law. The sentence imposed by the trial judge is not perverse warranting interference by the court, the revisional court, the judge said. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-confirms-mans-conviction-for-abetting-wifes-suicide/article36677028.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DGP reviews murder cases in southern districts||Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Saturday asked police officials in southern districts to deal with an iron hand anti-social elements who were involved in murders and to keep a watch on possible revenge killings. Reviewing murder cases reported in southern district at Madurai City Police Office with Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha, Inspector General of Police (South Zone) T. S. Anbu and other officials, he asked them to make list of murderers and gangsters who were still at large. Gangsters, especially mercenaries, should be kept under close vigil and if they were found to be using any weapons, the police should act immediately seize the arms and book the accused. The review comes close on the heels of recent incidents of murders reported in Tirunelveli, Dindigul and Sivaganga districts. Few cases of brutal beheading were also reported in Tirunelveli rural and Dindigul town in the last few days. Action taken in gang wars and the number of arrests made and likely targets were also reviewed. According to an official, assailants in almost all the cases were arrested. The DGP also reviewed the storming operations recently held in all the districts and the arrests made and weapons seized. Deputy Inspector Generals of Police from Madurai, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Superintendents of Police from those ranges and Deputy Commissioners of Police took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-reviews-murder-cases-in-southern-districts/article36677126.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Reconstitute national curriculum framework panel’||A network of 40 peoples’ science movements across 25 States in the country has criticised the setting up of the 12-member National Steering Committee with educational administrators and entrepreneurs by the Ministry of Education for the development of National Curriculum Framework. The members of All India Peoples’ Science Network (AIPSN) fear this would render established institutions of public education subservient. In a statement issued here on Friday, AIPSN general secretary P. Rajamanickam said, “It is surprising that no faculty members of the NCERT are included, even though it is the apex national body responsible for the development of curricula.” It is a matter of concern that the NCERT Director was instead expected to only ‘assist’ the steering committee, he added. The committee, chaired by Prof. K. Kasturirangan, will have a tenure of three years. It is supposed to develop four National Curriculum Frameworks for school, teacher and adult education and for early childhood care and education. The AIPSN sought reconstitution of the committee with individuals having a deep understanding of learners in diverse and disparate socio-cultural contexts, disciplinary knowledge of school education and domain expertise in teacher and adult education. “The members appointed should have sound experience of the pedagogical processes because the National Curriculum Framework is meant to provide a sound academic basis to guide a range of curricular interventions, for the development of syllabi, textbooks, teaching, learning processes and assessments,” Mr. Rajamanickam said. In the past, the Steering Committee for the NCF 2005 had 35 members – 11 from the NCERT and 24 experts from all over India with specialisation in the domain areas. They comprised eminent academics from branches of social science, science, language and mathematics; schoolteachers, principals of schools and colleges, educationists and leaders of educational and rights-based NGOs. Experts were also invited as members of the different focus groups to work on the position papers. “There has to be a focus on equity, quality and inclusion to be able to address challenges of education with commitment to the Constitution,” the statement read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconstitute-national-curriculum-framework-panel/article36677289.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Technologies are bedrock of growth’||By January 2022, the Chennai Secretariat will move on to e-office and soon the entire State will follow suit, said Neeraj Mittal, Principal Secretary, Information Technology, Tamil Nadu. Delivering the keynote address at a two-day conference, Connect Madurai, hosted virtually by CII, Madurai zone, he said emerging technologies are the bedrock of growth in future and as per the new mandate of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, they will help to steer Tamil Nadu to be a forerunner in attracting investments. “Technology has to be used for a purpose; it is a means to an end and that end is important,” he said, urging participants to think of ways for the way forward. Managing Director of Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ajay Yadav talked about an upcoming tech festival with top companies. “We should be in a state of readiness and become a destination of choice with job opportunities across the State,” he said. The conference looked at Madurai beyond its jasmine, jallikattu and jigarthanda to showcase the city as the gateway to South Tamil Nadu for bringing in more business. Given the city's infrastructure under the Smart City project, the abundance of local talent and growing manpower, vibrant civil society, the geographic location, network of transport and connectivity, participants rooted for more power for the city that is on the threshold of emerging as a manufacturing and industrial hub. Information, communication and technology are integral tools of change and development. Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar said to accelerate the journey of growth, all stakeholders needed to tap into sectors such as tourism, health, culture, food. “Madurai needs to position itself with sectoral collaboration to fill the gaps,” he said. “We need to decongest our old city where heritage is hidden and lost,” he added. Tirunelveli Collector V. Vishnu said the true ambassadors of any city are the sons of the soil.  Among others who spoke included Madurai CII Chairman B. Subbaraman, ICT taskforce convener G. Kalyana Sundaram, Director, Software Technology Parks of India, Sanjay Tyagi, S. Sathyanarayanan from Honeywell Technology Solutions and K. Pusurshothaman from Cognizant Technology Solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technologies-are-bedrock-of-growth/article36677285.ece
26 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Meenakshi Temple ‘kumbabishekam’ likely next year||The devotees from far and near have appealed to the HR&CE administration for the conduct of the kumbabishekam at the world famous Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. Based on the ‘agama sastra’ and opinion gathered from the general public, it would be decided, said HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekar Babu here on Saturday. Accompanied by Minister P. Moorthy, MLAs Thalapathi, Boominathan and Venkatesan, HR&CE Commissioner Kumaraguruparan, Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar and Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan and HR&CE Joint Commissioner K. Chelladurai, he inaugurated ‘Oduvar’ school on the temple premises. He visited the ‘Veera Vasantharayar’ Mandapam which was gutted in a fire accident in 2018 and checked the health condition of temple elephant ‘Parvathi’. The Minister, who went around the temple, was welcomed with poornakumbam respects by the priests. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Sekar Babu said that after the government took over, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had earmarked Rs. 100 crore for HR&CE, which was spelt out in the Governor’s address at the Legislative Assembly session. Step by step, various issues in the HR&CE department would be taken up, he clarified to queries. For instance, the gold and silver items in different forms, which were dropped in temple hundials remained idle for the past nine years. It had been decided to divide the State into three zones and appoint retired judges who would put these gold and silver to proper use of the respective temples. Likewise, steps were being taken to recover temple lands encroached by various people from time immemorial. As for the plans to perform kumbabishekam at the Meenakshi Temple, he said that before the announcement, certain procedures as per the ‘agama sastra’ had to be examined. The Chief Minister would be consulted. On the rental issues due to the temples from tenants, he said that cases were pending in courts. However, based on the outcome, the government had planned to form a committee comprising Chief Secretary and others, which would have a fair rent among others. The HR&CE Minister visited Sri Kallazhagar Temple at Alagar hills where he held discussion with the officials on widening the road leading to the Pazhamudir Cholai among other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meenakshi-temple-kumbabishekam-likely-next-year/article36677120.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mock drill held||Madurai rural district police on Saturday conducted a mock drill of dispersing armed mob at the Armed Reserve Ground here. The police team, with body protector, shield and lathi, demonstrated various steps of the procedures to be followed in forcing the mob disperse. “There is a well-laid procedure under law to force the mob disperse. Our men practise it periodically to keep themselves prepared for meeting any eventuality, but at the same time to scrupulously follow the procedures,” said Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran who witnessed the drill. The police have to keep warning the mob about their action at every step. “First, we do warn over the public address system telling them that they were indulging in unlawful assembly and the police would take action if they do not disperse,” he said. Then, the police would use tear gas shells. Before firing rubber pellets too, the police would warn them adequately. The police personnel would also learn about how to use dye-marker grenades and when to open fire. This exercise helps them to act effectively without any loss of property and loss of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mock-drill-held/article36677128.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Open Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in Tamil Nadu’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought response from the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to establish Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in Tamil Nadu. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response in the petition filed by I. Mohamed Razvi of Madurai. He said that Navodaya Vidyalayas residential schools run by the Centre in rural areas were one of the biggest educational schemes. The main objective of Navodaya Vidyalayas was to provide education in the rural areas to children who belonged to weaker sections of society. The education was free of cost at the residential schools and had well equipped infrastructure like laboratories and libraries. Unfortunately, this scheme has not been implemented in Tamil Nadu. Political parties in the State have opposed the scheme apprehending that Hindi would be taught in these schools as Tamil Nadu follows a two language policy — Tamil and English, he said. A representation was made in this regard, but no action was taken so far, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-navodaya-vidyalayas-in-tn/article36677049.ece
26 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Biosensor for patients in isolation launched||The coronavirus infection in Madurai was brought down faster than in any other district in Tamil Nadu and it was possible due to distributive medical treatment of COVID-19 patients, said Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. The strategy to decongest Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) by deploying timely medical services in the rural interiors worked well. Those infected with the coronavirus were isolated in their respective villages with help and support from the panchayats. This stemmed the rush at GRH and minimised the risk of the hospital becoming the source of infection, he said. Also with the ongoing mass vaccination drive, there is a possibility that we may have stalled the third wave that was expected in September-October, said Dr.M. Natarajan, Head of Internal Medicine. He said GRH was fully equipped and prepared to deal with any eventuality. “If the virus strikes again later, hopefully the impact would be minimum,” he said. Both were speaking at the launch of a wireless patient monitoring biosensor, called LifeSigns, that could be useful in treating patients with infectious diseases that require isolation. Based on American technology, the device is like a chip attached to the body and records vital readings such as temperature, pulse, respiration, oxygen saturation level and ECG rhythm without the help of medical staff. “It is next level of sophistication where technology takes the load and removes inadequacies of the system,” Dr. Thiaga Rajan said. “Technology is the future and the best ones are those that elevate all. It is laudable that the technology is available at GRH, where the poorest of the poor come for treatment,” he said. The biosensor trials were done under Dr.Natarajan's supervision. “The cost-effective device with a cutting edge solution will be useful in COVID and isolation wards, ICUs and also reduce the chances of hospital acquired infection among staff and patients,” he added. Dean A.Rathinavel spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biosensor-for-patients-in-isolation-launched/article36677132.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 128.60 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft) with an inflow of 685 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 54.59 feet (71 ft) with an inflow of 1,001 cusecs and a discharge of 1,219 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,870 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36677119.ece
26 September 2021||Mangaluru,TAMIL NADU||Vigilante groups active again in Dakshina Kannada||After over four months, vigilante groups appear to have become active again in Dakshina Kannada, waylaying and attacking inter-religious couples or heterogeneous groups of friends. Of at least four such incidents which came to light in the district during August-September, police cases were filed in three incidents – two of which took place in Puttur and another from Karinjeshwara, near B.C. Road. No complaint or case was filed in another incident which reportedly happened near Sullia. According to sources, while Hindutva outfits were behind three incidents, there was involvement of Islamist activists in one incident in Puttur. There had been a lull in such attacks since April. Social activists and some police officials attribute them to the renewed effort by Hindutva groups to press on the government to bring laws to prevent “love jihad” and conversion. It appears to be also an attempt to polarise society before the next elections to the taluk and zilla panchayats and the State Assembly. Continued effort Social activist Suresh Bhat Bakrabail, who has been recording vigilante attack incidents, told The Hindu that it appears to be a continued effort by the right-wing groups to force the government to frame Uttar Pradesh-like laws. Democratic Youth Federation of India State president Muneer Katipalla said they are part of politics to polarise people. “With impending elections to the taluk and zilla panchayats and the Assembly, one can expect more such incidents,” he said. Another activist Vidya Dinker said the police and the district administration are “soft on the accused” and no effective action is being taken against persons involved in the attacks and political leaders are harbouring such persons. Ms. Dinker said that the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court in 2018 against vigilante attacks mentioned that police should book such accused under Section 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups) of Indian Penal Code, which is often not followed. Absence of effective action by the authorities continues to dent the image of Dakshina Kannada, she added. An exception As an exception in the recent times, Mangaluru city’s Kankanady police had invoked 153 (A) against Bajrang Dal activists for stabbing a 23-year-old boy who was travelling in a bus with his friend from a different religion. The police had also booked them under Section 307 of IPC (attempt to murder). Five years ago, vigilante attacks had come under control after the police filed attempt to murder cases against attackers in some cases. A police officer, who has been serving in coastal region for the last few years, admitted there was political pressure to invoke lenient penal provisions against the accused persons, which makes it easy to get bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigilante-groups-active-again-in-dakshina-kannada/article36676599.ece
26 September 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||240 kg of waste lifted from New Beach||A cleaning drive was conducted at New Beach here on Saturday to mark International Coastal Clean-up Day. It was jointly organised by College of Fisheries Engineering, a constituent college of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam, and National Coastal Centre for Research, Chennai. A students awareness rally was also taken out from Vellipalayam, flagged off by Collector Arun Thamburaj and Vice- Chancellor G. Sugumar. About 100 NSS volunteers and teaching and non-teaching staff participated. Over 240 kg of waste was collected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/240-kg-of-waste-lifted-from-new-beach/article36677101.ece
26 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Adhere to poll code, parties told||Representatives of political parties were asked to follow the model code of conduct in place for the local bodies poll in the Union Territory. A meeting convened by the District Election Office on Friday urged the political parties to follow the instructions given by the State Election Commission for the smooth conduct of the polls and strictly adhere to COVID-19 precautionary measures. Elections would be held first for the municipalities of Karaikal, Yanam, Mahe and commune panchayats of Kottucherry, Nedungadu, Neravy, Thirumalairayanpattinam and Thirunallar in Karaikal region of the Union Territory on October 21. The polls to Puducherry and Oulgaret will be held on October 25 and 28. District Collector-cum-District Election Officer Purva Garg chaired the meeting in which representatives of all political parties participated. Fiat to liquor outlets The Excise Department officials held a separate meeting with owners of liquor shops to discuss the model code. A release from the department said six check-posts had been established in border areas to curb illegal movement of liquor. Owners of liquor shops have been asked not to encourage bulk sale and sell liquor to individuals on the basis of submission of tokens or coupons. They have been asked to keep outlets under the surveillance of closed circuit television cameras. The shops should be closed on dry days announced for polling and counting days.The dates would be declared by the department, the release said. Flying squads constituted by the District Collector and Excise Department would be on the field round-the-clock to detect violation of model code of conduct. Any violation of the model code would be viewed seriously, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adhere-to-poll-code-parties-told/article36677401.ece
26 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Three-tier security at four counting centres||Counting centres for the local bodies polls in Puducherry region will be Women’s Polytechnic College, Mothilal Nehru Government Polytechnic College, Tagore Government Arts and Science College and Bharathidasan Government College for Women. The votes for Puducherry Municipality would be counted at Women’s Polytechnic College and those of Oulgaret Municipality at Mothilal Nehru Govt Polytechnic, Villianur Commune Panchayat at Tagore Government Arts and Science College. Votes for Bahour, Ariankuppam and Mannadipet Commune Panchayats will be counted at Bharathidasan Government College for Women and those of Nettapakkam Commune Panchayat at Women’s Polytechnic College, Lawspet. There would be a three-tier security arrangement at all the four centres. Purva Garg, District Collector and District Election Officer, inspected the counting centres on Saturday, nodal officer (counting) T. Sudhakar said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-tier-security-at-four-counting-centres/article36677397.ece
26 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records two deaths, 92 new cases||Two COVID-19 deaths and 92 new cases were reported in the Union Territory during the 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Saturday While an 82-year-old person died at the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, a 70 year-old person died at the Government General Hospital at Karaikal, data released by the Health Department here said. Of the 92 new cases detected in U.T., 65 are in Puducherry region, 12 in Karaikal, 11 in Mahe and four in Yanam. The new cases were detected from screening 5,128 persons. As on Saturday, there are 932 active cases in U.T. Of these, 120 are in hospitals and 812 under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-two-deaths-92-new-cases/article36677396.ece
26 September 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Experts assessing condition of temple cars in Tamil Nadu||After assessing the condition of the temple cars, including the golden car and the three wooden cars at the Sri Ramanathaswamy Temple here, the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department would take a decision whether to renovate or replace them with new ones, said HR&CE Minister Sekar Babu on Saturday. He was here to inspect the cars and the ‘theertha vari’ spots which required renovation. Speaking to reporters, he said that Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had earmarked Rs. 100 crore for the HR&CE Department to carry out renovation, among other works, which showed the government’s commitment towards good and fair administration. Instead of finding fault with the previous AIADMK regime, which had done nothing tangible in the temple administration over the last nine years, the CM had clearly stated to focus on implementing the promises made during the election manifesto. Mr Sekar Babu said that he had been visiting all the major temples in the State and as part of renovation of unused temple cars, steps would be initiated to put them to use. With regard to the cars here, he said that after inspection by the experts, they would be either renovated or replaced with new ones. When asked about the kumbabishekam for Sri Ramanathaswamy Temple, he said that the last kumbabishekam was performed in 2016. Responding to a query that there were no basic amenities at the temple such as drinking water and rest rooms though a large number of devotees were visiting the temple and the revenue earned every month stood at Rs. 75 lakh to Rs. 90 lakh, he said that estimates were being prepared for 47 major temples identified as Grade I across the State. Basic amenities would be provided very soon, the Minister said. In the next phase, 529 temples would be taken up. Only after COVID-19 pandemic subsided, the devotees would have access to the 22 ‘theerthams.’ All the immovable properties belonging to the temples would be retrieved by the HR&CE administration. “The government is clear in this objective...” he underlined and said that already out of 158 properties, which were encroached, 60 to 65 among them were identified and steps were taken to retrieve them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-assessing-condition-of-temple-cars-in-the-state/article36677122.ece
26 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Exporters’ meet held||Exports from Salem district which got affected due to COVID-19 pandemic is slowly improving. Salem has great potential for export business as it is strategically located, District Collector S. Karmegham has said. The Collector inaugurated the Exporters’ Conclave organised by the Director General of Foreign Trade Office in coordination with the District Industries Centre. Officials from DIC, K. Mariappan, president of Tamil Nadu Small Tiny Industries Association and industry experts took part in the event. The Collector issued cheques for subsidies under various schemes to entrepreneurs. Mr. Karmegham said that sago starch, coir products, silver anklets, textiles, PVC products and steel products form the major industries in the district and there were over 22,256 MSME units in the district. He added that there were 15 industrial co-operative societies functioning in the district, seven industrial parks and works were on to set up a park near Pethanaickenpalayam. He said that two food parks would also be set up in the district. Mr. Karmegham said that instant coffee, iron and alloy steel bars and rods, and semi-finished products from iron or non-alloy steel are the major products exported from the district. Exports totalling Rs. 244.32 crore was recorded in the district in September 2020 and following the pandemic, it was Rs. 223.85 crore during March 2021. Mr. Mariappan said that the industry body would extend all support for development of trade and improving exports in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exporters-meet-held/article36677144.ece
26 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Kamal condemns alleged threat to MNM candidate||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) leader Kamal Haasan condemned the alleged threat issued by a Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) functionary against his party’s candidate in the local body elections. Mr.Haasan, in a tweet, said that the MNM candidate, who belonged to a listed community had withdrawn his candidature for Ward 9 in Panamarathupatti Union following the threat. There were no signs of local body elections happening in a fair manner, he added. Senthil Arumugham, State secretary of MNM, issued a statement condemning the State government and called the incident anti-democratic. He sought police protection for the candidate and his family. Dasaparaj, an MNM functionary, said the candidate withdrew from the election fearing threats from the DMK man. However, he refused to reveal the candidate’s name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-condemns-alleged-threat-to-mnm-candidate/article36677047.ece
26 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Smart City works reviewed||S.R. Parthibhan, MP, reviewed the progress of works under the Smart City Mission in the Salem Corporation limits on Saturday. Mr. Parthibhan along with legislators R. Rajendran, E. Balasubramaniam, and R. Arul reviewed the progress of the projects being implemented under the scheme. The legislators enquired about the current status of works and expected date of completion of key projects being implemented under the Mission. Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj said that the projects were being implemented at an approximate cost of Rs. 965 crore, A total of 81 projects had been taken up under the Mission. He said that 45 works including laying of a few stretches of smart roads in different parts of the city, redevelopment of Anna park, and construction of a multi-purpose hall had been completed. He said 36 works including construction of multi-storey parking stand near the New Bus Stand, redevelopment of Erumapalayam dumpyard, redevelopment of Periyar Market, rejuvenation of Palapatti and Kumaragiri lakes, development of VOC market and underground drainage works were progressing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-works-reviewed/article36677147.ece
26 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||13 held for duping woman to the tune of Rs. 6.92 lakh||The Salem City Cyber Crime police arrested 13 persons on Saturday for duping an elderly woman to the tune of Rs. 6.92 lakh by promising to set up a telecommunication tower and providing monthly rent for the vacant land. In her complaint, Sahayamary (55) said the gang assured her that she would be paid Rs. 3 lakh in advance and a monthly rent of Rs. 35,000 for setting up mobile phone tower on her vacant land. The accused took Rs. 6.92 lakh from Sahayamary in instalments under the pretext of various charges. Later, they did not respond to her calls. Police also seized two laptops, 34 mobile phones, 45 SIM cards, 20 bank accounts, and Rs. 48,500 cash from them. The accused were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/13-held-for-duping-woman-to-the-tune-of-rs-692-lakh/article36677145.ece
26 September 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Man abuses minor girl||An outsourced employee deployed for door-to-door sanitising in Tiruthangal, was arrested on charge of misbehaving with a minor girl on Saturday. The police said that I. Kaliraj, who was employed by an NGO had noticed that the minor girl was alone at home when he went there for spraying disinfectant in the forenoon. After asking the girl to bring him a glass of water, the man had followed her into the house and attempted to physically assault the girl. As the girl raised an alarm, neighbours rushed to her rescue. The man was arrested under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The police said that the project of spraying disinfectant started only on September 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-deployed-to-spray-disinfectant-physically-abuses-minor-girl/article36677129.ece
26 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers bogged down by moisture content rule||Farmers in the delta region seem to be bogged down by the ‘scrupulous adherence’ to the moisture content rule in the process of paddy procurement. For instance, the ‘kuruvai’ paddy harvested by farmers in this region remains dumped on the road near the direct purchase centres (DPC) at Puthur and Puliyakudi for the past one week to 10 days so as to dry the grains drenched in rain, according to R. Senthilkumar, Ammapettai union secretary, Communist Party of India. The quantum of paddy being dried under the sun near these DPCs might work out to more than 5,000 bags, he said. The farmers brought the grains to these two DPCs since the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) had not opened DPCs at Kokkeri, Theepaambalpuram, Pallavaroyanpettai and other hamlets in this region this season. A progressive farmer, G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam, wants the government to come to the rescue of the ‘kuruvai’ cultivators by procuring paddy with higher moisture content. Necessary directions should be issued to the DPC staff, wherever such facilities had been opened, to procure ‘kuruvai’ paddy, to accept the grains with a moisture content of up to 22%. This measure would alone result in procurement of ‘kuruvai’ paddy already harvested and about to be harvested by the delta farmers who have taken up ‘kuruvai’ cultivation with confidence, he said. Echoing his view, the general secretary of Federation of Farmers’ Associations in Delta Districts, P. Kalyanam of Arupathi in Mayiladuthurai district, said that he was pleading with the State government and the TNCSC to make necessary arrangements at the DPCs to get the drenched paddy brought by the farmers dried before measuring the same at the centres.  The government should come to the rescue of ‘kuruvai’ cultivators by procuring paddy with higher moisture content A farmer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-bogged-down-by-moisture-content-rule/article36677092.ece
26 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman injured in fox attack||Kalyani, 60, of Manikulam hamlet near Kumbakonam sustained injuries on her neck after a fox allegedly attacked her on Saturday morning. According to police, the incident took place in the early morning hours when the neighbours of Kalyani heard her scream and rushed to her house. When they entered her house, they were shocked to see a fox ferociously attacking her. On seeing the crowd, the animal ran into a room. After rescuing the injured Kalyani, the locals hunted the wild animal. Later, Kalyani was rushed to the Government District Headquarters Hospital in Kumbakonam and the carcass was handed over to the Forest Department officials by the Cholapuram police who made inquiries with the people. The Cholapuram police were told that in the past few days domestic animals such as chicken and goats were found dead with bleeding injuries on their neck and body in the village. On Friday, the wild animal had entered into Kalyani’s house presumably to attack the goats reared by her, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-injured-in-fox-attack/article36677093.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Kerala to get digital de-addiction centres||The Kerala Police will launch digital de-addiction centres to rid youngsters of cell phone and online gaming addiction, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday. He said a centralised facility would soon be established and the service would be extended to all districts later. The Chief Minister was inaugurating new police station buildings and child-friendly spaces established at various places via videoconference. School reopening Pointing out that the police would play a crucial role during the reopening of schools in November, Mr. Vijayan said they would have to strictly enforce the COVID-19 protocol and ensure that drivers, helpers and other workers in school buses were vaccinated. Saluting the services rendered by the personnel during the pandemic, the Chief Minister said that the police force had acquired a different role by serving the public amidst intense challenges. “During the past year-and-a-half, many police officers contracted the infection and some even succumbed to the disease. Despite such hardships, the police have persevered to help the public even while risking the lives of its own members. The selfless nature of their dedication was evident during the recent floods too when several police personnel stuck to their duties, even while their own houses were flooded and family members stranded,” he said. Mr. Vijayan also expressed pride at the force bagging several recognitions instituted by various agencies. The State was regarded one of the safest in the country, thanks to the efforts of the police force. Child-friendly buildings Besides 20 child-friendly buildings and several police station buildings, the Tourist Protection and Police Assistance Centre at Ponmudi, a Command and Control Centre at Munnar, a mess barrack at the Women Police Battalion at Menamkulam in Thiruvananthapuram, and a women’s barrack at the Special Operation Group at Areekode in Malappuram were among those that were inaugurated. State Police Chief Anil Kant presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-to-get-digital-de-addiction-centres/article36676836.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Sudheeran ‘steps down’ from Cong. Political Affairs Committee||Former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president V.M. Sudheeran has reportedly resigned from the party’s political affairs committee (PAC). Mr. Sudheeran was yet to articulate publicly why he has quit the KPCC’s apex decision-making body. Of late, Mr. Sudheeran was critical of the ‘lack of consultation’ in the KPCC. He had rejected the neo-liberal economic policies of the Congress and demanded a return to Nehruvian socialism. The report of Mr. Sudheeran stepping down as a PAC member had arguably come at an inopportune moment for the Congress. A slew of resignations and defections to the CPI(M) had jolted the party. Its leadership reportedly felt threatened by Mr. Sudheeran’s stepping down from PAC when defections were in season. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said he was “surprised and saddened”. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran said there was no basis for the speculation that the party had kept Mr. Sudheeran out of the loop on organisational matters. Mr. Sudheeran’s resignation also reportedly prompted a scramble to placate him. All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Kerala, Tariq Anwar, might intervene. Mr. Sudheeran was for long the ethical face of the Congress. He had made his mark as Speaker, Health Minister, MP and legislator. He also campaigned against environmental crimes, including black sand mining. He was credited with reintegrating K. Muraleedharan, MP, into the Congress after the latter’s break with the party in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudheeran-steps-down-from-cong-political-affairs-committee/article36676834.ece
26 September 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||All waterways, channels being cleaned in Thoothukudi||All waterways and channels were being cleaned since the last one week under the “Thooimayana Thoothukudi” (clean Thoothukudi) campaign, said Lok Sabha MP M.K. Kanimozhi here on Saturday. She told reporters that the works were going on as per the schedule after inspecting a few locations, where conservancy workers of Thoothukudi Corporation were engaged in removing silt and other waste from the channels. Residents should be told not to dump garbage and unwanted waste in waterways and channels. “If they use dumper bins, complaints of choking in waterbodies can be avoided” she said and expressed the hope the campaign would reach the masses. The officials said that they had targeted to remove the silt from the channels, especially the Buckle Canal, before the onset of north-east monsoon. Responding to queries, Ms Kanimozhi said that the officials had taken note of the low lying areas in Thoothukudi and action had been initiated to drain the rainwater, which has been a perennial issue during rainy season. “We hope to give a new meaning to “Thooimayana Thoothukudi” and the objective was to give a better environment,” she noted. Corporation Commissioner T. Charusree said that they had deployed 12 earthmovers and 200 workers in each location. Continuous process As and when the cleaning operation was completed, the batch would be moved to another location. By engaging large number of workers at a single point, the stretch gets cleaned up faster. Collector K. Senthil Raj and Social Welfare Minister Geetha Jeevan said that the cleaning campaign had been extended to the entire district. The field level staff in municipalities and panchayats have been sensitized to clear the garbage the same day and educate the people to use dumper bins so that the envioronment is neat and clean. The next step would be to give a facelift to tourism spots and landmarks such as Tiruchendur Temple in the district, the officials added.  Corporation has deployed 12 earth-movers and 200 workers in each location. By engaging a large number of workers at a single point, the stretch gets cleaned faster T. Charusree Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-waterways-channels-being-cleaned-in-thoothukudi/article36677442.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Third mega vaccination drive today||The third mega COVID-19 vaccination drive will be undertaken by the Tiruchi district authorities on Sunday. The vaccines would be administered at 515 centres - 162 in the city and 353 in semi-urban and rural areas. People over the age of 18 and eligible to get the vaccine may visit their nearest vaccination centre with their Aadhaar cards and get the shot. Both first and second doses of Covishield and Covaxin injections will be available at all centres. So far, 53.3% of the district’s population have taken at least one dose. A total of 22.82 lakh people in the district are eligible to take the COVID-19 vaccine, and of them, 15.86 lakh have taken at least one dose. A total of 12.16 lakh people have taken the first dose, while only 3.69 lakh have taken both the doses. In the first mega vaccination drive, 1.10 lakh people were inoculated, and in the second camp, 64,448 took the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/third-mega-vaccination-drive-today/article36677107.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two more crematoria to be established in Tiruchi||In order to ease the waiting period in cremating dead bodies at the crematoria, the Tiruchi City Corporation has proposed to establish two more crematoria in the city. There are four crematoria in the city already at Oyamari, Karumandapam, Konakarai and Ambedkar Nagar in Srirangam. Gasifier technology - producing gas by burning firewood chips - is being used to incinerate the bodies at these facilities. Before the adoption of biomass gasifier technology, the bodies were burnt with high-power electricity at the electric crematorium at Oyamari on the banks of the Cauvery. Since the Corporation found it difficult to bear the huge cost towards electricity bill, it went in for biomass gasifiers. The Corporation has also converted the crematorium at Karumandapam and upgraded the one at Ambedkar Nagar. Similarly, it built a gasifier crematorium at Konakarai in Woraiyur a few days ago. 12 to 15 cremations According to sources, the crematorium at Oyamari is mostly busy with 12 to 15 cremations being done every day on an average. Five to six cremations take place at each of the other three crematoria. Though a section of people still follows the traditional method of cremating the dead bodies using firewood and cow dung cake, others prefer the modern method of cremation. With more people opting for the latter, the Corporation has decided to increase the number of gasifier crematoriums. Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman told The Hindu that the number of cremations at the crematoria had increased in the recent past, putting pressure on the facilities.. Hence, it was decided to establish a couple of more LPG-fired crematoria. The new crematoria would come up at Panchapur on Tiruchi-Madurai highway and Ariyamangalam on Tiruchi-Thanjavur highway. While the Panchapur crematorium would cater to Edamalaipattipudur, K. K. Nagar, LIC Colony, Crawford and neighbouring areas, the Ariyamangalam crematorium is meant for Ariyamangalam, Kattur, Golden Rock, Tiruverumbur, Ambikapuram and neighbouring areas. The sites have been identified and preparation of Detailed Project Reports (DPR) was underway. He said that the waiting time at Oyamari and other crematoria would come down once the establishment of the new crematoriums. Mr. Rahuman said that it had also been decided to carry out repair and maintenance work at Oyamari crematorium. It would be closed for 20 days from October 1 and people could use the crematoria at Konakarai and Ambedkar Nagar during that period, he said.  Oyamari crematorium will be closed for 20 days from Oct 1 to carry out repair and maintenance work P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-crematoria-to-be-established-in-tiruchi/article36677095.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases go up in delta||The central region reported 320 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, a significant rise compared to the previous day’s tally of 275. Four patients succumbed to the illness in the region - two from Tiruvarur, and one each from Thanjavur and Pudukottai. In Thanjavur district, 73 patients tested positive. A marked increase was reported in Tiruvarur district with 68 fresh cases. Tiruchi recorded 63 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 14 people who had been undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital recovered from the infection and were discharged. Nagapattinam recorded 33 fresh cases and Pudukottai 26. The number of cases in Karur witnessed a slight increase with 20 patients reporting positive. Mayiladuthurai, meanwhile, registered a dip with 18 fresh cases reported. Perambalur district registered 10 fresh cases, while Ariyalur reported a significant dip and reported nine cases, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-go-up-in-delta/article36677108.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi student selected for training in Mumbai academy||J. Hemachudesan, a Class VIII student of Kamala Niketan Montessori School, has been selected to receive training at Tendulkar Middlesex Global Academy in Mumbai. The student has bagged a full scholarship and will be trained under notable coaches. Hemachudesan, son of Jeganathan, a businessman in the city, began playing cricket at KNMS in Class II. He captained the school team from 2015 to 2019. He was felicitated for his achievements at a ceremony at the school on Saturday. Speaking at the event, Mala Sivakumar, Principal, said that she hoped to see him play for the Indian cricket team some day.Ms. Sivakumar presented Hemachudesan with a cricket bat on behalf of the school as he will soon travel to Mumbai to train at the academy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-student-selected-for-training-in-mumbai-academy/article36677110.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Never stop learning, students told||India would play a pivotal role in the world in the next two decades, T. V. Narendran, CEO and Managing Director of Tata Steel, and president, Confederation of Indian Industry, said here on Saturday. “The rise of Asia and Africa will shape the future. It will create both challenges and opportunities,” he said delivering the convocation address at the National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi. Mr. Narendran, an alumnus of the institute, urged the students to never stop learning. Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-T, outlined the implementation of the strategic plan for 2019-2024, which has resulted in the overall growth of the institute getting reflected in the recent NIRF rankings. NIT-Tiruchi retained its top spot among the NITs for the sixth year in a row and improved its overall ranking to 23. This year, 1,793 students, including 174 PhD scholars, received their degrees in the institute’s second-ever online convocation. Earlier, Mr. Narendran laid foundation stone for the annexe building of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Metallurgical and Materials Engineering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/never-stop-learning-students-told/article36677462.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Seed money available for start-ups||The Bharathidasan University Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Career Hub (BECH – RUSA 2.0) has invited proposals for sanction of seed money for start-ups through incubation from students, research scholars, faculty members and potential entrepreneurs. BECH – RUSA 2.0 would prepare students and stakeholders in basics of entrepreneurship, designing project proposals, research and training and provide them with seed money till they come out with a prototype and become full-fledged entrepreneurs. The objective of BECH – RUSA 2.0 is to inculcate innovative entrepreneurial skills in the academic curriculum and research at higher education level. BECH has trained about 20,000 students from the university departments and various colleges. It is planning to train the students studying in colleges under the jurisdiction of Bharathidasan University in future. BECH – RUSA 2.0 would encourage students doing their undergraduate or postgraduate programmes to become innovative entrepreneurs on completion of their courses. Students will be given an opportunity to avail theme-based projects, post-doctoral fellowships and seed money for start-ups, a university press release said. Those interested in availing themselves the seed money can apply throughhttp://bechrusa. bdu.ac.in/phd/application_ details.phpFor more details, contact N. Prasanna, Director (in charge), BECH – RUSA 2.0, on 98949 15061 or e-mailnpbech@bdu.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seed-money-available-for-start-ups/article36677463.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New CoP takes charge||Inspector General of Police G. Karthikeyan assumed office as Commissioner of Police of Tiruchi City on Saturday. He was hitherto Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, Chennai. He succeeds A. Arun, who was transferred and posted as Inspector General of Police at Police Training College in Chennai.  Meanwhile, A. Saravana Sundar assumed office as Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range, on Friday. He succeeds A. Radhika, who has been transferred to Chennai as DIG, State police headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cop-takes-charge/article36677105.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Saturday stood at 73.71 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow wsa 8,609 cusecs and the discharge 7,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36677097.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rotten meat seized||About 36 kg of rotten meat and fish were seized during checks conducted at 12 shops in Manapparai by Food Safety officials on Saturday. The checks resulted in the seizure of 18 kg of mutton, 12 kg of chicken and six kg of fish, all said to have rotted. Later, the officials also seized about 120 kg of banned tobacco products from two petty shops at Ponnagar in Tiruchi. The shopkeepers were levied penalties of Rs. 5,000 each, R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer, Food Safety and Drug Administration, said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotten-meat-seized/article36677099.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||47 in the fray in Tiruchi||Forty-seven candidates are in the fray for elections to 14 vacant positions in various rural local bodies in the district. While 18 candidates are in the fray for three vacant positions of panchayat union ward members, seven candidates are contesting for two seats of village panchayat presidents. Twenty-two candidates are in the fray for nine village panchayat wards where elections are to be held. Ten village panchayat ward members have been elected unopposed, according to a communication from the Collector and District Election Officer S. Sivarasu. The elections are scheduled for October 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/47-in-the-fray-in-tiruchi/article36677100.ece
26 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Tvl_water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 78.75 feet (143 ft) with an inflow of 585.19 cusecs and a discharge of 705.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 62.90 ft (118 ft) with an inflow of 50 cusecs and nil discharge. The rainfall (in mm) during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday was as follows: Manimuthar: 3.4, Ambasamudram: 5 and Cheranmahadevi recorded 106 mm rainfall, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvlwater-level/article36677440.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvannamalai to be under tight lockdown till October 3||The Tiruvannamalai district administration has extended the strict lockdown in force in the temple town till October 3. Parks, swimming pools and dams in Tiruvannamalai and neighbouring Kattam Poondi in the district will be closed during this period, District Collector B. Murugesh said on Saturday. Hotels, bakeries and tea shops can function between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on all days; takeaways from eateries can be served only up to 10 p.m. every day. All shops, including roadside eateries, hawkers and petty traders, can operate between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. in the town. Only 50% occupancy is allowed in hotels and tea shops. Owners and employees of these establishments should be fully vaccinated. There will be strict enforcement of imposing of fines for not wearing masks and for not following social distancing in public places for individuals. Government buses will run with 50% occupancy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stringent-lockdown-in-tiruvannamalai-extended-till-oct-3/article36677398.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Police to auction seized vehicles||The district police in Tiruvannamalai will auction 160 vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, at the parade grounds for the Armed Reserve at the office of the Superintendent of Police here at 10 a.m. on September 28. These vehicles were seized during raids at illicit arrack making units by the Prohibition Enforcement wing. All COVID-19 safety norms, including compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing, should be followedat the auction. Interested persons should pay an entry fee of Rs. 100 and a token advance of Rs. 1,000 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on September 26. For details, call 04175-233920.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-auction-seized-vehicles/article36677399.ece
26 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Six arrested for bid to make counterfeit currency notes||An attempt to make counterfeit currency using chemicals was busted by Gudiyatham police on Saturday. Six persons were taken into custody for interrogation. Police said based on an alert, a team went to the house of K. Saravanan, 47, in Jeeva Nagar in Gudiyatham near Vellore around 11 a.m. on Saturday. In the house, police found chemicals, ink, dye and bundles of papers to make conterfeit currency in gunny bags. “We did not find any counterfeit notes during search. Initial enquiries reveal that it is a cheating gang that dupes people with papers similar to currency notes,” K. Ramamurthy, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Gudiyatham Sub-Division, said. Based on preliminary investigation, police said that K. Saravanan, S. Velu, 42, V. Ashok Kumar, 30, A. Ramu, 20, B. Sivalingam, 49, and S. Ramesh, 32, are being interrogated by the police. Police suspect that it could be a storage house and printing was done elsewhere. In March last year, police arrested two persons from Ambur and Vellore for printing and circulating Rs. 500 and Rs. 2,000 counterfeit currency notes in various parts of Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-arrested-for-bid-to-make-counterfeit-currency-notes/article36677449.ece
26 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||25 new cases in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,294 with 25 new cases reported on September 25. While 47,925 have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 249. The district's death toll is 1,120. In Ranipet district, 20 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 42,960. In Tirupattur district, 26 new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases stood at 28,905. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 38, taking the total number of cases to 54,175. Of these, 53,210 have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-new-cases-in-vellore/article36677447.ece
26 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,TAMIL NADU||TTD special invitees: TDP leader files caveat in SC||TDP leader M. Uma Maheswara Naidu from Kalyandurg in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district filed a caveat in the Supreme Court with regard to the High Court’s order to the State government to keep under suspension the nomination of 52 individuals as special invitees to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Trust Board. Mr. Naidu’s counsel Y. Balaji filed the papers in the apex court with regard to the the order issued by the High Court Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Arup Kumar Goswami and Justice N. Jayasurya on September 22 in respect of G.O. Rt. Nos 568 and 569 through which the special invitees were nominated to the TTD Board. The Division Bench was prime facie of the opinion that the impugned Government Orders were not in accordance with Section 96 (1) of AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act of 1987 as it had no provision for special invitees. The petitioner’s argument was that since the TTD Board cannot have more than 29 persons (including the Chairman) as members, the government issued the said Government Orders nominating the special invitees for a period coterminous with the tenure of the Board and giving them protocol on a par with the members. The government constituted the TTD Board on September 15 with 24 members and three ex-officio members with TTD executive officer as its member-secretary and nominated 52 special invitees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ttd-special-invitees-tdp-leader-files-caveat-in-sc/article36676837.ece
26 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||50,000 to be vaccinated in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district has targeted to administer 50,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccine during the third mega vaccination camp to be held on Sunday. In a statement, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that out of the total 16,31,558 persons above 18 years who are eligible for the vaccine, 9.05 lakh people have been administered the first dose of vaccine and 2.70 lakh persons have been given the second dose till Thursday. This includes 75,643 doses given on the first mega vaccination camp held on September 12 and 22,737 doses administered on the second mega vaccination camp held on September 19. The third camp would be held between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. in all village panchayats, town panchayats and municipalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50000-to-be-vaccinated-in-virudhunagar/article36677127.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||An industry in the ‘dolldrums ’||Every year as September gives way to October and skies turn a gloomy grey with the north-east monsoon waiting to make its wet and windy way into Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, Navarathri celebrations come to lend colour to homes. Thousands of traditional artisans who have worked dolls of clay and papier-mâché eagerly await discerning buyers to choose their dolls and add uniqueness to ‘kolu’ at their homes. Did you know that a traditional ‘kolu’ doll-maker starts his work on Vijayadasami, the 10thday of Navarathri, to get his wares ready for next year’s festival? Such is the quantum of work that goes into the dolls that are spread out on the footpaths of Mylapore and West Mambalam ahead of the season. Work on next year’s dolls “We start by moulding a Ganesha idol and begin work on next year’s new dolls on Vijayadasami when new beginnings are made. The first model of the new doll is made and then the mould is prepared. These days, we use stone plaster moulds that is used to make 300 sets. Earlier, we used Plaster of Paris moulds with which we could make only around 100 dolls,” said Padma Shri awardee V.K. Munusamy of Puducherry. According to him, the earliest moulds were made of clay, brushed with neem oil and dusted with ash. “Some of these moulds have survived for over 110 years at Mayavaram,” added Mr. Munusamy, who has trained hundreds of women in terracotta after the 2004 tsunami to help revive their livelihood. By mid-January, in the Tamil month of Thai, the first doll sets are ready, and orders arrive from abroad. “Between April and August, we export the dolls, by containers in ships if we have time and air cargo, otherwise. Alongside, we work for the local markets. A positive effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is an increase in online sales, an advantage for doll-makers with a regular market abroad. Within the country too, these days you can place orders online,” said Munusamy, a terracotta artiste, who can make a Ganesha doll in under a minute and won a UNESCO award in 2005. Hit by the pandemic Annually, goods worth Rs. 5 crore are exported to countries such as the U.S., Australia, Singapore, Canada and Malaysia, directly and indirectly, said Prabakaran, regional director (in-charge), southern region, the office of the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts, Ministry of Textiles. “Around 800-900 artisans and their families are involved in the work in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry,” he said. However, the pandemic has severely hit the business in the doll-making clusters in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Thanjavur, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Panruti, Nagercoil and Salem. For traditional artisans in Chennai and Kancheepuram, as in other places, the pandemic was the proverbial last straw. A series of changes in government policies like the introduction of the GST and a steady rise in raw material cost have added to their problems. M. Jayapal’s grandfather made clay utensils and his father graduated to making clay toys. He makes papier-mâché dolls, carving out a niche customer base. In normal years, wealthy clients would queue up to place orders. But this year, “there have been no orders so far. Only 20% of my valued customers have called. Not many have come in person. I have not made a single doll during the pandemic,” he said. Idols were not made for Vinayaka Chathurthi either. “In 2019, we were hit when the government introduced 12% GST. Though it was reduced to 5% the next year, we had to pay a certain commission to the Khadi Board but sales were not as high,” he said. Demonetisation and GST Demonetisation hit them first but the GST worsened their plight. “The relaxation of the GST for annual incomes of up to Rs. 20 lakh did not benefit us since doll manufacturers don’t make so much. Though people buy dolls only during the 40 days from Gokulashtami to Navarathri, we are asked to show monthly sale accounts. During a good year, we would sell for Rs. 6 lakh-Rs. 7 lakh and make a profit of 20%-25%,” said T.S. Vijayakumar, whose family moved from Puducherry to Chennai over 110 years ago. His grandfather earned fame for his set for the film Avvaiyar . Then 25 years ago, when the Pollution Control Board denied permission for opening kilns in the city “we stopped making clay dolls and moved to papier-mâché. In Kosapet, where there used to be 100 doll manufacturers, there are just four or five now,” said the artisan, whose fibreglass doll-making business, too, has been hit this year by the rising cost of raw materials such as resin. His entire family, including artisan Jagadeeswaran from Saidapet, contracted COVID-19, forcing them to suspend work. “We have survived only on rice from the fair price shop and government dole. As I cannot afford to pay them, my workers have returned home. Now my granddaughters help me. We are working on last year’s dolls only,” said an emotional Mr. Jagadeeswaran. Aminjikarai-based artisan V. Siva learnt the art of making papier-mâché dolls from his father. He sells only 10 pieces now instead of the usual 100 pieces earlier. The government’s decision to introduce newer sales outlets has hit artisans, he said. While showrooms registered sales over Rs. 1 crore, customer footfalls have dropped by more than two-thirds. More than 50 doll-maker families in Kancheepuram are in distress. “Many of us are unable to repay loans taken last year. The closure of temples for Krishna Jayanthi and Vinayaka Chathurthi came as a blow to those who bought large-sized idols from West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh to sell in Chennai. Last year, many doll-makers lost stocks stored in warehouses because of heavy rain and flooding. We need some kind of assistance from the government,” said Baskar, whose brothers also are doll-makers and learnt the craft from their father. Sankar, another doll-maker, said power should be supplied at domestic tariff since painting of dolls was not done daily. Doll-makers at Villianur in Puducherry and Vandipalayam and Panruti in Cuddalore district are worried about clearing unsold stocks from the previous year. With the restrictions on account of the pandemic, they don’t think the coming Navrathri would be a joyous occasion. Buyers are hesitant, said national awardee A. Sekar. “Despite the hardship due to the pandemic, doll-makers here have been trying to continue, maintaining all precautions and hoping business will revive soon. We have to pay wages to employees who have been working round the clock. Most doll-makers have no other source of income and the unsold stocks have had a cascading effect on our bank loans,” he said. Doll-makers at Vandipalayam are trying to boost sales through social media platforms. S. Karthikeyan, a third-generation toy-maker, said, “Those purchasing the dolls from far-off places would pay an advance amount and settle the full amount later. This was the practice for the last few years. But this year, even this is not possible as the demand has fallen steeply. As a result, we have been calling up regular customers, convincing them to make at least small purchases to help the artisans get back on track.” Navi Suresh, a resident of Toronto, Canada, said Navarathri celebrations span a fortnight in her locality. “Many neighbours and friends would come in to see the dolls. We also visit others. We buy dolls online and also from local shops. We display dolls bought during visits to India,” she said. Apart from earthen and papier-mâché idols, S. Balamurugan, a fourth-generation doll-maker and terracotta potter, makes toys for children. ‘Soppu saaman’, the toys for children to play with, are often part of ‘kolu’. This set has around 11 clay items, like pots, pans, spoons and kitchen implements. With parents buying ‘soppu saaman’  to keep their children engaged after their online classes, the demand for these toys has increased since the lockdown was announced.” Hope is not lost However, all is not lost for the artisans of Vilacheri in Madurai and Thanjavur who are working late at night to reach at least some dolls to the markets. Against the gloomy overcast sky and deserted streets at Vilacheri, a southern suburb, the small room in S. Muthusamy’s two-storey house on Velar Street is cramped with magnificently colourful dolls being readied for Navarathri. A happy old song of MGR’s, Kann Pona Pokkile , plays in the background as half-a-dozen women engage in gentle banter. The pandemic has set their festive sales back. But hope drives them. “Our new dolls are ready and we have repainted last year’s left-over stock,” said M. Priyadarshini, 20, a third-generation artisan, painting the dolls that Vilacheri is famous for. Vilacheri is home to 180-odd families that have carried on the legacy of doll-making for nearly six decades. Pottery had been her family’s business for eight generations, said M. Malathi. “Our forefathers made mann paanai (clay pots) or worked on temple gopuram,” she said. Her husband Muthusamy said the training is passed down generations. Vilacheri artwork is cherished for bright colours, glaze and aesthetics. “Our mastery of the divine eyes and facial expressions of the idols set us apart,” pointed out M. Ramalingam, whose family is among the first five in the village to switch to doll-making in the early 1960s. The story goes that some time in the late 1950s, famous clay artisans Kannan and Thangavel Pathar came on work to Chithira Kala Studio, Madurai’s first cinema studio. Natarajan Velar from Vilacheri upgraded his skills and also taught the villagers. By mid-1960s, the first doll-making units came up. Though business is not exactly booming for the artisans, the fame of their dolls has not diminished. “There is a sentiment attached to our ‘kolu’ dolls,” asserted S. Meena, an artisan for 30 years. “We cater to every fancy demand of our customers,” said Mahalingam. “NRIs order customised dolls in papier-mâché as they are easy to transport.” Customer M. Saravana from Karaikudi has developed a bond with the Vilacheri artisans, who also ensure careful packaging and timely delivery. Sets depicting Dasavatharam and Ashtalakshmi are popular arrangements across households. Big dolls of deities such as Siva, Parvathi, and Murugan are all-time favourites. This year, Nava Narasimha is more in demand, said N. Murugesan. Competition from plastics Competition from plastic and battery-operated playthings have hit Thanjavur’s doll industry from the mid-2000s, limiting the sale of traditional toys to the festive season and regional tourism. The lockdown has only added to the woes of the families engaged in doll-making. Brought to Thanjavur by Maratha ruler Raja Serfoji in the early 19th century, the art of making these dolls is on the verge of becoming a footnote in India’s rich folk handicraft history. S. Bhoopathy, a fifth-generation craftsman, has been making uruttai and thalai-atti dolls at Punainallur Mariamman Kovil, 6 km from Thanjavur, for 45 years. “From the 40-odd families that were once making a living here, only two or three are left in the business,” he said. “In a normal Navarathri season, we can easily turn out 10,000 clay dolls of 11-12 varieties. With the ban on travel and tourism, we have nobody to sell our dolls to.” The Thanjavur dolls, which earned a place in the Geographical Indications Registry in 2009, reflect a unique combination of modern aesthetics and ingenious engineering — lightweight body made of tapioca flour, papier-mâché and plaster of Paris — cooked and kneaded to the consistency of roti dough. Each toy is made in halves by pressing the rolled-out ‘doll dough’ into cement-based moulds, with liberal dusting of chalk powder. The dried halves are reinforced with sheets of paper at the back and glued together with home-cooked adhesive that uses tapioca flour as a base. The dancer dolls have a heavier pedestal-shaped feet section. The uruttai toys, on the other hand, use a bowl-shaped clay base (shaped using moulds), which ensures that the doll remains upright. Artisans want a system to access an advance to buy raw materials. “Farmers get subsidies on agricultural inputs. We, too, must be given raw materials at subsidised rates. The Union government must exempt ‘kolu’ dolls from the GST. More steps are needed to market our products. There are only two haats (open-air market) in Tamil Nadu and one in Puducherry. We urge the Tamil Nadu government to provide homes to artisans with work spaces in the front yard,” said Mr. Baskar. Mr. Prabakaran of the office of the Development Commissioner of Handicrafts said the Centre, which had contributed Rs. 5.36 crore towards the construction of haats in Mamallapuram and Kanniyakumari, had provided tool-kits worth Rs. 5 lakh this year alone to the State’s artisans. “We do have schemes that artisans can seek. The State government can approach us for special projects. Shortly, we will have special projects at Kalahasti and Puducherry.” ( With inputs from R. Sujatha in Chennai; Soma Basu in Madurai; Nahla Nainar in Tiruchi; and S. Prasad in Puducherry )  In 2019, we were hit when the government introduced 12% GST M. Jayapal Papier-mâché dollmaker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-industry-in-the-dolldrums/article36676987.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A darbar and colour||How did the festival come to be? Yes, the festival is indeed a Darbar, where the king gave audience to his subjects. “Only on a smaller scale. People wanted to enjoy the grandeur and pomp at their homes and scaled down the festival to suit their needs. The idols of gods and goddesses took the place of kings. The festival, which is a form of Shaktha worship (Shakthi), is also aimed at providing importance to women in the household, explained G. Vijayavenugopal, senior research fellow, French School of Asian Studies, Puducherry. Raja Ravi Varma’s influence on dolls Apart from the epics Ramayana and Mahabhratha, films, cartoons and real life have influenced doll-making. Historian V. Sriram explains that an Alli Arjuna set, a couple in very western royal costume, was a throwback to the Tamil theatre of the 1920s when K.B. Sundarambal and S.G. Kittappa had played these characters. In the 1940s came the dancing doll, tilting her head and holding her skirt like a fan. This was modelled on Vyjayanthimala in AVM’s Vazhkai , in the song Nandagopalanodu naan aaduvene , sung by M.L. Vasanthakumari. But artiste Raja Ravi Varma, perhaps, had the greatest influence on the dolls. A prized possession at many homes is a set of six scenes from the Ramayana, all directly copied from Ravi Varma. These comprise the breaking of the bow, the crossing of the Ganga, the killing of Jatayu, Sita in Ashoka Vana, the crossing of the ocean and the Pattabishekam. Similarly, the iconic Lakshmi and Saraswathi, as depicted by the painter, became the standard for all clay replicas. How to buy dolls? Nonagenarian T.S. Ramakrishnan, who has marketed dolls for over 50 years, says ‘Kolu’ is usually arranged in an odd number of steps. A rule that a new doll is added to the collection every year helps artisans and gives homes an opportunity to show off the new addition. “While buying a doll, look at the face, the eyes and features like jewellery. The must-have dolls include the Ramar-Sita set; Marapachi dolls made of red sanders and manufactured at Chennapatna; Lakshmi-Saraswati; Murugan-Ganesha; wedding set; Chettiyar and his wife; ‘soppu saaman’; and vegetables and fruits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-darbar-and-colour/article36676988.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||121 positive cases in Erode district||Erode district on Saturday reported 121 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number number of cases to 1,01,360. While 139 persons were discharged, 1,258 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died raising the toll to 670. A total of 69 positive cases were reported in Salem. Health officials said 57 cases were indigenous and nine were reported in Salem Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 55 cases were reported. One patient succumbed to the disease. In Dharmapuri, 37 cases were reported. In Krishnagiri, 26 cases were reported. Two deaths were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/121-positive-cases-in-erode-district/article36677135.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As dusk sets in||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-dusk-sets-in/article36677445.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DGP orders formation of special teams||Mr. Babu said ‘Operation Disarm’ was conducted across the State in the last 48 hours to put an end to retaliatory murders. The police seized over 900 weapons and arrested over 2,500 rowdy elements. The officers were asked to closely follow the murder cases pending in courts and strive for the conviction of the perpetrators. Creating fear “This will not only ensure punishment for the accused but also create fear among other anti-social elements,” he said. As many as 2,512 suspected criminals were arrested until Saturday morning in a State-wide storming operation and 934 dangerous weapons were seized. Following a couple of murders reported in the State, Mr. Sylendra Babu ordered the city and district police chiefs to conduct storming operations. The 48-hour operation began on Thursday night and vehicle checks were also conducted. A press release from the police headquarters said that in the last 36 hours of the operation, 16,370 persons with criminal records were subjected to verification. After verification, 2,512 persons were arrested. Among those arrested, 244 have non-bailable warrants issued against them and 733 were sent to judicial custody as they had been involved in several criminal activities. Released persons The remaining 1,927 persons were released after they gave security bonds under Section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for keeping peace. Five country-made guns and 929 knives were seized from the arrested persons. The crackdown will continue against criminals who are involved in murders, the DGP said. ( With inputs from R. Sivaraman in Chennai )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-orders-formation-of-special-teams/article36677011.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||26-09-2021-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA YGP Auditorium Bharat Kalachar 17. Thirumalai Road TOM Mediaas Presents Madhuvanthii &S.Sureshwar in "Thillalangadi Mohanambal" Sept 26th 7pm. Tickets available at Tommediaas.com; bookmyshow.comand at venue. Rates: Rs.300/200/100 only. For tickets Call 75500 87847||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-09-2021-city-cinema/article36676983.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||Hindu Mission Hospital, Rotary Club of Tiruchi Midtown and Sankara Health Foundation: Free artificial limb fixing camp, hospital premises, 9 a.m.  Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation: Exhibition-cum-sale of kolu dolls, Poompuhar showroom, Singarathope, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article36677098.ece
26 September 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Aspirants from NK crack Civil Services exam||Talented aspirants from north Karnataka have done well in the Civil Services examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission. Mohammad Haris Sumair, from Bidar, hopes to join the Indian Administrative Service as he cleared with an all-India rank of 270. His elder brother, Mohammad Nadeemuddin, is a IPS officer of the Kerala cadre. “Both of us were inspired by the dedication and hard work of IAS officers posted as Deputy Commissioners in Bidar. We were especially drawn to the style of working of Harsha Gupta who was the DC between 2007-2010, when we were in school,” said Mr. Sumair. Both the brothers went to the Air Force school in Bidar and went to Chaitanya PU College in Hyderabad. Both joined engineering colleges in Bengaluru. Mr. Sumair maintains that he studied on his own. “My brother provided mentorship and guidance. Since he had run the rough mile, it was easy for me,” he said. He said there is no secret to success and says understanding the topic is more important than rote learning. “I studied four to eight hours a day,” he said. Their father, Mohammad Nayeemuddin, has retired as the district Home Guard Commandant. “Nowadays, I am only thanking the Almighty and accepting the wishes of my friends and family members,” he said. “We should all realise that our children have immense potential and all they need is inspiration and motivation,” he said. He hopes the performance of his children will inspire others. “That Kalyana Karnataka is educationally backward is a myth. My sons have proved it,” he said. Netra Meti of Alamtti in Vijayapura district has secured the 326th rank and she has cleared the examination in her fifth attempt. Last year, she had attended the personality test in New Delhi. She has taken online lessons from two institutes. Her father Balachandra Meti is a retired banker. Shakeer Ahmed Tondikhan of Ramapur village near Saundatti in Belagavi district has secured the 583th rank. He is serving as Assistant Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, in Hubballi. He said persistent efforts helped him realise his dream. “I faced failure in the past. But I did not let that deter me. That could be a lesson for others,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aspirants-from-nk-crack-civil-services-exam/article36677154.ece
26 September 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Workshop on education held||A workshop on ‘Stimulating Academic Environment for Promoting Quality Education’ was organised at KLE Society’s Basavprabhu Kore college in Chikkodi on Saturday. S.Y. Kulkarni, former Vice-Chancellor of REVA University Bengaluru, spoke on the importance of human resource in educational institutions. “Teachers need to acquire and update information continuously. They should also deliver employment oriented education or else the institutions are likely to perish,” he said. With the implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 in Karnataka state, teachers have a major role in encouraging introduction of relevant courses related to skills, values and ethics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop-on-education-held/article36677155.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many parents unwilling to send children back to full classrooms||While the State government has decided to lift physical attendance restrictions in classrooms and allow upper primary and high schools to operate in full capacity in districts where the COVID-19 positivity rate is below 1%, school managements say it will be a challenge as parents are apprehensive.This is especially the case in cities such as Bengaluru where most students have easy access to the internet and devices such as smartphones and laptops to attend online classes. From October 1. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh has said that restrictions on physical attendance would be lifted from October 1. Bharathi S., whose daughter studies in a CBSE school in Bengaluru, said, “The number of COVID-19 cases are under control in Karnataka at the moment, but cases have not disappeared. Conducting offline classes in full strength before children are vaccinated is a tricky situation and not something I support.” Many parents that The Hindu spoke to held a similar view and said the State government should wait before lifting restrictions on physical classes. With uncertainty among parents, private school managements in Bengaluru are likely to continue holding classes with a limited number of students physically present, at least for some time. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president of the Recognised Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Karnataka, said taking the concerns of parents into consideration, they would continue to hold classes in batches. “We will have classes five days a week for all students from standards VII to X, but in two shifts,” he said. R. Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that while upper primary and high schools would open and function at 100% capacity, the department would work towards allaying the apprehensions of the parents and children. “The directions will come into force slowly and gradually,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools, admitted that it would be a “tough situation” to reopen schools in full capacity, but he said that managements had to do so in order to complete the portions for this academic year. At the same time, the logistics of conducting online and offline classes is also proving to be a challenge. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, DPS Group of Schools, pointed out schools were not able to conduct both offline and online classes now. “Schools have to reopen as the learning loss is becoming monumental. Even if we reopen schools now, it will take at least six months for normal learning to take place as the students need to develop grade-appropriate competencies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-parents-unwilling-to-send-children-back-to-full-classrooms/article36676907.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fatal accidents in city dropped in 2020, but Sundays had the worst record||The number of accidents and resulting fatalities significantly dipped in the city last year, according to data released by Bengaluru City Traffic Police on Saturday. While 870 fatal accidents were reported in the city in 2018, the number dipped to 832 in 2019 and 657 in 2020. One of the reasons for this could be the lockdown which extended for over three months, and subsequent restrictions on movement of vehicles for a prolonged period in 2020 due to COVID-19. However, B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner (Traffic), said enforcement and hike in fines also had a role to play. A reduction in accidents and drunken driving cases was recorded from the last few months of 2019 itself after the police launched enforcement drives. The police registered very few cases of accidents due to drunken driving last year — just 16. The data threw up some interesting trends. For instance, Sundays were the deadliest days on the city’s roads in terms of accidents. Of the total 657 fatal accidents reported in the city, 108 were reported on Sundays. “On Sundays the roads are relatively free, so people speed and those flouting rules may be relatively high. The party scene may have also contributed to accidents on Sundays,” Mr. Gowda said. No pothole death? The BTCP records show that there was not a single death due to potholes and bad stretches of roads in the city in three years — 2018, 2019, and 2020. A senior official said those accidents would not have been recorded as pothole related. Other trends persisted in 2020 include fatalities involving pedestrians. A high number of pedestrians — 164 were killed in accidents in 2020. Most fatal accidents involved two-wheelers, which accounted for 412 deaths during the same period.  Barricading at most street corners during 2020, also seemed to have helped traffic police in enforcement. They collected a whopping Rs. 83.83 lakh by way of fines for traffic offences, one of the highest ever.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fatal-accidents-in-city-dropped-in-2020-but-sundays-had-the-worst-record/article36676916.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Over 11% rise in State’s cancer burden by 2025’||New cancer cases in Karnataka are likely to increase to 97,130 cases by 2025 — a 11.4% increase from the incidence of 85,968 cases in 2020 based on the current trends. This projection is according to “The Clinicopathological Profile of Cancers in India: A Report of the Hospital Based Cancer Registries, 2021” prepared by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Centre for Disease Informatics & Research (NCDIR), Bengaluru. The figures were released on Friday, World Cancer Research Day. According to the report, the projected incidence of cancer cases in Karnataka in 2025 in females is 51,437, a 11.61% increase compared to the incidence of 45,465 in 2020. Whereas in males, the rise in projected incidence is 45,693, a 11.3% increase compared to the incidence of 40,503 in 2020. The report found that in 2020, breast cancer contributed 27.9% of the total cancer burden in females, the highest among all cancers in Karnataka. The proportion of cancers associated with the use of tobacco remained the highest in males at 33.4% and 14.2% in females, according to the fact sheet. NCDIR director Prashant Mathur told The Hindu that the fact sheet presented the epidemiological profile and pattern of cancer in Karnataka, based on findings from the ‘Report of National Cancer Registry Programme 2020’. Besides, the fact sheet also has related information on the socio-demographic profile, health status indicators, and health infrastructure. “These have a significant bearing on the occurrence and outcome of cancer,” he said. According to the fact sheet, the incidence of lung cancer was the highest in males at 10.1% followed by stomach cancer (6.9%), prostrate (6.4%), oesophagus (5.4%), and liver (4.3%). Among females, breast cancer, followed by cervix uteri (12%), and ovary cancer (6.4%), were the most common cancer sites. This was followed by mouth and corpus uteri cancers at 3.8% each. Tobacco use In the category of cancers associated with the use of tobacco in males, lung cancer was the highest at 30% followed by oesophagus (16%); mouth and tongue cancers (13% each); larynx (9%) and urinary bladder (7%). Among females, the incidence of mouth cancers were the highest at 28% followed by lung (27%), oesophagus (24%), tongue (7%), urinary bladder (4%), and larynx (3%). Asserting that early diagnosis, prompt treatment and a healthy lifestyle will contribute a lot towards reducing cancer burden, Dr. Mathur said: “Cancer registries play a crucial role in cancer prevention and control by generating systematic and timely information.” C. Ramachandra, director of the State-run Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology, said a significant increase in the incidence rates of breast cancers in women, and lung and head and neck cancers in both men and women was being observed in most of the registries. “However, a declining trend is being seen in most of the registries for cancer of the cervix, especially in rural areas,” he said, attributing it to increased awareness, hygiene, and reduction in early marriages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-11-rise-in-states-cancer-burden-by-2025/article36676957.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Random check finds guidelines not being followed in 100 PHCs||The guidelines laid down for Primary Health Centres (PHCs) by the Indian Public Health Standards are not being followed in any of the 100 PHCs that were randomly inspected by the District Legal Services Authorities (DLSAs) across the State, said a report submitted to the High Court of Karnataka. “As per the IPHS guidelines, medical care must essentially include out-patient services, 24x7 emergency services, referral services, and inpatient services with six beds. Such medical care facilities are not uniformly available in all 100 PHC’s visited. Only 50 PHCs visited by DLSAs were functioning 24x7,” stated the report submitted by the Member-Secretary of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA). Response sought A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Sankar Magadum, that noted the report, directed the State government to submit its response to the KSLSA’s findings. The court had sought report by DLSA by conducting surprise visits to three PHCs randomly in every district. There was no emergency ambulance service available in 76 centres; 26 centres had no labour room; the psychiatric treatment facility was available in only 45 centres of the total 100 PHCs and one Community Health Centre (CHC) inspected by the DLSAs, the report pointed out. Though the IPHS guidelines prescribe plinth area from 4,036 sq.ft to 4,843 sq.ft depending on whether an operation theatre facility is opted for or not, eight inspected PHCs had a plinth area of less than 1,000 sq.ft, 27 centres an area of 1,000 to 3,000 sq.ft, and 60 above 3,000 sq.ft, the KSLSA reported. Lack of uniformity Stating that there is no uniformity either in the staff pattern or in the infrastructure provided to PHCs, the report pointed out that the majority of staff in PHCs are health workers and health assistants though IPHS guidelines prescribe only one male and female health worker per PHC. No duty doctors “No quality medical service can be expected from health workers in the absence of requisite medical officers and midwives,” the report stated while pointing out that duty doctors were not available in many PHCs during prime hours. Of the 100 PHCs inspected, 67 did not have residential accommodation for doctors and paramedical staff, the KSLSA said, while pointing out that most DLSAs reported that no cleanliness was maintained in most of the inspected PHCs.  KSLSA’s suggestions IPHS guidelines should be implemented in all PHCs All PHCs should have 24x7 emergency services Conduct survey of all PHCs for quality assessment Repair dilapidated PHCs and maintain hygiene Provide adequate residential accommodation for doctors and paramedical staff to avail 24x7 service Digitise data on storage, collection of stock, health records Install CCTV system in all PHCs as a public safety measure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/random-check-finds-guidelines-not-being-followed-in-100-phcs/article36676919.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Meeting of presiding officers on anti-defection law next month||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Saturday said a presiding officers’ conference would be held for three days from October 26 at Shimla in Himachal Pradesh and it would see discussions on a report on the anti-defection law prepared by a committee headed by C.P. Joshi, Speaker of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly, and the diminishing quality of debates in Parliament and in the State legislatures. “We are also concerned about the diminishing standard of discipline, decorum and decency in our legislatures...We are organising a conference of presiding officers on this subject, to which the Chief Ministers and other stakeholders of the States will also be invited,” Mr. Birla said. The Speaker had also flagged these issues during his address to members of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Friday. After the acceptance of the report of the C.P. Joshi Committee at the conference, the government would be urged to accept it. It is for the Union government to decide on amendments to the existing law by introducing a Bill in Parliament, the Speaker said. The committee was constituted by Mr. Birla in the wake of debates surrounding the anti-defection law and powers of the Speaker to adjudicate, which came into the discussion after 17 legislators of the Congress and the Janata Dal (S) in Karnataka resigned and joined the BJP in 2019. Action plan The Lok Sabha Speaker said a comprehensive action plan would be prepared at the conference of presiding officers for improving the efficacy and credibility of parliamentary democracy. For enabling elected representatives to work with full efficiency and fulfil their commitments to the people, the Speaker said programmes would be organised for capacity building of all public representatives from panchayat to parliament through Pride, an institution of Parliament. Mr. Birla also said that 75 programmes would be organised to commemorate 75 years of the country’s independence. “The goal is to make all democratic institutions from panchayat to Parliament more empowered, accountable, and strong, and I believe that through these programmes we will be able to achieve our goal,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-of-presiding-officers-on-anti-defection-law-next-month/article36676941.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTCs eye funds available with various departments||Cash-strapped road transportcorporations (RTCs) are eyeing the funds available with different departments such as Social Welfare, Public Instruction, and Labour to provide subsidised transport services, especially to students, garment workers, and labourers. For more than a year since the start of the pandemic, the four RTCs have been relying on the State for funds to pay staff their salaries. To date, the government has provided close to Rs. 2,500 crore. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) chairman M. Chandrappa told The Hindu that a presentation on using the funds available with different departments has been made to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “Every year, RTCs issue lakhs of students passes. If we utilise funds available under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, we can lessen the burden on the State government as it also contributes a partial amount. Similarly, funds are also available with the Labour Department. There are around 20 lakh registered construction workers. If we get funds from the department, it will benefit lakhs of labourers,” he said. He added that there is scope to use the money available with various departments. “The financial condition of RTCs has deteriorated since COVID-19 and it is posing an existential challenge. We have to save institutions that have a legacy at any cost. But at the same time, we do not want to burden the State government. Using the funds available with departments to issue student bus passes as well as passes for construction labourers and employees in the garment sector will help in a big way,” he added. Together, the four RTCs issue 20 lakh passes annually to students. The cost involved in issuing subsidised passes is Rs. 2,500 crore. RTCs and students bear 25% of the cost each, while the remaining 50% is borne by the government. Since the COVID-19 pandemic, however, the funds allocated for student passes have been used to pay salaries. “There is a proposal to raise funds from other sources too. In the coming days, the Chief Minister will hold discussions with the departments concerned,” a senior official of the KSRTC said. Fuel expenses The RTCs are also asking the State government to share fuel expenses, along the lines of what the State of Tamil Nadu has adopted. “As per our information, the Tamil Nadu government supports up to Rs. 30 per litre of diesel,” said the senior KSRTC official. The rise in fuel price over the past year has hit RTCs badly, with the price of diesel per litre crossing Rs. 90. “The corporations are not in a position to meet the operational expenses. We will also request the State government to support us in the purchase of fuel,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rtcs-eye-funds-available-with-various-departments/article36676948.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Ban on online gaming will hurt legitimate businesses’||The All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) has expressed its unhappiness with the Karnataka government’s proposed ban on online gaming on the grounds that the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Compliance Bill, 2021, does not make a clear distinction between games of skill and games of chance. The Bill was passed by both Houses of the Karnataka Legislature in the recently-concluded session. AIGF has sought a meeting with the State government to make a representation on behalf of the gaming industry. Skill-based gaming cannot be compared with gambling, and banning is not a solution, argued AIGF CEO Roland Landers. It will have an adverse impact on the online gaming industry, which has been growing at a CAGR of over 25% in the last few years, and especially during the pandemic. “As people have been home-bound during COVID-19, online skill-based gaming has enabled them to stay connected with peers and friends. This has resulted in 1.5x growth for the sector year-on-year. There are over 350 million online gamers in India, with sizable participation from Karnataka,” said Mr. Landers. Startups in Karnataka As per a recent AIGF-EY report titled ‘Online Gaming in India–The GST Conundrum’, most of the over 400 startups in the ecosystem are based in Karnataka. “These startups need the support of the State administration. The recent amendments have unintentionally prohibited these legitimate businesses. They have failed to make a clear distinction between games of skill and games of chance, and this will have a severe and negative impact on this sunrise sector, which has registered over $1 billion in annual revenue and has been responsible for creation of many unicorns over the last two years,” he said. Mr. Landers pointed out that Nagaland, Meghalaya, and some other States have formulated regulations for the gaming sector where a clear distinction has been made between games of skill and games of chance. “The Supreme Court has also supported the online skill-based gaming sector in past rulings under Article 19(1)(g) of the Indian Constitution,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ban-on-online-gaming-will-hurt-legitimate-businesses/article36676952.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to make it easier for Janaushadi Kendras to be set up in all its PHCs||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which wants to establish Janaushadi Kendras (generic drug stores) in all primary health centres (PHCs) under its purview, is working towards easing the terms and conditions after expression of interest (EoI) received a lukewarm response. Civic officials are hoping that the new conditions will generate interest from non-governmental organisations, private companies under the corporate social responsibility, and unemployed pharmacists. The civic body had earlier floated an EoI for establishing these stores in the PHCs. However, with stringent terms and conditions in place, the response to the EoI was lukewarm. Senior officials said Minister for Higher Education and Malleswaram MLA C.N. Ashwathnarayan had then suggested they simplify the terms and conditions. With the relaxed terms and conditions, the civic body is hoping for a better response to the second EoI. “The new EoI will be floated in 15 days. Under the new terms and conditions, the BBMP will provide the space for the Janaushadi Kendra for free. Those selected will have to operate the stores and help the needy coming to the PHCs,” said a BBMP official. Senior civic officials told The Hindu that the primary objective of establishing the Janaushadi Kendras was to ensure that people coming to PHCs are able to buy medicines at a lower cost. The cost of generic medicines is noticeably lower than their branded counterparts. “Most people who come to PHCs for treatment are from lower socio-economic groups. While we provide most medicines to the needy, we are not able to do this for all medical conditions. Such patients are forced to go to pharmacies and drug stores,” an official explained and said that if Janaushadi Kendras were set up in each PHC, this problem could easily be overcome. While there are 141 PHCs in the city, the BBMP is looking to establish another 57 in the remaining wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-make-it-easier-for-janaushadi-kendras-to-be-set-up-in-all-its-phcs/article36676920.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Transport services unlikely to be affected||Transport services in the State are unlikely to be affected by the call for a nationwide bandh by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha or the Karnataka Bandh that farmers’ organisations have also called for on Monday in support. The coalition of farmers’ associations will hold a protest rally from Town Hall to Mysore Bank Circle in the city on Monday morning. Bengaluru City Traffic Police have asked commuters to avoid Town Hall and J.C. Road on Monday. The Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has decided to operate buses on schedule, but has written to the police seeking protection. KSRTC Managing Director Shivayogi C. Kalasad said: “There are reports in the media about the strike. However, it will not impact bus services. Officials have been directed to seek security from the police where it is required. We will run services as usual.” In the city, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses and Namma Metro services will operate as usual. While taxi and auto service are expected to remain unaffected, some unions have extended their support to farmers who have been protesting against the farm laws for several months. Somashekar of Namma Chalakara Trade Union said that his association had asked its members to take part in the strike. “Our members have been asked to take part in a strike by holding protests with farmers,” he said. Autorickshaw Drivers’ Union affiliated to CITU has extended its support and will take out a rally from Town Hall to Mysore Bank Circle. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said he had instructed all Deputy Commissioners of Police to ensure adequate precautions were taken. “Forced closure of businesses will not be allowed. We have taken measures to ensure there are no untoward incidents,” he told presspersons on Saturday. Decision awaited The Department of Public Instruction is expected to take a call on Sunday on whether schools will remain open on September 27. “We will assess if transportation will be hit before taking a decision on this,” an official in the department said. However, private school managements have said that they will function. Many managements have asked teachers to wear a green badge in solidarity with farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-services-unlikely-to-be-hit/article36676901.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Omnibus of scholar Kalburgi’s complete works is ready||An omnibus of the complete works of slain scholar M.M. Kalburgi, comprising 40 volumes of over 27,000 pages,  has recently been made available. Six years ago, when Kalburgi was assassinated in Dharwad on August 30, 2015, the then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had announced that the Karnataka government would publish the collected works of the scholar. The project was spearheaded by Pha. Gu. Halakatti Research Centre, Vijayapura. “The 40 volumes have been printed and submitted to the Kannada and Culture Department,” said Krishna Kolhar Kulkarni, project convener. Though they are yet to be officially released, the volumes are available at the centre at a cost of Rs. 10,000, he said. The complete works weigh 68 kilograms and come in two large cartons. They will soon be made available in Bengaluru, he said. Publishing the collected works of the late Kalburgi was a responsibility and also a political act, said Dr. Kulkarni, who had a long working association with the scholar. “The sweep of his research output, its interdisciplinary approach, and commitment to truth is a great tradition for generations to follow,” he said. Four categories While articles and research papers were published in eight volumes titled “Marga” during Kalburgi’s lifetime, his other works had not been collated so far. The 40 volumes have been classified into four broad categories — independent works, edited works, collection of papers and collection of reports, audio-visual material. “He had edited a vast number of works, including several commemorative volumes and seminars, which we have left out. We have only published works pertaining to classical literature and on independent thematic issues,” Veeranna Rajura, chief editor of the project, has written in a note on the collected works. An overview of the disciplines he has worked in — epigraphy, folk studies, etymology, vachana literature, poetry and creative writing — is a testament to his versatility. Kalburgi, in an introduction to one of the volumes, calls his research a counter to “false history propagated by vested interests of politicians and religious authorities who are using it to exploit people in the present”. Notably, the collected works include a volume of his creative writing — two poetry collections and three plays.  He had edited a vast number of works, including several commemorative volumes and seminars, which we have left out. We have only published works pertaining to classical literature and on independent thematic issues Veeranna Rajura,chief editor of the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/omnibus-of-scholar-kalburgis-complete-works-is-ready/article36676934.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most offer only ‘moral support’||A coalition of farmers organisations has called for a Karnataka bandh on Monday in support of the Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, spearheading the protests against farm laws at Delhi borders for 10 months now. Farmer leaders have appealed to transport, traders and other organisations to support the bandh and shut down all operations on Monday. However, most organisations, including several trader bodies, private bus operators, lorry owners, private school managements, hotels and restaurant associations, have announced only “moral support”, saying that closure of businesses would be unsustainable given the heavy losses already incurred by them because of the pandemic. Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, appealed to organisations to not just express moral support, but also participate in the bandh to send a message to the Union government that it cannot side with the corporates and run roughshod over people’s life. G.C. Bayyareddy, convenor of Samyukta Horata, Karnataka, a coalition of farmers, Dalits and workers, said while the bandh may be partial in the city, it will be complete elsewhere in the State. Farmers in Karnataka have not only been demanding the repeal of the three farm laws brought in by the Union government, but also a rollback of the “anti-farmer” cow slaughter ban imposed in the State and the “anti-worker” amendments to labour codes during the pandemic. Meanwhile, a host of writers, artists, and activists have supported the farmers’ call and issued a statement on Saturday. “This is not just a farmers’ issue. We have realised these laws snatch the food rights of all of us,” the statement said. Signatories included Devanur Mahadeva, M.S. Sathyu, S.G. Siddaramaiah, and K. Marulasiddappa. Among the organisations, Samudaya Karnataka, Bandaya Sahitya Sanghatane, and IPTA have also supported the bandh.  This is not just a farmers’ issue. We have realised these laws snatch the food rights of all of us statement issued by a group of writers, artists, and activists||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-offer-only-moral-support-for-farmers-bandh-call/article36676938.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Cong. set bad precedent by boycotting speech’||Karnataka Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said on Saturday that the Opposition Congress has set a bad precedent by boycotting Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s speech to members of the State legislature on Friday. Noting many instances in the past where Lok Sabha Speakers have visited different State legislatures and delivered speeches, Mr. Kageri told reporters that former Lok Sabha Speaker Manohar Joshi had delivered an address to members of the Karnataka Assembly under the Congress government headed by S.M. Krishna on June 20, 2002. M.V. Venkatappa was then the Speaker of the Assembly. He argued that there was no substance in the charge of Congress leaders that Mr. Birla’s speech was against the spirit of the Constitution and democracy. In fact, the whole objective of the function was safeguarding democratic and parliamentary values, he said. Showing photographs, Mr. Kageri said former Speaker Sumitra Mahajan had addressed the presiding officers’ conference in the Gujarat Assembly on January 22, 2016. Similarly, Ms. Mahajan addressed the presiding officers’ conference in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on January 15, 2017. Former Speaker Meira Kumar addressed the presiding officers’ conference on September 21, 2011, at the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly hall, Mr. Kageri said. He said he had discussed the issue of Mr. Birla’s speech at a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly and later personally invited senior Congress members to the function. Mr. Birla said there were many instances of Prime Ministers and Presidents addressing MPs in the parliaments of foreign countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-set-bad-precedent-by-boycotting-speech/article36676937.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man hacked to death||A gang of unidentified assailants hacked a man to death at Margondanahalli, on the outskirts of the city, on Saturday afternoon. The victim, Venkatesh, lived in Bhovi Colony, Ramamurthynagar. According to the police, he was returning home after work on his bike when he was attacked. An autorickshaw rammed into his bike and Venkatesh lost balance and fell down due to the impact. As he fell down, a group of assailants, said to be at least four of them, armed with lethal weapons got down from the autorickshaw and hacked him to death before fleeing from the spot. Venkatesh died on the spot. The Avalahalli police have registered a case. “We are analysing CCTV camera footage from the area for leads on the autorickshaw used and the assailants,” said a senior official from Bengaluru Rural police. Venkatesh was embroiled in a property dispute over an agricultural land his family owned, which may have led to his murder, the police suspect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-hacked-to-death/article36676905.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Young innovator develops a host of apps||At age 14, Prajwal N.H. is a certified Python programmer, Azure AI engineer, and a scrum master. He is also the co-founder of a startup called CloudAttack, a cloud computing company. The young softech enthusiast has developed six applications that have received recognition at various levels. He recently received confirmation from the ‘India Book of Records’ recognising him as the ‘Youngest certified Azure AI engineer associate’. A Class IX student at BGS National Public School, Hulimavu, Prajwal’s ability to research, ideate, and innovate has held him in good stead. His innovation ‘COVID-19 Aid’ mobile app won him the International Coronavirus App Challenge from a tech university in the U.S. He also received ‘water hero’ award from the Indian government for his technological innovation ‘ultrasonic integrated smart water tap’ that promotes value of water and supports country-wide initiatives on water conservation. “To me, the three principal factors in making a positive revolution as an innovator are curiosity, compassion, and courage,” Prajwal said. For him, social entrepreneurship is more of a service to the nation than a business. “Social entrepreneurship is the success of the people and the positive impact it creates in their lives,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/young-innovator-develops-a-host-of-apps/article36676910.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three-year-old girl succumbs to COVID-19||A three-year-old girl succumbed to COVID-19 in the State on September 9. The death was recorded as part of the 23 deaths in the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Friday. Health officials said the girl, daughter of residents of Hosahalli in Bengaluru, had a history of fever, cough, and sore throat since September 1. “She was brought in with complaints of severe respiratory distress on September 6 and tested positive for COVID-19. She was admitted to ICU in Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health,” an official said. Meanwhile, Karnataka on Saturday reported 787 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,72,620. Bengaluru Urban reported 276 and four deaths. With 11 deaths, the toll rose to 37,717. As many as 7750 persons were discharged on Saturday. The State now has 13,307 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.55%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.39%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-year-old-girl-succumbs-to-covid-19/article36676958.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Modi’s popularity is waning: Cong. leader||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity is waning in the wake of several crises in the economic and health sectors, senior Congress leader and former Minister B.K. Chandrashekar said on Saturday. He also claimed the ‘Modi wave’ would no longer work in the State Assembly elections. This was confirmed by a recentstatement of former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, said the Congress leader in a press release. Except Mr. Yediyurappa, no one within the BJP has the courage to say that it was no longer possible to win State-level elections banking on Mr. Modi’s popularity,he added. The BJP’s performance was dismal in the West Bengal elections. Despite the Election Commission of India conducting elections in eight phases, the BJP lost, he said. “The BJP’s poor showings in Tamil Nadu and in Kerala clearly confirmed that Mr. Modi’s charisma just didn’t work in the state elections,” Prof. Chandrashekar said. ‘Forced to change CMs’ He also said that because of bad governance, the BJPwas compelled to change the Chief Ministers of the BJP-ruled States of Uttarakhand and Gujarat in quick succession. The Prime Minister’s stubborn refusal to meet with the agitating farmers even once during the last 14 months has not gone down well with the farming community, he added.  The BJP’s poor showings in Tamil Nadu and in Kerala clearly confirmed that Modi’s charisma just didn’t work B.K. Chandrashekar,ex-Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modis-popularity-is-waning-cong-leader/article36676931.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centenary celebration||The Public Accounts Committee of Parliament is set to complete 100 years. On this occasion, a celebration will be organised on December 4 and 5. Public representatives of the country and people’s representatives from other democratic countries would be invited. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said the Parliament library would also be celebrating its centenary this year. The library will be fully digitalised for accessing data and books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centenary-celebration/article36676949.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seven-year data of cases||“The Clinicopathological Profile of Cancers in India: A Report of the Hospital Based Cancer Registries, 2021” is based on seven-year data of cancer cases from 96 Hospital-based Cancer Registries (HBCRs) in India under the National Cancer Registry Programme (NCRP). The report highlights the proportion of cancers in childhood, cancers associated with tobacco use, and anatomical site-wise clinical description of organ specific cancers in these hospitals. Males contributed 52.4% of cancer cases whereas females contributed 47.6% of cases out of the 61,00,84 cancer cases analysed. The highest proportion of cancers from all sites were reported in the age group 45 to 64, except for prostate cancer, which was higher in those over 65 years. Chemotherapy was the most common type of treatment for many cancers. Most patients were initiated on cancer-directed treatment within eight to 30 days of diagnosis, according to the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-year-data-of-cases/article36676959.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for selling opium||A man who lost his job during the pandemic and allegedly took to peddling opium was recently arrested by the police. Buddharam, hails from Rajasthan, and worked as a wedding card designer at a printing press at Nagarathpet. Unable to find another job, Buddharam reportedly started procuring opium from his village and selling it in the city. Acting on a tip-off, a police team conducted a raid and recovered 2.6 kg of opium from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-selling-opium/article36677164.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decision on schools awaited||The Department of Public Instruction is expected to take a call on Sunday on whether schools will remain open on September 27. “We will assess if transportation will be hit before taking a decision on this,” an official in the department said. However, private school managements have said that they will function. Many managements have asked teachers to wear a green badge in solidarity with farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-schools-awaited/article36677313.ece
26 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC bags five awards||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation bagged five excellence awards during PRCI 15th Global Conference and Conclave held recently in Goa. According to a release, it bagged COVID Management in Public Sector – Silver Award, Best PSU implementing CSR – Bronze Award, Health Care Communication Films – Bronze Award, House Journal-Print (regional) – Gold Award, and Innovation in customer care during COVID-19 - Gold Award. KSRTC representatives received the awards from Govind Gaude, Goa Minister for Art and Culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-bags-five-awards/article36676911.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lidkar showroom inaugurated||Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary recently inaugurated a new showroom of Dr. Babu Jagjivan Ram Leather Industries Development Corporation (BJRLIDC) in Bengaluru. The inauguration of Lidkar brand’s new showroom was attended by corporation’s chairman and MLA N. Linganna and MP P.C. Mohan, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lidkar-showroom-inaugurated/article36676912.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man held for wife’s murder||The police have arrested a man for allegedly killing his wife. Thevictim, Roopa, 34, was found dead with her throat slit at her residence by her young son on September 22. The police tracked down her husband, Kantharaj, a real estate broker, who was absconding. He allegedly confessed to the murder. The couple had marital differences as Kantharaj suspected the fidelity of his wife. “The accused tried to kill his wife at least twice in a way so as to make it look like an accident, but failed. Frustrated, he used a kitchen knife and fled the house,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-wifes-murder/article36676917.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free travel for students||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on the direction of Principal Secretary, Education Department, (Primary and Secondary Education) will permit students appearing for the SSLC supplementary examination to be held on September 27 and 29 to travel in KSRTC buses in all cities, suburban, and express routes. Students can travel free between their residence and examination centres on showing the hall ticket on the days of exam, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-travel-for-students/article36676953.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pub owners want business till 11.30 p.m.||After six month of no business, pubs in Bengaluru are ready to welcome patrons on October 3, but many proprietors are not optimistic about business picking up given the 10 p.m. deadline. Though the State government has reduced curfew timings by an hour — it will start at 10 p.m. instead of 9 p.m. — pub owners say it is not viable. They have asked the State government to delay night curfew till at least till 11.30 p.m. Karunakara Hegde, a pub owner and vice-president of the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, said the pub owners were reeling under heavy loss due to closure of establishments for half a year. “We are ready to open the pubs as per the government guidelines. However, the 10 p.m deadline is not a feasible option. Before COVID-19, nightlife in the city extended till 1.30 a.m. We want the State government to give us time to run business at least till 11.30 p.m.,” he said. Incidentally, a similar plea was made by restaurants and liquor shops when they were allowed to operate on the grounds that people would not want to dine out if they had to close early. Mr. Hegde estimated that there are around 300 pubs in the city. “Due to the pandemic, owners suffered huge financial losses as they had to bear all the expenses such as rent and staff salary,” he said. Many also shut down. It’s not just pubs which have been affected, but also microbreweries. An owner of a microbrewery said, “The investment involved in microbreweries is huge. It will take several months to recover from losses. We have to follow all the rules to contain the spread of COVID-19 but in the interest of business there is a need to relax the deadline.” Of the approximately 55 breweries in Karnataka, as many as 15 had to close down due to losses incurred because of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pub-owners-want-to-do-business-till-1130-pm/article36676908.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suggestions for award||The Kannada and Culture Department has asked the public to recommend names online for the Karnataka Rajyotsava awards, which will be presented at a function on November 1. Kannada and Culture Minister V. Sunil Kumar said people can recommendthree names using Seva Sindhu portal. Persons who have contributed in different fields and are aged above 60 (except in sports) are eligible for the award. The last date for suggesting names is October 15. The panel formed to scrutinise applications will finalisethe list of candidates taking into consideration the suggestions sent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suggestions-for-award/article36676939.ece
26 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Anti-party activity, says Kimmane Ratnakar||Former Minister Kimmane Ratnakar has accused Congress leader R.M. Manjunath Gowda of ignoring leaders of the party while organising a protest march demanding compensation for land losers of Sharavathi and other projects. In a press release issued on Friday, Mr. Ratnakar said Mr. Manjunath Gowda carried photos of Congress leaders in the posters meant for the protest march, without consulting the local unit of the party. “This amounts to anti-party activity. He has sidelined people who worked for the party for years and encouraged groups within the party. It would be inevitable for the party to expel him from the party”, he said. Further, he said the protest march by Mr. Gowda was an attempt to seek a chance from any of the parties to contest next time. “Let him continue his efforts. Before that, I wish he comes out of the allegations of corruption he has been facing. Let him pay Rs. 122 crore to the government and contest from any party”, he said. Congress party district president H.S. Sundaresh said on Saturday that Mr. Ratnakar’s statement was an internal issue of the party. The differences would be resolved, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anti-party-activity-says-kimmane-ratnakar/article36677322.ece
26 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Sharavathi land-losers to take out three-day protest march||Congress leader R.M. Manjunath Gowda is taking out a three-day march with people who parted with their land for Sharavathi and other projects seeking proper compensation on Sunday. Former Minister Kagodu Thimmappa will flag off the march at Kallukoppa village in Tirthahalli taluk. Many senior Congress leaders and hundreds of people, who lost their land over the decades, are expected to join the march. ‘Struggles in vain’ Mr. Manjunath Gowda, on Friday, told media that over 25,000 families lost their land for the Sharavathi project. Despite struggles over the years, they have not got compensatory land. The efforts to grant them land after converting forest land had been stayed by a court order. The State government and Centre should resolve the issue and help the land losers, he said. On the first day, the protesters will reach Kannangi and on the second day, they will stay at Balagaru. On the last day, they will reach Tirthahalli, where the march will end.  Former Minister Kagodu Thimmappa will flag off the march at Kallukoppa village in Tirthahalli taluk  Over 25,000 families lost their land, says R.M. Manjunath Gowda||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharavathi-land-losers-to-take-out-three-day-protest-march/article36677323.ece
26 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Realtor murdered||A realtor was found murdered at Kallur Industrial Area in Shivamogga city on Friday evening. The police gave the name of the deceased as Syed Sadiq, 38, a resident of Iliyas Nagar in the city. Unknown people had killed him by throwing boulders on him. His brother has filed a complaint with Tunga Police. Sadiq had given Rs. 15 lakh to a person as a loan. The person who took the money had refused to return it. The complainant suspected that the financial transaction was behind the murder. The police have booked a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/realtor-murdered/article36677310.ece
26 September 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Panchamasali seer threatens to intensify stir over quota issue||The seer of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha at Kudalasangama, Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami, who is spearheading the Panchamasali movement, announced on Saturday that the community would intensify the agitation for 2A reservation if the State government failed to issue an order before October 1. Addressing a press conference along with former Congress MLA Vijayanand Kashappanavar here on Saturday, the swami said the government had taken six months’ time to decide on the issue, following which the community had suspended the indefinite agitation. “On Friday, Basanagouda Patil R. Yatnal, MLA, had again raised the issue in the the Legislative Assembly. However as there is no clear announcement from the government on the issue, we are forced to take the path of agitation,” he said. The seer said a mega ceremony was being organised in Davangere on September 30 for honouring all those who had taken part in the agitation for 2A reservation. CM clarifies Meanwhile, speaking to presspersons at Hubballi Airport, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he had already made it clear on the floor of the House that a decision would be taken based on the report of the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission. On the warning about the agitation by the seer, the Chief Minister said he was in continuous touch with all those associated with the Panchamasali movement. The Panchamasali community has been demanding inclusion in the 15% reservation bracket (2A of the Other Backward Classes quota). Presently, it is included in 3B and is eligible to avail benefits under 5% quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchamasali-seer-threatens-to-intensify-stir-over-quota-issue/article36676936.ece
26 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NEP is for children’s overall growth: Bommai||“The National Education Policy 2020, which was framed after elaborate discussions, is aimed at ensuring the overall development of India’s children,” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said here on Saturday Speaking to presspersons at the Hubballi airport on Saturday, Mr. Bommai said that after elaborate discussions with stakeholders, including educational experts, teachers, and students, over a period of three years the NEP had been formulated. “The primary objective is to prepare the rural students of the country for the requirements of the 21st century and also for global competition,” he said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken up the initiative for bringing about a paradigm shift in the educational system. To a query, the Chief Minister said that it was not appropriate to give a call for Bharat Bandh, when the situation in the country was slowly returning to normal post COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nep-is-for-childrens-overall-growth-bommai/article36677156.ece
26 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||90% of those agitating in New Delhi are not farmers: Pralhad Joshi||“It is the Prime Minister Modi-led government at the Centre that has taken steps towards implementation of recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee Report and Mr. Swaminathan himself had acknowledged it,” Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Saturday, Mr. Joshi said that 90% of the people leading the farmers’ agitation in New Delhi were not farmers and there was no opposition to farm laws in the country barring Punjab and Haryana. He said that those leading the agitation kept calling the farm laws as ‘kaala kanoon’. However, when asked to point out what was wrong with the laws, they failed to do so. Minimum Support Price He said that even in Punjab, earlier many farmers did not get the MSP (Minimum Support Price) directly. But under PM Modi’s regime, it was being directly credited to farmers’ accounts. “Not many farmers are at the agitation at the New Delhi border. The protesters include merchants and some misled farmers. All the opposition parties had been talking about farm reforms but it is PM Modi who implemented them,” he said. Soaring prices Regarding soaring prices, Mr. Joshi said the Congress that had looted the country was now talking about the price rise. “When Congress was in power, the prices rose every year and we raised it every year. Under PM Modi, prices rose only once that too because of the pandemic. Already remedial measures have been taken and the prices of various commodities are falling,” he said. On whether fuel prices would drop, he said hopefully it would happen soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/90-of-those-agitating-are-not-farmers-pralhad-joshi/article36677161.ece
26 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Leopard search: Minister holds meeting||The search for the elusive leopards sighted at Nrupatunga Betta (Hill) in Hubballi and at Kavalageri village off Dharwad continued on Saturday without success giving sleepless nights to the Forest Department personnel and also the residents. While the search with more experts from other districts continued at both places, Minister for Handloom, Textiles and Sugar Shankar Patil Munenakoppa chaired a meeting in Hubballi on Saturday. Along with him Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi, former CM Jagadish Shettar, MLA Arvind Bellad and others were present. Nitesh Patil, DC, Dharwad, and Yashpal Ksheersagar, Deputy Conservator of Forests, briefed him. Teams from Gadag, Haveri, Uttar Kannada and the Kali Tiger Reserve had joined the operation and to facilitate the capture, the old building of Kendriya Vidyalaya in Hubballi was being demolished. On Saturday, no fresh sighting was reported although personnel had intensified the combing operation. It has been more than week now after the first report of leopard sighting in Hubballi and five days have passed after first sighting at Kavalageri village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-search-minister-holds-meeting/article36677165.ece
26 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Koppal DC directs officers to take steps against untouchability||Taking serious note of the Miyapur incident in which a Dalit family was recently fined Rs. 25,000 after its child entered a local temple, Koppal Deputy Commissioner Vikas Kishor Suralkar, on Friday, held a meeting of senior officers and gave directions to curb untouchability and invoke the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 in the district. One of the directions was to install complaint boxes at the offices of tahsildars and nada kacheries so that people can report atrocities and discrimination against Scheduled Castes (SCs)and Scheduled Tribes (STs) anonymously. “In many cases, SCs and STs who are discriminated against are reluctant to lodge a complaint because of the fear of revenge. They think that lodging a complaint and resorting to a legal process may make things more difficult. We should put separate complaint boxes at each tahsildar office and nada kacheries across the district. Anybody who is aware of any atrocities can drop a complaint in these boxes and our officers will take every complaint seriously,” Mr. Suralkar said, asking his officers to put the boxes by Monday. Mr. Suralkar also gave some standing instructions to the officers concerned and the police on handling the cases of atrocities against the marginalised communities. “We need to extensively hold programmes across the district to increase awareness against untouchability. We should put boards at all temples making it clear that there are no restrictions for any person belonging to any community to enter the temple. The boards should also have the phone numbers of the concerned officers and the police so that the incidents of denying entry to the temple could easily be reported. Our officers should swiftly act when they receive complaints and book cases against those, including the priests of the respective temples, who deny entry to the temple. In such case where nobody comes forward to lodge a complaint, the government officials should themselves lodge a complaint with the police,” Mr. Suralkar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/koppal-dc-directs-officers-to-take-steps-against-untouchability/article36677158.ece
26 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Push for AYUSH sports medicine centre in city||Union Minister for AYUSH Sarbanand Sonowal said here on Saturday that he will examine whether an AYUSH sports medicine centre can be sanctioned to Mangaluru. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the government’s AYUSH multi-speciality hospital on the premises of Government Wenlock Hospital, the Minister said that he will not make any promise of sanctioning the centre. But he would consider the demand for such a centre positively. Earlier, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath appealed to the Minister to sanction the centre. In Kerala Mr. Kamath said that Thrissur in Kerala had such a centre. Except for it, the entire west coast belt did not have such a centre. Hence the coastal belt required one more centre. In his address, the Minister stressed upon the importance of the AYUSH system of medicine and the need to maintain one’s fitness by practising yoga. A hospital note said that the 50-bed AYUSH hospital sanctioned in 2016 has been built at a cost of Rs. 9 crore. The construction was completed in 2020. It has an OPD, pharmacy, laboratory, and treatment sections on the ground floor. The administrative section is on the first floor. The second floor has 20-bed general ward and five special wards with panchakarma women section. The third floor has five special wards, 20-bed general ward, and a modular operation theatre. The hospital has a diet kitchen and nutrition clinic. Treatments offered The treatment modalities in Ayurveda including panchakarma, leach therapy, kshrastura, and abhyanga are available. In naturopathy it covers hydrotherapy, accupuncture, accupresure, colour therapy, magnetic therapy, and physiotherapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/push-for-ayush-sports-medicine-centre-in-city/article36677306.ece
26 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NHAI: Project design not yet available for NH 75 work||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which had said that the four-lane work of NH 75, between B.C. Road and Addahole in Dakshina Kannada district, will commence from this month, has now informed a citizen that the contractor is yet to submit design and drawings to it. This statement, provided in the form of a reply to an application under the Right to Information Act on Friday, comes at the same time when Nalin Kumar Kateel, Dakshina Kannada MP, announced on Friday that the four-lane work will get completed by 2024. Rajesh Krishna Prasad from Puttur had asked NHAI to provide copies of the blueprint and the design of the proposed four-lane NH 75 under the RTI Act. NHAI’s Mangaluru Project Implementation Unit’s public information officer and Project Director Shishu Mohan, in a reply to the application, said, “The project is under engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) mode. Hence, design and drawing are yet to be submitted by the contractor.” Mr. Mohan on July 17 informed the Disha meeting, chaired by Mr. Kateel, that NHAI had signed the agreement with the contractor the previous day. The work would commence in September, he had told the meeting. With the original contractor, M/s Larsen and Tubro, foreclosing the contract following changes in the scope of work, NHAI invited fresh tenders for the work by dividing the project into two. Hyderabad-based M/s KNR Constructions bagged the first package between B.C. Road and Periyashanthi (48 km) at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,100 crore, which included a 3-km long six-lane flyover at Kalladka town on March 22. NHAI is yet to finalise the tender for the four-lane work between Periyashanthi and Addahole (16 km). Commenting on NHAI’s reply, another RTI activist Dinesh Bhat from Puttur said the project was bound to get further delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nhai-project-design-not-yet-available-for-nh-75-work/article36677297.ece
26 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New unit of SDM Ayurveda Hospital inaugurated||Union Minister for AYUSH, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Sarbanand Sonowal on Saturday inaugurated Rathnashree Arogyadhama, a new unit of Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara Ayurveda Hospital, at Udupi. Speaking after inaugurating the new unit, Mr. Sonowal stressed on the need for more research in Ayurveda as AYUSH system of medicine was capable of building a strong India. Research would help getting global acceptance for AYUSH system, the Minster said. Dharmasthala Dharmadhikari and president of SDM Educational Society, Ujire, D. Veerendra Heggade said Ayurveda boosts individual’s immunity and was of much help during the pandemic. He urged people to choose Ayurveda as their first line of treatment. Union Minister of State for Agriculture Development and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje, Karnataka Minister for Social and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojari, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat, former Minister Pramod Madhwaraj, SDM Education Society Secretary D. Harshendra Kumar, Alvas’ Education Foundation Chairman M. Mohan Alva and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-unit-of-sdm-ayurveda-hospital-inaugurated/article36677304.ece
26 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Green Walkathon’ organised||Bearys Institute of Technology (BIT), Bearys Enviro Architecture Design School (BEADS), and Mangalore University on Saturday organised Green Walkathon as a part of Green Building Week. Mangalore University Vice Chancellor P. Subrahmanya Yadapadithaya flagged off the walkathon from Mangala Auditorium at Mangala Gangothri to Bearys Knowledge Campus at Innoli. Bearys Group founder Syed Mohammed Beary spoke about the importance of creating awareness about environmental preservation. The event concluded at the Bearys Knowledge Campus with Mr. Beary planting saplings. Hundreds of students from BIT, BEADS, and BIT Polytechnic planted nearly 350 saplings on campus over six acres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/green-walkathon-organised/article36677302.ece
26 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||CPI, AITUC support Bharat Bandh call||The Communist Party of India and the All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) have supported the Bharat Bandh called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Monday demanding the repeal of farm laws. Both the organisations have also supported the highway bandh planned at B.C. Road on that day. V. Kukkyan, Dakshina Kannada district secretary, CPI, said in a release that different organisations will stage a protest at the junction on the day. District secretary of AITUC H.V. Rao said that farm organisations and trade unions will participated in the protest and highway bandh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cpi-aituc-support-bharat-bandh-call/article36677298.ece
26 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Flights diverted||Two flights of Air India Express, one from Dubai and another from Damam, which were to land at Mangaluru International Airport early on Saturday were diverted to Kozhikode owing to bad weather condition. However, they returned to Mangaluru from Kozhikode later in the day. According to Pradeep Menon, Station Director, Air India, Mangaluru, the flights were scheduled to land here between 5.30 a.m. and 6 a.m. The fog forced the airport authorities to divert them. The flights returned to the city from Kozhikode between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flights-diverted/article36677299.ece
26 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Plastic Park will boost exports’||Finished plastic goods have a good export market and the proposed Plastic Park in Mangaluru is bound to enhance export from India, said S.R. Satheesha, MD, Visvesvaraya Trade Promotion Council (VTPC). He was speaking at the exporters meet organised during the Vanijya Saptaha by the Union Ministry of Commerce and the District Industries Centre here. Mr. Satheesha said raw material for industries in the park has to come from MRPL and urged the Refinery to hasten supply modalities. Finished plastic goods have good market in China, he noted. He said Dakshina Kannada district has huge potential for exports of marine produce, plastic products and cashew and VTPC would extend necessary guidance and help. Mr. Satheesha said the overall Indian exports stood at $300 billion a year, which the government intends to enhance to at least $400 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plastic-park-will-boost-exports/article36677300.ece
26 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Two deaths, 195 new cases||Dakshina Kannada reported one COVID-19 death and 127 new cases on Saturday. With the discharge of 129 patients on the day, the active cases stood at 1,063. The test positivity rate was at 1.29%. In Udupi Udupi reported one death and 68 new cases. After 67 patients being discharged the active cases were at 406.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-two-deaths-195-new-cases/article36677308.ece
26 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The Class X supplemenary examination will be held in the district at 17 centres for three days from September 27. Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra has clamped prohibitory orders in a 200-m radius of the centre during the examination period.    K.S. Hegde Hospital, Deralakatte, will conduct a 30-day free mammography and breast cancer awareness camp from October 1. Doctors from the Departments of Radio Diagnosis, General Surgery, Oncology, Obstetrics and Gynaecology will be involved. Call 974182567.    Power supply to some areas in the city will be stopped on September 28 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. The areas are Urwa Marigudi, Daivajna Kalyana Mantapa and Yashswinagara.    There will be no power supply to some areas in Udupi on September 28 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. These are Manipal Syndicate Circle, MGC School, Vidyaratnanagara, offices of Deputy Commissioner and Regional Transport Officer, Perampalli, Sagrinole, Manipal KMC Hospital, Venugopal Temple, Alevoor, Padu Alevoor, Manchi, Karvalu, Moodbubelle, Marne, Harikhandige, Atrady, Bairampally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article36677307.ece
26 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Union Minister impressed with growth story of chia seeds||The Raithamithra Farmers’ Producer Company in Mysuru has impressed Union Minister for Rural Development Minister Giriraj Singh with the growth story of chia seeds, a high energy food of South American origin, whose cultivation in Karnataka has begun paying rich dividends to the farmers. The company’s chairman and farmers’ leader Kurubur Shanthakumar along with the company’s director T.V. Gopinath met the Union Minister on the CFTRI premises in Mysuru on Friday and briefed him about the growth of the company during the last five years and the role it played in popularising chia seeds among the farmers of the State. “We started cultivating chia seeds with just 100 grams provided to us by the CFTRI in Mysuru during 2014-15. Now, farmers in different parts of the State cultivate more than 5,000 tonnes of chia seeds every year”, Mr. Shanthakumar said. Considered to be a superfood, chia seeds enjoy a huge demand in the domestic as well as the international market, he said. About 20,000 farmers across Karnataka grow chia seeds on roughly 20,000 acres of land. Impressed with the growth story of chia seeds, Mr. Singh is believed to have told Mr. Shanthakumar that he will try to introduce the cultivation of chia seeds in his native State of Bihar. Apart from the huge demand for chia seeds and its profitability for the farmers, Mr. Shanthakumar said the crop is not harmed by wild animals, which are a menace to the farmers in many parts of Bihar. The Minister was presented with oil made out of chia seeds by the company on the occasion. Also present at the meeting was Ranganath from Nutriplanet Foods, which produces high-energy foods from chia seeds from the technology developed by CFTRI. Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham, CFTRI Director Sridevi Singh and other scientists from the premier food technology laboratory were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-minister-impressed-with-growth-story-of-chia-seeds/article36677321.ece
26 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers seek support for bandh||A group of farmers led by President of Federation of Farmers’ Associations of Karnataka Kurubur Shanthakumar took out a march wearing shorts in the city on Saturday and sought support from the public for the September 27 Bharat Bandh call given by Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Mr. Shanthakumar said the buadh had been called to protest against the three farm bills and rising prices of petrol and diesel, besides demanding minimum support price for agricultural produce. He appealed to the people to voluntarily support the bandh and criticise the ‘dictatorial’ attitude of the government at the Centre. The farmers distributed pamphlets seeking support for the strike among the traders in in Santhepet and D. Devaraj Urs Road, besides owners of hotels, roadside vendors and auto drivers. AAP support The Mysuru unit of Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday said it was fully supporting the bandh call given by various farmers’ unions and associations. G.R. Vidyaranya, the party’s media coordinator, said the AAP also condemned the Centre for ignoring the ongoing farmers’ protest near Delhi borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-seek-support/article36677159.ece
26 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Low-key Dasara fete from October 9 in Srirangapatna||This year’s Srirangapatna Dasara will be held for three days from October 9. The celebrations like last year will be simple in view of the pandemic but the administration has decided to celebrate the festivities eloquently. Minister in charge of Mandya district K.C. Narayana Gowda said in Mandya on Saturday after a meeting that the support of everyone was key for making the festivities successful. All associations and organisations must join hands with the administration for the purpose. Mr. Gowda said efforts would be made to get elephants from Mysuru for Jamboo Savari in Srirangapatna. The procession would commence from Kirangur Bannimantap on October 9 and culminate at the ground near Sriranganathaswamy temple. The Minister told the officials to prepare the programme list and hold discussions with the elected representatives. The entire town can be illuminated suiting the occasion and key stretches decorated. The procession route can be beautified specially. He told the meeting to give priority for local artists in the events, including the folk artists. The Minister said there are plans to conduct wrestling and kabaddi matches on the occasion. Sources told The Hindu that elephants have been sought for the procession and a decision in this regard is expected to be taken at the government level. A replica of the golden howdah is carried on elephant back in the procession in Srirangapatna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-key-dasara-fete-from-october-9-in-srirangapatna/article36677326.ece
26 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Abhimanyu gets perfect support from deputies as Dasara nears||Dhananjaya and Gopalaswamy are perfectly discharging their roles as standbys to lead elephant Abhimanyu, in the weight carrying sessions for the Jamboo Savari during the Dasara finale here. All three tuskers have been successfully carrying weights on their back as part of their daily training. Abhimanyu has to carry the 750 kg ‘Ambari’. This year too, the procession will happen within the palace premises. “We are planning to mount the wooden replica of the Ambari on Abhimanyu and take it around the palace premises. The replica weighs around 280 kg and the total weight comes up to 1,000 kg,” said Deputy Conservator of Forest K. Karikalan. Weight training Mr. Karikalan told The Hindu that the weight training sessions were started with 250 kg and the number of sand bags were increased gradually. The tuskers have so far successfully carried 500 kg and more weights will be added in the next few days. “Maybe, on October 1, Abhimanyu will start carrying the wooden replica of the Ambari,” he said. The training is expected to go on till October 5 and thereafter the jumbos will take rest till the finale. Special diet All eight elephants housed on the palace premises are on a special diet for improving their strength and energy. They are fed twice a day, Mr. Karikalan explained. Their intake has been increased from 8 kg to 15 kg a day. This is in addition to 400-500 kg of Ficus leaves, paddy straw and other green fodder that they consume daily. Mr. Karikalan said the veterinarians keep a watch on the health and fitness of each elephant besides their diet. Digestion is key for their health and their dung is checked daily to verify whether their digestion was normal. The team The jumbo team comprises five males and three female elephants. Vikrama, Ashwatthama, Kaveri, Chaitra and Lakshmi are the other elephants in the team. Abhimanyu and Gopalaswamy belong to Mattigodu camp while Kaveri, Vikrama and Dhananjaya are from Dubare elephant camp in Kodagu. Chaitra and Lakshmi are from Ramapura camp. The number of elephants for Dasara has been reduced to eight this time since the procession will be a symbolic affair and limited to the palace premises. Also, unlike in normal years, the elephants will not be walking along the procession route daily as part of their annual training. This year, the length of the procession route will be about 500 metres, like in 2020. The procession usually culminates at Bannimantap with the elephants covering a distance of around 5 km. People line up on either side of the route to watch the procession, which is among the highlights of the annual Dasara festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abhimanyu-gets-perfect-support-from-deputies-as-dasara-nears/article36677312.ece
26 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||History-sheeters warned||More than 250 history-sheeters in the city were summoned to CAR parade grounds at Chamundi foothills on Friday and warned against indulging in unlawful activities. The period parade of history-sheeters held on Friday comes days ahead of the start on October 7 Dasara festivities, which, however, has been scaled down this year too in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Commissioner of Polie Chandragupta told the history-sheeters to abide by law and not indulge in any sort of illegal activities. The rowdies were informed that their activities were being monitored and their movements were also recorded by the jurisdictional police stations. The history-sheeters were also asked to explain to the police their sources of income and their livelihood. They were warned against engaging in unlawful real estate deals, gambling and bootlegging, besides instigating clashes. They were also warned against trying to hoodwink the police by changing their location and operating area by mobile phone SIM cards without informing the jurisdictional police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/history-sheeters-warned/article36677325.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Transport services unlikely to be hit||In the city, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses and Namma Metro services will operate as usual. While taxi and auto service are expected to remain unaffected, some unions have extended their support to farmers who have been protesting against the farm laws for several months.  Somashekar of Namma Chalakara Trade Union said that his association had asked its members to take part in the strike. “Our members have been asked to take part in a strike by holding protests with farmers,” he said. Autorickshaw Drivers’ Union affiliated to CITU has extended its support and will take out a rally from Town Hall to Mysore Bank Circle. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said he had instructed all Deputy Commissioners of Police to ensure adequate precautions were taken. “Forced closure of businesses will not be allowed. We have taken measures to ensure there are no untoward incidents,” he told presspersons on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-services-unlikely-to-be-hit/article36676918.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cleaning up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cleaning-up/article36676951.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||To their aid||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/to-their-aid/article36676961.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Udupi  Sri Krishna Mutt: Eshapriya Thirtha, seer of paryaya Adamar Mutt inaugurates a workshop on mat knitting, Rajangana, 8.30 a.m.  Yakshagana Kalaranga: Eshapriya Thirtha, seer of paryaya Admar Mutt presents Talluru Kanaka Annayya Shetty, Matti Muralidhar Rao and Perla Pandita Krishna Bhat awards to Yakshagana artistes, Rajangana, 4 p.m.; Talamaddale Kanasa Kandanu Kamsa, 3 p.m.; Yakshagana dance demonstration by Kargallu Vishveshwara Bhatta, 1.45 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article36677309.ece
26 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Two more flyovers on AC Road||The reconstruction of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road will be completed ahead of schedule, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking after reviewing the progress of the project at the District Collectorate here on Saturday. Work schedule As per the contract, the work should be completed by June 2023. Mr. Riyas directed the officials concerned to examine the possibilities of completing the work before December 31, 2022. The Minister said two more flyovers would be constructed besides the five already proposed. The Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP) has been asked to submit the revised estimate and design by October 10 after considering the suggestions of MLAs. The meeting decided to appoint District Development Commissioner as nodal officer of the AC Road project. MLAs Thomas K. Thomas, H. Salam, Job Michael, and P.P. Chitharanjan, District Collector A. Alexander, KSTP Project Director Sriram Sambasiva Rao and other officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-flyovers-on-ac-road/article36677268.ece
26 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Cannabis, MDMA seized||The District Anti-Narcotic Special Attention Force (DANSAF) arrested four persons and seized 250 grams of cannabis and 65 grams of MDMA from them at Vyshalimukku near Padinharethara in Wayanad district on Saturday. The arrested are E.C. Shafan, 30, of Malayil Thodukayil, K.T. Shibili, 21, of Kizhakke Thodukayil, V.C. Bijin, 28, of Purayil House, and V. Abdul Jazeel, 26, of Thamarassery in Kozhikode district. The four were arrested when they were selling drugs to tourists on the premises of the Banasura Sagar Dam, police sources said. DANSAF officials also seized an electronic machine to weigh drugs and Rs. 1,96,000 from them. They also seized a utility vehicle in which the accused had kept drugs in small packets for sale. They were arrested on charges under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substance (NDPS) Act, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cannabis-mdma-seized-in-wayanad-four-arrested/article36677210.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam Twenty20, Cong. plan no-trust motion||Chellanam panchayat may see a change of regime soon with the Chellanam Twenty20 and the Congress party joining hands to bring a no-confidence motion against panchayat president K.D. Prasad next week. Charles Biju, president of Chellanam Twenty20, said negotiations were on with the Congress, and a decision would be taken within a couple of days. ‘No priority’ He alleged that though Chellanam Twenty20 had eight members in the 21-member council, the CPI(M)-led ruling council was not giving any priority to the issues raised by the members. “There is a total rejection of our suggestions on the issues facing the people in Chellanam,” said Mr. Biju. Chellanam block president of the Congress Thomas Gregory said talks with Chellanam Twenty20 were at an advanced stage and the no-confidence motion would be submitted next week. He alleged that the panchayat administration was at a standstill. However, Mr. Prasad of the CPI(M), which has nine members in the council, said Chellanam Twenty20 had sought people’s support as a non-political body. He denied allegations of a failure in the panchayat administration. There are four Congress councillors and eight Chellanam Twenty20 councillors, which will make up an easy majority against the Left Democratic Front’s nine councillors if a no-confidence motion is moved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chellanam-twenty20-cong-plan-no-trust-motion/article36677242.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam Public Library joins National Digital Library of India||The more than 150-year-old Ernakulam Public Library (EPL) has joined the prestigious National Digital Library of India (NDLI), a digital repository of learning resources from across the country and abroad. The NDLI is a National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Technology (NMEICT) project developed by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, under the aegis of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. The EPL has started the process of digitisation with the digital archiving of newspaper reports on the library, bulletins, souvenirs, and past events conducted by the library and in-house publications. “To begin with, we have 500 resources, including printed and audio-visual materials, on the NDLI platform. The entire materials at our disposal will be gradually made available on the platform, access to which will be either restricted or public, depending on the consent of the authors,” said T.K. Sadasivan, treasurer of the EPL and convener of the digitisation process. The digital library and the renovated reference section of the EPL were inaugurated on Saturday. The EPL, which was founded in 1870, boasts over 12,000 members and 1.80 lakh titles. “The books can be digitally published in the public domain, either with the consent of the author or once the copyrights expire 60 years after the death of the author. We will publish our entire collection digitally in compliance with these conditions,” said Mr. Sadasivan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-public-library-joins-national-digital-library-of-india/article36677223.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plan to reopen schools leaves Chellanam families worried||While most of the State is looking forward to the reopening of schools after a long break following the pandemic outbreak, two families that have taken refuge at St. Mary’s School in Chellanam are anxious about losing their temporary residence. The families have been sheltered in classrooms after their houses were damaged seriously following sea incursion and flooding about four months ago. The reopening of schools will force them to vacate their present shelter. “We are not in a position to rebuild our home,” said K.A. Joseph alias Biju, who has a six-member family living at the school. He said the place where his house had been located was lost to sea incursion, and it would not be possible to rebuild a home there. Another family that has taken shelter at the school is that of Thankamma Machingal, who lives with her husband and son. She said she had built her home close to the seashore about four decades ago and had been living in fear ever since. Heavy rains and bad weather resulted in the house being flooded and badly damaged four months ago. Both the families hail from the Bazaar area in Chellanam panchayat, where sea erosion is serious and seawalls have been damaged because of high tidal waves and periodic cyclonic storms. They have registered for the Punargeham project of the State government, which intents to rehabilitate families living within 50 metres of the seashore. But there is no immediate hope for the families to be rehabilitated. However, Hibi Eden, MP, said on Saturday that a private trust had come forward to support the families by providing money for rented homes. He said though there were efforts to build homes for the families, heavy rains had resulted in the project not taking off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-to-reopen-schools-leaves-chellanam-families-worried/article36677225.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,500 fresh COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam||The district on Saturday recorded 2,500 cases of SARS-CoV2 with a test positivity rate of 15.29%. Udayamperoor recorded 91 new cases followed by Thripunithura (84), Chendamangalam (79), Thrikkakara (57), and Kothamangalam and Vengola (47 each). Just 567 patients recovered on Saturday. The district as on Saturday evening had 23,027 active patients. A total of 16,348 samples were sent for testing on Saturday. Vaccine administration on the day stood at 35,846 doses. In all, 41.56 lakh doses of vaccine have been administered in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2500-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-ernakulam/article36677220.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of illegal liquor sale||The Pothanikkad police on Saturday arrested a person on the charge of illegal liquor sale. The arrested was identified as Rajan, 60, of Kuttamangalam. Nine litres of foreign liquor, cash, and a scooter were seized from him. He was produced in court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-illegal-liquor-sale/article36677218.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One more held in highway robbery attempt case||A special investigation squad on Saturday arrested one more person in connection with an attempted highway robbery using a vehicle with a fake number plate. The arrested was identified as Muhammed Rinshid, 31, of Malappuram. This has taken the number of arrests in connection with the case to six. The first three arrests were made when the police intercepted the vehicle with the fake number plate at Kariyad in the early morning hours of July 8. Rinshid allegedly managed to escape then and was in hiding since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-held-in-highway-robbery-attempt-case/article36677219.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Joint Christian Council stages protest||Joint Christian Council activists staged a protest in front of the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council on Saturday, demanding an urgent meeting and a clear announcement of its stance on the controversial “narcotic jihad” statement made by the Bishop of Pala, Joseph Kallarangatt. The group also demanded an apology from Bishop Kallarangatt for hurting the sentiments of a community. Alleging a conspiracy by the “Changanassery lobby” to clinch the position of Major Archbishop, the council asked Bishops to desist from creating disharmony among communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/joint-christian-council-stages-protest/article36677221.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man banned under KAAPA held with drug||The Kunnathunadu police on Saturday arrested a man, who was banned from entering the rural police limits under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, and seized MDMA from him. The arrested was identified as Linto, 24, of Kombanad. He was charged under KAAPA for a year in December last year. The police nabbed him by surrounding a house at Pallikkara where he was on the previous night, based on a tip-off received by K. Karthick, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). Linto has several cases, including attempt to murder, assault, robbery, and illegal possession of arms against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-banned-under-kaapa-held-with-drug/article36677226.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI/KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Heart of brain-dead youth taken from Kochi to Kozhikode||The heart of a brain-dead youth was taken in a special ambulance by road from Kochi to Kozhikode for a transplant on Saturday. The surgery is on as this report goes to the press. According to sources, the parents of Nevis, 25, of Kottayam, who died at Rajagiri Hospital here, donated the organs of their son as a humanitarian gesture. He was declared brain dead on Friday night. His heart, kidneys, hands, liver, and corneas were donated to different patients under the State government’s Mrithasanjeevani, Kerala Network for Organ Sharing. The ambulance carrying the heart left Kochi at around 4.15 p.m. and reached Metromed International Cardiac Centre, Kozhikode, at 7.15 p.m. A five-hour-long surgery to transplant the heart to another patient began thereafter. “The liver was transplanted into a patient at our hospital itself,” said Rajagiri Hospital sources. The Kochi City police had made arrangements for the speedy transportation. Health Minister Veena George had appealed to the people to make way for the ambulance. Metromed Hospital sources said the journey was without any hitches. Both the hands were taken to Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (Amrita Hospital), one kidney to Medical Trust Hospital, and the corneas to Little Flower Hospital and Research Centre, Angamaly, in that order. Another kidney was harvested and was about to be taken to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. The youngster studying in France had returned home and was pursuing online classes in the wake of COVID-19. He did not wake up and was found unconscious on the morning of September 16, following which he was rushed to Caritas Hospital at Kottayam. He was admitted in a critical condition and put on ventilator support. He was brought to Rajagiri Hospital on September 20. After he was declared brain dead, his father volunteered to donate his organs and the hospital rushed with the formalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heart-of-brain-dead-youth-taken-from-kochi-to-kozhikode/article36677212.ece
26 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Family of farmers looking to go places||Last year, when the COVID-19-induced lockdown crippled traditional markets and the logistics of agriculture business, Robert Thottupram, a dairy farmer and an agricultural banker from Piravom, took to social media to pair his offline efforts with the online world. The group he created, Karshakakudumbam (family of farmers), initially brought together the farming community in his neighbourhood and discussed topical issues. The subject that got its members talking varied from the best practices in farming to crop yields and the perils of pandemic-hit markets, while a few others shared pictures of the good work they do on the field. Over time, the community has evolved itself as a sustainable online marketplace for direct sale of local produce – enabling a tremendous consolidation of small-scale farmers across central Kerala. The growth was so dramatic that it more than plugged the holes in traditional markets, promoting farming as an emerging solution to many who lost their jobs during the pandemic. 15 chat groups The collective, spread across some 15 chat groups, now has over 3,600 farmers from different parts of the State as its members. “All of a sudden, I met a lot of people who are growing produce on their backyards or even balconies but they were not able to get the word out. We have just helped them to negotiate a good price for the crop,” explained Mr.Thottupuram, who now acts as a common administrator to all these online groups. It is also helping the farmers break some myths on cultivation, share advice, distribute seeds and even exchange livestock. The collective hosts webinars for its member farmers, arranges financial assistance and carries out viability studies on different farming operations, among other things. The group, which also expanded the scope of activities to charity with the distribution of farm products to the flood victims of Chellanam in Kochi, has registered the charitable trust Sneha Thanal to streamline the initiatives in this direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/family-of-farmers-looking-to-go-places/article36677279.ece
26 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||LDF stance casts shadow over Kottayam municipality||A day after the Left Democratic Front pulled down the United Democratic Front’s chairperson in the Kottayam municipality, uncertainty looms large over the administration of the civic body. The municipal council remains deadlocked with both the coalitions having an equal number of seats, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with eight members, holds the sway. Adding to the uncertainty, the CPI(M) has made it clear that it would not take the support of the BJP in a floor test. “We have already announced that the LDF will not take the support of the BJP or the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). The LDF chairperson will step down immediately in case of receiving even a single BJP vote,” said Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan on Saturday. The UDF, on its part, too appears no closer to finding a solution as the BJP has already announced that it will not back anyone to the chairperson's post. Hit hard by the shock defeat, it has now launched protests in front of the Kottayam municipality accusing the LDF of forging an unholy alliance with communal forces to sabotage the administration. Though the BJP had supported the no-trust motion moved by the LDF, the party too has a lot of explaining to do. For, it has already accused the LDF of engaging in an unholy alliance with the SDPI in the Erattupetta municipality. With none of the three sides really in a position to find a way out, the civic body is most likely to elect its next chairperson through draw of lots. While the ousted chairperson Bincy Sebastian is expected to contest as UDF candidate, the LDF is likely to field senior councillor Sheeja Anil. The UDF, with the support of Independents, had won five municipalities in the district last year. Of this, it had already lost Erattupetta and Kottayam, while speculations are rife about the LDF planning no-trust motions in Changanassery and Ettumanur as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-stance-casts-shadow-over-kottayam-municipality/article36677228.ece
26 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,117 more test positive in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 1,117 persons testing positive for the disease on Saturday. With 91 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases. As many as 1,605 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the active cases to 7,108. Meanwhile, 56,405 remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 849 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 849 tested positive during the day. With 55 cases, Kalanjoor reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pandalam, which reported 42 cases. Meanwhile, the disease claimed six more lives in the district. With 735 recoveries on the day, the active cases stood at 8,939. ( With inputs from Pathanamthitta bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1117-more-test-positive-in-kottayam/article36677270.ece
26 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Three MCFs in Kozhikode to be developed into model units||Even as the Kozhikode Corporation is planning to launch its Green Protocol, a model code for sustainable development of the city, on October 2, the civic body is facing challenges from several localities with respect to opening material collection facilities (MCFs). Health standing committee chairperson S. Jayasree said the authorities had encountered severe opposition from local people at Rahman Bazaar, where the corporation had earlier planned to open an MCF. “People are apprehensive about MCFs thanks to their experience with Njeliyanparamba. We cannot blame them. All that we can do is to convince them that the MCFs will not lead to another Njeliyanparamba,” she added. The corporation’s waste dumping yard at Njeliyanparamba had caused severe environmental damage and health issues to local residents. It later gave rise to protests. Despite converting the yard into a waste management plant, the stench remains. The corporation plans to develop the three MCFs that were recently opened at Puthur, Eravathukunnu, and West Hill into model MCFs that could be an answer to sceptics who oppose MCFs. “The three MCFs will be maintained in a scientific manner and will have beautiful premises with green zones around them. They will be quite clean too,” Ms. Jayasree said. Meanwhile, Haritha Karma Sena (HKM) members who have been chosen to manage the MCFs are undergoing training at Vadakara. Incidentally, the Vadakara HKM is known for its efficiency and has won several awards for the municipality, which is considered as one of the cleanest urban local bodies in the State. “We plan to open several MCFs henceforth as part of ensuring proper solid waste management. “Hence, it is important to convince the public of their need and how scientifically they are managed,” Ms. Jayasree added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-mcfs-in-kozhikode-to-be-developed-into-model-units/article36677206.ece
26 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sudhakaran to revamp PCC||Having to an extent successfully managed to install new District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents, Congress State chief K. Sudhakaran has geared up to totally revamp the contentious Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). Mandate secured “The reconstituted KPCC will have just 51 members. About 500 members exist now in various capacities,” Mr. Sudhakaran told The Hindu on Saturday, adding he had already secured the mandate of the Central leadership to go ahead with the ambitious task. Like in the appointments of the DCC presidents, Mr. Sudhakaran said the KPCC members would be inducted on the basis of merit and not on factional equations. “No list from either the ‘A’ or ‘I’ groups will be entertained. Of course, we will include suggestions from leaders such as Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala. Circumstances have changed now. Time was when the KPCC could be reconstituted within an hour with lists of A and I groups,” he said. He said the appointment of the DCC presidents was a ‘test dose’ and the Central leadership had anticipated the consequences. “But our experience showed that the party grassroots wholeheartedly supported our intentions. We are confident. Even group managers have been convinced about the developments,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. The solid backing of the Central leadership, he said, has enabled the KPCC president to boldly carry on with the restructuring programmes of the Congress. “The party will face any consequences, come what may. It is trying to put an end to an old habit . For that, we have to face several hurdles and crises on our way. We have to courageously implement decisions. Only with this objective, the party can overcome any situation,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. Regarding Congress leader V. M. Sudheeran resignation from the KPCC’s political affairs committee, Mr. Sudhakaran said he had neither seen the letter nor been aware of its contents. “However Mr. Sudheeran phoned me and said he had resigned from the committee. He did not specify any reason as such. I believe it could be based on health issues,” he said. To be done away with Meanwhile, a senior Congress leader who wanted to remain anonymous said the political affairs committee was just to accommodate leaders of the existing jumbo KPCC. This would be done away with the reconstituted KPCC shortly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakaran-to-revamp-pcc/article36677237.ece
26 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Special care centres opened for differently abled students||The Kozhikode office of the Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) has opened 280 special care centres for differently abled students to come out of the monotony of online learning at home. According to A.K. Abdul Hakeem, district project coordinator, SSK, training sessions have been conceived to ensure the physical and mental health of the students. The sessions are held in association with various local bodies. Pointing out that learning together and mingling were essential for differently abled children, Mr. Hakeem said many of them could not cope with online learning because of their special nature. Direct training is important for them. They are also facing mental stress these days, affecting their health. This has had an impact on their parents as well. The idea of special care centres was conceived to offer a support system for them. Counselling to reduce mental stress, physical training to encourage their well-being along with art and culture sessions, music classes, physical exercise customised for each student based on body mass index, and dietary instructions are some of the activities being organised. Mothers of differently abled students are trained to make products utilising locally available stuff. All the centres are run in line with the pandemic protocol. Special educators at block resource centres and specialist teachers are leading the sessions. Students in classes 5 to 10 are given admission. As many as 5,000 students will benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-care-centres-opened-for-differently-abled-students/article36677208.ece
26 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||River Protection Week from today||The All Kerala River Protection Committee, in association with Rights of Rivers (South Asia), is observing River Protection Week from September 26 (World River Day) to October 3 under the topic “Rights of Rivers”. Noted writer Alankode Leelakrishnan will open a webinar to mark the observance at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday. The observance ends with another webinar on October 3 which will be inaugurated by Minister Roshi Augustine. Meanwhile, Kallai River Protection Committee will hold a protest against the deterioration of the river due to encroachment and pollution on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/river-protection-week-from-today/article36677207.ece
26 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kerala Sahithyolsav begins||Minster for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil has exhorted citizens to uphold secular values so as to resist efforts of polarisation. Inaugurating the 28th Kerala Sahithyolsav organised by the Sunni Students’ Federation, he raised concern about the growing tendency to brainwash and turn people against a particular religious sect. SSF State secretary Hamidali Saqafi Palazhi presided over the inaugural session. Kerala Muslim Jamaat State secretary Wandoor Abdurahman Faizi, C.P Saithalavi, Prof. A.K. Abdul Hameed, K.Y. Nizamuddin Falili, C.N. Jahfar, Syed Muneerul Ahdal Thangal, and Muhammed Ali Kinalur addressed the sessions. The Kerala Sahithyolsav, set in the digital platform, will conclude on October 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-sahithyolsav-begins/article36677204.ece
26 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Faisal Kanmanam wins Mappilapattu prize||Young lyricist Faisal Kanmanam has won the first prize in a Mappilapattu competition on the theme of Wagon Tragedy and Malabar Rebellion conducted by Moyinkutty Vaidyar Mapila Kala Academy. Aslam Tirur won the second prize. In Mappilapattu for youth, P.T. Shamnad won the first prize, and P.N. Adeeba and Mohammed Aslah shared the second prize. In the event for adolescents, Anjala Saleem and Musammil K.T. won the first and second prizes respectively. Jasmin V.M. won the first prize and Rasiya Panambulakkal the second prize for recitation in general category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/faisal-kanmanam-wins-mappilapattu-prize/article36677209.ece
26 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Protests rage demanding restoration of Nilambur trains||Protests have begun to rage in Nilambur demanding that the Railways restore the six pairs of passenger trains in the Nilambur-Shoranur sector. The Nilambur-Mysore Railway Action Council headed by orthopaedic surgeon Biju Ninan is spearheading the protest against the alleged apathy of the Southern Railway towards the Nilambur sector. An indefinite satyagraha began in front of the Nilambur railway station on Saturday. Inaugurating the protest, P.K. Basheer, MLA, demanded that the Railways end their double standards towards the Nilambur line. Although there were seven trains to Nilambur, the Railways restored only Rajya Rani Express after the lifting of the lockdown. The action council demanded that all the trains be reinstated soon. It also demanded that the Railways start the Nilambur-Kottayam Express, which had been sanctioned earlier. The other demands include extension of Rajya Rani Express to Nagercoil, electrification of Nilambur-Shoranur sector, direct train from Nilambur to Coimbatore, tourist vistadome coach to Nilambur, and resumption of freight services on the Nilambur route. Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari said the Railways would consider running passenger trains once the COVID-19 spread subsides. Muslim Jamaat The Kerala Muslim Jamat, meanwhile, appealed for the restoration of all train services on the Nilambur route. Jamat leaders met V. Abdurahiman, Minister in charge of Railways, at Malappuram on Saturday and sought his intervention for the resumption of Nilambur services. The Muslim Jamat raised concerns at rumours being spread about termination of Rajya Rani Express at Shoranur. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) is planning an agitation in front of seven railway stations on Thursday. It will hold dharnas at Nilambur, Vaniyambalam, Thuvvoor, Melattur, Pattikkad, Angadippuram and Cherukara stations in protest against the Railways’ stand towards the Nilambur line. A meeting of the IUML held here on Saturday condemned the Railways’ move to terminate Rajya Rani Express at Shoranur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protests-rage-demanding-restoration-of-nilambur-trains/article36677211.ece
26 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Outcry to save the Bharathapuzha gets shriller||Nature lovers in Palakkad, Thrissur and Malappuram districts are raising an outcry for saving the Bharathapuzha, the State’s second longest river after the Periyar. The outcry will echo on the banks of the river as they celebrate World Rivers Day on Sunday. Authority The demand for the formation of an authority with judicial powers to conserve the river has increased since technocrat E. Sreedharan raised it sometime ago. The government is yet to respond to the demand. “It is sad to see the Bharathapuzha turning into one of the most polluted rivers in the State. The pollution becomes the worst when the river reaches Pattambi, from where the water is pumped to 17 nearby villages,” said Rajan Chungath, vice president of the Friends of Bharathapuzha (FOB), which works for the conservation of the river. Dr. Rajan said although there are several government bodies to take care of the river, including the Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture and the Kerala Water Authority, none had displayed any responsibility in saving the river from degradation. The FOB, headed by Mr. Sreedharan, has been pressing for the appointment of an authority to save the Bharathapuzha. “The Dal Lake of Kashmir is there before us as a great example,” said Dr. Rajan. The Nila Vichara Vedi, a vibrant group working for the conservation of the river, has raised its concern over the uncontrolled sand-mining currently taking place in the Bharathapuzha under the guise of silt removal. “What we have at the check-dams and regulators of Shoranur, Velliyamkallu and Chenganamkunnu is not dirt or silt, but sand. The sand is being mined without any sand auditing in the name of silt removal,” said Vipin Koodiyedath, general secretary of the vedi. Mr. Vipin said the government had not spent a single paisa to restore the check-dams destroyed in the 2018 floods. The government should focus on restoration of the river and its check-dams, he said. The check-dam at Painkulam Vazhalikkavu had suffered extensive damage in the floods. Several programmes have been planned to spread awareness among the people about the Bharathapuzha, a river that continues to play a significant role in the lives of thousands of people. Turned down The State has turned down the proposals for the formation of a special authority on the ground that it is an inter-State river. It has such names as Perar, Korayar, Varattayar, Walayar, and Gayatri Mangalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/outcry-to-save-the-bharathapuzha-gets-shriller/article36677239.ece
26 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||VISWAS lifetime achievement award for P.R.G. Mathur||The Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWAS), an organisation that offers legal help for the victims of crimes and other excesses, has bestowed its lifetime achievement award on P.R.G. Mathur, well-known anthropologist and former director of the Kerala Institute for Research, Training and Development Studies of Scheduled Castes and Tribes (KIRTADS). Presenting the award to Dr. Mathur at his house on Saturday, VISWAS president and District Collector Mrunmai Joshi said that the services he rendered for the society were not only exemplary but also inspiring for the new generation. Dr. Mathur had dedicated his entire life to anthropological studies. He has a number of international papers and books to his credit. He worked for 14 years for the Anthropological Survey of India from 1959. He guided various anthropological studies in Calicut University and Kerala University from 1973. He was director of KIRTADS till 1987. After retiring from the government service, Dr. Mathur served the Ananthakrishna Iyer International Centre for Anthropological Studies (AICAS), the International Union of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences (IUAES), and International Commission on Anthropological Research in various capacities. VISWAS vice president R. Devikripa presided over the function held at Mr. Mathur’s house. Secretary P. Premnath welcomed the gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/viswas-lifetime-achievement-award-for-prg-mathur/article36677435.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. to back private IT parks||The State government aims to increase hardware electronics production from the current annual rate of Rs. 2,500 crore to Rs. 10,000 crore, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He said on Saturday that the government would promote more private IT parks with this aim in mind. Initiatives like the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategy Council, (K-DISC) and the Digital University were launched foreseeing the developments in these sectors. This will lead to creation of more jobs. He was speaking after inaugurating the welfare fund for employees in the IT and allied sectors. Clear labour policy Mr. Vijayan said Kerala had a clear labour policy. The government has the responsibility of ensuring the rights of workers, including job security and just wages, in various sectors. The IT sector employees also have to be provided special attention in the current economic scenario after the COVID-19 outbreak. The welfare fund will ensure this for the one-and-a-half lakh employees in the sector. Benefits in store The new welfare fund will be under the Kerala Shops and Commercial Establishment Workers Welfare Board. Pension, family pension, pregnancy and marriage-related benefits, medical aid, aid for the education of children, and aid for family in case of deaths are part of the welfare fund. As many as 1,15,452 employees and 2,682 entrepreneurs have registered under the scheme. Those who pay the contribution for 10 years continuously will get pension after they complete 60 years. Employees unable to work for more than two years due to health issues will also be eligible for pension. The beneficiaries will get a pension of Rs. 3,000.  Welfare fund for employees in the IT and allied sectors launched.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-assistance-for-15-lakh-it-employees/article36677213.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vegetables, fruits to be grown in 10 lakh homes||Close on the heels of the urban vegetable kiosks scheme, the Kudumbashree Mission is launching an Agri Nutri Garden campaign with the aim of meeting a family’s nutritional requirements through cultivation of vegetables and fruits. The campaign will be implemented in each ward of the State. Vegetables and fruits suited to the local climate will be grown in 10 lakh homes. The scheme will be implemented in 50 households in each ward using National Rural Livelihoods Mission funding. Five nutrition-rich vegetables from a list comprising tomato, bitter gourd, amaranthus, pumpkin, lady’s finger, coriander/mint, brinjal, and Indian cucumber, and two fruit trees will be grown. Each household will cultivate the vegetables organically on at least three cents of land. The households will be grouped together into ward-level clusters to take the project forward. Selling excess produce The training for the growers will be provided by Kudumbashree’s master trainers. The Kudumbashree will provide the seeds through its Jaivika plant nurseries. Any excess produce can be sold through Kudumbashree’s rural markets ( nattuchanthas ) or Krishi Bhavans. 65,000 houses in district In Thiruvananthapuram, the scheme will be implemented in 65,000 households in 1,297 wards across 73 panchayats. Eleven Jaivika nurseries will supply the seeds. A poster competition was also organised in connection with the campaign for children in Kudumbashree’s Balasabhas. The best poster will get prizes and be selected for the district-level poster campaigns. The consumption of pesticide-free vegetables grown in the Agri Nutri Gardens is expected to be a step forward in creating a healthy society with improved immunity.  Agri Nutri Garden aims at meeting a family’s nutritional requirements through farming||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashrees-new-farm-project/article36677281.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probe ordered into ‘nokkukooli’ row||Labour Minister V. Sivankutty on Saturday said he had ordered an inquiry into the alleged incident of construction workers getting manhandled by trade union workers for refusing to pay ‘nokkukooli’ near Pothencode few days ago. Manikantan, a mason, and a few others were assaulted purportedly by activists of various trade unions for refusing to pay Rs. 10,000 in connection with unloading of materials at a house-construction site at Kaduvakkuzhy on Thursday. Five persons aligned with the CITU, INTUC, and AITUC were arrested by the Pothencode police in the case. Speaking to mediapersons here, Mr. Sivankutty said the Labour Commissioner has been directed to submit a report. Stern action would be taken into any attempt made to extort money in the name of ‘nokkukooli’. He said all trade unions had unanimously agreed to do away with the illegal practice of collecting fees. “Nokkukooli cannot be demanded under any circumstances. No person can extort wages without working in the State. The government has advised trade unions to refrain from such activities,” he said. Mr. Sivankutty said no entrepreneur would be threatened in the State. The government was going ahead with steps to make the State an industry-friendly one. ‘Isolated instance’ Later, in a media briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said no trade union in the State endorsed the practice. Any isolated instance by an individual or a group need not be attributed to any organisation. Nevertheless, stringent measures were being adopted by the police and other authorities to quell such anti-social tendencies.  Workers assaulted by union members for not paying Rs. 10,000 No trade union in the State endorses the practice, says CM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-ordered-into-nokkukooli-incident/article36677272.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Park with cycling track set to open at Poundukadavu||The APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial Park at Poundukadavu, which boasts, among other facilities, a dedicated cycling track, is all set to be opened. An abandoned plot filled with shrubs until a few years ago, the area was transformed under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme projects of the city Corporation. The Rs. 5.5-crore project is spread over 4.5 acres in the Poundukadavu and Pallithura wards. The park will have a cycle track, a paved area for walking, two toilet blocks, artificial pond, seating arrangements, landscaping, agro bazaar, and a plant nursery. When the project was first envisaged in 2018, the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) had handed over 16 cents of land for the project. The project has conserved most of the existing plant and tree species. The park, located close to the city’s IT corridor, is expected to attract the young crowd from the IT sector as well as cycling enthusiasts, who have been starved of suitable space for cycling. “Much of the work has been completed and the park can be opened soon. A statue of former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam is also part of the project. This will be installed later,” said a Corporation official. Change in plans The first phase of the project was inaugurated last year. After the work began in 2018, the city Corporation was forced to make design changes due to objections from the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority. The authority had flagged the original plan as violating the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms, as it was located close to the Parvathy Puthanar. The plan for an amenity centre, which was initially part of the project, was dropped due to this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/park-with-cycling-track-set-to-open-at-poundukadavu/article36677457.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Students’ safety to be ensured during school reopening: CM||Special plans have been prepared for student safety ahead of reopening of schools and colleges, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. At his press briefing here on Saturday, the Chief Minister said apart from the arrangements by the Education and the Health departments, plans will have to be made at the level of individual schools too. The State Police Chief has been directed to prepare an action plan for student safety. All station house officers (SHOs) would hold meetings with heads of educational institutions and school managements to assess the preparedness related to students’ health and safety aspects. It will be the responsibility of the police to ensure the efficiency of school transport. The support of the Motor Vehicles Department can be sought. Maintenance of vehicles should be completed before October 20. One teacher should be posted as school safety officer. The SHOs must visit schools to ensure that the guidelines are being observed. Meetings in closed rooms and halls should be avoided. Along with parent-teacher associations, Local Self-Government and Education departments, health workers of primary health centres should be consulted before preparing micro-level plans for the reopening. Services of doctors should be ensured in schools. School PTAs should be revived at the earliest before the reopening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-safety-to-be-ensured-during-school-reopening-cm/article36677232.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ayush services for post-COVID care||The State government will formulate new projects for the development of the Ayush sector, Health Minister Veena George has said. Ayush services will be used for post-COVID treatment. She was speaking after inaugurating twelve projects worth Rs. 5.17 crore in Ayush institutions under the State Ayush Department, as part of the State government’s 100-day action plan, here on Saturday. Health, wellness centres She said that the 600 Ayush dispensaries in the State would be developed into Ayush health and wellness centres. With this, such centres would get the services of yoga trainers and ASHA workers as well as lab and other facilities. In addition, funds would be provided for the development of basic infrastructure in these places. In the previous LDF government’s tenure, 40 such institutions were turned into health and wellness centres. Medicine gardens As a continuation of this, the current government had already developed 50 Ayush institutions in a similar manner. Herbal medicine gardens would be developed in all Ayush institutions as part of the Aaramam Aarogyam project. By next year, 700 more hectares of land in the State would be used for this purpose. The International Ayurveda Research Institute at Kannur is a dream project for the State. The first phase of construction work has begun in 36.57 acres of land that was handed over for this purpose. Steps are being taken to clear Rs. 80 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for take over of more land for the institute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayush-projects-for-post-covid-treatment/article36677274.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID-19 situation becoming less threatening in Kerala: Pinarayi Vijayan||The COVID-19 situation in the State is becoming less threatening and the intensity of disease transmission has been coming down systematically now that over 91% of the eligible population has been covered with the first dose and 39.4% fully vaccinated Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said . All that the government could do now is to provide maximum safety coverby completing the vaccination as fast as possible. While the virus will continue to circulate, adopting universal precautions to prevent infection and thus learning to live with COVID is the only way forward, he has said. He said the growth of new cases had come down by 5% and those under treatment by 8% in the September 18-24 week in comparison to the previous week. The rate of hospitalisation and disease severity has been coming down. The number of active patients, those admitted in hospitals, field hospitals, ICU, ventilator and oxygen support has reduced by 16%, 7%, 21%, 3% and 6% respectively in this week compared to the previous week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-situation-becoming-less-threatening-in-kerala-pinarayi-vijayan/article36677455.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kin of those who lost life to be compensated||All families who lost their loved ones to COVID-19 will be given compensation as has been fixed by the Union government, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Mr. Vijayan, talking to mediapersons here on Saturday, after a COVID review meeting, said the State was coming out with a comprehensive and revised list of COVID deaths in accordance with the Centre’s new definition of what constitutes a COVID death . Every family would be given compensation and any complaints of non-inclusion of deaths on the official list of COVID deaths would be examined by the government. The entire process of death declaration was done at the district level through the online COVID Death Declaration System. The government proposes to have a grievance redressal system developed by e-Health. Any grievances regarding COVID death declaration will be processed through the online system and appropriately decided by the district-level committee headed by the Additional District Magistrate. The guidelines regarding the same will be issued soon and training conducted, after which it is proposed to launch the system in the first week of October. Once the death declaration document has been issued, the guidelines on the process of disbursement of compensation will be issued by the Disaster Management Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kin-of-those-who-lost-life-to-be-compensated/article36677229.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,961 cases in district||The district recorded 1,961 COVID-19 cases and 2,488 recoveries as the active caseload stood at 14,995 on Saturday. A test positivity rate of 14.1% was recorded. As many as 39,879 people are in quarantine in the district. These include 9,001 undergoing self-isolation at home. The death toll in the district stands at 3,858.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1961-cases-in-district/article36677452.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five arrested on charge of drug possession||Five youths were arrested by the Chirayinkeezhu police with alleged possession of 62 grams of MDMA and over 2 kg of ganja on Saturday. The arrested were identified as Sajeev Munna, 28, Mubarak, 28, Niyaz, 24, and Gokul alias Kannan, 23, all hailing from Mudapuram, and Akhil Fernandez, 23, of Vettucaud. Car seized A car that was allegedly used to smuggle the narcotic substances was also seized. The police suspect the gang to have sourced the contraband from Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-arrested-on-charge-of-drug-possession/article36677454.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online session on AI today||Prathidhwani, a welfare forum of IT employees, will organise its 100th session under the Prathidhwani Technical Forum on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. The session on ‘How Artificial Intelligence is impacting social change and accessibility’ will have Robin Tommy, Head of TCS Rapid Lab, as the speaker. V. Sreekumar, centre head of Tata Elxsi Thiruvananthapuram will inaugurate. It will be available via Zoom and Prathidhwani Facebook page. The Prathidhwani Technical Forum was formed to upskill and reskill IT employees. Prathidhwani used to conduct the sessions at Technopark, InfoPark and CyberPark. After the COVID-19 outbreak, the sessions went online and till now, 75 sessions have been held. The sessions revolve around mainstream technologies including data science, AI, blockchain. More than 30,000 people have participated. Registration link: https://us02web.zoom.us/meeting/register/tZIucOuoqjooH9XC0pbqnSeueQdCEssyTYqK||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-session-on-ai-today/article36677456.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only 12.2% of active cases in hospitals||Kerala logged 16,671 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,14,627 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool, which had been showing a declining trend, has shown an increase in cases for the past two days. The active case pool which had 1,62,846 patients on Friday was 1,65,154 on Saturday. The number of recoveries reported on the day was 14,242. The Health Department states that only 12.2% of the active cases are admitted in hospitals or field hospitals such as COVID-19 first-line/second-line treatment centres. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 24,438 with the State adding 120 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID-19 deaths on Saturday. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State is 2,114. The number of patients requiring ventilator support has dropped to 870. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 1,825 while the total number of COVID-19 hospitalisations across the State has come down to 22,027. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began now stands at 46,13,937 cases. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 2,500, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,961, Thrissur 1,801, Kozhikode 1,590, Kollam 1,303, Malappuram 1,200, Kottayam 1,117, Palakkad 1,081, Alappuzha 949, Kannur 890, Pathanamthitta 849, Wayanad 661, Idukki 486 and Kasaragod 283 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-122-of-active-cases-in-hospitals/article36677230.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CB teams to probe tree felling||District-level Crime Branch teams have been constituted to probe the case pertaining to felling of protected trees in the State. Additional Director General of Police, Crimes, S. Sreejith, convened on Saturday a State-level meeting of the Crime Branch teams constituted in each district to assess the extent of protected trees that were felled. Tree felling in assigned land, forestland, protected forestland, plantation land, surplus land and puramboke land will be looked into.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-teams-to-probe-tree-felling/article36677233.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dip in power supply from Central pool||The State faced a shortage of around 200 megawatts (MW) in power supply from the Central pool on Saturday evening, prompting the Power Department to urge consumers to tone down usage. The department attributed the dip in supply under long-term agreements to coal shortages experienced by thermal power stations in north India. According to the KSEB, the State faced a shortage of approximately 200 MW in supply during the evening peak hours from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. The KSEB has decided to go without loadsheddings, but requested consumers to reduce consumption. KSEB officials do not expect the shortage to persist beyond Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dip-in-power-supply-from-central-pool/article36677234.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to tap job market in Japan||Kerala is looking to tap the employment opportunities for professionals in Japan. The Central government has established a mechanism for recruitment of professionals in various job sectors in Japan. The NoRKA (Non-Resident Keralites Affairs) Department will closely work with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to ensure that Keralites benefit from the opportunity, the State government said on Saturday. The matter had also come up during discussions held between a State government delegation led by Officer on Special Duty Venu Rajamoni and MEA. The health sector in Japan could have potential for Keralite jobseekers, especially nurses, it is estimated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-tap-job-market-in-japan/article36677235.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bicycle club||Thirty-five students of Carmel Girls Higher Secondary School hit the road on Saturday to promote cycling after the inauguration of the Bicyle Brigade club at the school. Bicycle Brigade clubs are a joint initiative of the Corporation and the Indus Cycling Embassy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bicycle-club/article36677451.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Woman seeks action against police, stages hunger stir||Rekha, the mother of the eight-year old girl who was allegedly harassed by a Pink Police official in Attingal, staged a hunger strike outside the Secretariat on Saturday. The child and her father Jayachandran were wrongly accused by woman senior civil police officer Rejitha of stealing her mobile phone on August 27. She was transferred to the Kollam City Police after the incident had sparked outrage. State Police Chief Anil Kant ordered a inquiry led by Harshita Attaluri, Inspector General, South Zone. However, the family claimed that no officer had recorded their statements yet. They accused the police of scuttling the probe to shield the officer involved. The family threatened to launch an indefinite strike if the police continued to ignore their demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-seeks-action-against-police-stages-hunger-stir/article36677453.ece
26 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Controversy over artwork on Attingal Revolt||A public artwork near Akkulam based on the Attingal Revolt of 1721 has courted controversy with the Attingal History Lovers’ Association objecting to the title of the artwork, which mentioned it as ‘Anchuthengu resistance.’ The title and description under the artwork, as part of the Arteria initiative of the Tourism Department, were painted over following protests, but the association has also objected to some of the facts mentioned in the new description. In a press release on Saturday, association president R. Nandakumar said the event which happened 300 years ago should only be referred to as ‘Attingal Revolt.’ The Attingal Revolt of 1721 was an uprising that became an expression of the brewing resentment of native farmers and traders against the East India Company’s policies regarding the prices of agricultural produce, including pepper. It was a protoform of the ongoing farmers’ struggle in Delhi, he said. ‘Date too wrong’ The authorities are insulting the revolt by claiming that its reason was the insistence of local feudal lords that gifts from the Company to the Attingal Queen be given through them, said Mr. Nandakumar. He also said that the revolt happened on April 11, 1721, and not on April 14 as claimed under the artwork.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/controversy-over-artwork-on-attingal-revolt/article36677458.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) to ‘discipline’ branch secretary||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] is reportedly contemplating disciplinary action against a branch secretary in Kollam on the charge of speaking in threatening tones to an NRI investor. The conversation, which has gone viral on social media, purportedly involves CPI(M) Mukundapuram branch secretary S. Biju and U.S.-based investor S. Vijayan. Mr. Vijayan had invested in a multi-crore convention centre in Kollam. He accused Mr. Biju of threatening to thwart the construction work and prevent its opening if the investor did not cough up Rs. 10,000 for a party programme to construct a memorial for a local leader. The scandal had figured prominently in social media. The Congress and the BJP had weaponised the incident against the CPI(M). By one account, the CPI(M) State committee had instructed the Kollam district committee to discipline the branch secretary. However, no party official would confirm the development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-to-discipline-branch-secy/article36677280.ece
26 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Prasad reiterates need for more farm research||Minister for Agriculture P.Prasad inaugurated the golden jubilee of the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) at a function on the main campus of the university at Vellanikkara here on Saturday. Minister for Revenue K. Rajan, who is also a member on the executive committee of the university, presided over. The Minister, who appreciated the contributions of the university to the State agricultural sector, reiterated the need for more research in the sector. “The research results should reflect in the soil. Scientific research is necessary for the development of the farm sector,” he said. The university should provide a support system for each and every farmer in the State. It should help increase their income to lead a decent life. Micro rhizome technology for propagation of ginger and micropropagation technology for the mass multiplication of banana developed by the College of Agriculture, Vellanikkara, and the Banana Research Station, Kannara, respectively were transferred to farmers at the function. The university also started an entrepreneurship development centre at the BRS, Kannara. As part of the golden jubilee event, the Minister inaugurated a faculty guesthouse on the campus. He also released five books authored by scientists of the university. All students of the university will be given free electronic workspace accounts, said R.Chandrababu, Vice Chancellor, who gave the welcome speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-reiterates-need-for-more-farm-research/article36677216.ece
26 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Karuvannur loan scam: bail plea of accused dismissed||Thrissur District Sessions Judge P.J. Vincent on Saturday dismissed the bail plea of president of former director board of Karuvannur Service Cooperative Bank K.K. Divakaran. He is the seventh accused in the loan scam. According to the Crime Branch, which investigated the case, the president and the director board colluded with the first six accused in the case for cheating the bank and its depositors. It is alleged that 279 loans worth Rs. 50 lakh were sanctioned by the director board without verifying their eligibility. Government pleader K.D. Babu appeared for the prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karuvannur-loan-scam-bail-plea-dismissed/article36677273.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Songs of resistance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/songs-of-resistance/article36677241.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||En route to museum||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/en-route-to-museum/article36677215.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Path of potholes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/path-of-potholes/article36677437.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Head-turner||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/head-turner/article36677460.ece
26 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boya Girijamma is ZP chairperson of Anantapur||Atmakur ZPTC member Boya Girijamma took oath of office as the new Zilla Praja Parishad Chairperson here on Saturday after the Presiding Officer and District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan declared her elected unanimously. For the two Vice-Chairperson posts, only two nominations were filed by Dharmavaram ZPTC member Kamireddypalli Sudhakar Reddy and Narpala ZPTC member Nagarathnamma and they too were declared elected unanimously. They too took oath in the presence of R&B Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana, Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkataramireddy, MLC Vennapoosa Gopal Reddy, Rapthadu, Dharmavaram and Singanamala MLAs. Ms. Girijamma was YSRCP floor leader of Anantapur Municipal Council from 2014 to 2019. She is a graduate and her husband works in police department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boya-girijamma-is-zp-chairperson-of-anantapur/article36677421.ece
26 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur ZP chief takes oath in the name of Jagan||Anantapur Zilla Parishad Chairperson-elect Boya Girijamma took oath of office in the name of Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy instead of saying “In the name of God” or “Or I Solemnly affirm” as prescribed in the 3rd Schedule of the Constitution. A similar incident had taken place in 2019 in State Assembly, where Nellore Rural MLA Kotamreddy Sridhar Reddy took oath in the name of Chief Minister and YSRCP chief Jagan Mohan Reddy. Pro-tem Speaker Sambangi Appala Naidu, however, rejected it and he then took oath in the name of God. Ms. Girijamma, however, did not correct and take the oath properly, which legal luminaries feel was a mistake and that it should be corrected. The Bombay High Court had dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition seeking a third option for taking oath under the Indian Oath Act 1969 and suggested that the government create a third option by law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-zp-chief-takes-oath-in-the-name-of-jagan/article36677387.ece
26 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Respite for film exhibitors||With the State government removing all restrictions and allowing 100% occupancy in theatres from October 1, there is renewed activity in the Kannada film industry. Exhibitors, who are currently operating theatres at 50% occupancy, have heaved a sigh of relief. At least four big films are waiting in the wings and producers are working towards releasing them now that restrictions have been lifted, said sources. These include Bhajarangi 2 starring Shivarajkumar, Kotigobba 3 starring Sudeep, Salaga with Duniya Vijay, and Rakshit Shetty’s 777 Charlie . D.R. Jairaj, chairperson of the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, welcomed the government’s decision and said it was a shot in the arm for the industry which had been badly affected by the pandemic. “Becauseoccupancy was restricted to 50%, no big films have hit the screens since the second wave of the pandemic, which in turn, has had an adverse impact on the footfall. With restrictions removed,we hope commercial blockbusters hit big screens and draw people back to theatres,” said Mr. Jairaj, who is also an exhibitor. Waiting for other States While it’s curtains up for the Kannada film industry, exhibitors may have to wait longer for business to return to pre-pandemic levels. “Theatres are completely closed in Maharashtra, which accounts for nearly 30% of revenue for Hindi films. Only after Mumbai theatres open will big Hindi films release,” said a senior executive at a multiplex chain. The Maharashtra government on Saturday announced that theatres and auditoriums in the State would be allowed to open from October 22, but it is yet to issue SOPs. “It’s not just Hindi blockbusters, but also Tamil films. The government has still restricted occupancy of theatres in Tamil Nadu to 50%,” sources said. K.V. Chandrashekhar, chairman of the Karnataka Film Exhibitors Association, said theatres were gearing up to ensure that films were screened in adherence to all safety protocols prescribed by the government. Masks would be mandatory for all members of the audience, and theatres would be sanitised after every show. However, there may be challenges in limiting audience members to those who have received at least one shot of the COVID-19 vaccine. “There are some practical difficulties. Many would have booked tickets online. How can we refuse to let them in at the theatre? We are working on these issues and have roped in ticket booking platforms as well. We are confident of finding a way out,” said Mr. Chandrashekhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/respite-for-film-exhibitors/article36676838.ece
26 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ZP chief, vice-chiefs elected unanimously in Chittoor||The ZPTC member from V. Kota mandal, Govindapu Srinivasulu, popularly known as Vasu, was elected ZP Chairperson unanimously at a special meeting at the ZPTC hall here. Yadamarri ZPTC member Dhanunjaya Reddy and Gudipala ZPTC member R. Ramya were elected as vice-chairpersons without contest. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Minister for Panchayat Raj P. Ramachandra Reddy, Rajampeta MP P. Mithun Reddy, ruling party MLAs from all over the district, and 63 ZPTC members were present. District Collector M. Hari Narayanan conducted the proceedings and administered the oath of office to the newly elected members. The YSR Congress Party had swept all the 65 ZPTCs in the district. Mr. Srinivasulu said that he would focus on giving new strength to the zilla parishad in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zp-chief-vice-chiefs-elected-unanimously-in-chittoor/article36677425.ece
26 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Madanapalle girl bags 48th rank in UPSC||N. Sai Manasa, a resident of Madanapalle town, has bagged the 48th all India rank in the UPSC examinations. A student of Rishi Valley Public School near Madanapalle, the girl attributed her success to hard work and encouragement of her parents and teachers. Speaking to the media, Ms. Sai Manasa said that though she had lost the first attempt at the prelims level, she was determined to clinch it in the second attempt. After her schooling and Intermediate in Madanapalle, she studied B.Tech (Computer Science) at Bengaluru, followed by coaching for the UPSC in New Delhi. She also worked as a member with the Model United Nations. “It’s my cherished goal to pursue Indian Foreign Service and serve the country,” she said. Expressing their joy at their daughter’s achievement, parents N. Nanda Kumar and Bharani Devi attributed her success to hard work, concentration and discipline. Nanda Kumar is at present the vice-sarpanch of Kothapalle panchayat of Madanapalle rural mandal. Former TDP MLA (Madanapalle) Ratakonda Sobha is Sai Manasa’s aunt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/madanapalle-girl-bags-48th-rank-in-upsc/article36676878.ece
26 September 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kavuru Srinivas elected W.G. Zilla Parishad Chairman||Elamanchili ZPTC member Kavuru Srinivas was unanimously elected as West Godavari Zilla Parishad Chairman on Saturday. Tallapudi ZPTC member Posina Sri Lekha and Penumala Vijaya Babu, who won from Pedavegi, were elected as Vice-Chairpersons. Collector Kartikeya Misra handed over the documents of appointment to Chairman and Vice-Chairpersons and congratulated them. In all, 45 YSR Congress Party ZPTC members supported the Chairman and Vice-Chairpersons. Later, Mr. Misra administered oath of office to them.  Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Housing Minister Cherukuwada Sriranganatha Raju, Women Development and Child Welfare Minister Taneti Vanitha, Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat, Zilla Parishad CEO Hari Narayana, MLCs and MPs participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kavuru-srinivas-elected-wg-zilla-parishad-chairman/article36676875.ece
26 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christina elected ZP chief of Guntur||Henry Christina was on Saturday sworn in as chairperson of the Zilla Parishad here. Ms. Christina was elected to the post unanimously in the elections held in the afternoon. District Collector and Special Officer Vivek Yadav and Election Officer Lakshmi Narasimham conducted the elections, and later administered oath of office to Ms. Christina. While Sontireddy Narsireddy (Rentachintala ZPTC) was sworn-in as vice-chairman, Bathula Anuradha (Chebrolu ZPTC) took oath as vice- chairperson - 2. Two other ZPTC members – Sk. Sardar Hashmi and Gundala Swenom were sworn-in as co-opted members. All the 52 ZPTC members supported the candidature of Ms. Christina. Members of Parliament Lavu Krishnadevarayulu and Ayodhya Rami Reddy, Deputy Speaker Kona Raghupati, Chief Whip P. Ramakrishna Reddy, Rajya Sabha member Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao, MLAs, MLCs and senior YSRCP leader K. Suresh Kumar were present. A native of Guntur, Ms. Christina had won from Kollipara ZPTC by a margin of over 17,500 votes.  She thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for elevating a woman from the SC community to the highest public office. “I will work for the development of the rural areas in the district. This is a big opportunity for me to contribute to the development of the district,” said Ms. Christina.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christina-elected-zp-chief-of-guntur/article36677474.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR meets Union Minister Shekhawat||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday requested Union Minister for Water Resources Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to expedite river water allocation between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Discussing the disputes over sharing of water by the two States, Mr. Rao who met the Union Minister as part of his Delhi visit briefed him about the damage to erstwhile Mahabubnagar due to execution of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme by the A.P. government. Mr. Rao urged the Centre to give clearance to Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme as the project was conceived to help the farmers of Mahabubnagar. He wanted only projects jointly managed by the two States to be brought under the purview of the recent gazette notification issued by the Centre. The postponement of the implementation of the notification was also discussed by them. KCR was accompanied by MLAs from Mahabubnagar C. Laxma Reddy, S. Rajender Reddy and A. Venkateshwar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-meets-union-minister-shekhawat/article36676826.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors warn of dengue as COVID-19 subsides||Until a few months ago, running a temperature made people rush for COVID-19 tests, but with the second wave of the pandemic subsiding and monsoon showers frequently lashing several parts of the State, the focus has turned to vector-borne diseases. Consultant paediatrician and paediatric intensivist at Kamineni Hospitals, Kanchan S. Channawar says dengue fever, which is also known as breakbone fever, consists of three phases. “Febrile Phase usually varies from one to three days from the day of onset of fever and presents with high grade fever, retro orbital pain, generalised weakness, muscle and joint pains. The virus multiplies in blood during the Critical Phase that lasts for four to six days from the day of fever and presents with hypotension, shock, bleeding manifestation such as gum bleeding, vomiting of blood and passage of black, tarry stools. There may be organ impairment and platelet count may even decline during this phase. What follows is the Recovery Phase, which takes seven to 10 days of onset of fever and will see platelets rising,” explains Dr Channawar. Senior consultant physician at KIMS Hospitals K. Shivaraju says those who are detected with dengue have to be watchful even after the fever subsides, regardless of age. “Symptoms of severe dengue might surface even after fever subsides. If someone who has recovered suffers from severe abdominal pain, vomiting, severe headache, drowsiness, severe fatigue, drop in blood pressure, low platelets, black stools and breathlessness, they should immediately consult a doctor for hospital admission,” he adds. As per popular perception, platelets keep falling when one has dengue, but Dr Shivaraju says multiple organs might also get affected. “If the liver is affected, one might have vomiting, while breathlessness indicates the lung is impacted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/doctors-warn-of-dengue-as-covid-19-subsides/article36676596.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain in Hyderabad||A heavy rain in city resulted in traffic jams at several areas on Saturday night. The GHMC issued an advisory to the public not to leave home. The Musi overflowed the bridge at Moosarambagh and, as a result, the police closed the road which led to huge traffic jam. Hundreds of vehicles were stranded on the road from Jubilee Hills check-post to NTR Trust Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-lashes-city/article36677168.ece
26 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vipparthi elected as East Godavari ZP chief||Retired civil engineer Vipparthi Venugopala Rao (64) has been unanimously elected as the East Godavari Zilla Parishad Chairman during the election held here on Saturday. He is the ZPTC member of P.Gannavaram mandal in Konaseema region. In 2012, he had retired as Superintending Engineer in the Irrigation Department. Living in Dowleswaram, Mr. Rao was the aspirant of the MLA seat from the YSR Congress Party in the 2019 election. On Saturday, East Godavari Collector and Presiding Officer Ch. Hari Kiran conducted the election, in which 61 ZPTC members have participated. Pithapuram ZPTC member Burra Anubabu and Thondangi ZPTC member Merugu Padmavathi were elected as the ZP Vice-Chairpersons. The Chairman and Vice-Chairpersons took oath in the presence of special invitees Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, B.C. Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop and other public representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vipparthi-elected-as-east-godavari-zp-chief/article36677412.ece
26 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oil tanker plunges into canal in East Godavari||An Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) tanker carrying crude oil plunged into an agriculture canal at Saripalli village under Uppalaguptam police limits in East Godavari district on Saturday. The incident occurred while the vehicle was heading to the ONGC project site at S. Yanam, according to Uppalaguptam police. The driver and the cleaner received minor injuries and there was no damage to the tanker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oil-tanker-plunges-into-canal-in-east-godavari/article36677413.ece
26 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subba Reddy takes oath as Kurnool ZP chairman||Sanjamala Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency member Malikireddy Venkata Subba Reddy took oath of office as the new Zilla Praja Parishad Chairman on Saturday and promised work for the development of the district. Collective effort was essential to see development, said Mr. Subba Reddy soon after getting elected unanimously. He promised to take forward all the State government schemes. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy congratulated the new ZP Chairman along with Vice-Chairpersons K. Bujjamma and Dilshad Naik. While Bujjamma was elected from Holagunda ZPTC, Dilshad Naik was victorious from Sirivella ZPTC. All the three had filed their nominations in the morning and theirs being the only nominations for those posts, Presiding Officer and District Collector P. Koteswara Rao declared them elected unanimously and handed over the declaration certificates at the special meeting of the ZP convened for the purpose of electing a new chairman. Syed Aslam Khadri of former Sarpanch of Sambagallu in Adoni Mandal and Sayed Sulaiman former Sarpanch of Velugodu were administered oath as co-opted members of the ZP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subba-reddy-takes-oath-as-kurnool-zp-chairman/article36677423.ece
26 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irrigation Dept. calls for suggestions on HNSS canal widening work||The Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi main canal will be widened at a cost of Rs. 2,165.46 crore, for which reverse tendering process has been started by the Superintending Engineer, Circle 1, here. Tender documents have been submitted for judicial preview and objections have been called for from bidders, general public and other stakeholders till October 4, said the official. Objections or suggestions can be sent to: judge-jpp@ap.gov.in; apjudicialpreview@gmail.com or on https://judicialpreview.ap.gov.in As part of increasing the carrying capacity to 6,300 cusecs, three new pumps will be installed and the canal widened from -4.806 km to 216.300 km in Kurnool and Anantapur districts. The balance of widening work of the HNSS main canal, including lining and extension of structures, will be completed within 36 months. This will allow the canal to carry a discharge of 6,300 cusecs from km 88.000 to km 216.300. Construction of additional pumping stations for the HNSS scheme from PS6 to PS8, adjacent to the existing pumping stations, will be taken up. New pumps and motors will allow an additional discharge of 2,450 cusecs and the successful bidder will maintain the system up to 15 years. “While pumphouses will be executed on turnkey basis with an estimated cost of Rs. 1,040.28 crore, the canal work will be tendered on lumpsum basis for Rs. 1,125.18 crore,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irrigation-dept-calls-for-suggestions-on-hnss-canal-widening-work/article36676876.ece
26 September 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||5-day-old baby goes missing from hospital||A female infant went missing from the maternity ward in the Government Headquarters Hospital here on Saturday. Prathipati Sindhuja, wife of Yesobu, native of Pedaparupudi mandal, delivered a female baby five days ago. On Saturday, the baby was missing. The infant’s mother complained to the hospital authorities, who alerted the police, said SP Siddharth Kaushal. “Six teams headed by Machilipatnam DSP Shaik Masum Basha have been formed to trace the infant,” Mr. Kaushal said. Chilakalapudi CI R. Anka Babu said during investigation it was found that an unknown woman befriended Ms. Sindhuja in the hospital and stayed along with her. “We are trying to identify the suspect through CCTV footages,” the CI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-day-old-baby-goes-missing-from-hospital/article36676921.ece
26 September 2021||Madurai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tamil Nadu DGP orders formation of special teams to deal with gangsters||Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu has asked all district police and commissionerates to form special teams to deal with rowdy elements and gangsters. At review meetings with top police officers in Madurai and Tirunelveli on Saturday, he asked them to follow murder cases as old as 10 years and prepare fresh dossiers on gangsters who are likely to be involved in retaliation. The instruction comes after the recent beheading of a woman at Dindigul, who was an accused in the 2012 murder of Devendrakula Vellalar Kootamaippu leader Pasupathi Pandian. The details of such gangsters, along with their photographs, would be uploaded in a special app, as it was done by the Madurai city police, which would help beat constables keep a watch on them, Mr. Babu told The Hindu . Keeping a tab on these elements “who usually prowl around between 6 p.m. and 10 p.m.” would help to a great extent in preventing any further untoward incidents, he said. Mr. Babu said ‘Operation Disarm’ was conducted across the State in the last 48 hours to put an end to retaliatory murders. The police seized over 900 weapons and arrested over 2,500 rowdy elements. The officers were asked to closely follow the murder cases pending in courts and strive for the conviction of the perpetrators. “This will not only ensure punishment for the accused but also create fear among other anti-social elements.” 2,512 arrested As many as 2,512 suspected criminals were arrested until Saturday morning in a State-wide storming operation and 934 dangerous weapons were seized. Following a couple of murders reported in the State, Mr. Sylendra Babu ordered the city and district police chiefs to conduct storming operations. The 48-hour operation began on Thursday night simultaneously and vehicle checks were also conducted. A press release from the police headquarters said that in the last 36 hours of the operation, 16,370 persons with criminal records were subjected to verification. After verification, 2, 512 persons were arrested. Among the arrested persons, 244 have non-bailable warrants issued against them and 733 were sent to judicial custody as they had been involved in several criminal activities. The remaining 1,927 persons were released after they gave security bonds under Section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for keeping peace. Five country-made guns and 929 knives were seized from the arrested persons. The crackdown will continue against criminals who are involved in murders, the DGP said. ( With inputs from R. Sivaraman in Chennai )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-orders-formation-of-special-teams-to-deal-with-gangsters/article36676930.ece
26 September 2021||NANDIGAMA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two chain snatchers held||Two suspected chain snatchers, who were allegedly involved in 10 cases, were arrested by the Nandigama police. The police recovered booty, worth about Rs. 7.52 lakh and two bikes from their possession, said Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal. The accused, Ch. Durga Prasad and M. Bala Showry, of Vijayawada, allegedly resorted to snatching for the last few months. The team led by Nandigama Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) G. Nageswar Reddy and Town CI Kanaka Rao arrested the accused on Saturday, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-chain-snatchers-held/article36677471.ece
26 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP following Centre in phasing out power subsidies to farm sector’||Congress party activists led by former Union Minister Chinta Mohan staged a demonstration in Gudur in protest against the YSRCP toeing the line of the BJP-led government at the Centre in phasing out power subsidies to the farm sector. Addressing the activists, Dr. Chinta Mohan said it was the Congress that had taken a conscious decision to introduce free power scheme to the farmers in the State as they were struggling to do farming profitably given the ever-increasing cost of farm inputs on the one hand and fluctuating fortunes at the time of marketing. The fixing of meters to the farm pump sets was aimed at doing away with the power subsidy, he asserted. The State government’s move to privatise AP-Genco and AP-Transco would make the free power scheme a thing of the past, he said. Later, taking part in the protest at Venkatagiri, Dr. Mohan demanded that the State government clear the arrears in the payment of scholarship, mess charges and fee reimbursement to the SC/ST/BC students. Uncertainty loomed large over their studies as the ruling YSRCP had diverted even the Central funds released for the purpose to other schemes, he alleged. Slogans against PSE policy The protesters also raised slogans against the Public Sector Enterprises (PSE) policy of the Union government. While the Congress party had built big irrigation projects and PSEs, the BJP-led government was on a privatisation spree of the PSEs, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-following-centre-in-phasing-out-power-subsidies-to-farm-sector/article36676879.ece
26 September 2021||NELLORE / ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women corner glory in Nellore, Prakasam districts||It was a YSRCP show in the Zilla Parishad elections held on Saturday as it had bagged all the 101 Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency (ZPTC) seats at stake in south coastal Andhra Pradesh. Women were given a pride of place by the party leadership in the indirect elections as Anam Arunamma from Nellore Rural ZPTC was unanimously elected the chairperson of the Nellore ZP and Buchepalli Venkayamma from Darsi ZPTC as chairperson of Prakasam ZP. The YSRCP had bagged all the 46 ZPTC seats in Nellore district and 55 ZPTC seats in Prakasam district. Election to one ZPTC (Podili) could not be held due to pending legal litigation. Ms. Arunamma, wife of Anam Vijayakumar, was declared elected unanimously by Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu. She was the first woman from the Anam family, which had a long standing in politics, to enter politics. It was a second term for Ms. Venkaiayamma, whose unanimous election in the 56-member ZP was announced by Prakasam District Collector Pravin Kumar. The two vice-chairperson posts in the two districts also went to women. Indukurpeta ZPTC member Sriharikota Jayalakshamamma was unanimously elected first vice-chairperson and Rapor ZPTC member Ch. Lakshmi Prasanna as second vice-chairperson in the apex district-level local body in Nellore district. In Prakasam district, Singarayakonda ZPTC member Aynabathina Aruna won the first vice-chairperson post and Inkolllu ZPTC member Sujanamma won the second vice-chairperson post. Social justice Industries Minister Mekapatti Goutham Reddy told the media in Nellore that “women-friendly” Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had ensured all the coveted posts to women and also ensured social justice in the distribution of posts by giving due prominence to various communities. Minority community was accommodated in the indirected elections by picking up Allabaksh and Tajauddin for the posts of co-opted members in the district-level local body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zp-chief-post-in-nellore-prakasam-goes-to-women/article36677377.ece
26 September 2021||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT CET today||Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) CET-21 will be conducted on Sunday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in 475 centres in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, said its Chancellor K.C. Reddy. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, the Chancellor said 75,282 students had registered for 4,400 seats in R.K. Valley, Srikakulam, Nuzvid and Ongole campuses. Of the total, 43% of the students applied for RGUKT CET from Rayalaseema and Nellore districts, and the lowest of 4% of students registered for the test from West Godavari district, said Prof. Reddy. In Telangana, examination centres were allotted in Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy, Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Warangal and Khammam districts, said RGUKT CET convener D. Harinarayana. All arrangements have been made by following COVID-19 protocol. Observers have been deputed to the centres located in remote areas, said Nuzvid IIIT Director G.V.R. Srinivas. Education Minister A. Srinivas will release the RGUKT CET results on Oct. 4, in Vijayawada. Registrar K. Samrajya Lakshmi, CETLS Director S.S.S.V. Gopala Raju, Administrative Officer Bhanu Kiran and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rgukt-cet-today/article36676874.ece
26 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Modi should press U.S. for exemptions’||CPI national secretary K. Narayana on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take up with U.S. President Joe Biden the issue of allowing India to import crude oil from Iran and Venezuela. “The U.S. should provide exemptions from its sanctions for importing oil from these two countries by India,” Mr. Narayana told mediapersons here. “People are burdened with a litre of petrol breaching the Rs. 100 mark. Mr. Modi should impress upon the Biden administration in this regard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/modi-should-press-us-for-exemptions/article36677390.ece
26 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railway police thwart man’s suicide bid||A 36-year-old man, who was reportedly depressed, decided to end his life by falling before a running train in Ongole and communicated the same to his friend through WhatsApp. The Government Railway Police, who were alerted by the man’s friend, went in search of the man, Malakondiah, both in the northern and the southern side of the railway station after alerting the Station Master to stop all trains. The man was located on the southern side, said GRP CI Y. Rama Rao. The man’s family members thanked the GRP men for the swift action. Those having suicidal tendency can dial 100 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suicide-bid-by-man-thwarted-by-railway-police/article36677378.ece
26 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bars, eateries to open in Kerala||The State government has allowed indoor dining and in-person service in restaurants, bars, beer and wine parlours and toddy shops with seating not exceeding 50% of the total capacity from Sunday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday that patrons should provide proof of two doses of vaccination against COVID-19 or a recent RT-PCR negative certificate to get served. Even proof of recent recovery from the infection would suffice as a passport to admission to the establishments. The government has withdrawn the regulation that required citizens to provide proof of vaccination or RT-PCR negative results for outdoor activity. Staff and waiters should be fully vaccinated. Hotels and bars should not serve customers in closed air-conditioned spaces. They have to leave the doors and windows open for free air circulation. Hospitality industry The announcement has come as a leg-up for the hospitality industry, a powerful driver of the State’s economy. The pandemic had almost decimated the hotel industry, forcing hundreds of hotels and wayside eateries to shut shop. Thousands of workers lost their jobs. A small percentage of hotels stayed afloat, relying on takeaways and online delivery. However, they had to share a portion of their profit with online food ordering and delivery platforms. Downward trend Mr. Vijayan said new infections showed a downward trend. More than 90% of the State’s population has received at least one dose of vaccine. Kerala appeared to have blunted the edge of the Delta variant-driven COVID-19 second wave. The State could safely dial down regulations and open more sectors. Mr. Vijayan said swimming pools and indoor stadia could open immediately. Staff and patrons should have received two doses of the vaccine. Unvaccinated Unvaccinated persons below the age of 18 should not access the facilities. Those who violate the mask and physical distance mandate still risked prosecution and fine. Mr. Vijayan said the government would soon allow cinema theatres to operate with limited capacity. “We are examining the possibility,” he said. The administration would enable private tuition centres to resume classes as the situation improved further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-bars-eateries-to-open/article36676832.ece
26 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IITians told to stay relevant, connected||Saint Gobain chief executive officer (Asia Pacific and India region) B. Santhanam has advised the IITians to stay immersed in their core area of expertise, stay organised in prioritising their goals, stay relevant through continuous learning and stay connected in this networked world. Addressing the graduates at the second and third (joint) convocation of the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati (IIT-T) at the Yerpedu campus here on Saturday, he said ‘chance favours the prepared mind’ quoting Louis Pasteur, and asked them to stay prepared for opportunities. “Passing out from the premier engineering institution will not automatically guarantee success in life. You have to navigate in this world of volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity with some of the above organising principles,” said Mr. Santhanam, who is also a global executive cCommittee member of Saint Gobain (France). On managing men, situations and emotions, he spoke on the challenges in store beyond their area of command. “Today my job involves understanding the motivations, biases of my colleagues and competitors. It is cognitive sciences all the way. So, suspend judgment and immerse yourself. You don’t know what you don’t know,” he averred. IIT-T Director Prof. K.N. Satyanarayana recalled how the institute fought to overcome the challenges posed by COVID-19 and emerged triumphant in completing two academic years. Having started in 2015 from a temporary campus, he explained how the institute had grown in infrastructure on a picturesque 548 acre-site, with a target to accommodate 12,000 students. Amit Khare, Secretary (Higher Education) and also the Chairman of the IIT-T Board of Governors, appreciated the progress achieved in terms of infrastructure by the nascent IIT-T team. Medals given away Ph.D, M.Tech, M.S., B.Tech and B.S. degrees were presented by Prof. Satyanarayana to the graduates passing out of the institute. S. Naresh Chockalingam and S. Gowtham received the President’s medal for 2020 and 2021 respectively, while Saishradha Mohanty and Surya Ganesh Vadhri received the Governor’s medal for the two years. The ‘Institute medal’ was given away to Naresh Chockalingam, Velagta Ramya, Gollamudi Rishitha, B.N. Ravi Srivatsa, Allwin. R, Archana Ramachandran and M. Supreeth (all 2020), Sahil Surehali, Arnab Dutta, S. Gowtham, A. Venkata Saikrishna Chaitanya, V. Nikitha, Atul Kumar, P. Sekhar Babu, G. Anil Kumar and Kanika (for 2021).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iitians-told-to-stay-relevant-connected/article36676880.ece
26 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zilla Parishad chairpersons, vice-chiefs elected, sworn in||The chairpersons, vice-chairpersons and co-opted members of all 13 Zilla Parishads were elected and sworn in on Saturday. The following is the list of chairpersons and vice-chairpersons. Srikakulam chairman- P. Vijaya (Kaviti) and vice-chairpersons- S. Jagan Mohan Rao (Santhakaviti) and P. Sravani (Vajrapukotthur). Vizianagaram: Majji Srinivasa Rao (Merakamudidam); M. Bapuji Naidu (Garugubilli) and A. Anil Kumar (Salur). Visakhapatnam: J. Subhadra (Munchingput); T. Appa Rao (Sabbavaram) and B.V. Satyavathi (Anakapalli). East Godavari: V. Venugopala Rao (P.Gannavaram); B Anubabu (Pithapuram); M. Padma Latha (Thondangi). West Godavari: K. Srinivas (Elamanchili); P. Srilekha (Tallapudi) and P. Vijay Babu (Pedavegi). Krishna: U. Harika (Gudlavalleru); G. Krishnam Raju (Nuzvid) and G. Sridevi (Ibrahimpatnam). Guntur: Henry Christina (Kollipara); S. Narsi Reddy (Rentachintala) and B. Anuradha (Chebrolu). Prakasam: B. Venkayamma (Darsi); A. Aruna (Singarayakonda) and Sujanamma (Inkollu). Nellore: Anam Arunamma (Nellore rural); S. Jayalakshmamma (Indukurpet) and Ch. Prasanna (Rapuru) . Chittoor: G. Srinivasulu (V.Kota); Dhanunjaya Reddy (Yerravaripalem) and R. Ramya (Gudipala). Kurnool: M. Venkata Subba Reddy (Sanjamala); Dilshad Naik (Sirivella) and K. Bujjamma (Holagunda). Kadapa: A. Amarnath Reddy (Vontimitta); J. Sarada (Proddutur) and P. Balaiah (Pendlimarri). Anantapur: B. Girijamma (Atmakur); K. Sudhakar Reddy (Dharmavaram) and Nagaratnamma (Narpala).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zilla-parishad-chairpersons-vice-chiefs-elected-sworn-in/article36677384.ece
26 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. plan to take over aided institutions hits rough weather||The government’s decision to take over the willing private aided schools and colleges, including minority institutions, has run into legal trouble with a large number of aided school managements challenging the decision in court. In an order issued last month, the Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar said the State would take over aided schools, both managements and assets (movable and immovable) without paying any compensation through an irrevocable and unconditional registered deed, based on the willingness of the managements. The government’s contention that despite extending the benefits of the majority of the government schemes to the aided institutions, the enrolments have been on the decline and that a few aided institutions were not in a position to run due to poor student strength and high operational costs, has been denied by members of the State Aided School Managements’ Association. While the government officials claim that only schools whose managements are willing to surrender staff and assets are being taken over, the latter allege ‘arm-twisting’ tactics by the authorities. “Inspections were carried out on schools where the managements were unwilling to surrender their institutions,” says the headmaster of an aided school in One Town here, adding that those who have surrendered, have done it due to panic. “If there is no threat involved, why are these aided managements rushing to court?” asks advocate M. Srivijay, who is representing the petitioners in the High Court. Origin of the problem The existence of aided schools dates back to the British rule. The aided schools and colleges have produced eminent personalities in the 70s and the 80s when there were no post-graduate colleges around. “Now, with a stroke, the government is out to ruin the entire ecosystem of aided institutions,” laments a representative of an aided management. The association leaders trace their woes to 2004 when the government issued orders imposing a ban on appointment and promotions of staff in aided schools, which was challenged by the managements. After a prolonged legal battle, the court in 2013 quashed the government decision terming it ‘unconstitutional and illegal’. The case went to the Supreme Court. The leaders allege that the move is intended to avoid the financial burden the government will have to bear on account of recruitment of teachers and release of maintenance grants, stopped for many years in ‘violation’ of the rule which says that the management grant should be released at the rate of 6% of the staff salaries of that particular institution. The government issued memos on the ‘takeover’ in 2019, 2020 and in March of 2021 calling for willingness of the managements but all of them were struck down by the court. ‘Collective takeover’ Mr. Srivijay says the ordinance and the G.O. No. 50 brought by the government proposing ‘collective’ takeover of aided schools across the State violate Sections 46 and 60 of the AP Education Act, 1982 which says if any aided institution becomes defunct, the government can issue a notice giving one month time and thereafter can take control of it. “There is no provision for the State to take over all the institutions in the State,” he says. MLCs from teachers’ constituencies are opposed to the State takeover of schools and colleges established by freedom fighters and philanthropists, while the petitioners see it as an ‘attempt to usurp properties worth around Rs. 16,000 crore’. Referring to the subsection the government added in Section 46 of the AP Education Act, Mr. Srivijay says it is not tenable as any amendment is possible only with the consent of the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-plan-to-take-over-aided-institutions-hits-rough-weather/article36677391.ece
26 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP supports ‘bandh’ tomorrow||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu on Saturday said his party would extend its support to the Bharat bandh called on September 27 by the farmers’ associations in protest against the Central government’s new farm laws. In a release, Mr. Atchannaidu reiterated the party’s stand that the laws were detrimental to the farmers and that the Centre should do a rethink on them. Mr. Atchannaidu said the YSRCP government was also pursuing anti-farmer policies, which turned cultivators into labourers. He insisted that the government had miserably failed in providing remunerative prices to the farmers, who were forced to throw their crops on the roads. “The Rs. 3,000 crore price stabilisation fund has not materialised, and various subsidies to the farmers have been cancelled. “There is water in the dams and reservoirs, but the government is unable to supply it to the farmers. Besides, the construction of irrigation projects is badly hampered,” the TDP leader alleged. Mr. Atchannaidu challenged the Chief Minister to hold meetings with the farmers during his forthcoming visits to the village secretariats. “The YSRCP leaders have joined hands with the middlemen and brokers to cheat the farmers,” he alleged. AILU to take part The All India Lawyers’ Union (AILU), Andhra Pradesh branch, too extended its solidarity with the farmers’ call for Bharat bandh. The new farm laws would result in greater exploitation of the farmers by the market forces, AILU national vice-president S. Rajendra Prasad and national secretary N. Srinivasa Rao said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-supports-bandh-tomorrow/article36677382.ece
26 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan warns govt. not to trouble Tollywood||Actor and Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan launched a broadside against the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government for allegedly troubling the Telugu film industry in the name of Online Ticketing (OT) and various rules. He alleged that the government intended to show the revenue generated by the OT system to banks for the sake of raising loans as a means to wriggle out of the severe financial crisis. “If the Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) government does not change its exploitative attitude towards Tollywood, I know what to do,” he observed. Speaking at the ‘Republic’ movie pre-release event in Hyderabad Saturday, Mr. Kalyan said the elders in the film industry, including his brother Chiranjeevi, should demand their rights as taxpayers and not plead with the A.P. government. It should adopt a give and take policy and not resort to strong-arm tactics to benefit from the travails of the multiple stakeholders in the tinsel town. He expressed regret that the YSRCP leaders had unleashed a false propaganda against Tollywood at a time when it faced its worst crisis due to the coronavirus pandemic. They stooped to the level of attributing the accident in which Sai Dharam Tej was injured, to overspeeding when, in fact, he fell off the bike while trying to negotiate his way past an auto-rickshaw. Mr. Kalyan said there were many serious issues which plagued the people, but the Chief Minister, Ministers and their party leaders targeted him and the film industry on which a huge number of artistes and others were dependent on their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-warns-govt-not-to-trouble-tollywood/article36677392.ece
26 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||UPSC ranker Thirupathi Rao lists his priorities||Thirupathi Rao Ghanta had secured an all-India rank of 441 in the UPSC Civil Services Examination-2020, the results of which were announced on Friday. “I missed the selection by a whisker after going till the interview round in my last attempt. But this time, I could hit the bull’s eye, thanks to proper guidance by the Sarat Chandra IAS Academy in Vijayawada,” he said at a press conference here on Saturday. His parents are farmers in Gangada, a remote village in Vizianagaram district, which does not even have a bus service. After completing his schooling in a Telugu medium government school, he had pursued B.Tech and worked as a Prime Minister Rural Development Fellow (PMRDF). Mr. Thirupathi Rao said his focus would be on improving connectivity, better health care, education, livelihood opportunities and nutrition in the rural areas, especially in the tribal habitations. Academy’s managing director T. Sarat Chandra said Mr. Thirupathi Rao was determined to crack the exam, Besides Mr. Thirupathi Rao, another student of the academy P. Gautami secured 317th rank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/upsc-ranker-thirupathi-rao-lists-his-priorities/article36677476.ece
26 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Harika is Krishna ZP chairperson||ZPTC member representing Gudlavalleru mandal Uppala Harika was elected as the Chairperson of Krishna Zilla Praja Parishad at the district headquarters on Saturday in the presence of District Collector and presiding officer J. Nivas and election observer D. Muralidhar Reddy. ZPTC members G. Krishnam Raju (Nuzvid) and G. Sridevi (Ibrahimaptnam) have been elected as vice-chairpersons of Zilla Praja Parishad. Mr. Harika was nominated by ZPTC member K. Baby of Kaikaluru and was supported by ZPTC member Y. Venkata Satyanarayana of Koduru. Earlier all the 43 ZPTC members who were elected took the oath administered by Mr. Nivas. V. Parishudha Raju of Movva mandal and Md. Gouse of Gannavaram mandal were elected as co-option members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/harika-is-krishna-zp-chairperson/article36677472.ece
26 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM alerts officials on depression||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the officials to take necessary steps to mitigate the likely impact of the deep depression that formed in the Bay of Bengal. At a meeting on Saturday, he said the Collectors should be on alert to tackle any emergency so that people’s lives are not lost and property damage is limited. He stressed the need for a constant vigil in view of the heavy rain the depression might bring in its wake. Officials said control rooms had been set up at village secretariats for swift response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-alerts-officials-on-depression/article36677383.ece
26 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSR Congress stands for social justice’||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and its chief Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy have reiterated their commitment to the upliftment of the downtrodden communities by ensuring that 64%, 54% and 58% of MPP, Zilla Parishad (ZP) chairperson and vice-chairperson 1 and 2 posts respectively went to women and 67%, 69% and 62% of the same were bagged by the candidates belonging to SCs, STs, BCs and minorities. This is another milestone towards achieving the goal of social justice ever since the YSRCP came to power in May, 2019, according to a press release, which said nearly 60% of posts in the State Cabinet were given to the candidates hailing from the SC, ST, BC and minority communities. One Deputy CM post each was given to the SC, ST, BC and minority communities. Fifty percent of the Rajya Sabha MPs nominated by the present government belong to the BCs. Out of the 15 members nominated to the Legislative Council, 11 hail from the aforementioned communities. Besides, the government ensured that 50% of all nominated posts and contracts are allotted to the SC, ST, BC and minority communities and 50% to women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-congress-stands-for-social-justice/article36677385.ece
26 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VDC gets 23rd place in NIRF rankings||Vishnu Dental College in West Godavari district has been awarded 23rd rank at the national level for 2021 in the NIRF Rankings, announced recently. A statement released by the college authorities said the institution had been contributing towards a healthy society by adopting innovative teaching pedagogy with experienced faculty and by providing dental treatment at an affordable cost, as per the aspirations of B.V. Raju and able guidance of the Chairman K.V. Vishnu Raju. The statement said the college had started 29 dental satellite clinics in villages across the State, making quality dental treatment accessible to all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vdc-gets-23rd-place-in-nirf-rankings/article36676881.ece
26 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aditya Nath Das appointed chief adviser||The State government has appointed Aditya Nath Das, who is retiring as Chief Secretary on September 30, as its Chief Adviser to be positioned at A.P. Bhavan in New Delhi, with Cabinet Minister status, according to a G.O. issued by R. Mutyala Raju, Principal Secretary (General Administration).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aditya-nath-das-appointed-chief-adviser/article36677477.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shortage of staff, equipment hits sanitation work in GVMC limits||Due to shortage of workers and garbage collection equipment. sanitary activities are hampered under the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) limits. Sanitation in a few areas is very bad. The workers are feeling overburdened due to lack of fresh recruitments. The issue was raised during the recently held GVMC council meeting. The corporators expressed displeasure over the poor sanitary condition and also complained about the poor door-to-door garbage collection in their wards. When contacted, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) floor leader and corporator of Ward no. 96 Peela Srinivasa Rao, said neither the door-to-door garbage collection nor the clearance of dump bins is properly done. Dump bins in some areas emanate foul smell inconveniencing public and the situation is worst during monsoon, he said. “Some of sanitary workers from our ward were retired and some were deputed to other wards. Our ward is short of about 25 sanitary staff. Despite repeated representations, there is no response from the officials,” he alleged. Similarly, CPI(M) leader and corporator from Ward 78, B. Ganga Rao, alleged that due to shortage of staff, roads, drains are not being cleaned properly in his ward.A few corporators alleged that the problem is worst at wards located on hillocks in the city. They also complained that door-to-door garbage collection is not at all happening in these areas, Hanumanthawaka, Kaparada and Arilova. Corporator of Ward No. 69, K. Govinda Reddy, alleged that the corporation has stopped using hired vehicles for garbage collection, due to which bins are not cleared till late in the afternoon. According to the GVMC officials, the corporation has around 5,300 sanitation staff, including 700 regular workers. This has been the strength since a decade. According to the GVMC estimates, there is a need of about 2,020 sanitary workers to meet the requirement of the expanded corporation with 98 wards. “Though the population of the GVMC has gradually increased over the years and many regions like Bheemunipatnam, Madhurawada, Gajuwaka and Anakapalle were merged with the corporation, the strength of sanitation workers is not increased at all,” said a senior officer from the GVMC. As of now, the GVMC has allotted sanitary workers sachivalayam-wise. There are 578 sachivalayams in the GVMC limits. In case of any requirement/ additional need of sanitary work in any sachivalayam limits, staff from other sachivalayams are being deputed. “There are six to seven sanitary workers in each sachivalayam. They alone need to take up all the door-to-door garbage collection. They also clear the garbage bins, clean roads and drains. Whenever any worker takes leave, sanitation is hit. There is a need of at least around 8 to 10 workers for every sachivalayam,” said a senior official from the GVMC. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao said that the corporation has already written a letter to the government over the recruitment of 2,020 workers to meet the need, for which the GVMC is yet to receive a response. Speaking on the new garbage collection vehicles, Mr. Sanyasi Rao said that the State government would provide the vehicles to the GVMC on October 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shortage-of-staff-equipment-hits-sanitation-work-in-gvmc-limits/article36677480.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subhadra elected as the ZP chief||Jallapalli Subhadra, who won the ZPTC seat from Munchingput (YSR Congress Party), was unanimously elected as the new Zilla Parishad Chairperson of Visakhapatnam district, here on Saturday. Similarly, Sabbavaram ZPTC member T. Apparao and Anakapalle ZPTC member V. Satyavathi were elected as Deputy Chairpersons during the election, which was held here on Saturday. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has announced their names. The swearing-in ceremony of the newly-elected ZPTC members was held in the hall. Speaking after the election, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao said that for the first time, a tribal woman from PVTG community has been elected as the ZP Chairperson. He thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the opportunity. He also thanked people of the district for giving a good victory to the party in the MPTC and ZPTC elections. He said that as per reservations, the candidates were nominated. The Minister said that the newly-elected ZPTC members should focus on the issues of public and must strive hard for the overall development of the district. Ms. Subhadra thanked the Chief Minister and said that she would strive hard to ensure all welfare schemes of the government reach the beneficiaries. She said that she would also work hard for the development of tribal region. Arku MP G. Madhavi, Anakapalle MLA G. Amarnath, Madugula MLA, B Mutyala Naidu, Chodavaram MLA Karanam Dharmasri, Paderu MLA K. Bhagya Lakshmi, Araku MLA Ch. Phalguna and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/subhadra-elected-as-the-zp-chief/article36677489.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District officials gear up to face Cyclone Gulab||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has cancelled leaves of all the government employees and asked them to report to duty immediately in the wake of Cyclone Gulab. He has appointed constituency and mandal level Special Officers for monitoring and taking precautionary measures. He has asked the officers to visit their mandals allocated to them and prepare an action plan as precautionary measure. The administration has also readied NDRF teams available at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, rescue teams of Indian Navy, Indian Coast Guard and SDRF team of the Police Department, he said. The Collector also asked the civil supplies officials to ensure stock of oils and gas be available in the district. He also instructed the civic body officials as well as Panchayat Raj officials to provide drinking water to households despite the storm without any interruption. He also said that 24/7 control rooms were set up at various places including one at District Collector’s office and Sub-Collector’s office, Paderu. The control room contact numbers at the District Collector’s office are 0891-2590102, 0891-2750089 and 0891-2750090. Meanwhile GVMC Commissioner G Srijana appealed to the citizens to be on alert in the wake of heavy rainfall. She also said that people can reach out to 1800 425 00009 or 0891-2869106 in case of any emergency. She also said that due to heavy winds, there are chances of electric poles, hoardings, trees and dilapidated boundary snapping down or crumbling and people should stay alert. She cautioned people to stay away from drains, which are likely to flow heavily. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao has instructed his police officials to be available for people in the wake of heavy rain predictions in the coming days. He also asked Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors of coastal regions like Atchutapuram, Pudimadaka, Rambilli, Vadanarasapuram, Kothapatnam, Nakkapalle and a few other areas to visit fishermen villages and to sensitise them not to venture into the sea. Police officials interacted with the fishermen community in those villages here on Saturday and cautioned them about the cyclone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rescue-teams-in-place-in-vizag/article36677470.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees 40% dip in liquor sale in two years: MVPC Chairman||Madyapana Vimochana Prachara Committee (MPVC) Chairman V. Lakshmana Reddy said that with the efforts of the government, the State is moving towards more control on sale of liquor. He said that there has been a significant drop in sale of liquor in the last two years. Addressing the media at the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) office here on Saturday, Mr. Lakshmana Reddy said that in the last two years, sale of liquor saw a 40% decline, while there was a 78% decrease in sale of beers. During former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu's rule, about 34 lakh cases of liquor used to be sold in a month. Now, around 21 lakh cases of liquor are being sold in a month, he said. Similarly, about 17 lakh cases of beers used to be sold per month during the TDP regime and now, only 7 lakh beer cases are being sold, Mr. Lakshmana Reddy said. Restricting the timings from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m., bringing the control under the government and increasing the prices have made the difference, he said. Anticipating smuggling of liquor from other States, sale of ID liquor and ganja smuggling, the State government has formed Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) under the leadership of senior police officer Vineet Brijlal, he added. He said that the MPVC has decided to create awareness on the harmful effects of consuming ganja and liquor among the students of engineering and medical colleges, in the form of cultural programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-40-dip-in-liquor-sale-in-two-years-mvpc-chairman/article36677487.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Action plan prepared to meet target of seafood exports’||The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) organised a seafood exporters meet commemorating the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav – Vanijya Utsav’, here on Friday. The meet was chaired by B.V.R. Subrahmanyam, Commerce Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industries, and others who participated included Diwakar Nath Misra, Joint Secretary, DoC, MoCI, K.S. Srinivas, Chairman MPEDA, M. Karthikeyan, Director MPEDA, Jagdish Fofandi, National president of Seafood Exporters Association of India (SEAI), A. Indra Kumar, regional president SEAI of Andhra Pradesh, Elias Sait, Secretary General SEAI, and other regional presidents. Over 45 seafood exporters from across the country participated in the meeting. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Srinivas highlighted the export performance of marine products and trade issues faced by exporters with China, EU, Vietnam, Australia, South Korea, Kuwait, Thailand, Saudi Arabia and other countries. He said that an action plan has been made to achieve the target of 7.8 billion USD fixed by tbe Ministry of Commerce and Industries for the financial year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/action-plan-prepared-to-meet-target-of-seafood-exports/article36677482.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make Bharat Bandh a success, Left parties appeal to people||Members of the CPI and the CPI (M) appealed to the citizens to take part in the proposed Bharat Bandh, initiated by the farmers unions against the Centre’s three farm laws, on September 27, and make it a success. In this regard, they staged a protest near GVMC Gandhi Statue on Saturday and also addressed a meet at Gurajada statue near the RTC Complex area. CPI city secretary M. Pydiraju accused the Centre government of favouring corporate companies. He alleged that the BJP Government has been trying to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) despite agitations against its sale. They also alleged that the Centre has failed to provide funds for Visakhapatnam Metro Rail project and Central institutions such as the IIM and Girijan University. Meanwhile Telugu Nadu Trade Union Council (TNTUC) members on Saturday announced that they would be supporting the Bharat Bandh. They also demanded that the BJP government withdraw its decisions to privatise PSUs and other establishments. Members of Student Federation of India (SFI) Andhra University have also urged the students, faculty ands staff of the AU to take part in the proposed nationwide strike. Meanwhile, members of Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) also urged people of North Andhra to support the Bharat Bandh. General Secretary of FDNA, A. Aja Sarma, said that due to the Centre’s policies, North Andhra region has been affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-bharat-bandh-a-success-left-parties-appeal-to-people/article36677486.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja, hashish oil seized, five arrested||The city police and the officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested five persons, while they were allegedly transporting 162 kg ganja in two incidents in the Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. In one case, the SEB officials have arrested three persons while they were allegedly transporting 112 kg ganja in an auto-rickshaw near Vadlapudi area. The SEB has seized 56 packets (each containing 2 kg ganja) from them. A few more accused are yet to be arrested in the case. In another case, the city police arrested two persons while they were allegedly carrying 56 kg ganja and two litres of hashish oil near Simhachalam. Among the two caught, one is said to be a rowdy-sheeter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-hashish-oil-seized-five-arrested/article36677481.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF celebrates Raising Day||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel of Waltair Division celebrated the 37th Raising Day, here on Saturday. A parade was held on the occasion at the Senior Divisional Security Commissioner’s office and the Commissioner took the salute in the presence of Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy, who was the chief guest. C.J. Chakradhar, Assistant Commissioner, RPF, was also present. RPF Raising Day is being observed every year on September 20, when RPF elevated as an armed force of the Union. RPF was established as an armed force of the union by amending the Railway Protection Force Act on this day in 1985. As part of the Day, a week-long programme that included blood donation camp, tree plantation and public awareness was organised. Five RPF personnel were given commendation certificates. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Raghuvir said that RPF has gone beyond their ambit to help passengers in need and returned lost luggage and valuable articles. Appreciating the work done by RPF, Mr. Satpathy said that the force has done commendable work in checking illicit trafficking, tracing missing children apart from taking up intensive public awareness campaigns to create awareness among the public on trespassing and other crimes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rpf-celebrates-raising-day/article36677483.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple die of asphyxiation in fire||A couple reportedly died of asphyxiation following a fire accident in a house at Allipuram area in Visakhapatnam city. The incident reportedly occurred after the refrigerator caught fire. The deceased were identified as D. Subbarao (54) and D. Ramanamma (48), both hailing from Bheemunipatnam and residing in Allipuram. According to Inspector of II Town Police station Venkat Rao, as per the primary information, the condenser in the refrigerator reportedly caught fire due to short-circuit. He said that the house quickly engulfed in thick smoke and the couple could not come out as there was only one entry and exit. Police said that the couple had come to Allipuram and were staying in the house since the last one week. Subbarao used to work as a car driver. Two Town police have registered a case and CLUES team inspected the spot. Bodies were sent to King George Hospital (KGH) for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/couple-die-of-asphyxiation-in-fire/article36677491.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth found unconscious on footpath||A 25-year-old youth was found lying unconscious on the footpath at Beach Road, here on Saturday morning. It was learnt that the youth had reportedly consumed some toxic liquid to end his life. The youth was shifted to King George Hospital for treatment. Maharanipeta police are yet to reveal further details in the case and the identity of the youth is yet to be known. In case of suicidal tendencies, people can contact police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-found-unconscious-on-footpath/article36677490.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports one death and 37 new cases||As many as 37 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,954. The district also reported one death during the same period taking the death toll to 1,087. As many as 65 persons recovered from the virus, as per the bulletin. The number of recoveries and active cases stands at 1,54,933 and 934 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-one-death-and-37-new-cases/article36677492.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sustenance of health is pivotal for nation’s development, says official||Sustenance of health is pivotal for the development of the nation said G. Chinmayi Devi, Regional Joint Director for Women and Child Welfare, Visakhapatnam zone. She was speaking at a national webinar titled ‘Poshan Maah’ organised by the Vijayawada Regional Outreach Bureau and Regional News Unit, All India Radio, Visakhapatnam, here on Saturday. She said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ‘Poshan Abhiyan’, the nutrition awareness programme caters to women across the nation and this should reach all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sustenance-of-health-is-pivotal-for-nations-development-says-official/article36677484.ece
26 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone Gulab: trains cancelled or diverted||In the wake of Cyclone Gulab likely to make a landfall between Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Gopalpur in Odisha on Sunday, the East Coast Railway has cancelled, diverted or short-terminated a number of trains on Sunday and Monday. Passengers travelling on those days should check with the railway authorities to know the status of the trains and then proceed, said the railway officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-gulab-trains-cancelled-or-diverted/article36677485.ece
26 September 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. keen to encourage entrepreneurs: Collector||Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari on Saturday said that the State government would extend cooperation for entrepreneurs if they come forward with concrete proposals for establishing industries in the district. She said that the government would keen to establish food processing units and agro-based clusters. Exporters Conclave ‘Vanijya Utsav’ organised in Vizianagaram evoked good response on the first day. Speaking on the occasion, she said that the State government would process applications quickly through single window system and provide many financial incentives for the entrepreneurs. District Industrial Centre’s General Manager G.M. Sridhar and Industrial Promotion Officer B. Kalinga Vardhan said that the exhibition provided opportunities for many people to interact with various exporters of agro products. Wood Smart Private Limited-Visakhapatnam Director Siva Singupuram and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-keen-to-encourage-entrepreneurs-collector/article36677414.ece
26 September 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘30 minority leaders selected as co-opted members’||Andhra Pradesh State Minorities Finance corporation Limited Director Mohammed Nasir on Saturday thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for selecting around 30 minority community leaders as co-opted members of Mandal Praja Parishads of Vizianagaram district. Speaking to the media here, he said that such respect and recognition to minorities has never been given by any other party in the country. “Previously, only five or six persons from Muslim community used to get representation in local bodies. But now their representation is there in 30 out of 34 mandals in the district,” said Mr. Nasir. He assured to provide loans for eligible persons through the corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-minority-leaders-selected-as-co-opted-members/article36677419.ece
26 September 2021||Vizianagaram/Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials gear up to face Cyclone Gulab||Officials in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts are gearing up to face Cyclone Gulab which is expected to cross the coast on Sunday between Gopalpur in Odisha and Kalingapatnam of Srikakulam district. With its impact, both the districts witnessed heavy rains on Saturday evening. Srikakulam Collector Shrikesh B.Lathkar said that one control room (No.08942-240557) has been set up at the Collector’s office and local control rooms were set up at all the mandal offices for effective coordination in evacuation of people living in low-lying areas. “All the fishermen were strictly advised not to venture into the sea for the next couple of days since Cyclone Gulab may hit the coast of Srikakulam district. All the officials and staff were directed to attend duties on Sunday too. The employees who are on leave should immediately report for duties,” said Mr. Shrikesh. Vizianagaram District Fire Officer Ch. Krupavaram said that all the officials were monitoring the situation in the coastal mandals. He said that the special teams were formed to rescue people in case of emergency. He said that many of the officials had enough experience in evacuation and rescue operations as they had worked during Cyclone Titli which caused devastation in 2018. Meanwhile, Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari directed Puspatirega and Bhogapuram officials to be alert for the next 36 hours with the anticipation of heavy downpour. “Communication and road network are likely to be affected. Both R and B, Panchayat Raj Departments were alerted to take necessary action in case of emergency. APEPDCL officials have also been directed to restore power quickly if there is a disruption,” she added. She urged people to remain indoors for the next couple of days as heavy gales and rains likely to disrupt normal life. APSRTC cancelled many trips to long distances and remote areas with the cyclone alert. The Transport Department suggested to the lorry drivers to station their vehicles till the restoration of normalcy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-gear-up-to-face-cyclone-gulab/article36677418.ece
26 September 2021||Vizianagaram/Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botcha’s nephew elected as ZP chairperson in Vizianagaram||Majji Srinivasa Rao (Chinna Srinu), nephew of Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana, and Piriya Vijaya, wife of former Itchapuram MLA Piriya Sairaj, were unanimously elected as the Zilla Parishad chairpersons in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts respectively on Saturday. The YSR Congress Party won all the 34 ZPTCs in Vizianagaram district and 37 out of 38 ZPTCs in Srikakulam district. The election was postponed in Hiramandalam with the death of the TDP candidate. The elections were conducted in a peaceful manner. Mr. Srinivasa Rao, the YSRCP political coordinator of Vizianagaram district, was earlier elected as ZPTC member from Merakamudidam mandal. Garugubilli ZPTC member Marisarla Babuji Naidu and Saluru ZPTC member Ambati Anil Kumar have been elected as Vice-Chairpersons of the Vizianagaram Zilla Parishad. District Collector and Presiding Officer A. Suryakumari handed over the election certificates to all the three persons. In Srikakulam district, Ms. Vijaya was elected as ZPTC member from Kaviti mandal. Santakaviti ZPTC member Siripuram Jaganmohan Rao and Vajrapukotturu ZPTC member Palina Shravani were elected as Vice- Chairpersons of the Srikakulam Zilla Parishad. District Collector Shrikesh B.Lathkar, who presided over the meeting, thanked all the elected representatives for completing the election process smoothly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/botchas-nephew-elected-as-zp-chairperson-in-vizianagaram-district/article36677416.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeking solidarity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeking-solidarity/article36676883.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ED freezes Karvy group shares worth Rs. 700 crore under PMLA||The Enforcement Directorate said it has frozen shares worth Rs. 700 crore of Karvy group, held directly or indirectly by its Chairman and Managing Director C. Parthasarathi, his two sons and their entities, following search operations at six locations connected to Karvy Stock Broking Limited (KSBL) under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Parthasarathi is currently lodged in Chanchalguda jail after he was arrested on August 19. The Chief Executive Officer of Karvy Rajeev Ranjan Singh and Chief Financial Officer G. Krishna Hari were arrested earlier this month. Money laundering A statement from ED said the Central agency initiated money laundering investigation on the basis of FIRs registered by police on the complaint of HDFC Bank alleging that KSBL had illegally pledged the securities of its clients and taken a loan of Rs. 329 crore and diverted the same. Another FIR was registered by Central Crime Station of Hyderabad police for defrauding IndusInd Bank to the tune of Rs. 137 crore and one more FIR was registered by Cyberabad police authorities of Hyderabad for defrauding ICICI Bank to the tune of Rs. 562.5 crore. The total loan proceeds taken from multiple banks was around Rs. 2,673 crore. National Stock Exchange and Securities Exchange Board of India were also investing the affairs of KSBL. During the course of investigation, it came to light that KSBL did not report the Depository Participatory account Karvy Stock Broking Limited (BSE) in the filings made from January 2019 to August 2019 with regulators/exchanges. Further, KSBL fraudulently transferred shares belonging to its clients to its own demat account (which was not disclosed to the exchanges) and pledged the shares held in these accounts with the lenders/banks (HDFC, ICICI, IndusInd and Axis Banks). The quantum of such loans taken by KSBL from illegal pledging of shares was to the tune of Rs. 2,873 crore. KSBL credited the funds raised by pledging client securities to six of its own bank accounts and has not reported this to SEBI. Prima facie, a net amount of Rs. 1,096 crore was transferred by KSBL to its group company Karvy Realty (India) Limited between April 1, 2016 and October 19, 2019. The ED conducted search operations at various premises of Karvy group of companies, connected entities and residential premises of Parthasarathi. It was reliably learnt that Parthasarathi was trying to offload his shares in the group companies through private deals and, thus, the freezing order against the shares was issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ed-freezes-karvy-group-shares-worth-rs-700-crore-under-pmla/article36677194.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||31% dip in use of city’s office spaces since COVID outbreak||Although life has returned to near-normalcy in Hyderabad since the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdowns, 31% people are still not back at workplaces and the number of people frequenting retail and recreation spaces is still down by 22%, personal mobility data has shown. The anonymised data trends are mapped by Google and correspond to the day of the week, during the six-week period (January 3 to February 6, 2020) before the onset of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Both IT giants Google and Apple have been releasing mobility data since the outbreak of the pandemic, showing the disruption in normal lifestyle. Telangana government officials have made repeated pleas to IT companies to resume work from office. The work-from-home (WFH) ecosystem is having its economic cost as human resources and ancillary industries dependent on employees have been affected. Retail, real-estate, transport and other sectors have been hit due to the WFH routine adopted by IT companies. Hyderabad has an estimated 6.3 lakh IT workers and more than 90% of them are operating in WHF mode. The corollary to fewer workers in office spaces is shown in the mobility data with the time spent in residential spaces up by 9%, and down by 9% in usage of public transport. The data pertains to the period between August 9 and September 20 this year. Walking, driving However, walking and driving have reached and even topped pre-pandemic levels. The time spent in walking is up by 105% and driving is nearly 71% of pre-lockdown days in Hyderabad. Across the urban areas of Telangana, a similar trend of decline in use of office and retail spaces has been noticed in the data. The workspace disruption is matched across the metropolitan areas of India with Chennai showing 31% dip like Hyderabad, while Bengaluru shows an even higher 39% dip in use of office spaces in comparison to pre-pandemic period. While the three cities known for big IT firms show this marked decline, the country, as a whole, shows a -12% deviation from the average in terms of use of workspaces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/31-dip-in-use-of-citys-office-spaces-since-covid-outbreak/article36677180.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagga Reddy regrets his comments on Revanth||TPCC working president and Sangareddy MLA Jayaprakash Reddy, on Saturday, regretted his outburst against TPCC chief Revanth Reddy and said that it was not fair on his part to go to the media on the differences within the party. He said he doesn’t find any fault with Mr. Revanth’s behaviour and some communication gap has led to those outbursts. He added that Revanth was like a brother to him and the cadre should not get confused over small differences. “I had a discussion with party observers and the issue is settled,” he said, asking the cadre to forget it and move ahead. At the Assembly premises on Friday, Mr. Reddy caught everyone’s surprise by lashing out at Mr. Revanth Reddy accusing him of treading his own path in the party and ignoring the seniors. He also alleged that the seniors were not informed of the TPCC chief’s visit to their constituencies or districts and they felt insulted. Earlier in the day, a meeting of working presidents and senior leaders with AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore, N.S. Bose Raju and Sreenivasan Krishnan, discussed the controversial remarks and asked him to air his views on party platforms and not media. TPCC working president Mahesh Kumar Goud dismissed rumours that party had warned Mr. Reddy. He said Mr. Reddy explained the circumstances to put an end to the episode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagga-reddy-regrets-his-comments-on-revanth/article36677198.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 5k register at job mela organised by Hyderabad police||Hyderabad police on Saturday organised a job mela at Kamma Sangham, Ameerpet. Over 20 companies came up with over 2,000 jobs for which 5,000 unemployed youth got registered. Commissioner Anjani Kumar inaugurated the job fair and said that in every field, the police are becoming partners. “As part of this, the job fair is being organised in five zones of the city every month in collaboration with TMI Group,” he said. In the current situation, a job fair is a very good opportunity for the unemployed. “Life is a big journey and this is the first step,” he said. So far, nearly 25,000 applicants secured jobs, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-5000-register-at-job-mela-organised-by-hyderabad-police/article36677189.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||82% of fresh engg., pharmacy students for fee reimbursement||About 82% of first year students who gained admission in the engineering and pharmacy colleges this year have sought eligibility for fee reimbursement scheme, submitting the requisite income certificates. Out of the 61,169 candidates who were allotted seats only 46,322 have showed interest in taking admissions and of these, 19,200 students have claimed total fee reimbursement under various categories. About 18,900 candidates applied under the partial reimbursement and only 8,250 students have fully paid the fee. This amounts to 82% of the candidates taking fee reimbursement of the State government. Candidates who claimed 100% fee reimbursement come under the SC, ST and Minority categories, for whom the government pays total fee irrespective of the college fee if their parents’ income is below Rs. 2 lakh per year both in the rural and urban areas. Apart from these, candidates who have studied their Intermediate from any government college for two years are also eligible for total reimbursement if they fulfil the income conditions irrespective of their social category. Candidates whose rank is below 10,000 are also eligible for 100% reimbursement even if they are from OC and BC categories. All others will be eligible for partial reimbursement if their parents income is below Rs. 1.5 lakh in the rural areas and Rs. 2 lakh in the urban areas. However, their reimbursement is limited to Rs. 35,000 only and the remaining fee has to be paid by the candidates. The fee ranges from Rs. 35,000 to Rs. 1.34 lakh depending on the college as approved by the Telangana Admission and Fee Regulation Committee. Astonishingly, nearly 15,000 candidates who were allotted seats in the first phase of counselling did not show any interest in the colleges. The reasons apparently are that they are neither interested in the allotted college or the allotted stream. Some toppers who have not reported are sure of a seat in the IITs, NITs or have moved to private universities in other States, a trend that is catching on. Even the sought-after Computer Science Engineering stream saw just 13,942 candidates reporting for admission out of the 18,561 who were allotted seats. The CSE (AI and ML) course too saw only 4,224 students reporting out of the 5,429 allotted. ECE too did not receive much favour as only 9,336 candidates reported out of the 12,308 allotted. The EEE too suffered heavily with just 2,861 students joining out of the 4,035 who secured seats. Civil Engineering with 2,312 out of 3,177 allotments and Mechanical Engineering with just 1,826 out of 2,550 allotments too did not find favour with students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/82-of-fresh-engg-pharmacy-students-for-fee-reimbursement/article36677196.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No Sunday carnival if rain plays spoilsport||The Sunday carnival by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) this time will be heavily predicated on the impact of Cyclone Gulab in the city. In case the cyclone, which is expected to make landfall on the Southern coastal regions of Odisha, makes an impact on the city, the urban body will not be able to keep its promise of ‘Sunday-Funday’. A statement from HMDA on Saturday urged visitors not to come out if heavy rains occur due to the cyclone’s impact in which event the carnival might have to be rescheduled to next Sunday. The first ‘Sunday-Funday’ carnival, which was held by HMDA on September 12, was a huge success, with people thronging the Tank Bund, unmindful of the COVID-19 protocol. The event could not be organised the subsequent Sunday owing to the Ganesh immersion gala. If the weather is normal, HMDA will be back on the traffic-free Tank Bund road this weekend, taking the carnivalesque atmosphere a notch up by organising various fun-filled events. RPF Raising Day This time, the urban development agency is organising a live performance by the official band of Railway Protection Force, to mark the week of RPF Raising Day. It will be a treat for the citizens to witness them live as they received accolades in all major events they have performed, a statement from HMDA promised. Musical treat Surrounding the main event will be a host of other entertainers, among which will be an orchestra playing well known songs by legendary film singer late S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, and livewire artistes showcasing their beat boxing and rapping skills. Also enriching the evening will be three teams with 20 artistes each, performing traditional Oggu Dolu, Gussadi and Bonala Kolatam all along the Tank Bund stretch, making it a true cultural carnival. Additionally this time, two instances of minute-long firework shows in between performances will surprise the visitors standing anywhere on the Tank Bund road. Clown performances, jugglery, unicycling, and other such street arts have been organised along the stretch to engage children. Stalls Stalls will be organised respectively for free distribution of more than 30 species of saplings, for sale of bangles, artificial jewellery, pearl sets, and perfumes from Old City, and to display handloom and handicraft products by the Telangana State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society, besides the usual stalls selling food and beverages. Necessary arrangements have been made for mobile toilets and garbage disposal, the HMDA statement fiurther nformed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-sunday-carnival-if-rain-plays-spoilsport/article36677182.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Probe critical cases and deaths’||With the surge in dengue cases, medical professionals in the State have sought for close monitoring of patients suffering from severe dengue as well as on related deaths. Doctors said they have come across severe cases this season, although very low in number, and investigation by the State Health department will help understand the crucial details. “We can know if dengue is progressing rapidly in any specific locality or an age-group. This will shape further preventive measures and to issue alerts to people. Genome sequencing will further help understand if any new variant is in circulation. To know all this, there should be a keen eye on critical cases, and deaths, if any,” said a doctor on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-critical-cases-and-deaths/article36677175.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State to come up with new tourism policy||Minister for Tourism, Sports and Excise V. Srinivas Goud has asked officials to prepare proposals for comprehensive development of tourism sector in the State. While reviewing the activities of the Tourism Department here on Saturday ahead of World Tourism Day celebrations on September 27, he said that government was preparing a new sports policy and on the same lines, the new tourism policy would be prepared as a model for other States. Development of tourism spots in Kaleshwaram project areas, proposals for recognition of Thousand Pillar Temple in Warangal and Golconda Fort and Charminar in Hyderabad as world heritage sites were discussed. As 2020 was COVID year, 11 partners were chosen for excellence awards in eight categories and presented virtually. For 2021, 19 partners were chosen for awards in 16 categories. Tourism employees were chosen for a special award for their service as part of the Vande Bharat Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-to-come-up-with-new-tourism-policy/article36677187.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State logs 248 new COVID cases||Telangana recorded another 248 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 6,64,898. While 52,702 samples were put to test, results of 1,500 were awaited. The new infections included 66 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 21 from Karimnagar, and 18 from Rangareddy. Zero cases were recorded in Narayanpet. One more COVID patient died. With this, the death toll has reached 3,912. So far, a total of 2,61,57,678 samples have been tested. Of the total cases, 4,701 were active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-logs-248-covid-cases/article36677176.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pat for IIL work on Covaxin drug substance||Indian Immunologicals (IIL) has supplied 2 million doses of Covaxin drug substance to Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of the indigenously developed vaccine against COVID-19, and is set to scale up the production. It will be making 3 million doses of the drug substance a month and from December increase the production to 10 million doses, IIL said on Friday in a release on the visit of Union Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Minister Parshottam Rupala to its facility in Hyderabad. The Centre had earlier this year mooted a partnership between the two competitors as a measure to enhance production and availability of Covaxin. IIL had formally handed over the first lot of Covaxin drug substance to Bharat Biotech in mid-August. Lauding IIL’s efforts in rolling out the vaccine drug substance in record time, Mr.Rupala said “it was heartening to see that two competing organisations coming together for a noble cause.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pat-for-iil-work-on-covaxin-drug-substance/article36677428.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Security guard held with illegal double barrel rifle||A 38-year-old security guard was apprehended by Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone) police on Saturday for illegally possessing a double barrel rifle. Rajaram Singh from Mirzapur in Bihar also managed to get a fake gun licence. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao, apprehended Singh and seized a double barrel breech loaded rifle, 15 live cartridges (12 bore live cartridges) and the fake gun licence from him. “He migrated to Hyderabad in search of livelihood as a security guard and learnt that ex-servicemen were getting high salaries with gun licences and firearms,” OSD (Task Force) P Radhakishan Rao said. Taking undue advantage of the demand for ex-servicemen for security guard roles, the accused hatched a plan to get fake arms licence through mediators for doing guard job, he said. “As per his plan, a few years back he met one agent Sonu Pandey from Bihar and through him he obtained a fake licence by paying Rs. 15,000 for the process and stamped on the name of Dy. Commissioner of Police, Lucknow, and later he purchased a DBBL rifle for Rs. 25,000,” he said. Since then he has been performing security guard jobs in the various companies through security services in Jharkhand and Bihar. The agent also renewed the licence multiple times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/security-guard-held-with-illegal-double-barrel-rifle/article36677191.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS Aviation Academy bags Aero Club of India trophy||Telangana State Aviation Academy (TSAA) has bagged the Aero Club of India Rolling trophy as the best performing flying club at the event held on September 21. Minister’s pat Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy congratulated the team that called on him on Saturday. TSAA chief executive officer and secretary S.N. Reddy handed the trophy won by the Telangana team to the Minister. Secretary general of Aero Club of India Cap. Anisha Suresh stated that the trophy was instituted in 2003 and 21 flying training clubs from across the country were members of the aero club. The member clubs were providing ab-initio training services to aviation pilots and engineers. Second and third positions at the event were won by government aviation clubs. Legislator Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy, Special Chief Secretary Sunil Sharma, and Special Secretary Viziyendira Boyi also complimented the TSAA team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-aviation-academy-bags-aero-club-of-india-trophy/article36677172.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City firm raises Rs. 200 cr.||Solar PV cells and module manufacturing company Premier Energies has raised Rs. 200 crore from GEF Capital Partners, a global private equity manager focused on investing in climate solutions. Announcing the investment, the city-based firm said it will use the funds to enhance the solar PV cell and module manufacturing capacity. In July, it inaugurated a Rs. 483-crore manufacturing unit near here with a capacity to produce 750 MW solar cell and 750 MW solar module. The firm had then also outlined plans to invest Rs. 1,200 crore for creating 2GW capacity manufacturing facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-firm-raises-rs-200-cr/article36677426.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||E-com logistics firm to hire 1,000 workforce||Logistics solutions provider, Ecom Express, plans to engage over 1,000 gig workforce as independent delivery partners to handle the upcoming e-commerce festive season shipment load in key cities and districts in Telangana. Any individual — fresher or experienced — can take up this part-time job by applying online using Ecom Sanjeev app. They will have flexibility to choose their preferred time slots and workdays. The candidate must have passed 10th standard and should possess a valid driving licence with two, three or four-wheeler and must have a smartphone. All personal documents for enrolment can be uploaded through the app and the verification will be done at the nearest Ecom Express centre, the firm said. EVP and CHRO Saurabh Deep Singla said the pandemic has pushed more traditional workers towards the gig working culture, especially in the current times when the country is trying to revive its economy. Announcing launch of Ecom Sanjeev delivery partner programme, he said it will add tremendous value in not only helping communities wade through the crisis and provide them opportunities to earn but also enable the company to perform seamless end-to-end last mile distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1000-delivery-partners-to-be-hired/article36677183.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP to oppose handing over of land to TIMS||The BJP will lead an agitation involving the entire sports fraternity to oppose the State government’s move to hand over about five acres of land on the Gachibowli Sports Complex to TIMS, BJP MLA M. Raghunandan Rao said on Saturday. “We strongly condemn this move as this will deprive athletes of the world class training facilities that have come up at the place, thanks to funding by the Central government to the then State government to host the 2002 National Games and the 2003 Afro Asian Games,” Mr. Rao informed the media here. Referring to poor sports infrastructure in the State, Mr. Rao said that after taking over as president of the Telangana Gymnastics Association, he was shocked to see the young talent train under a leaking roof at Saroornagar Indoor Stadium. “No funds are being released for any maintenance,” he said. He also questioned the motive behind encouraging senior IAS officer Jayesh Ranjan to head the Telangana Olympic Association. “It is unfortunate that the officer was yet to be given a NOC by the Chief Secretary even after getting elected as TOA president nearly 20 months ago.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-to-oppose-handing-over-of-land-to-tims/article36677192.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Charitable trust inaugurated||Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao reiterated his commitment to health, education and skill enhancement for a better Telangana at the inauguration of Dr GSR Charitable Trust here on Saturday. The trust has been set up in the memory of G. Suryanarayana Rao, the DPH’s father who passed away due to COVID-19 last year. The inauguration marked his first death anniversary. Principal Secretary of Health S.A.M. Rizvi and TSRTC managing director V.C. Sajjanar were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/charitable-trust-inaugurated/article36677177.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||OU student bags prestigious fellowship||A Ph.D student of the Department of English, Osmania University, has bagged doctoral fellowship of Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education (MGNCRE), and is the only student from the two Telugu states to have achieved it this year. Sayire Thirupathi is also one among four to have been selected from south India among the 20 shortlisted from across the country. The fellowship seeks the selected person to become a resource person to enable language skills and to create employability among rural students using Information and Communication Technologies. MGNCRE is part of the Department of Education of the Central government. Mr. Thirupathi hails from Kumaram Bheem-Asifabad district. He hadearlier completed a project titled ‘Developing Employability and Empowerment among Tribes through Life Skills’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ou-student-bags-prestigious-fellowship/article36677178.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nepali couple held for servant theft||A couple from Nepal were arrested by the Cyberabad police in connection with a house-breaking offence. Police recovered 1.1 kg of stolen gold ornaments and Rs. 7.23 lakh in cash from their possession. The accused were identified as Lanka Bahadur Sahi, 32, a watchman, and his wife Khadke Pavithra, 26, a maid servant, native of Palchor village in Kalikot district of Nepal. They were arrested near Solapur Railway station in Maharashtra. The couple were working at a house in Gachibowli, and last week they stole the booty from the house and fled. Meanwhile, in a another unrelated incident, a house burglar was apprehended by the sleuths of the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North Zone). Eleven tolas of stolen gold ornaments and Rs. 6 lakh were recovered from his possession. The accused was identified as Mohammad Shoiab alias Ilayas (23) from Begumpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nepali-couple-held-for-servant-theft/article36677185.ece
26 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Effort to familiarise oil palm farmers with best practices||In order to acquaint small and medium farmers of Khammam district with the scientific methods of oil palm cultivation and processing of fresh fruit bunches (FFBs) for extracting palm oil, the Horticulture Department organised a study tour for about 100 farmers to various oil palm plantations in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district on Saturday. Study tour G Anasuya, District Horticulture and Sericulture Officer, Khammam, flagged off the study tour here on Saturday morning. The participants of the study tour hailing from various mandals in Khammam district interacted with oil palm growers of Dammapeta and Aswaraopet mandals during their visit to oil palm plantations in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district later in the day. They also visited the TSOILFED’s oil palm factory at Apparaopeta in Dammapeta mandal and the oil palm nursery in Aswaraopet mandal as part of the study tour. They were familiarised with the best management practices in oil palm cultivation, extraction of palm oil from FFBs and the enormous potential of oil palm cultivation for sustainable income, sources said. The participants were apprised of the renewed efforts by the government to give a fillip to oil palm cultivation by offering subsidies to farmers and also reduce the country’s dependence on edible oil imports. They were accompanied by Horticulture Officers G Sandeep Kumar, A Venu, P Aparna and Meenakshi, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/effort-to-familiarise-oil-palm-farmers-with-best-practices/article36677433.ece
26 September 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav||MLA M. Padma Devender Reddy spoke on patriotism and respect for elders and parents during the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ held at the district headquarters on Saturday. She stressed on the importance of non-violence and said that even Telangana was achieved through that. The programme was jointly organised by Nehru Yuva Kendra and District Youth and Sports departments. As part of the programme, a 75-metre national flag was carried in the 2K run with placards of 75 freedom fighters in which students and NCC cadets took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav/article36677202.ece
26 September 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||‘VaccineOnWheels’ reaches remotest areas||The Centre for Healthcare Entrepreneurship, IIT Hyderabad’s incubated startup, VaccineOnWheels, introduced India’s first doctor-based mobile vaccination clinic in 2019, in association with IITH, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, and CfHE. With the vision to reduce inequality and increase immunisation reach, VaccineOnWheels takes vaccination facility near to communities, giving higher convenience while ensuring access to everybody. The contribution of VaccineOnWheels in India’s COVID-19 immunisation drive is commendable. VaccineOnWheels in association with Rotary Club of Pune Central, NGOs & CSR partners have administered more than 2 lakh doses of COVID- vaccination to underprivileged people in partnership with the Government of Maharashtra, NGOs & CSR partners, under this unique public-private partnership (PPP). Recently, VaccineOnWheels has partnered with the Government of Telangana to support the State’s COVID-19 immunisation drive with 50 mobile vaccination clinics to vaccinate 1 million plus marginalised population by reaching the unreached. Congratulating the team on this novel partnership with the Telangana government, Prof. B.S. Murty, Director of IITH, said: The innovative and first of its kind approach by VaccineOnWheels to vaccinate India’s unreached population is the need of the hour for both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 vaccination. VaccineOnWheels and team have already saved more than 2 lakh lives and will indeed save millions in the coming months. This innovation and partnership has demonstrated IITH’s calibre to serve the healthcare sector and thereby society at large. Expressing happiness on this partnership with the State government, Jignesh Patel, founder & CEO of VaccineOnWheels, said: With the incubation support of CfHE & IITH, we have got an opportunity to serve the society’s most vulnerable population. In our drive to immunise marginalised population, many corporates and NGO partners have come forward to support India’s COVID-19 immunisation drive. Our PPP model will enable stakeholder collaboration across industries under CSR, government, and NGOs to share a commitment in making available vaccination services even at grass-root levels. The organisation aims to immunise over 1 million Indians in a span of next six months. Rotary Club of Pune Central (RCPC) has come forward and supported VaccineOnWheels to associate with CSR partners, other Rotary Clubs along with other NGOs, and individual donors. President of RCPC, Amitabha Mukhopadhyay, said: Getting vaccines to people who do not have adequate access is the need of the hour. Rotary has played a very active role in polio vaccination drive for a long time. It is proud a moment for RCPC and VaccineOnWheels as our association helped more than 2 lakh marginalised population get vaccinated in Maharashtra. Jointly with our corporate donors and other Rotary Clubs, the RCPC will continue to support VOW in this very important and urgent endeavour in taking vaccination services within Telangana and other States in the country. VOW creates hospital-like sterile setups near communities to provide vaccination services. Community-based mobile vaccination clinic will help India in achieving higher immunisation penetration by getting faster acceptance towards vaccination, giving higher convenience with reduced cost of seeking service with zero travel cost, zero travel time, lost wages, and many more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccineonwheels-reaches-remotest-areas/article36677430.ece
26 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Gudatipally farmers demand fair compensation||Farmers of Gudatipally in Akkannapet mandal of Husnabad revenue division were not ready to part with their land for Gouravelli reservoir if they do not get a proper compensation. They made this clear in a meeting held by Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy and attended by MLA V. Sathish Kumar. “Pay us the right compensation and only then acquire land from us,” was what the farmers told the officials in the three-hour meeting held at Siddipet Collectorate on Friday evening. The government has taken up redesigning of irrigation projects in the State in 2015 after the formation of Telangana State. As part of that, the capacity of 1.41 tmc ft project was redesigned and enhanced to 8.23 tmc ft. The government has acquired 2,200 acres in 2009 followed by 1967.18 acres in second phase and another 272 acres in present phase. The oustees have been demanding that they should be paid a compensation of Rs. 15 lakh per acre and for structures and trees to be removed. They recalled how the oustees of Vemulaghat under Mallannasagar were compensated to the tune of Rs. 11 lakh in December 2018 and now, “after three years the amount should considerably be increased”. “The Collector and MLA told us that they can only offer Rs. 11.5 lakh per acre. They also made it clear that paying beyond the promised amount was not in their hands and they are helpless. Stating that their offer is not acceptable to us, we have walked out of the meeting,” said farmers Baddam Raji Reddy and B. Yella Reddy. Over 140 youth of the village, who attended the meeting, said that they were offered Rs. 2 lakh as compensation along with the youth of Mid Manair and Yellampally in 2015 but the amount was not paid so far. Hence, they should be paid compensation on the lines of what was extended to the youth ousted due to the Mallannasagar project. For this also, the Collector reportedly expressed his inability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gudatipally-farmers-demand-fair-compensation/article36677200.ece
26 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Take all steps to prevent viral fevers: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon officials and public representatives to take all steps to prevent viral fevers and dengue-related cases. In a tele-conference with officials and public representatives here on Saturday, Mr. Rao said that there should be a special drive in municipalities on Sunday without fail. “Municipal chairpersons, councillors and officials should take part in the programme in addition to making people taking part in the effort. Create awareness among people in regard to viral fevers. Special teams should focus on these issues under the supervision of Additional Collector," he said. The officers were directed to take up fogging and see to it that water is not stocked in tyres, pits and flower pots. They were also suggested to use water balls to arrest larva. Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy urged officials to visit every house during the special drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/take-all-steps-to-prevent-viral-fevers-harish-rao/article36677431.ece
26 September 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Call to form village women safety teams||Taking a critical view of the functioning of women protection and enforcement agencies in preventing crimes in the State and across the country, senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Mallu Swarajyam said that village-level women protection teams should be formed. In addition to strict implementation of women-related laws, she said that an immediate ban must be placed on liquor and narcotic substance abuse to arrest crimes against women. Speaking at the All India Democratic Women’s Association’s State meeting here on Saturday, nonagenarian Swarajyam unveiled the movement’s flag and deliberated on the need for immediate actions to prevent future crimes against children and women. She said women must be sufficiently trained for their economic empowerment, self-defence techniques and for protection of villages. She said they should draw inspiration from the many women of the Telangana People’s Armed Struggle. “Mahila Rakshana Dalalu should also be paid an allowance. Adolescents and women in villages must be trained in self-defence techniques,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-form-village-women-safety-teams/article36677186.ece
26 September 2021||Tirumala,TELANGANA||Free darshan tickets booked in a flash||The unprecedented demand for darshan tickets of Lord Venkateswara continued for the second consecutive day on Saturday when the ‘Sarva darshan’ tickets provided by the TTD were booked in a flash. About 2.79 lakh free darshan tickets were made available to the devotees online (8,000 tickets per day) for the period from September 26 to October 31. But in a record of sorts, all the tokens were exhausted within 30 minutes of their release. The tickets were made available to the devotees by employing cloud management technology with the assistance of Reliance Jio. Unaware of the fact that the TTD had stopped issuance of offline darshan tickets at its counters in Tirupati, the pilgrims who had already reached the temple town in large numbers thronged every available internet cafe resulting in serpentine queues at some centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-darshan-tickets-booked-in-a-flash/article36677170.ece
26 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,TELANGANA||8 districts in AP report no COVID death in 24 hours||The State reported seven more deaths due to COVID-19 and 1,167 more infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The cumulative toll and tally reached 14,125 and 20,45,657  respectively. The number of active cases further came down to 13,208  as 1,487 patients recovered in the past day. The recovery rate stands at 98.66% while the total recoveries increased to 20,18,324. The daily test positivity continues to be over 2%. Of the 55,307 tests conducted in the past day 2.11% turned positivity. The overall test positivity rate of the 2.8 crore tests conducted was 7.30%. Krishna and Prakasam districts reported two more deaths each in the past day while East Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam reported one death each. Eight districts reported no death in the past day. East Godavari reported 224 more infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (167), Nellore (141), Prakasam (130), West Godavari (121), Krishna (113), Guntur (110), Kadapa (91), Visakhapatnam (37), Srikakulam (12), Anantapur (11), Kurnool (9) and Vizianagaram (1). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,90,482), Chittoor (2,43,121), West Godavari (1,77,330), Guntur (1,75,447), Anantapur (1,57,550), Visakhapatnam (1,56,444), Nellore (1,44,431), Prakasam (1,36,765), Kurnool (1,24,007), Srikakulam (1,22,637), Krishna (1,17,057), Kadapa (1,14,764) and Vizianagaram (82,727).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eight-districts-report-no-covid-19-death-in-24-hours-1167-new-infections/article36677381.ece
26 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||BKU will remain apolitical, says Tikait||The poll pundits are watching which way the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) would tilt during the upcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. In an interview with The Hindu , Rakesh Tikait, BKU national spokesperson, said the union would remain apolitical and that he had no political ambitions. “We are farmers and not into politics. Those who will work for their interests, farmers will elect them on their own,” he said. There are indications that the U.P. government would increase the State Advisory Price (SAP) of sugarcane soon. Mr. Tikait said the BJP would try to distract farmers before the polls. “The party promised Rs. 370 [per quintal] before the 2017 polls. Even if they increase the SAP after four years, the party has a lot to answer. Considering the inflation, the farmers would not settle for less than Rs. 425,” he said. Refusing to take credit for mounting the farmers’ movement in western Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Tikait said the BKU would continue to work as a pressure group to keep a check on the promises made by political parties to the farmers. “The movement has given an opportunity to Opposition parties to become the face of farmers. How will it pan out, I don’t know. I have no political ambition,” he said. Baghpat event Describing the ritual ceremony of former Rashtriya Lok Dal president Ajit Singh in Baghpat as a “social event”, he said political meanings should not be drawn out of his elder brother and BKU president Naresh Tikait’s presence at the event last week. “You will not see me sharing the political stage with Jayant (Chaudhary) or any political leader. We pay tributes to Chaudhary Devi Lal on his birth anniversary as well but that doesn’t mean we are politically aligned with the Indian National Lok Dal.” On the notion that the BKU cadre would put its weight behind the RLD, Mr. Tikait said there were many in the movement who would eventually vote for the BJP. “There are many who render all support to the movement but I know they will go with the BJP because of local pressures. If the government decides to increase the sugarcane price, it will benefit all farmers, not farmers of a particular caste or religion.” However, he didn’t rule out the possibility of members of the Tikait family entering the fray. “I can guarantee only about my vote. I can’t assure you of even my wife’s.” From raising religious slogans to talking about pensions for personnel of paramilitary forces and permanent jobs for sanitation workers, Mr. Tikait, in his speeches, gives an impression that he is seeking space in the political arena. The movement, he said, had become like a train, where different bogies represent different social classes. “The movement has given us a platform to reach out to them and foster social amity. The Constitution gives us permission to raise religious chants. After the Muzaffarnagar mahapanchayat, Muslim farmers tolled bells in temples. Can the BJP make them do this?” he said. “We have realised the Muzaffarnagar riots were sponsored by the BJP.” Referring to the tension between Gurjars and Rajputs over Samrat Mihir Bhoj’s statue and the mahapanchayat called by Gathwala khap of Jats in Muzaffarnagar on Sunday, Mr. Tikait said the ruling party was at it again. “They have a specialised wing that works on dividing people, while we seek to mend ties,” he said. Mr. Tikait said farm unions were keen to talk if the government was ready to discuss a law that guaranteed the MSP to farmers. “This government lies to the public. When they put the condition that the laws would not be revoked, we said as the farm laws are currently suspended, we could talk on the MSP law, but there was no response.” On the practicality of the MSP law in a free-market economy, he said when the business houses could put a price tag on their products and the law backs it, why can’t farmers get even an assured minimum price on their produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bku-will-remain-apolitical-says-tikait/article36677085.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Resume classes for primary section, middle school’||A group of parents and schoolteachers staged a protest outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Saturday demanding resumption of schools for students of primary section and Classes VI to VIII. Delhi State Public Schools Management Association chief R.C. Jain said the government had said they would analyse the situation after reopening schools for Classes IX to XII and then decide on reopening further.  ‘No COVID case in schools’ “It has been close to a month and there has been no COVID-19 case reported from any school. Even the positivity rate in Delhi is below 0.1%,” said Mr. Jain. “We demand schools be reopened not only for Classes VI to VIII but also for primary classes. If there is a change in the current scenario, they can be closed again,” he said. Following an improvement in the COVID-19 situation, the Delhi government had, last month announced that schools for Classes IX to XII, colleges and coaching institutions would reopen from September 1 but only at 50% seating capacity. The Delhi government had clarified that no student would be forced to attend physical classes and the consent of parents would be mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/resume-classes-for-primary-section-middle-school/article36677066.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Officials to visit kin of 25,000 COVID-19 victims||The Delhi government on Saturday directed officials to visit the families of around 25,000 people who have died due to COVID-19, to inform them about the ‘Mukhyamantri COVID-19 Parivar Arthik Sahayata Yojna’. The exercise should be completed in seven days, and during these visits officials should help families of the deceased to fill out application for the compensation, an order said. Under the relief scheme, a one-time compensation of Rs. 50,000 will be given to a family if they have lost a member due to COVID-19. A monthly assistance of Rs. 2,500 will also be given to specific categories. To create awareness about the scheme, the Revenue Department has taken over a call centre under the Administrative Reforms Department, as per another order. About 8,000 applications have been received so far for the compensation, according to official data. Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the results of the serological survey that was started earlier this week will be out in two weeks. Serological survey “The sample collection will take one week and the results will take another week,” the Health Minister said, while urging people to wear masks and take proper precautions while stepping out of their homes. A serological survey is done to find out the percentage of the population that has developed antibodies against COVID-19, either through natural infection or vaccination. The government aims to collect 28,000 random blood samples from all 272 wards of the city for the survey. Meanwhile, the city reported no new COVID-19 deaths over 24 hours for the eighth consecutive day. The death toll remains at 25,085. The Capital also recorded 27 new cases in a single day, taking the tally to 14,38,685. There are only 379 active cases in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/officials-to-visit-kin-of-25000-covid-19-victims/article36677078.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Lawyers stay away from work in all district courts||Lawyers abstained from work in all district courts in Delhi on Saturday demanding better security on court premises, a day after gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi and his two assailants were killed in a shoot-out inside a courtroom in Rohini. No work happened in district courts except urgent matters such as bail and custody extension as lawyers did not appear before the judges, said Sanjeev Nasiar, spokesperson of the Coordination Committee of all District Courts Bar Associations in Delhi. The courts, however, passed orders and judgments that were already scheduled for Saturday. The strike was called by the committee seeking modification of security norms at the district courts. Mr. Nasiar said a team of lawyers also met the Delhi Police Commissioner on Saturday to discuss security matters. Advocate Manjeet Mathur, secretary of the Rohini District Courts Bar Association, said the strike was peaceful. ‘Police action saved lives’ According to the FIR lodged in the shoot-out case, Sub-Inspector Vir Singh, who was part of the security team engaged in the exchange of fire, said in his statement: “Several innocent people could have lost their lives if there was no immediate police retaliation against the two armed assailants... the duo was firing indiscriminately, it was not possible for the police to nab them physically.” Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) is enquiring into the incident, while the case is being handled by the Crime Branch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lawyers-stay-away-from-work-in-all-district-courts/article36677071.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Illegal sale of liquor will increase, warn traders||The closing of about 260 private-run liquor shops in the city from October 1 will result in heavy black-marketing of liquor because of shortage of supply, warned Delhi Liquor Traders’ Association on Saturday. According to the new excise policy, the Delhi government will pull out of liquor trade in the city and private players, who won new bids for liquor stores, will open from November 17. But from October 1 to November 16, only government-run stores will operate in the city. Naresh Goel, president of the traders’ association, said they had raised the issue with the Delhi government but have not got a reply so far. When contacted, Excise Commissioner Arava Gopi Krishnan said, “The government is taking all steps for the smooth sale of liquor in Delhi.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/illegal-sale-of-liquor-will-increase-warn-traders/article36677067.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Women DCPs to head 6 out of 15 police districts||Delhi Police will now have women Deputy Commissioners of Police in six out of 15 districts in the Capital. Among them, three are already serving in their respective districts. According to an order issued on Saturday, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal transferred 11 Special Commissioners of Police and 28 Deputy Commissioners of Police and additional DCPs. The order stated that 2010-batch IPS officer Benita Marry Jaiker, who is currently serving as the DCP of the Seventh Battalion, has been transferred as DCP South. Shweta Chauhan (2010), serving as DCP of Headquarters, has been transferred to DCP Central. Esha Pandey (2010), DCP, Police Control Room, has been transferred as DCP, South East district. Three DCPs — Usha Rangnani, Priyanka Kashyap and Urvija Goel — have already been posted in the North West, East and West districts. In another first, three IPS officers — Rajeev Ranjan, Jasmeet Singh and Ingit Pratap Singh — have been transferred as DCP, Special Cell, from their respective districts Outer North, Central and South West.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/women-dcps-to-head-6-out-of-15-police-districts/article36677068.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 arrests made in Gogi case||Two persons have been arrested in connection with the shoot-out inside Rohini court on Friday in which gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi was shot dead. The arrests have been made by the Delhi Police Special Cell. The two accused are said to have hel-ped the assailants — Rahul and Jagdeep — who killed Gogi. The two assailants were associates of Gogi’s rival Tillu Tajpur. Further investigation is under way, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-arrests-made-in-gogi-case/article36677064.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||BJP’s tribute to Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya||The Delhi BJP on Saturday organised several programmes in the city to celebrate the 105th birth anniversary of Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri distributed ration at several places in his Badarpur Assembly constituency. “It was the motto of Pt. Upadhyaya that work should be done for the upliftment of the poor,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjps-tribute-to-pandit-deendayal-upadhyaya/article36677072.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Dance of the Lamas||The serene and the sacred seamlessly meet in Benoy K. Behl’s documentary, Dance of Liberation of the Lamas, that captures the spiritual experience of the Cham. The filmmaker and art historian recently gave a talk on the dance form at an online event organised by the India Habitat Centre. According to Behl, the Cham is one of the very few living examples of the role of dance in ancient India both from the point of view of the practitioner and also the society for which it is performed. Tracing its origins, the seasoned art historian and filmmaker says, “The Yogachara School of Buddhism was founded in Kashmir in the 4th century by Asanga and Vasubandhu. This developed into the sophisticated Vajrayana form of Buddhism, which incorporated the Cham dance. From Ladakh till Mongolia, the Cham is the deepest form of meditation of the Lamas.” The purpose of this meditation is for the Lama (priest) to be able to free himself entirely from his own ephemeral personality. “He selects a deity upon whom to meditate until the qualities of the deity grow within him and fill him completely. At that point, he is no longer the Lama ji , but has become the deity,” says Behl.  Unique cultural tradition   The film captures the social connection between the Lamas and the people. Behl points out that most of the dance traditions have lost their true purpose of spiritual awakening and have become mere stage performances. “Therefore, the Cham is a unique and important cultural tradition, which reminds us of the philosophic purpose of all Indian dance forms.” Behl was introduced to Cham about 30 years ago and it was after 15 years of research that he shot the documentary for Doordarshan. To capture the drama of the dance, he began to shoot it sitting very close to the feet of the dancing monks. “In the film, you will notice the robes of the Lamas brushing past my camera’s lens. During one such shoot, a few years ago, the sword of a dancing Lama came down on me, as he probably could not see through his mask. Fortunately, it hit the microphone mounted on top of the camera and I escaped unhurt,” laughs Behl. Every dance form has a story behind it that captures its essence. Cham is no different. According to Behl, the people of Tibet and those who lived in the Indian part of the Himalayas believed that evil spirits resided in the mountains and in the winds. This fear prevented them from accepting the compassionate message of Buddhism. Guru Padmasambhava studied at the renowned Nalanda University, where he imbibed the knowledge of Tantric philosophy and rituals. “He used Cham to destroy the evil forces. Till today, he is revered in the entire Himalayan region.” The Lamas celebrate the victory of good over evil with two days of the monastic dance. Cham begins in the morning with the appearance of Lhalung Paldor. In the ninth century, King Langdarma had persecuted Buddhists. The monk, Lhalung Paldor, disguised as a black hat dancer, came close to the king and killed him with an arrow. The event is celebrated in all the monasteries of the trans-Himalayas as the majestic Black Hat Dance. Cham looks simple but carries deep layers in every twirl of the Lama. In Vajrayana Buddhism, says Behl, evil is not something outside of ourselves. “It is our own ego, our attachment to the illusory world around. It is subdued and transformed through prayers and finally through the experience of the Cham.” The costumes and masks are an integral part of the dance. “The masks are used to cover the ordinary, day-to-day nature of men and present qualities of divinity in them. So there are masks with peaceful and evil expressions. Finally, both symbolise the emptiness of the ultimate nature of all appearances,” notes Behl. All sounds in the Cham are sacred mantras. The drum is a reminder of the deep sound at the beginning of creation and at the moment of the Buddha’s enlightenment. “Music is presented as an offering to the divine. It elevates the mind to a contemplative state,” says Behl. Once a great tradition that was practised in Ladakh, Lahaul, Spiti, Kinnaur, Tibet, southern China, and Mongolia, today Cham has been kept alive at annual celebrations in parts of Ladakh and Spiti. “In places frequented by tourists, the dance has lost its original character and meaning and has become a form of entertainment,” rues Behl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dance-of-the-lamas/article36677075.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Days before shoot-out, court security was reviewed||Over two weeks ago, a security review of each of the seven district courts in Delhi was conducted under the chairmanship of a judge from each court, it has been learnt. One of the corrective suggestions made during the review was frisking and checking of lawyers on the court premises. The shoot-out inside courtroom number 207 of the Rohini court complex, wherein dreaded gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi was shot dead on Friday, has raised questions over the security arrangements in courts, especially district courts where incidents of criminals walking in with weapons have often been reported. The security apparatus of courts is such that all seven district courts are to be protected by the district police, whereas the High Court and the Supreme Court are under the protection of Delhi Police’s separate security unit. The periphery of the HC and the SC, however, is protected by New Delhi district officers. Each district court has a security committee, which is headed by an Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) who liaises with the police team deployed on the premises. It has been learnt that the Rohini court complex has the least number of CCTV cameras as compared to other district courts. Rohini has 90 CCTV cameras installed out of which one isn’t functional; Saket and Karkardooma have 774 and 713 CCTV cameras respectively, Patiala House Court has 135, Tis Hazari as over 240, Dwarka has over 180 and Rouse Avenue has over 150. There are no CCTV cameras inside courtrooms, it has been learnt. SC took cognisance After the murder of a judge in Dhanbad in July this year, the Supreme Court took suo motu cognisance of the security of judges and court premises. In view of the proceedings of the apex court, security reviews were conducted for all the courts in Delhi. Police sources said that senior officers of the district, a designated member of the High Court, officials of the Public Works Department, district judges, members of the security committees of courts were present in the meetings. It has been learnt that during the meeting on security arrangements in Rohini court, the point about checking and frisking of advocates was made. “We raised our concern over how advocates should agree to checking of their ID cards and frisking to ensure no riff-raff enters the premises,” an official privy to the meeting said. In Dwarka court’s security review meeting, four major point were raised. The first point: advocates should be checked at entry and exit gates. Second, lawyers’ chambers should be shut after 6 p.m. Third, advocates should be given passes — stickers for their vehicles — and no one else should be allowed in their cars apart from the lawyers. Fourth, cooperation of lawyers for checking must be ensured. “Lawyers’ chambers are open till late night and clients keep coming. In all the district courts, lawyers don’t allow checking of their chambers. Weapons and alcohol can be easily brought in,” an official said. In Karkardooma court’s meeting, similar concerns were raised. Rouse Avenue, officials said, runs smooth as compared to other courts because it’s a specialised court with much less numbers of courtrooms. “Problem only arises when there’s a crowd,” an official said. A senior police officer said that compliance towards getting frisked is a lot more in HC and SC as compared to the lower courts. A senior officer said the solution to ensure adequate security at lower courts is to install Radio Frequency Identification machines and designated gates for lawyers. “Facial Recognition System needs to be installed to check for criminals entering the premises. Under vehicle sca-nning systems should be installed. And most importantly, security of courts should be given to CISF,” he said. Senior advocate Vikas Singh said the police are lying about lawyers not being ready to get their IDs checked and it is their “callous attitude” that is to be blamed. “This shoot-out is the result of huge intelligence failure. Police deployment had been increased since morning. A high-risk prisoner was coming. The police should have known what his rivals were planning,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/days-before-shoot-out-court-security-was-reviewed/article36677070.ece
26 September 2021||Washington,||Quad to counter Afghan-origin terror||From detailing commitments on COVID-19 vaccines and climate to launching a new infrastructure partnership, the Quad Leaders Summit, which met in person for the first time, announced a wide range of deliverables. The group, comprising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, U.S. President Joe Biden and Prime Ministers Scott Morrison of Australia and Yoshihide Suga of Japan, also declared new joint positions in the region, such as coordinating diplomatically in Afghanistan. In their joint statement, Quad leaders declared they would closely coordinate their “diplomatic, economic and human rights policies” towards Afghanistan and deepen their counter-terrorism and humanitarian cooperation there in accordance with United Nations Security Council 2593 (a resolution passed on August 30, when India held the presidency of the Council). The resolution seeks a negotiated settlement in Afghanistan and calls for the country not to be used as a base to nurture terrorism. “We reaffirm that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterate the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan,” the Quad statement said. ‘Terrorist proxies’ “We denounce the use of terrorist proxies and emphasise the importance of denying any logistical, financial or military support to terrorist groups which could be used to launch or plan terror attacks, including cross-border attacks,” it said, making a thinly veiled reference to Pakistan. The four leaders and their delegations met in the East Room of the White House. The meeting lasted a little over two hours. Both Mr. Morrison and Mr. Suga engaged with the press on Friday. In terms of new positions, the Quad also declared its support for the European Union’s September 2021 Indo-Pacific Strategy. The announcement earlier this month of a Australia-U.K.-U.S. security partnership in the Indo-Pacific (AUKUS) had gone down badly with France, a key EU nation. Reuters reported that Mr. Suga had welcomed, during the Quad meeting, the announcement on AUKUS. he Quad called on North Korea to engage in substantive dialogue and for “an end to the violence in Myanmar”. It declared its support for early restoration of democracy in Myanmar and the release of all political detainees, including foreigners. On climate, the Quad countries intend to “update or communicate ambitious NDCs (Nationally Defined Contributions, i.e., climate action targets) “before COP26, the UN climate conference in Glasgow a little over a month from now. It says countries will work with the “intent” to get to net zero emissions “preferably” by 2050 “taking into account national circumstances”. India has not yet made formal commitments for COP26 or committed to achieving net zero by 2050. Vaccine supply In terms of vaccines, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that India would begin supplying Johnson & Johnson/Janssen COVID-19 vaccines, with 8 million doses being made available by the end of October from (Telengana-based) pharma company Biological E Ltd. The Quad also “welcomed” India’s resumption of vaccine exports, as per the joint statement. The group plans to produce at least 1 billion India manufactured vaccines by the end of 2022 in addition to pledging more than 1.2 billion vaccines globally (the U.S. accounts for about 1.1 billion of these). The group will also prepare for future pandemics – and conduct at least one preparedness tabletop or exercise in 2022. The Quad also launched a new infrastructure partnership – which would involve mapping the region’s infrastructure needs and providing technical assistance and evaluation tools for projects. This, the statement said, would work with the Blue Dot Network – a U.S. , Australia and Japan’s private sector-led infrastructure effort in the region to counter China’s Belt and Road Initiative. Other initiatives include cooperation on ‘transparent 5G and beyond-5G networks’, cyberspace and space.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/quad-to-counter-afghan-origin-terror/article36676557.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||China frees 2 Canadians after Huawei deal||For months, China’s government had insisted that the more than 1,000-day imprisonment of Canadians Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor was not, as Canada had alleged, a case of “hostage diplomacy”. The two Canadians were detained in 2018, shortly after Canada’s arrest of top Huawei executive Meng Wangzhou at Vancouver airport, based on a U.S. warrant, under the then Trump administration, accusing the Chinese telecom company of violating Iran sanctions. Yet, for all of China’s insistent claims that the cases were unrelated, the detention of the two Canadians came to a sudden end on Saturday, barely hours after Ms. Meng was released after the United States Department of Justice reached a deal regarding the criminal charges, agreeing to a deferred prosecution and for her to leave Canada. Shortly after Ms. Meng left Vancouver airport in the company of Chinese officials and boarded a charter flight to China organised by the government, Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that the “two Michaels” were going home, bringing an end to a case that had severely disrupted Canada-China relations and led to allegations of Beijing taking “hostages” to push for the release of Ms. Meng, who is also the daughter of Huawei founder Ren Zhengfei. Meng’s return hailed Her release and return home was widely cheered by the media in China and framed as a major diplomatic win showing China standing up to the U.S. The retaliatory cases against the two Michaels was only a footnote. The Foreign Ministry, in a statement, said “facts have long proved that this is a political persecution against a Chinese citizen with the aim to oppress China’s high-tech companies.” “The ‘fraud’ accusations against Ms. Meng are nothing but fabrication. Even HSBC, which is named as a “victim” by the U.S., has issued documents proving Ms. Meng’s innocence. What the United States and Canada are doing is typical arbitrary detention,” the statement said. The U.S. statement, announcing the deal that allowed for Ms. Meng’s release, said she had “made multiple material misrepresentations to a senior executive of a financial institution regarding Huawei’s business operations in Iran in an effort to preserve Huawei’s banking relationship with the financial institution… Meng’s admissions confirm the crux of the government’s allegations in the prosecution of this financial fraud,” the statement said. In August, Mr. Spavor had been sentenced to 11 years in prison and convicted “of spying on China’s national secrets”. Mr. Kovrig’s trial opened in March and he was still awaiting a verdict, although already detained for more than 1,000 days. The Party-run Global Times said Mr. Kovrig “was accused of using an ordinary passport and business visa to enter China to steal sensitive information and intelligence through contacts in China since 2017, while Spavor was accused of being a key source of intelligence for Kovrig.” While the two men were kept in harsh conditions in a Chinese prison, Ms. Meng, on the other hand, awaited her verdict out on bail, spent mostly in a mansion in Vancouver that she owned. “These two men have gone through an unbelievably difficult ordeal. For the past 1,000 days they have shown strife, perseverance, resilience, and grace — and we are all inspired by that,” Mr. Trudeau said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-frees-2-canadians-after-huawei-deal/article36676518.ece
26 September 2021||Aachen,||Merkel makes final push for successor||Chancellor Angela Merkel on Saturday urged Germans to give her would-be successor Armin Laschet the vote to shape Germany’s future, in a last-ditch push to shore up his beleaguered campaign ahead of Sunday’s election. Mr. Laschet, 60, has been trailing his Social Democrat challenger Olaf Scholz in the race for the chancellery, although final polls put the gap between them within the margin of error, making the vote one of the most unpredictable in recent years. Ms. Merkel had planned to keep a low profile in the election battle as she prepares to bow out of politics after 16 years in power. But she has found herself dragged into the frantic campaign schedule of the unpopular chairman of her party, Mr. Laschet. In the last week of the campaign, Ms. Merkel took Mr. Laschet to her constituency by the Baltic coast and on Friday headlined the closing rally gathering the conservatives’ bigwigs in Munich. Ms. Merkel tugged at the heartstrings of Germany’s predominantly older electorate on Friday, calling on them to keep her conservatives in power for the sake of stability — a trademark of Germany. “To keep Germany stable, Armin Laschet must become Chancellor, and the CDU and CSU must be the strongest force,” she said. A day before the vote, she travelled to Mr. Laschet’s hometown and constituency Aachen. “It is about your future, the future of your children and the future of your parents,” she said, urging strong mobilisation for her conservative alliance. Climate protection She underlined that climate protection will be a key challenge of the next government, but said this would not be achieved “simply through rules and regulations”. “For that we need new technological developments, new procedures, researchers, interested people who think about how that can be done, and people who participate,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/merkel-makes-final-push-for-successor/article36676520.ece
26 September 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar’s pro-democracy monks march against junta||Scores of pro-democracy Buddhist monks took to the streets of Myanmar’s second-biggest city Mandalay on Saturday, rallying against the military coup in demonstrations that coincided with the 14th anniversary of previous clergy-led mass protests, the Saffron revolution of 2007. Myanmar has been in turmoil and its economy paralysed since February when the military ousted Aung San Suu Kyi’s civilian government, ending a ten-year experiment with democracy. Brutal crackdown Around the country an anti-junta resistance has taken root, prompting the military to unleash a brutal crackdown on dissent. More than 1,100 civilians have been killed and 8,400 arrested, according to a local monitoring group. Historically, monks in predominantly Buddhist Myanmar have been seen as a supreme moral authority, organising communities and at times mobilising opposition to the military regimes. But the coup has exposed a schism in the monkhood, with some prominent clerics giving the generals their blessing and others supporting the protesters. On Saturday, dozens of monks in their bright orange and crimson robes marched through the streets of Mandalay with flags and banners and threw colourful streamers in the air.  The monks chanted for the release of political prisoners, including members of Aung San Suu Kyi’s political party, NLD, which won a landslide in last election. Some monks carried upside down alms bowls in a symbol of protest to reject the junta regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmars-pro-democracy-monks-march-against-junta/article36676525.ece
26 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban hang bodies of four kidnappers in Herat||The Taliban hanged the bodies of four kidnappers from cranes after killing them during a shootout in Afghanistan’s western city of Herat on Saturday, a senior official said. Herat province’s Deputy Governor Mawlawi Shir Ahmad Muhajir said the men’s corpses were displayed in various public areas on the same day to teach a “lesson” that kidnapping will not be tolerated. Graphic images posted on social media showed bloody bodies on the back of a pick-up truck while a crane hoisted one man up. Another video showed a man suspended from a crane at a major roundabout in Herat with a sign on his chest reading: “Abductors will be punished like this”. The display across several squares in the city is the most high-profile public punishment since the Taliban swept to power last month, and is a sign the Islamist hardliners will adopt fearsome measures similar to their previous rule from 1996 to 2001. Muhajir said security forces were informed that a businessman and his son had been abducted in the city on Saturday morning. Police shut down the roads leading out of the city, and the Taliban stopped the men at a checkpoint, where “an exchange of fire happened”, he said. “As a result of a few minutes of fighting, one of our Mujahideen was wounded and all four kidnappers were killed,” Muhajir said in a recorded statement. “We are the Islamic Emirate. No one should harm our nation. No one should kidnap,” he said in the video clip. Muhajir added that before Saturday’s incident, there had been other kidnappings in the city, and the Taliban rescued a boy. “One kidnapper was killed and three others were arrested,” he said. “It saddened us a lot because while we are in Herat, our people are being abducted,” he said. “In order for it to be a lesson for other kidnappers not to kidnap or harass anyone, we hanged them in the squares of the city and made this clear to everyone that anyone who steals or abducts will be punished.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-hang-bodies-of-four-kidnappers-in-herat/article36676527.ece
26 September 2021||Hong Kong,||Amid China’s clampdown, HK vigil organiser disbands||The Hong Kong pro-democracy group that organised three decades of vigils commemorating the victims of Beijing’s Tiananmen Square crackdown voted to disband on Saturday in the face of China’s sweeping clampdown on dissent. The Hong Kong Alliance was one of the most prominent symbols of the city’s former political plurality and its dissolution is the latest illustration of how quickly China is remoulding the business hub in its own authoritarian image. After announcing the decision to disband, a representative of the alliance read out a letter from their chairman Lee Cheuk-yan, who is currently in jail. “A regime cannot take away the people’s memory and conscience,” the letter read. “The beliefs of the Hong Kong Alliance will be passed on in the hearts of Hong Kongers.” Many of the alliance’s leaders are in custody for taking part in the city’s democracy movement. Earlier this month, police charged three senior figures, including Mr. Lee, with subversion — a national security crime. That same week, officers raided a shuttered museum the group ran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-chinas-clampdown-hk-vigil-organiser-disbands/article36676522.ece
26 September 2021||Mogadishu,||Blast kills 8 near Somalia presidential palace||A car bomb exploded at a checkpoint near Somalia’s presidential palace on Saturday, killing eight people, police said, as the al-Shabaab jihadist group claimed responsibility for the attack. “We have confirmed that eight people most of them civilians died and seven others wounded in the car bomb blast”, district police chief Mucawiye Ahmed Mudey told reporters. The bombing took place during the late morning within a km of Villa Somalia, the presidential palace. Witnesses said the car bomb was detonated when police stopped the driver for a security check. The blaze spread to other vehicles, trapping their occupants. “They normally stop to check and clear vehicles before they can pass by the checkpoint. This car was stopped by the security guards and it went off while there were several other cars and people passing by the nearby road. I saw wounded and dead people being carried,” said witness Mohamed Hassan. Among the dead was the Prime Minister’s adviser for women and human rights Hibaq Abukar, officials said. Prime Minister Mohamed Roble condemned the attack and paid tribute to Abukar, whom he called “a young hard-working vibrant girl with honesty” as well as a “devoted citizen.” Mr. Roble added: “We have to cooperate in the fight against the ruthless terrorists who regularly kill our people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/blast-kills-8-near-somalia-presidential-palace/article36676521.ece
26 September 2021||REYKJAVIK,||Icelanders vote with climate on agenda||Icelanders were voting on Saturday in a general election dominated by climate change, with an unprecedented number of political parties likely to win parliamentary seats. Polls suggest there won’t be an outright winner, triggering complex negotiations to build a coalition government. A record nine parties could cross the 5% threshold needed to qualify for seats in Iceland’s parliament, the Althing. Upstart parties include the Socialist Party, which is promising to shorten the work week and nationalise Iceland’s fishing industry. High turnout is expected, as one-fifth of eligible voters have already cast absentee ballots. Climate change is high among voters’ concerns in Iceland, a glacier-studded volcanic island nation of about 3,50,000 people in the North Atlantic. An exceptionally warm summer by Icelandic standards and shrinking glaciers have helped drive global warming up the political agenda. Polls show strong support for left-leaning parties promising to cut carbon emissions by more than what Iceland is already committed to under the Paris climate agreement. The current government is a coalition of three parties spanning the political spectrum from left to center-right and led by Prime Minister Katrin Jakobsdottir of the Left Green Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/icelanders-vote-with-climate-on-agenda/article36676523.ece
26 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Will conclude BPCL sale, LIC IPO by Q4’||The government remains confident of completing the proposed stake sales in Life Insurance Corporation of India and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL) by the end of this fiscal year, Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian said on Saturday. “Privatisation of Air India is proceeding well... two bids have been received. Bharat Petroleum [privatisation] and LIC’s listing we are confident should happen by fourth quarter of this year,” Dr. Subramanian said speaking at the PGPMAX Leadership Summit 2021 of the Indian School of Business (ISB) in Hyderabad. Describing the three stake sales as important components of the Rs. 1.75 lakh crore proceeds the Budget had estimated this year from privatisation, the Chief Economic Adviser said the enterprise policy focused on private sector was one of the key pillars of reforms being pursued by the government. Barring three to four public sector undertakings in three or four strategic areas including defence and oil and gas, the rest would be “privatised or taken into right hands so that efficiency gains can come about,” he added. The proposed privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) was also part of the policy. Privatisation of the two banks would be really critical considering PSBs were a bellwether of socialism, he said. “In another 8-10 years, the Indian economy will look very different and much more efficient to what it is today when this process will be taken to its logical conclusion,” he said, adding that the current year would go down in history as a very important year for privatisation. Noting that the Atmanirbhar Bharat idea was based on the private sector and an emphasis on achieving self reliance as opposed to the model until 1991 that focused on self-sufficiency, Dr. Subramanian said competition brought out the best. ‘Change in mindset’ The CEA said there had also been a change in the mindset with the stress on “respecting private sector rather than chase guys in the private sector; this is something I feel will be enduring”. The private sector needed to be empowered, he said, asserting that trade and enabling trade were part of India’s DNA. To a query on a V-shaped recovery post pandemic, the CEA asserted that India was the only country that had converted the crisis into an opportunity. “The V-shaped recovery was really predicated on the understanding of the fundamentals of economy,” Dr. Subramanian said.  In 8-10 years, the Indian economy will look very different and much more efficient||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/will-conclude-bpcl-sale-lic-ipo-by-q4/article36676498.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Services exporters flag SEIS denial, rates||Several services sectors are fretting about being excluded or given lower incentive rates under the Service Exports from India Scheme (SEIS), whose benefits for 2019-20 were notified on Thursday, even as exporters voiced concern about the Rs. 5 crore cap on entitlements. The tourism sector has been granted a 5% benefit on net foreign exchange earnings as opposed to 7% earlier, while some sectors like management consulting and cargo handling have been excluded altogether. “Services such as management consulting services, technical testing and analysis services, support services for maritime transport and cargo handling services, which were eligible during earlier periods, are excluded now,” T. Viswanathan, principal partner, Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan Attorneys, told The Hindu. “Moreover, the rate of SEIS benefit has also been reduced by 2% from earlier specified rates.” The tight December 31 deadline set for firms to claim their benefits would also cause inconvenience, Mr. Viswanathan said. On the Rs. 5 crore cap on benefits, he noted that a similar value cap of Rs. 2 crore had been placed under the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme as well, which was under challenge before various High Courts. The Indian Association of Tour Operators (IATO) said it was ‘a tad disappointed’ about the cut in the SEIS benefits, especially since the industry had faced one of its worst phases over the past year-and-a-half and endured ‘debilitating hardship’. “Inbound tour operators had almost zilch income with several of them folding up their businesses,” said IATO pesident Rajiv Mehra. “So the SEIS benefit was awaited as it would provide some financial succour and help tide over this crisis,” he said, stressing that tourism was a major employer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/services-exporters-flag-seis-denial-rates/article36676496.ece
26 September 2021||MUMBAI,||EV firm Omega Seiki to invest Rs. 800 cr., plans IPO||Omega Seiki Mobility, an electric vehicle (EV) company of the Anglian Omega Group, is planning to invest Rs. 800 crore in manufacturing EVs and to expand operations beyond India, said chairman Uday Narang. “So far, we have invested Rs. 200 crore of our own money... we will take this investment to Rs. 1,000 crore in 12-18 months,” Mr. Narang said, adding that the company was planning to go for an IPO next year. “Our objective is to be the ‘Tesla of electric commercial vehicles from India’ and we are on track,” he added. The firm was gearing up to roll out three new two-wheeler models. The company has already set up 40 dealerships in India and plans to add 75 more by March 2022. Mr. Narang said the firm had also chalked out a strategy to export its products to markets including Nepal, Bangladesh and Africa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ev-firm-omega-seiki-to-invest-rs-800-cr-plans-ipo/article36676494.ece
26 September 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Certain areas of CV segment still under stress’||Certain areas of the commercial vehicles (CV) segment are still under stress, said Harsha Viji, executive vice-chairman, Sundaram Finance Ltd. “I don’t think it is going to be a quick fix for the next three to six months for everything to come back to normal,” he told The Hindu . The second half of the current fiscal would be much better compared with the year-earlier period, provided the third wave did not throw a spanner, he added. Mr. Viji cited examples of sectors in distress including tourism (taxis and buses), transport (route and staff buses), educational sector, and market load operators. “In general, those market load operators, who are not on fixed contract, are also affected and freight prices are depressed,” he said. Though diesel prices had gone up, freight rates had not been increased to compensate for it, he observed. “That being said, every month is looking better than the previous month in terms of sales growth and collections. We are seeing a month-by-month improvement,” Mr. Viji said. “So, second half will be much better,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/certain-areas-of-cv-segment-still-under-stress/article36676501.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||I-T notifies ‘safe harbour’ rates for firms||The tax department has notified the ‘safe harbour’ rates for 2020-21 for calculation of transfer pricing by foreign firms in India. Generally, safe harbour is defined as circumstances in which the tax authority shall accept the transfer price declared by the taxpayer to be at arm’s length. The Central Board of Direct Taxes, through a notification, extended the applicability of Safe Harbour Rules (SHR) to 2020-21. As per the notification, the rates under SHR applicable from 2016-17 to 2018-19, and later extended to 2019-20, will continue to apply for 2020-21 as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/i-t-notifies-safe-harbour-rates-for-firms/article36676499.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Reliance Infra to raise Rs 750 cr||Reliance Infrastructure on Saturday said that its board had approved raising up to Rs. 750 crore by issuing foreign currency convertible bonds (FCCBs) on a private placement basis. In a filing with the BSE, Reliance Infrastructure also said that Sandeep Khosla has been appointed as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the company.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-infra-to-raise-rs-750-cr/article36676504.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||CBIC extends re-export timeline for imported containers by 3 months||To address the problem of shortage of containers for exports, the tax department has decided to give three more months for the re-export of imported vessels lying at domestic ports, according to an official circular.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cbic-extends-re-export-timeline-for-imported-containers-by-3-months/article36676506.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Flipkart is changing 'The Big Billion Days' dates to Oct 3-10||The competition in the Indian e-commerce space is set to heat up as Walmart-owned Flipkart is advancing its The Big Billion Days (TBBD) sale to start from October 3, a day before rival Amazon kicks off its festive sale. Earlier, Flipkart had announced that the eighth edition of TBBD would be held from October 7-12.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/flipkart-is-changing-the-big-billion-days-dates-to-oct-3-10/article36676502.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||HDFC sells part of invoked shares of Ansal Housing to recover dues||Housing Development Finance Corporation Ltd. on Saturday said it had sold a part of the shares, invoked by it of Ansal Housing, to recover its dues. In August, HDFC had invoked 46,20,000 shares of Ansal aggregating 7.78% of thepaid-up share capital, for recovery of part outstanding dues against loans availed by pledgers/borrowers.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hdfc-sells-part-of-invoked-shares-of-ansal-housing-to-recover-dues/article36676503.ece
26 September 2021||LONDON,||Jesus delivers for Man City||An early second-half goal from Gabriel Jesus with Manchester City’s first shot on target earned the Premier League champion a 1-0 win over joint league leader Chelsea on Saturday. In the other early kick-off match, cross-city rival Manchester United paid for a below-par display to go down 1-0 Aston Villa at home. At Stamford Bridge, Jesus pushed the ball home with a deflection off Jorginho after a goalmouth melee in the 53rd minute. The victory also broke a three-match losing streak for City against Chelsea At Old Trafford, Kortney Hause’s 88th-minute header put Villa on course for a surprise win, but the same man’s handball gifted United an opportunity to steal a point in stoppage-time, only for Bruno Fernandes to dramatically miss the target. Salah’s 100th Striker Mohamed Salah scored his 100th Premier League goal for Liverpool but the league leader was held to a 3-3 thrilling draw by Brentford. In LaLiga, Atletico Madrid’s title defence was dealt a blow as it suffered a 1-0 defeat at Alaves. Victor Lagauardia netted the winner.  The results: Premier League: Chelsea 0 lost to Manchester City 1 (Jesus 53); Manchester United 0 lost to Aston Villa 1 (Hause 88); Everton 2 (Townsend 29-pen, Doucoure 77) bt Norwich 0; Leeds 1 (Raphinha 19) lost to West Ham 2 (Firpo 67-og, Antonio 90); Leicester 2 (Vardy 37, 85) drew with Burnley 2 (Vardy 12-og, Cornet 40); Watford 1 (Sarr 72) drew with Newcastle 1 (Longstaff 23); Brentford 3 (Pinnock 27, Janelt 63, Wissa 82) drew with Liverpool 3 (Jota 31, Salah 54, Jones 67).   LaLiga : Alaves 1 (Lagauardia 4) bt Atletico Madrid 0.   Serie A: Spezia 1 (Verde 80) lost to AC Milan 2 (Maldini 48, Diaz 86); Inter Milan 2 (Martinez 5, Dzeko 71) Atalanta 2 (Malinovskyi 30, Toloi 38).   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 6 (Nkunku 16, 70, Poulsen 23, Mukiele 45+3, Forsberg 60-pen, Haidara 77) bt Hertha Berlin 0; Leverkusen 1 (Wirtz 62) bt Mainz 0; Hoffenheim 3 (Kramaric 45+2, Baumgartner 74, Kaderabek 81) bt Wolfsburg 1 (Baku 25); Greuther Fuerth 1 (Itten 87) lost to Bayern Munich 3 (Mueller 10, Kimmich 31, Griesbeck 68-og).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jesus-delivers-for-man-city/article36676511.ece
26 September 2021||YANKTON (USA),||India wins two silvers||India picked up silver medals in the compound women’s and mixed team events of the World archery championships here on Friday. The trio of V. Jyothi Surekha, Muskan Kirar and Priya Gurjar lost to Colombia’s Sara Lopez, Alejandra Usquiano and Nora Valdez 229-224 in the women’s title clash. It was Colombia’s third World title. Scores tied The scores were tied 58-58 after the first end before Colombia took a one-point lead in the second. The Colombians were not too troubled by the gusts of wind during the last two ends and secured a comfortable five-point victory. Later, the mixed pair of Jyothi and Abhishek Verma went down fighting to the Colombian duo of Sara Lopez and Daniel Munoz 154-150. India led 39-38 after the opening end, but the Colombians won the next two — the third with a perfect 40 — to lead 117-111. The Indians, who had two rounds of 36, won the last end 39-37 but lost the match to give Colombia its fourth World crown and first in the mixed team event. Nevertheless, it was a personal milestone for Jyothi, who claimed two podium finishes here to secure her fifth World championships medal. Jyothi had bagged a team silver and an individual bronze in 2017 and a team bronze medal in 2019. The 25-year-old is in the race for another medal in the individual women’s competition here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-wins-two-silvers/article36676889.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Capitals go top after first-rate bowling effort||Delhi Capitals’ incisive bowling in the PowerPlay flattened Rajasthan Royals’ chase and eventually proved decisive in the team’s resounding 33-run victory in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. With its eighth win in 10 matches, DC regained the top spot and virtually assured itself of a berth in the playoffs. Although the side has not technically made it yet, no team with 16 points in a 14-match season has failed to finish in the top four. RR, eyeing a victory to jump to third, slipped to sixth after nine matches. Chasing a target of 155, RR skipper Sanju Samson (70 n.o., 53 balls, 8x4, 1x6) played a lone hand. He hit all the fours of the innings and survived a dropped catch by Shikhar Dhawan on 57. The standout feature of Samson’s batting was how cleverly he nudged the ball behind the wickets. He also smashed one down the ground and collected three fours off a Kagiso Rabada over that fetched 14 runs. Despite Samson’s valiant effort, RR never threatened DC after being reduced to 17 for three in the fifth over. Captain and wicketkeeper Rishabh Pant had a hand in the dismissals of openers Liam Livingstone, Yashasvi Jaiswal and the dangerous David Miller. Slipping further The departures of Mahipal Lomror and Riyan Parag made it 55 for five. Thereafter, DC’s victory was never in doubt. RR’s PowerPlay score of 21 for three was the lowest for the season; Mumbai Indians also managed just 21 against Punjab Kings in Chennai, but lost two fewer wickets. Earlier, DC struggled on a slow pitch after losing Dhawan and Prithvi Shaw early. Shreyas Iyer and Pant rotated the strike well and went on to add 62 runs mainly because 43 came off the five overs bowled by spinners Tabraiz Shamsi and Rahul Tewatia after the PowerPlay. But in the space of 11 deliveries, Pant (24 off 24 balls) and Shreyas (43 off 32) departed to make it 90 for four in the 14th over. Shimron Hetmyer (28 off 16) looked in great touch before his intended slog ended in a catch. Soon Lalit Yadav, Axar Patel and R. Ashwin ensured that the final three overs produced 30 runs to give DC a fighting tally that eventually proved a winning one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/capitals-go-top-after-first-rate-bowling-effort/article36676855.ece
26 September 2021||Kohler (USA),||Team USA has Europe on the ropes||Team USA flexed its muscle at wind-whipped Whistling Straits on Friday, dominating Europe 6-2 to launch its quest to regain the Ryder Cup. Olympic gold medallist Xander Schauffele and World No. 2 Dustin Johnson put two points each on the board for the hosts, who dominated the morning foursomes 3-1 then rode the momentum through a gritty afternoon of four-balls to take their biggest day-one lead in 46 years. Europe led in three of the four afternoon contests but came up with just one point from two tied matches as the USA won another two. Schauffele teamed with US PGA Tour Player-of-the-Year Patrick Cantlay to beat Rory McIlroy and Ian Poulter 5&3 in foursomes. Then he and Johnson never trailed on the way to a 2&1 victory over Paul Casey and Bernd Wiesberger in four-balls. As the conditions became increasingly difficult, Tony Finau was making it look easy as he and Harris English powered to a 4&3 victory over McIlroy and Shane Lowry. It marked the first time in six Ryder Cup appearances that Northern Ireland star McIlroy lost two matches in a single day.Sergio Garcia notched up a milestone tying with Nick Faldo’s record of 23 match wins for Europe.  The scores: United States 6 leads Europe 2   { Foursomes: Justin Thomas & Jordan Spieth lost to Jon Rahm & Sergio Garcia 3&1; Dustin Johnson & Collin Morikawa bt Paul Casey & Victor Hovland 3&2; Brooks Koepka & Daniel Berger bt Lee Westwood & Matt Fitzpatrick 2&1; Patrick Cantlay & Xander Schauffele bt Rory McIlroy & Ian Poulter 5&3.   Four-balls: Johnson & Schauffele bt Paul Casey & Bernd Wiesberger 2&1; Bryson DeChambeau & Scottie Scheffler tied with Rahm & Tyrrell Hatton; Tony Finau & Harris English bt McIlroy & Shane Lowry 4&3; Tommy Fleetwood & Hovland tied with Thomas & Cantlay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-usa-has-europe-on-the-ropes/article36676513.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||CSK meets KKR in a clash of form sides||The long break between the two phases of the Indian Premier League has not affected Chennai Super Kings, as it has hit the ground running with two wins from two matches so far in the UAE. As it takes on Kolkata Knight Riders in Abu Dhabi on Sunday, CSK will walk in with a real chance of sealing a playoffs berth if it can get its eighth win of the season. In the first two matches, CSK was outplayed in the first ten overs but the team managed to quickly turn the tide thereafter to post comfortable wins against Mumbai Indians and Royal Challengers Bangalore. Aggressive approach CSK bowling consultant Eric Simmons highlighted the team’s aggressive approach to batting as a reason for its good run this year. “I think the biggest difference is the aggression in our batting. We have come out a lot more aggressive than we did last time (in 2020),” said Simmons after the win against RCB on Friday. Like CSK, KKR also has started the UAE-leg of the tournament with convincing wins over RCB and MI after just two victories from seven outing during the first phase in India. The Kolkata side has the resources to be competitive with an explosive batting line-up that can take on the CSK medium-pacers who rely on swing more than outright pace. Another advantage for KKR is that it has played its first two matches at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium and should have a better read on the conditions. Lockie Ferguson has delivered for the Kolkata side in the last two games and will hope to continue in the same vein against CSK.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/csk-meets-kkr-in-clash-of-momentum/article36676842.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||MI and RCB seek to fix batting woes||Royal Challengers Bangalore and Mumbai Indians, both yet to record a win in the second leg of the IPL, clash in Dubai on Sunday. The teams will seek to find a quick fix to their batting woes. RCB stuttered to 156/6 in a loss to Chennai Super Kings on Friday, just a few days after being bowled out for 92 by Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR). MI has not fared much better, recording sub-par totals of 155/6 and 136/8 in its previous two outings.  Skipper Rohit Sharma will be tempted to bring in explosive all-rounder Hardik Pandya, provided he is declared fit. The team is not short on firepower, with the likes of Suryakumar Yadav, Ishan Kishan, Kieron Pollard and Krunal Pandya in its ranks. A few big knocks from the star-studded line-up is sure to bring MI back to winning ways. RCB will have similarly high expectations from its experienced duo, A.B. de Villiers and Glenn Maxwell. Both batsmen have failed in this second leg, leading to the side’s struggle in the middle overs. Captain Virat Kohli and Devdutt Padikkal got fifties in the CSK outing, but the openers were unable to step on the gas after settling down. RCB and MI, with five and four wins in nine matches, need a good result to build some momentum in the playoff race.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mi-and-rcb-will-seek-to-fix-batting-woes/article36676845.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||There are always things we can improve on: Padikkal||After the six-wicket loss to Chennai Super Kings on Friday, Royal Challengers Bangalore opener Devdutt Padikkal felt that the team should have got close to 170 or 180 after his 111-run first-wicket partnership between Virat Kohli. Taking it deep “When you have a start like that we would like to get to probably 170-180 at least. “There are always things we can improve on and at that point, we were looking to take the game as deep as possible,” said Padikkal. “We felt that the wicket was getting a little tougher and we knew that for someone new coming in, it won’t be that easy to straight away get going,” the left-hander added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/there-are-always-things-we-can-improve-on-padikkal/article36676846.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||PBKS edges SRH in thriller||Pace variations and parsimony combined to good effect as Rashid Khan (one for 17) and Jason Holder (three for 19) restricted Punjab Kings to 125 for seven in an IPL 2021 encounter at Sharjah on Saturday. Sunrisers Hyderabad captain Kane Williamson won the toss and inserted Punjab, citing dew and a smaller ground as his reasons. Punjab’s PowerPlay was a scattered display of some fortune against pace and a few streaky boundaries. In Sunrisers’ last game, Sandeep Sharma didn’t bowl a single over in the PowerPlay. Against Kings, he bowled three, sharing the new ball with Bhuvneshwar Kumar. Jason Holder came on in the fifth over and struck off the first ball as K.L. Rahul flicked straight to substitute J. Suchith at midwicket. Three balls later, the West Indian snared Mayank Agarwal, who sliced a drive to Williamson at mid-off. Rahul and Agarwal had added 120 in the previous game against Rajasthan Royals. In the next over, Sandeep induced an outside edge off Aiden Markram's bat but the ball fell short of Wriddhiman Saha. Markram got a reprieve in the seventh over when he was dropped by David Warner running back from cover. Chris Gayle, playing his first game of the second leg, also struggled to time the ball on a slow wicket. His first boundary came through a push off the front foot off Khaleel. With Punjab’s run rate still under six, at the halfway mark, Hyderabad piled on the pressure through Rashid Khan. The wily leg-spinner trapped Gayle lbw in his second over. The southpaw opted for the review, but UltraEdge confirmed there was no inside edge. In the next over, Nicholas Pooran launched Sandeep over mid-wicket for six but fell to a sharp return catch off the very next ball, leaving Kings struggling at 67 for four in 12 overs. Markram made a 32-ball 27 before hitting Samad straight to Manish Pandey at long-off. And when Suchith grabbed a one-handed catch to dismiss Deepak Hooda off Holder, Sunrisers had taken the wind out of Punjab’s sails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sunrisers-keep-kings-in-check/article36676850.ece
26 September 2021||Mackay,||India looks to prevent clean sweep in ODI series||India will be looking to avoid the ignominy of a clean sweep by Australia, which is looking for its 27th consecutive win, when the teams meet in the third and final women’s One-Day International here on Sunday. A no-ball off the final delivery by Jhulan Goswami found India on the wrong side of the result in the second ODI. Opeer Rachel Haynes’ replacement Beth Mooney, Tahlia McGrath and Nicola Carey snatched the game away from India. India’s bowling attack, barring Jhulan, hasn’t really delivered in 2021. Shikha Pandey is very hardworking but can she be a regular partner for Jhulan? Mansi Joshi, Puja Vastrakar and Monica Patel have also not stood up to be counted. The spin department is India’s strength, but it would seem stronger teams have now measured up. Poonam Yadav’s loopy leg-breaks have thus become largely ineffective. Deepti Sharma has been consistent but is more of a restrictive bowler.   The teams (from):   India: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Harmanpreet Kaur (Vice-Capt.), Smriti Mandhana, Shafali Verma, Punam Raut, Jemimah Rodrigues, Deepti Sharma, Sneh Rana, Yastika Bhatia, Taniya Bhatia (wk), Shikha Pandey, Jhulan Goswami, Meghna Singh, Pooja Vastrakar, Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Poonam Yadav, Richa Ghosh and Ekta Bisht.   Australia: Meg Lanning (Capt.), Darcie Brown, Maitlan Brown, Stella Campbell, Nicola Carey, Hannah Darlington, Ashleigh Gardner, Alyssa Healy, Tahlia McGrath, Sophie Molineux, Beth Mooney, Ellyse Perry, Georgia Redmayne, Molly Strano, Annabel Sutherland, Tayla Vlaeminck and Georgia Wareham.   Match starts at 5:35 a.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-looks-to-prevent-clean-sweep-in-odi-series/article36676852.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prof. Sunny Thomas turns 80||The cream of Indian shooting admired, applauded and expressed gratitude to former national coach Prof. Sunny Thomas who will be celebrating his 80th birthday on Sunday. “I want to thank you for the guidance and support you provided me throughout my sporting career. As a patient and understanding mentor, you kept us going, through the tough times. Thank you for being a pillar of strength and nurturing me to unfurl my fullest potential,” said former World and Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra in a video message to the family. Golden era A retired English professor of St. Stephen’s College in Uzhavoor, Kerala, Thomas was the national coach from 1993 till 2012. It was a golden era of Indian shooting as he kept the team together on the path of progress. “It is definitely not a surprise that all our four Olympic medals in shooting came during your glorious tenure as the coach of the national team,” said Abhinav. Prof. Thomas, who was presented the Dronacharya award in 2001, had a remarkably fruitful stint, as he guided the team win hundreds of medals, in five Olympics, six World Championships, more than 50 World Cups, six Asian Games and five Commonwealth Games. “A student’s success is determined by the calibre of the teacher. A good teacher is like a light in the dark. “To me, Sunny sir was that light when I started my career. I feel blessed to have had Sunny sir at all important junctures of my career,” said the World and Olympic medallist Gagan Narang, who had phenomenal success at all levels. Binding the team Former world-record holder, Olympic finalist and current coach with the national team, Suma Shirur, acknowledged Prof. Thomas’ ability to bind the rifle, pistol and shotgun shooters as a team. “You understood us, trusted us and we had the trust in you,” said Suma as she recalled her being convinced about her world record of 400 only when Prof. Thomas told her. The pioneer of rifle shooting, Anjali Bhagwat who made the breakthrough in the global arena after making the final in the Sydney Olympics, said, “I feel glad that I achieved all my success and medals during your tenure. “I remember how happy you were when I won my first World Cup medal in Sydney. And how proud you were with my four gold medals with new records in the Manchester Commonwealth Games”. Another coach with the Olympic team, Deepali Deshpande, appreciated Prof. Thomas’ ability to unite the team. “Now as a coach, I understand how difficult it is. You did it with ease for 20 years”. Inspiration to all Another seasoned shooter and coach now, Kuheli Gangulee said, “We are missing your presence in the Indian team at the moment. You are an inspiration to all of us, and a great leader”. After having drawn a blank in the last two Olympics in Rio and Tokyo, Indian shooting does appreciate the remarkable role played by Prof. Thomas while heartily greeting him a ‘Happy birthday’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prof-sunny-thomas-turns-80/article36676897.ece
26 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengaluru FC beats Army Green||Former Indian Super League champion Bengaluru FC (BFC) came from behind to down the regimental side Army Green 3-2 in the quarterfinal encounter of 130th Durand Cup football, at the Salt Lake Stadium on Saturday. Army Green took the lead off a penalty scored by Lallawmkima before Wungngayam Muirang scored the equaliser for Bengaluru FC. Leon Augustine and Namgyal Bhutia scored one each to give Bengaluru FC the required cushion as Army Green got one back towards the end through T.V. Vibin, who scored the second penalty coming the armymen’s way. Bengaluru FC will meet ISL opponent FC Goa in the second semifinal scheduled to be played on Wednesday. Mohammedan Sporting and FC Bengaluru United will be locking horns in the first semifinal on Monday. Salt Lake Stadium is the venue for both the matches.  The result:   Quarterfinal 4: Bengaluru FC 3 (WungngayamMuirang20, Leon Augustine 47, NamgyalBhutia 74) bt Army Green 2 (P.C. Lallawmkima 9-pen, T.V. Vibin T V 89-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-fc-in-last-four/article36676885.ece
26 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Texan Aces takes honours||Texan Aces sustained its good work and beat Formidables by 15 IMPs in the final of the Team of four Gold event in the 18th HCL International bridge championship played virtually on the Real Bridge platform. Except for trailing by 10 IMPs after the second set, Texan Aces was ahead of Formidables in the final. Texan Aces, represented by Ajay Kkhare, Anil Padhya, G Venkatesh, Milind Athavale, P. Sridhar, Raju Tolani, Sundaram, Sunit Chokshi, won a prize purse of Rs. 3,50,000. The runner-up spot fetched Rs. 2,00,000. Solaris beat Shree Cement by 44 IMPs to pocket a cash prize of Rs. 1,00,000. The fourth placed team got Rs. 60,000.  In the team of four Silver event, Dr. SSMC, represented by Amiya Ranjan Das, Bikash Dutta, Goutam Das, Shyama Prasad, Somnath Mitra, Subrata Sadhukhan, beat Ganga Gomti by 17 IMPs to clinch the winner’s cheque of Rs. 80,000. The runner-up collected Rs. 50,000. The third and fourth placed teams Prayas and Dr. Sanghi were presented Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 20,000; In the matchpoint pairs event, Uttam Swarup Gupta and Aimesh Raj led with 67.95% after one session in the third stage of elimination, from among 70 pairs.  The results: Team of four Gold (final): Texan Aces bt Formidables 107-92; Third place: Solaris bt Shree Cement 127-83.   Team four Silver (final): Dr. SSMC bt Ganga Gomti 143-126; Third place: Prayas bt Dr. Sanghi 111-93 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/texan-aces-takes-honours/article36677055.ece
26 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||Francis Bacon primed to deliver in feature event||Trainer L.V.R. Deshmukh’s Francis Bacon, who is in fine fettle, should win the Major Mir Mujtaba Hussain Memorial Cup, the main event of Sunday’s (Sept. 26) races here.  CHAITANYA CHAKRAM PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 1.00 p.m: 1. Arrowtown (1) Md. Ismail 56, 2. Blue Origin (12) S. Zervan 56, 3. Divine Chakram (3) Aneel 56, 4. Dream Station (10) Mukesh Kumar 56, 5. I Am Superman (6) Rafique Sk. 56, 6. Quality Warrior (2) N.B. Kuldeep 56, 7. Solar Eclipse (4) Kuldeep Singh 56, 8. Special Effort (5) P. Trevor 56, 9. Sye Ra (8) Deepak Singh 56, 10. Good Tidings (7) Surya Prakash 54.5, 11. Icicle (9) Ashad Asbar 54.5 and 12. Southern Act (11) Abhay Singh 54.5.  1. BLUE ORIGIN,   2. SPECIAL EFFORT,   3. DREAM STATION   GREEN HAVEN PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 1.30: 1. Classy Dame (10) Gaurav Singh 61, 2. Stark (6) Ajit Singh 61, 3. Story Teller (9) R.S. Jodha 61, 4. Sea Wolf (3) Akshay Kumar 60.5, 5. Crackershow (2) A.A. Vikrant 60, 6. Art In Motion (5) Afroz Khan 58.5, 7. Acadian Angel (7) Santosh Raj 56, 8. Jo Malone (4) Mukesh Kumar 56, 9. Proud Legacy (1) Aneel 55 and 10. Turf Monarch (8) Surya Prakash 51.5.  1. STORY TELLER,   2. SEA WOLF,   3. ACADIAN ANGEL   CHAITANYA CHAKRAM PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 2.05: 1. Aryaman (5) A.A. Vikrant 56, 2. Cash Register (8) P. Trevor 56, 3. Dizizdtymtowin (11) Koushik 56, 4. Epsom (4) Afroz Khan 56, 5. My Master (7) Nakhat Singh 56, 6. N R I Sport (1) Mukesh Kumar 56, 7. Tenth Attraction (3) Rafique Sk. 56, 8. Hot Seat (9) Md. Ismail 54.5, 9. Mehrnoosh (2) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 10. Mireya (10) Akshay Kumar 54.5 and 11. Reining Queen (6) Kuldeep Singh 54.5.  1. MIREYA,   2. N R I SPORT,   3. CASH REGISTER   MAKALU PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.40: 1. Due Diligence (8) P. Trevor 61, 2. Limoncello (9) Akshay Kumar 60, 3. Moonlight Ruby (2) Neeraj 59.5, 4. Advance Guard (1) Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 5. Lightning Power (5) Santosh Raj 58.5, 6. Sweet Melody (7) B.R. Kumar 58.5, 7. Aerial Combat (6) Abhay Singh 54.5, 8. Destined To Be (3) Rafique Sk. 54, 9. Royal Pal (4) Aneel 54 and 10. Urvashi (10) Koushik 53.  1. DUE DILIGENCE,   2. LIMONCELLO,   3. MOONLIGHT RUBY   TETRARCH PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Kingston (5) Nakhat Singh 60.5, 2. Sandown Park (—), 3. Hard To Toss (10) Deepak Singh 58.5, 4. Ashwa Jauhar (8) Gaurav Singh 57.5, 5. Flying Jet (3) Afroz Khan 57.5, 6. Jean Lafette (1) R. Ajinkya 57, 7. Miss Marvellous (2) N.B. Kuldeep 57, 8. Greek’s Ace (14) Kiran Naidu 56, 9. Blue Valentine (12) Surya Prakash 55.5, 10. Angelita (9) Kuldeep Singh 53.5, 11. Sugar An Spice (13) Md. Ismail 53, 12. Flamingo Fame (7) G. Naresh 52, 13. That’s My Way (6) Aneel 52, 14. Thunder Road (11) B. Nikhil 51.5 and 15. City Queen (4) Santosh Raj 50.  1. KINGSTON, 2. HARD TO TOSS,   3. JEAN LAFETTE   CHAITANYA CHAKRAM PLATE (Div. III) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II), 3.50: 1. Blue Label (4) B.R. Kumar 56, 2. Costello (5) Akshay Kumar 56, 3. Dream Jewel (6) Kiran Naidu 56, 4. Gurbaaz (11) Afroz Khan 56, 5. Royal Support (8) S.S. Tanwar 56, 6. Sea Of Class (2) Mukesh Kumar 56, 7. Starwalt (7) P. Trevor 56, 8. Able Love (3) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 9. Miss Little Angel (9) Surya Prakash 54.5, 10. Over Joy (1) Ashad Asbar 54.5 and 11. Racing Rani (10) Kuldeep Singh 54.5.  1. ABLE LOVE,   2. COSTELLO,   3. STARWALT   MAJOR MIR MUJTABA HUSSAIN MEMORIAL CUP (1,800m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.25: 1. British Empress (2) Rohit Kumar 61.5, 2. Dandy Man (3) Ashad Asbar 57, 3. Mark My Word (7) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 4. Lockhart (5) Deepak Singh 56, 5. N R I Vision (1) Koushik 55, 6. City Of Wisdom (4) Mukesh Kumar 54, 7. King Maker (8) Surya Prakash 54, 8. Francis Bacon (9) P. Trevor 53.5 and 9. The Special One (6) Akshay Kumar 53.5.  1. FRANCIS BACON, 2. BRITISH EMPRESS, 3. THE SPECIAL ONE   GREEN HAVEN PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. Berkeley (7) Abhay Singh 61, 2. Silver Set (2) Md. Ismail 61, 3. Starwalker (11) B.R. Kumar 61, 4. Hashtag (8) Gaurav Singh 60.5, 5. Shelly Anne (4) Kiran Naidu 60.5, 6. Paree (6) Afroz Khan 59.5, 7. Winning Player (1) Ashad Asbar 58, 8. Big Day (3) Nakhat Singh 57, 9. Golden Forza (5) Mukesh Kumar 57, 10. Lightning Pearl (9) Rafique Sk. 55 and 11. India Gate (10) B. Nikhil 52.  1. BERKELEY, 2. SILVER SET,   3. WINNING PLAYER  Day’s Best: FRANCIS BACON  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8.; Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3, (ii) 3, 4 & 5, (iii) 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5, (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/francis-bacon-primed-to-deliver-in-feature-event/article36676507.ece
26 September 2021||SOCHI,||Maiden pole for Norris||McLaren’s Lando Norris took the first Formula One pole position of his career in a damp qualifying session for the Russian Grand Prix on Saturday. Ferrari’s Carlos Sainz will join the Briton on the front row in Sochi, with Williams’ George Russell third and seven times World champion Lewis Hamilton qualifying fourth for Mercedes after hitting the pit lane wall. Red Bull’s World championship leader Max Verstappen, five points clear of Hamilton after 14 races, will line up at the back of the grid due to penalties for exceeding his engine allocation.  The grid: Row 1: Norris (McLaren), Sainz (Ferrari); Row 2: Russell (Williams), Hamilton (Mercedes); Row 3: Ricciardo (McLaren), Alonso (Alpine); Row 4: Bottas (Mercedes), Stroll (Aston Martin); Row 5: Perez (Red Bull), Ocon (Alpine); Row 6: Vettel (Aston Martin), Gasly (AlphaTauri); Row 7: Tsunoda (AlphaTauri), Latifi (Williams); Row 8: Leclerc (Ferrari), Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); Row 9: Schumacher (Haas), Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo); Row 10: Mazepin (Haas), Verstappen (Red Bull) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maiden-pole-for-norris/article36676509.ece
26 September 2021||Boston,||Team Europe runs up a good lead on day one||The pandemic-delayed fourth edition of the Laver Cup — and first without Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal or Novak Djokovic — began on Friday with Team Europe taking a 3-1 lead over Team World thanks to singles victories from Matteo Berrettini, Casper Ruud and Andrey Rublev. A team must reach 13 points to win the three-day competition. Each match victory is worth one point on Friday, two on Saturday and three on Sunday. Team Europe has won all three Laver Cups so far, helped each time by Federer — whose management company is the driving force behind the exhibition — and either Nadal or Djokovic. Last year’s event was postponed because of the coronavirus outbreak.  The results:   Team Europe leads Team World 3-1 {Casper Ruud bt Reil ly Opelka 6-3, 7-6(4); Matteo Berrettini bt Felix Auger-Alias sime 6-7 (3), 7-5, [10-8]; Andrey Rublev bt Diego Schwartzman 4-6, 6-3, [11-9]; Alexander Zverev & Berrettini lost to John Isner & Denis Shapovalov 4-6, 7-6(2), [10-1]}.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-europe-runs-up-a-good-lead-on-day-one/article36676514.ece
26 September 2021||KOCHI,||AFI’s entry standards for u-23 Nationals||With just two days to go for the first National under-23 championships, the Athletics Federation of India has relaxed the entry standards for a few events in the three-day meet which will be held in New Delhi from September 27 to 29. According to the new list released on Saturday, the qualification standard for the men’s javelin throw, which attracted just four entries, has been brought down from the original 75m to 72m. The other events where the entry standards have been revised are all in the women’s section, in the 200m (25s from 24.5s), 400m (56s from 55), 5000m (17:30.00s from 17:00.00), 10,000m (37:00.00s from 36:00.00) and 400m hurdles (1:03.00s from 1:02.00). Request from States “There were requests from many States to relax the entry standards, that is why changes were brought in,” said an AFI official. The AFI has also brought in a fresh entry standards list for under-20 athletes who are keen to compete in the under-23 Nationals. The qualification standards have been diluted further for this age group. For example, the entry standard in men’s javelin throw for under-20 athletes is just 62m. The complete list is available on the AFI’s website (https://indianathletics.in/)  The registration for the event has been opened again and will now close at 2 p.m. on September 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afis-entry-standards-for-u-23-nationals/article36676989.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Tokyo Olympics show instilled self-belief, says Neha||Indian women’s hockey team mid-fielder Neha Goyal says their inspirational performance at the Tokyo Olympics has changed the mentality of the side and instilled self-belief in players.  “Our performance at Tokyo Olympics has changed the mentality and given us the self-belief to compete with any team in the world. Our win over Australia in the quarterfinal brought about a shift in our mentality,” the 24-year-old said.  “Coming into that match, Australia had topped their pool by winning all their matches. Defeating them gave us a lot of confidence, which we will carry with us going forward.” For Neha competing at the Games was a landmark moment of her career.   “I was nervous before the occasion, but very excited. It has always been my dream to play in the Olympics since I started playing hockey. “This was my first time, so I did not take too much pressure upon myself and tried to enjoy the moment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-olympics-show-instilled-self-belief-neha/article36677056.ece
26 September 2021||Chennai,||Deepak leads a 1-2 finish for Momentum Motorsport||Deepak Ravikumar of Chennai led a brilliant 1-2 finish for Momentum Motorsport along with Bengaluru’s Chirag Ghorpade in the Formula LGB 1300 race in the first round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship 2021 at the MMRT here on Saturday. Shahan Ali Mohsin, the 17-year old from Agra and a multiple National karting champion, snatched the pole in the MRF F1600 category just ahead of Chirag Ghorpade (Bengaluru) and K. Suriya Varadhan from Coimbatore. In the popular Saloon car category, Coimbatore veteran and defending champion Arjun Balu (Race Concepts), expectedly took the pole followed by the Rayo Racing pair from Hyderabad Anindith Reddy and Jeet Jhabakh.  The results (provisional):   Formula LGB 1300 (Race 1, eight laps): 1. Deepak Ravikumar (Momentum Motorsport, Chennai) 20mins, 04.575secs; 2. Chirag Ghorpade (Momentum Motorsport, Bengaluru) 20:10.045; 3. Amir Sayed (MSport, Kotagiri) 20:12.571.   Qualifying: MRF F1600: 1. Shahan Ali Mohsin (Agra) 01:40.148; 2. Chirag Ghorpade (Bengaluru) 01:40.741; 3. K. Suriya Varadhan (Coimbatore) 01:40.977.   All Saloons: Indian Touring Cars: 1. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts, Coimbatore) 01:50.927; 2. Anindith Reddy (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) 01:52.329; 3. Jeet Jhabakh (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) 01:52.592.   Super Stock: 1. Rithvik Thomas (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) 01:58.645; 2. Deepak Ravikumar (Performance Racing, Chennai) 01:58.841; 3. R.P. Raja Rajan (Performance Racing, Chennai) 01:59.433.   Indian Junior Touring Cars: 1. Varun Anekar (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) 01:58.911; 2. K. Srinivas Teja (Performance Racing, Chennai) 02:03.402; 3. Hatim Shabbir Jamnagarwala (Performance Racing, Chennai) 02:05.029.   Volkswagen Polo: 1. Aditya Swaminathan (Bengaluru) 1:56.609; 2. Aiman Sadat (Bangladesh) 1:56.747; 3. Arya Singh (Kolkata) 1:56.993 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/deepak-leads-a-1-2-finish-for-momentum-motorsport/article36676894.ece
26 September 2021||Ostrava (Czech Republic),||Sania-Shuai pair in final||Sania Mirza and Shuai Zhang beat Eri Hozumi and Makoto Ninomiya 6-2, 7-5 in the doubles semifinals of the $565,530 WTA tennis tournament here.  The results:   $565,530 WTA, Ostrava: Doubles (semifinals): Shuai Zhang (Chn) & Sania Mirza bt Eri Hozumi & Makoto Ninomiya (Jpn) 6-2, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (semifinals): Yasmine Mansouri (Fra) & Himari Sato (Jpn) bt Honoka Kobayashi (Jpn) & Jennifer Luikham 6-0, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-shuai-pair-in-final/article36676892.ece
26 September 2021||Alappuzha:,||Arjun’s century goes in vain||Arjun Aji’s unbeaten 117 went in vain as KCA-B lost to KCA-A by three wickets in the KCA senior assessment matches at the SD College ground on Saturday. Arjun’s knock enabled KCA-B to score 260 for three in 47 overs. However, Rohith Ganesh (68 not out), Sreeroop (58) and Vishnu Raj (50) saw KCA-A reach the target with seven balls to spare.  The scores:   KCA-B 260/3 in 47 overs (Arjun Aji 117 n.o., Joffin Jose 64) lost to KCA-A 263/7 in 45.3 overs (Rohith Ganesh 68 n.o., M.P.Sreeroop 58, Vishnu Raj 50, P.Rahul 35 M.S.Akhil 3/41, P.K.Vishnu 3/35).    The Ernakulam District Cricket Association (EDCA) will conduct umpiring (October 2 and 3) and scoring (Oct. 9 and 10) classes for men and women. The classes will be online, through Google Meet. Those interested are to contact the EDCA. Registration for the umpiring class closes on Sept. 30 and for scoring class the last date is Oct. 7. Contact 94465 18557.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arjuns-century-goes-in-vain/article36677266.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 11:28 IST,||Sudoku — September 26, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-26-2021/article36677993.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wake up Padur!||On September 26, members of Mattrathai Nokki Charitable Trust, better known as Mano Trust, will be campaigning at a few apartment complexes in Padur. Their objective: Creating awareness about the importance of voting in the upcoming local body elections scheduled for October 6 and 9. As an NGO based in Padur and working for the development of the neighbourhood for the last 10 years, members of the Trust feel it is important that every resident in the voting age know their candidate and the voting process and make an informed decision. “Unlike in the State or Lok Sabha elections, EVMs are not in use in the local body elections, but different coloured paper ballots and ballot boxes, each colour meant for a particular post,” says Ashokrajan Balakrishnan, managing trustee, Mano Trust. Ward member, panchayat president, block councillor and district councillor are the four posts that the public exercise their vote for. “Of these, the roles of ward member and panchayat member are important roles. They stand as independent candidates, and try to address the workaday issues that need priority, so one must vote for the person’s credibility and honesty,” says Ashokrajan. His team has so far covered 20 apartment complexes in Padur. They nudge the residents to vote by drawing attention to problems found in the locality. For instance, garbage collection is a big issue in the neighbourhood. For the amount paid by residents towards garbage tax, the service is dismal — garbage is dumped at unauthorised places or burnt. Residents need to voice their demand for an effective waste management system, says Ashokrajan. Sewage is another problem, where the Madras High Court recently penalised three panchayats including Padur for letting untreated sewage into waterbodies. “If a Panchayat brings a sewage treatment plant through government funds, then the Panchayat president is empowered to access those funds to install a sewage treatment plant. Currently, a lorry operator charges an average of Rs. 2000 to clear sewage that is dumped illegally. Panchayat can operate such a facility at a lesser rate and make revenue,” he says. Voters list Their campaign is also helping apartments have access to the voters list, information of the polling station, timings and other documents they need to carry. “If you don’t have your name in the voters’ list you cannot vote in this election but we are running a free e-service centre and people can enrol their names for the process,” says Ashokrajan. The Trust’s awareness messages through SMS touches upon two points. One, read up details of the candidate before voting and two, not to get carried away with tall promises. Mano Trust has been working with the apartment communities for some years now. “We have an advisory board comprising more than 70 members, where two representatives from an apartment are on board, so that every project that we undertake is scrutinised by this board,” says Ashorajan, adding that the Trust works on three principles “Cleanliness, Honesty and Growth”. He says Padur is among the few village panchayats in revenue records with two universities, six international schools and 180 registered shops, but it can do with better roads in the interior sections. “We need to propel Padur towards greater growth and push for change, so make sure the candidate that we elect is worthy of bringing about that change.”    We need to propel Padur towards greater growth and push for change , so make sure the candidate that we elect is worthy of bringing about that change||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wake-up-padur/article36676757.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Inking green||Siruseri hails the visitor with a wave, impersonal but heartwarming. The Sonallur reserve forest announces the arrival of Siruseri panchayat, tall trees resembling excited onlookers at a welcome parade. The real Siruseri — one that hides behind half-truths — cannot be understood till you scuff your tyres and shoes through it. It presents nature in the raw, globalisation through technology — think SIPCOT IT park — and an interplay between the urban and the rural. With its gated communities, Siruseri village in Thiruporur taluk has pronounced shades of a commuter town, one primarily serving an IT workforce, but latches possessively on to its pastoral charms. In Siruseri the IT hub, expect to be greeted by goatherds gathering their herds and residents washing clothes around waterbodies. Though not as striking as Siruseri in combining seemingly disparate elements, the neighbouring panchayats which also come under the Thiruporur taluk, offer the urban, the rural and the natural in varying mixes. Until recent years, in these villages, the rural populace and the urban migrants had largely been existing in watertight compartments, the latter confined to their gated existence, and the former frowning upon them as outsiders. The convenient labels are beginning to look jaded. With gated communities on the increase, there are associations that have been engaging in dialogues with local panchayat officials. So, the IT Professional does make those trips to the panchayat office to iron out the wrinkles in how they get to experience their neighourhood. As these village panchayats in Thiruporur taluk of Chengalpattu district are going to the local-body elections, this engagement is in stark relief. There are communities that have a ready and handy script as the candidates visit them. There are communities that are eager to host these candidates, and want to listen more than ask questions. When he was contacted, Pondurai Jayaraj, secretary, Jains Spring Meadows Owners Welfare Association in Thalambur, sounded excited about an upcoming meeting with the candidates. While engaging with elected panchayat representatives will be a new experience for members of this community, post-polls, the novelty of knocking on panchayat doors has long worn off. “We have raised 'n' number of petitions about one road that leads to Navallur —Thalambur Main Road, which is narrow and needs to be widened — and the other, to Siruseri, which is pockmarked and in need of urgent mending. The latter goes behind the Siruseri SIPCOT IT Park. Many people use it. The road is damaged, and would be good if it is developed,” discloses Pondurai. “There have been accidents on the narrow Thalambur Main Road — a couple of software engineers have lost their lives,” says Naga Srinivas, a resident of the gated community Arihant Heirloom, and one of the key members of a green group in Thalambur. “Are you going to place any demands before them?” Pondurai is asked. “No.” It is a time for listening. At Arihant Heirloom, questions were put to the candidates, particularly the question around a dumping ground that nestles uncomfortably close to the Thalambur lake. “All the candidates have come to our community for campaigning, though their main vote bank lies with people who have been living here for a very long time. All the candidates who have visited us are assuring us that if elected, they would have the dumping ground shifted out,” says R Sivasankar, secretary, Arihant Heirloom Flat Owners Association. Along with another gated community, which is an immediate neighbour — Adroit District — this gated community has been in the forefront of a struggle to send the garbage dump packing. The issue has caught the attention of the Green Tribunal and residents expect it to be conclusively resolved. Sivasankar along with other residents engaged in this campaign believe working with an elected representative would help in the speedy resolution of the issue. Because, elected panchayat representatives can work with greater decisiveness than panchayat officials, they believe. Though gated communities realise that they may not contribute much to the vote bank now, they do not want to sell themselves short. Sivasankar points out that Thalambur has more than 30 communities, and going by the experience at his gated community, more residents are trying to transfer their vote from their home town to Thalambur. “This year, I have applied to have my vote transferred to Thalambur, but am still waiting for my voter's card. I used to go to my village near Cuddapah to cast my vote. Around 30 people from the community have applied for shifting their vote to Thalambur,” says Naga Srinivas who believes the community could account for around 500 votes. Though residents of gated communities in these village panchayats may seem grafted into the larger community, they have become an inalienable part of it. With time, their points of contact with the rural population, officials and elected representatives have increased. IT professionals in many of these panchayats have their workplaces at a comfortable distance from their homes, which some would want to cover through alternative routes and modes of transport. “If the elected representatives work towards laying cycle tracks, a sizeable number of people would stop using cars while commuting to work. For me, my office in Siruseri is only three kilometres away, and if someone can give me a safe route I would cover it by a cycle, avoiding the arterial Rajiv Gandhi Salai. Three to four kilometres can be easily covered by cycle, and it is good for the environment. There are two routes that enable you to reach the Siruseri SIPOT IT park, one of which has great potential. If it is developed, the whole of Thalambur can reach Siruseri taking the route,” elaborates Naga. Green groups that have emerged out of gated communities promise much in terms of providing sustainability perspectives to the development of these panchayats. These residents-driven sustainability groups also serve as a voice of conscience within their gated communities. As these panchayats are generously endowed with natural resources, some of them biodiversity-rich, these groups can play significant roles in promoting and sustaining green consciousness in the neighbourhood. A good number of schools in this region are sufficiently new-age to bung green consciousness into their curriculum. For projects, it requires students to study ecosystems in their neck of the woods, a factor that could increase gated communities' engagement with the natural world around them.  For me, my office in Siruseri is only three kilometres away, and if someone can give me a safe route I would cover it by a cycle, avoiding the arterial Rajiv Gandhi Salai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/inking-green/article36676763.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||List of woes||The layouts Jasraj Nagar and Saibaba Nagar, which come under Pudupakkam village panchayat, began to sport inhabited spaces by 2008, two years since they were approved by the Directorate of Town and Country Planning. Residents were justified to believe that by a maximum of 10 years, the locality would make for the usual comforts that mark a well-developed locality. Fifteen years since DTCP approval, the locality languish in neglect. A. Devananth, president, Jasraj and Saibaba Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, points out that until today these colonies are making do with sandy passages that are passed off for roads. Lack of stormwater drains is keenly felt during heavy rains as water stagnation makes the passage slushy. From Neela Nagar, which comes under the jurisdiction of Medavakkam Village Panchayat, Neela Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association demands underground sewage drains, calling attention to the fact that some residents do not cement the base of their septic tanks, thereby causing the sewage to percolate through the earth. A Sathik points out that residents do this to avoid going to the recurring expense of clearing the septic tank, not realising the harm this does to groundwater. In Egattur, which comes under the Muttukadu Village Panchayat, sewage is being discharged into the Muttukadu backwaters, which is a biodiversity-rich. The Union Towers Association of Hiranandani Complex is consistently taking this issue to the officials concerned. At Moovarasampet in Moovarasampet Village Panchayat, residents believe that the importance accorded to residents' health and well-being is the hallmark of progress. They have sought the upgradation of the Primary Health Centre in Moovarasampet with facilities such as X-ray, scan, and ECG and an increase in beds in the maternity ward. Sports and physical activities being treatment without tablets, residents seek a walker's pathway around the Moovarasampet lake; a children’s park at Sabapathy Nagar, and a playground with gym, says G. P. Babu, secretary, Federation of Moovarasampet Residents’ Welfare Association. In Nesamani Nagar, Mettu Street, Kailash Nagar, Mookambigai Nagar, Perumal Nagar, Rathinam Nagar, and Shanthi Nagar, which are found in Perumbakkam Village Panchayat, residents have sought an electric crematorium. At present, residents endure the smell of burning bodies. Those who prefer electric crematoriums go to Chromepet, Adambakkam or Besant Nagar, says N. K. Raja, secretary, Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Association. At Rajam Nagar in S. Kolathur, which comes under the Kovilambakkam Village Panchayat, demand steps for conservation of Narayanapuram lake. "We also seek that steps be taken to stop withdrawal of water from open wells and bore wells around the lake," says M. Kasi Raju, member, Rajam Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association. In Thalambur, residents badly await construction of stormwater drains and canals to carry the surplus water from the lakes in Thalambur to Buckingham Canal.  (Write in to us if you have any demands to place before the contesting candidates)   Fifteen years since DTCP approval, Jasraj Nagar and Saibaba Nagar languish in neglect||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/list-of-woes/article36676769.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||For want of a nail||Though a vast majority of IT companies still operate remotely, Medavakkam High Road rumbles with traffic through the day, and well into the night. The pipeline-laying work on the busy stretch has impacted vehicular movement in a way that does not do much for safety. On the section of the road where pipeline-laying is underway, traffic moving both ways would be squeezed into just one side of the road. At night the precarious traffic movement becomes more unsafe due to lack of street lights. Last month, on Medavakkam High Road, a motorcycle-riding IT professional was killed in an accident that involved a public transport bus. The vehicle was proceeding towards Sholinganallur and the IT professional towards Medavakkam. This accident has turned the focus on the lack of safety amenities on this road, particularly street lights. Motorists are already having a tough time negotiating this stretch, right from its intersection at Velachery Main Road to Global Hospital junction, and fatal accident like this one should be a wakeup call to authorities to enhance safety measures. Work on this stretch started in the first week of August to construct drinking water pipes from Nemilichery desalination plant to Pallavaram through Sholinganallur, Perumbakkam and Medavakkam. The work is expected to be completed next year. With the volume of vehicular traffic increasing on this stretch, pedestrians and motorists wonder if the authorities are serious about ensuring road users safety. “There are no footpaths for pedestrians to walk and the road is uneven. During rains, the road turns slushy and slippery,” says N Nalla Sivam, treasurer, Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Association. He says motorcyclists and bus drivers come at a break-neck speed increasing the risk of accidents. Vehicular traffic moves at a snail’s pace due to lack of traffic police personnel. The intersection of Prabhu Nagar Road and First Main Road, Perumbakkam, lacks lighting till the Special Economic Zone - Electronics Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SEZ-ELCOT), Sholinganallur. The northern lane of the stretch has been closed to facilitate pipeline laying works. As a result, motorists from Medavakkam, proceeding towards Sholinganallur and vice-versa take the southern lane. “Near Kailash Nagar Main Road junction and at Global Hospital Junction, pedestrians find it difficult to cross the road,” says S. Koushik, an entrepreneur and a resident of Perumbakkam. Motorists want police personnel posted near Kailash Nagar Main Road junction and at Global Hospital junction to regulate traffic and help the pedestrians cross the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/for-want-of-a-nail/article36676750.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Creativity an ally in campaign to ensure 100 p.c. polling||The staff at the Perumbakkam Village Panchayat drew a rangoli that traced the contours of a finger with a blotch of indelible ink sitting on the nail. The creative expression was part of a campaign conducted on the premises of village panchayat to ensure 100 percent polling in the rural local body elections, scheduled to be held on October 6 and 9. The campaign was jointly helmed by the St Thomas Mount Village Panchayat Union and Perumbakkam Village Panchayat in Chengalpattu District Collectorate on September 18. M. Sivakalaichelvan, Commissioner; T. Karthik, Special Officer, and S. Venkatesh, Zonal Deputy Officer, St. Thomas Mount Village Panchayat Union, and N. Murugan, Secretary, Perumbakkam Village Panchayat, took part in the campaign. “We urged the people to cast their vote in the local body polls without fail and not to sell their vote. In this respect, the public took a pledge,” says Murugan. Besides, there was a demonstration to show how coloured ballot papers are used to cast votes. Further, first-time voters were made aware of the voting process. Signature campaign In another awareness drive on September 22, the Chengalpattu District Collector, A R Rahul Nadh, and V Sampath, the Election Observer, Chengalpattu District, initiated a signature campaign. It was also aimed at achieving 100 percent polling in the rural local body elections. Here members of the public were asked to sign to show their support to ensure 100 percent voting. Besides, they will take forward this message to their relatives, neighbours and friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/creativity-an-ally-in-campaign-to-ensure-100-pc-polling/article36676759.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A pesky problem||Recently, KR Balamurali and his team were inspecting a sprawling office premises, trying to identify where a foul stench was coming from. His team had cleaned every nook and cranny of the floor whose doors had stayed shut for months together. “We launched a search and opened the AC ducts and other hideouts, expecting to find a dead rodent in a decomposed state but could not locate anything. We followed the smell and what that led us to was what we had least expected. The dead rodent was trapped inside a chair handle,” says Balamurali of HVL Pest Services. With educational institutions and offices opening up, the service of pest control and cleaning and disinfection companies are in demand. Families that moved out of the city last year to work from their hometown, are returning to their locked houses that have been taken over by unwelcome visitors. These freeloaders invariably damage cushion chairs. Fungi and molds would have taken over kitchen and bathroom. Controlling rodent infestation is top of the agenda for most buildings. A hotel management institute at CIT Nagar, opening after close to a year, was shocked to learn that rats had chewed the cables in its computer room, and its store room was a big mess. To prevent further rat and mice infestation, the institute hired the services of a pest management company that visits its campus twice a month for an intensive clean-up. Pest management companies say the problem was prevalent at residential areas last year when there was complete lockdown. With restaurants empty where these pests used to find food, rats were scurrying to residential areas, including homes and even cars. Balamurali says most establishments do take up minimum cleaning of their premises but not many invest in preventive maintenance where work is intensive involving machinery. S. Premkumar of Unique Pest Management says they have attended to a number of complaints where homes and institutions were infected with termites. “An international school has engaged our service as their cupboards were badly attacked by termites,” says Premkumar. He says unoccupied buildings, abandoned during the coronavirus shutdowns, give fungi a great place to grow. At an educational institute in Adyar, we found hundreds of burrows dug by rodents, he says. Another lockdown effect: automobile service stations complaining of rodents nibbling away wires of parked vehicles. “If your car has not been started for a long time then such damages do happen. During the first lockdown, when many were home-bound, many parked cars were in the company of rats and mice causing massive damage to wires in the vehicles,” says Affunissa Chaudhary of Motorheads. The most challenging part was that the rodents had chewed parts that we could not easily access, she says. “We need to inspect every corner, especially the AC filter as rats would have gone in and there might be remains of it, so you cannot take a chance to inhale that air,” says Affunissa. As preventive measures to eliminate conditions that may attract rodents, buildings are asked to remove debris and keep garbage in tightly covered bins. “Entry points should be closed with white cement or with a steel net. And, shrubs and trees must be a little away from the peripheral wall,” says Premkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/a-pesky-problem/article36676771.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘ Tasmac shops found in school zone’||While registering my appreciation for the fact that the Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise, V Senthil Balaji has directed officials to shift liquor shops functioning near schools and places of worship, I would like to point out that two Tasmac outlets are located within a radius of 500m from Sri Sankara School in Thiruvanmiyur. Another liquor outlet is found 100m from a mosque in Thiruvanmiyur. I hope the officials concerned do the needful    Murali Balaji is a resident of Journalist Colony in Thiruvanmiyur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tasmac-shops-found-in-school-zone/article36676738.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Do baya weavers spin the roulette for a nesting tree?||In Ottiyambakkam, on Karanai Main Road stands a lone palm tree bent down with the efforts and expectations of male baya weavers. The choice of this tree for a colony of nests suggests whimsicality, causing one to wonder if baya weavers live by the roulette. While a legion of lakes in the region, watched over by palm trees that stand on their bunds like towering sentinels wilt under rejection by the baya weavers (Periya Eri in Siruseri with its arresting palm plantation clearly among the jilted), this palm tree is puffed up with pride. Imagine the good luck of a villa-based gated community situated diametrically opposite this tree. However one wonders how many residents would have noticed it, let alone recognised their fortune. Getting to the overwhelming question at hand, did the baya weavers veer away from the "rule book" of nesting site selection? If so, how much? If one expected a copy-book approach, the baya weavers should have chosen a palm or any other tree that stands with the heels resting on the edge of a waterbody. It is a device to insulate the eggs and later the nestlings against predation. A tree that leans like a tower of Pisa into a waterbody can raise questions in a creature out for a bite. Adding another layer of safety against predators would have meant that the mantle fell on a thorny tree in this attitude of penance. This palm tree is parked a cricket pitch distance away from a waterbody. When this writer shared this sighting and the questions around it, ornithologist V Santharam said the birds would have plumped for this tree, weighing three key concerns. One of the three uncovers the bane of pilferage in the life of the industrious and gallant male baya weaver. “The male baya weaver collects 500 to 600 different strands of grass to craft a nest. To collect the nest material, it has to head out often, and if these trips are long, there is the risk of pilferage by a neighbour. So, the choice of a tree for a nesting colony would be partly dictated by quick access to nest material,” explains Santharam. “Another major consideration — probably the most important — is the availability of food. The adult baya weaver eats all kinds of seeds with its beak specifically designed for cracking open hard seeds. However, the nestlings need to be fed the larvae of caterpillars. The choice of nesting site would factor in these considerations.” Besides, there is the factor of “history”, says Santharam. “A nesting tree along with others would have been traditionally used for community nesting. While other trees would have gone, a lone tree may be around, and the baya weavers prolong the tradition with this survivor.”  (Field Notes is a column about the resident and migratory birds of Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/do-baya-weavers-spin-the-roulette-for-a-nesting-tree/article36676774.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Tansi Nagar residents seek stormwater drains||First Street, Third Street, 12th Street, 14th Street, 15th Street, and 16th Street at Tansi Nagar in Velachery lack stormwater drains, making them inundation-prone during heavy rains. It is not unusual for rainwater to flow into houses. We have been taking up this issue with the Greater Chennai Corporation for the past four years, but in vain. M. Balakrishnan is the general secretary of Tansi Nagar Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/tansi-nagar-residents-seek-stormwater-drains/article36676741.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||RWAs do their homework ahead of meeting with candidates||Ahead of the rural local body elections in October, residents' welfare associations of Kagithapuram, Engineers Avenue, Judges Colony, Bakyalakshmi Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Raja Nagar, Manimegalai Nagar, Ambedkar Salai, Rose Avenue, Unmai Nagar, LIC Nagar, Viduthalai Nagar Extension, Rajeshwari Nagar, Vivekananda Nagar and Bhavani Street are engaged in an issue-tracking exercise. They have identified construction of stormwater drains, laying of proper bitumen roads, installation of LED street lights replacing the ineffective lights, better water supply and removal of the invasive weed Prosopis juliflora (Seemai Karuvelam n Tamil) Other long-pending issues include incomplete underground electricity cable work, relocation of a ration shop, resumption of small bus service and litter-free roads. “The cable work remains incomplete for more than a year, due to which the roads are battered. We also seek the shifting of seek the ration shop from Vinaygapuram. Most of the cardholders at this shop are from the northern side of 200 Ft Pallavaram Thoraipakkam Radia Road, but the shop itself is located at Vinayagapuram on southern side of the radial road. Besides, the small bus which was plying between Keezhkattalai and Velachery via Sunnambu Kolathur was terminated two years ago. We want the bus service to be resumed. Yet another issue has to do with roads lined with garbage, and we want this addressed by the panchayat through stringent measures. We also want to see animal.birth control operations being performed on stray dogs,. The canines should be given anti-rabies shots,” says J Sankar, coordinator, Federation of Sunnambu Kolathur Residents Welfare Associations. Another interesting demand put forth by the residents is an online grievance redressal system at the Panchayat level. “Each time, we have go the Pachayat office and write our grievance in the complaint book. This is quite inconvenient. The Panchayat should have some online provision in place to lodge complaints. The least we expect is that the elected representatives form a WhatsApp group that should include members of residents associations and Panchayat officials ,” says Sankar. At present, the association has sent a list of these demands to the election candidates to their WhatsApp numbers “Next week, we plan to meet each candidate and will hand over a printout of the list of demands. We will request them to give an undertaking by signing the paper,” says Sankar. Sunnambu Kolathur Residents Welfare Associations also conducted an awareness session on rural body elections are conducted. “Unlike in the Lok Sabha and State Assembly elections, EVMs are not used in rural local body elections. Instead, coloured ballot papers are used. So last week, it was just an oral explanation. This week, we are planning to have a demonstration so that residents understand it better,” says G Venkataramesh Kumar, president, BKR Residents Welfare Associaiton  “The electricity cable work remains incomplete for more than a year, due to which the roads are battered”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/rwas-do-their-homework-ahead-of-meeting-with-candidates/article36676765.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Water wise||Vannanthurai resident V Janaki has come up with a simple solution for diverting excess water overflowing from the overhead tank of their apartment to water trees. The resident of Prashanthi Apartments (Eastern Block), T M Maistry Street Extension has attached a hose pipe to the overhead storage tank at the terrace. The apartment has 24 houses and the storage tank is filled with water through an borewell and from a Metrowater sump. Janaki has seen water overflowing from the tank when the motor is not switched off on time, so she connected a hose pipe from the water overflow pipe that finally falls into a Magizham tree, near a gate at the apartment. This arrangement has helped the community water some of the trees outside their compound. “The arrangement has been in practice since September 2018. Prior to that we were watering some of the saplings manually,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/water-wise/article36676733.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||GCC Commissioner inspects Kallukuttai lake||On September 22, the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation, Gagandeep Singh Bedi; the Regional Deputy Commissioner (South), Simranjeet Singh Kahlon, and other senior officials of the Corporation inspected Velachery lake and Kallukuttai lake in Velachery and the drains carrying excess water from the lakes. They also inspected some of the major stormwater drains in a few other parts of Velachery. The aim of this exercise is to mitigate the floods as north-east monsoon is approaching. Officials from the Public Works Department, Revenue Department, and State Highways were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/gcc-commissioner-inspects-kallukuttai-lake/article36676730.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Once culvert is ready, Link Road will be put to optimum use’||Pending for many years, the work on the culvert near Perungudi MRTS station and Velachery MRTS station is nearing completion, a fact we note with great happiness. A Southern Railway official revealed that the culvert will be ready by November-end. When that happens, the Link Road that runs along Taramani MRTS station and Perungudi MRTS station will gain relevance and will be put to optimum use, which would ease the traffic congestion on Taramani Link Road. We would like to suggest that the Link Road which is under the purview of Southern Railway be handed over to the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Because, roads are not the core concern for railways. Hence installation of basic amenities like street lights, reflectors, speed-breakers, and signboards could be delayed. Hence, we feel, it would be appropriate if Link Road is brought under Greater Chennai Corporation's purview. Yet another suggestion is that the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) operate buses connecting Taramani, Perungudi and Velachey MRTS stations and Alandur CMRL station. Besides, the service should be able to connect Aadambakkam, Puzhuthivakkam and St. Thomas Mt MRTS stations once they are ready. MTC should also ply another servicefrom Sholinganallur to Meenambakkam via this Link Road. S. Kumararaja is the president of Annai Indira Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Velachery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/once-culvert-is-ready-link-road-will-be-put-to-optimum-use/article36676745.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Safety being compromised on arterial road||On a section of Velachery Main Road, road users seem to be out on a limb. After evenfall, motorists keep themselves safe by the rays emitted by the bulbs at shops. This section — which stretches from the exit of the Pallikaranai - Medavakkam flyover (towards Santoshapuram) to Madura Vijayanagaram in Medavakkam, lacks street-lights. Lights from the commercial establishments along the stretch serve as a saving grace for motorists and pedestrians. However, shops cannot go on endlessly. “After 10 p.m., when shops close for the day, the road is plunged in darkness, raising the risk of accidents, especially near the exit of the flyover, where motorists swerve without any thought about those right behind them,” says R Karthik, a resident of Perumbakkam. Bovines compound the problem, lounging on the road in the dead of night. Residents have requested the St. Thomas Mount Village Panchayat Union and Medavakkam Village Panchayat to install street lights at the earliest. Lack of speed breakers also compromises the safety of motorists taking this road. “The road witnesses heavy traffic. People from Nanmangalam, Rajakilpakkam, Sembakkam, Pallikaranai, Perumbakkam, and Sholinganallur frequent this road. Hence speed-breakers are a must,” says S. Mohan, a motorist. Encroachments Footpaths on the side of the road meant for the traffic towards Jalladiampet and Nanmangalam Reserve Forest, are usurped by commercial establishments. And then, by unauthorised parking of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/safety-being-compromised-on-arterial-road/article36676753.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||‘ Create shelters at these bus stops’||There are bus stops in Pallikaranai, Velachery, Perumbakkam, Akkarai, Kottivakkam, Palavakkam, and Kelambakkam that do not have shelters, leaving commuters at the mercy of the blazing sun and pouring rain. Due to this, commuters take shelter in nearby shops. At a bus-stop in Pallikaranai on Velachery Main Road, it is a common sight to see commuters standing under the flyover. After sighting their bus commuters cross the road and board the bus. Hence, we request that the authorities concerned provide bus-shelters along with seating arrangement. J. Shanmugavel is a resident of Pallikaranai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/create-shelters-at-these-bus-stops/article36676743.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Workshop on composting||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on September 29. Another workshop on kitchen gardening will be held on September 30. The sessions will be held at the centre’s premises in Guindy. For details, call 8608040721 / 044 - 2225 0510||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/workshop-on-composting/article36676728.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Navaratri music series||Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan is celebrating the ‘Navaratri Music Series’ ( under the late Smt. Saroja Parasaran Memorial Endowment ) from October 4 to 15. The music series starts with a puja on October 4; 5.30 pm followed by a vocal concert by Gayatri Girish. Various known musicians are participating in this music series, said a release. Two concerts are scheduled every day — 5 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. at Bhavan’s main auditorium — open to all on “first come first serve basis”. COVID-19 SOPs are to be strictly followed, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/navaratri-music-series/article36676731.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Free camp to check heart ailments||To commemorate World Heart Day (September 29), Kauvery Hospital is conducting a free camp to detect early signs of heart disease.    According to a release, the age at which heart disease appears is reducing in India due to many changes in our environment as well as lifestyle. The Kauvery Heart Care team would screen people on tests such as measuring Body Mass Index, waist to hip ratio, blood pressure, blood sugar, ECG and ECHO.    The camp will be held on September 29, 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha, 22 A, Thanikachalam Rd, Parthasarathi Puram, T. Nagar. For details, call 044 4000 6000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/free-camp-to-check-heart-ailments/article36676734.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||FOMRRA to hold meet with candidates||The Federation of Old Mahabalipuram Road Residents’ Association (FOMRRA) will be organising an online interaction with the candidates running for various posts in the rural local body elections. The date for the online interaction will be announced soon. “The federation believes in interacting with candidates before they take the elected office, so that there is a better connection between people and the elected representatives. We believe that the electorate should take an informed decision. Similar meetings were held with the candidates before the 2019 Lok Sabha and this year's State Legislative Assembly polls. And such meetings have proved helpful in establishing a connect with the elected leaders,” says Harsha Koda, co-founder, FOMRRA. The demands of the federation include supply of piped drinking water, underground sewage drains, good roads, removal of a toll-plaza at Navalur.  Poll stories on Page 2, 3, & 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/fomrra-to-hold-meet-with-candidates/article36676751.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer- writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) The articles have to be factually well-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/you-can-be-our-volunteer-writer/article36676746.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Wake up Padur!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/wake-up-padur/article36676748.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||List of woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/list-of-woes/article36676755.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||urban forest along the canal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-downtown/urban-forest-along-the-canal/article36676736.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Fifty flavours of pork||I jabbed a toothpick into a well-browned piece of sausage that was bursting out of its skin and oozing fat. Somewhere, a pig had given its life for us, I thought, as I gratefully popped the sausage into my mouth. The pig needs to be fêted, so I was happy to read a book about its life and times. Pork: A Global History (2012) by Katharine M. Rogers is part of a series called ‘Edibles’, which explores the history of cuisine. It was some 7,000 years ago that people in Asia domesticated the s us scrofa , the Eurasian wild boar, she writes. “Since then, pigs have provided the most widely eaten meat in the world. Pork is the most versatile of meats — ranging from the rich, delicate succulence of a roast loin to the dry, salty assertiveness of ham and bacon.” In India, too, the meat has had its share of hardcore fans. Food historian K.T. Achaya writes that Kshatriya rulers were always partial to pork. In the Mahabharata , King Yudhisthira fed 10,000 Brahmins with pork and venison, he tells us.  Getting lean “The Romans (like the Chinese) considered pork the most wholesome and digestible of meats,” Rogers says. Pliny the Elder had raised a toast to the pig, stating that it offered “almost fifty flavours, whereas all other meats have one each.” Achilles in the Iliad , Rogers adds, entertained his guests with the loin of a fat-laden hog. “He and Patroclus cut up the meat, spit the pieces, salt them, and roast them over the embers of an open fire; then they serve the meat with bread and wine.” Lord Elmsworth may disagree, but Rogers believes that pigs are easy to keep — largely because they are omnivorous. “They do not require extensive land for grazing like cows or sheep, but can forage on their own in woods or even in city streets, or be kept in small pens and live on human leavings. They can be fed whatever is cheap — sweet potatoes in New Guinea, corn ( Zea mays ) in the U.S. Midwest, coconuts in Polynesia.” Now that pork occupies the high table (the American Pork Board calls it “the other white meat”), American and European breeders are producing leaner pigs. On an average they are 16% leaner and carry 27% less fat that they did two decades ago, she says.  Uncle Sam feeds the army I remember an Italian chef once telling me how the greatly prized black Iberian pig is looked after in Spain. It is fed fresh acorns through the day but, sadly, has to run from one end of a large field to the other for its feed. It makes the pig healthy, and gives us lean meat (and much joy) subsequently. The book has some interesting anecdotes. I learnt the genesis of the phrase, ‘bottom of the barrel’. There was a time, back in the 18th and 19th centuries, when large pieces of pork were kept submerged in a barrel of brine in the U.S. “This was the standard meat for poor to middle-class people and for the army,” she writes. Barrelled pork was graded according to the pig parts. “Well-to-do working-class families got the better varieties, slaves the lowest grade.” And the prominence of barrel pork survives in the idiom ‘scraping the bottom of the barrel.’ In the War of 1812, a New York packer called ‘Uncle Sam’ Wilson supplied such huge amounts of pork to American soldiers “that he came to personify the entire government and was portrayed by cartoonists as a giant figure in a tall hat under a banner that read ‘Uncle Sam is feeding the Army.’” I recall that when the pig playing Empress of Blandings in the BBC adaptation of Wodehouse’s Blandings Castle series died in 2013, the cast paid its sombre tribute to her. Timothy Spall, who played the role of Lord Elmsworth, recalls an interesting aspect of the medal-winning pig: “She was by far the most flatulent member of the cast and, believe me, she had a lot of competition.” For a pig, if that’s not a compliment, what is?  Lord Elmsworth may disagree, but pigs are easy to keep — largely because they are omnivorous||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fifty-flavours-of-pork/article36676790.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||A chronicle of greatness||Anyone wanting to write on Roger Federer must contend with the surfeit of readily available information on the subject. After all, the important elements — his Swiss-South African origins, early years of training in Basel, his teenage tantrums, the untimely demise of his Aussie coach Peter Carter and how it left him shell-shocked but also goaded him to take full ownership of his talent, the years of absolute dominance followed by a three-way rivalry with Rafael Nadal and Novak Djokovic, his wife Mirka’s role as a shield against off-court pressures — are either common knowledge or a Google search away. Inner circle Yet, unlike so many biographies of sporting stars — some on Indian cricketers come to mind — which begin promisingly before dwindling into banality-filled hagiographies, Christopher Clarey’s The Master: The Brilliant Career of Roger pulls off the difficult feat of seamlessly assimilating known facts with original observations. He draws on anecdotes and insights culled from interviews with some 80 people, including Federer and his inner circle, his rivals, and an array of coaches, agents and tour officials to craft a fast-paced narrative that will keep not just the Federer fan but any sports buff hooked from the first line to the last. Clarey opens up the shiny hood of Federer’s on-court elegance to give us a peek at the mammoth effort — physical, intellectual, tactical — of a high calibre team on whose combined acumen the wondrous artefact known as Roger Federer is mounted. For starters, a major character in the Federer story is the late Peter Carter, who coached him early on. One of Australia’s top juniors in the early 1980s, Carter never made it big. He juggled satellite tournaments, inter-club events, and coaching in order to get by. Fortuitously, tennis coaching paid better in Switzerland than in many other places, prompting Carter to set up base in Basel, Federer’s home town, and the rest, as they say, is history. Had it not been for Carter’s struggles, forcing him to take up coaching to supplement his earnings as a player, would Federer have achieved tennis greatness? Possibly, but who knows what form it would have taken? It was Carter who moulded Federer’s distinctive free-flowing technique, and bequeathed him the famous one-handed backhand. This was at a time when the double-handed backhand had already become coaching orthodoxy, as it offered the extra power needed to take control of baseline slugfests, and the stability for aggressive returns — the cornerstones of a winning formula mastered by the likes of Djokovic, Daniil Medvedev and now Emma Raducanu. Imperfection worries Another key factor in Federer’s success, and his longevity in particular, is Pierre Paganini, his fitness coach. A decathlete who wanted to train soccer players, he was unsure of the job market and decided to hedge his bets — getting a business degree, and taking classes at a Swiss hotel school before he “eventually listened to his inner voice” and earned a coaching degree. Clarey’s description of Paganini’s innovative training drills based on the concept of “explosive endurance”, a fitness requirement that is especially critical in tennis, make for fascinating reading. With fitness and court craft taken care of, there was one other element that needed fixing: mental strength. Put simply, Federer was being held back by his temperament. Despite his breathtaking talent, or perhaps because of it, he was lazy, short-tempered, and an entitled brat who, in the words of a former ATP official, “couldn’t handle imperfection”. Enter Christian Marcolli, who was a psychology student at the University of Basel when Federer approached him after reading a newspaper article. Federer began collaborating with Marcolli at a time when “consulting a performance psychologist was... still widely viewed as a sign of vulnerability,” writes Clarey. Marcolli, who went on to specialise in performance psychology and work with Olympic gold medallists, equipped Federer with the “tools to change his patterns and manage his emotions more systematically”. Federer, by then “already a successful junior player,” transformed into “a phenomenal one.” Mirka as a ‘rock’ Apart from Carter, Paganini, Marcolli, and a rotating cast of other professionals at the top of their game, there was Mirka, whom Federer has described as a “rock”. In what is unusual on the men’s tour, she travels with Federer and is involved with every aspect of his tennis, from match strategy to media relations, business negotiations, and the hiring/ firing of coaches and support staff. Clarey’s brilliant pen portraits of the various characters in the Federer story — those enabling the magic on court as well as his adversaries — make this book much more than a biography. It is also an enthralling foray into the dynamics of sporting excellence. If Federer’s early challengers such as Lleyton Hewitt and Andy Roddick — gifted contemporaries in the junior circuit who achieved Grand Slam glory ahead of Federer — drove the Swiss to push himself harder, for the likes of Nadal and Djokovic, Federer’s seeming invincibility was a provocation, which they repurposed into a launch pad for their own journey to sporting greatness. All their stories, deftly inter-woven with the biography of the eponymous hero, make The Master a compelling read that provides telling glimpses into the hyper-competitive, frequently unfair, emotionally eviscerating, winner-takes-all ecosystem that every tennis pro must negotiate.   The Master: The Brilliant Career of Roger Federer Christopher Clarey John Murray/ Hachette India  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-chronicle-of-greatness/article36676808.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The queen of Dharma||The 3,000-year-old Mahabharata has proved to be immortal like Ashwatthama. It has been retold again and again, from the perspectives of characters like Bheem, Karna, even Duryodhana. Goodreads claims to have 116 books based on the epic. Of them, 73 are based on Draupadi. And yet, there’s still not enough debate on the women in the Mahabharata . Or indeed, enough women in the Mahabharata . There are some 28 women mentioned in the epic, in a cast that stretches over time and space (not including goddesses but including apsaras and nymphs). In her 2017 book, Heroines: Powerful Indian Women of Myth & History , historian, researcher and storyteller Ira Mukhoty points out the reasons why Draupadi is arguably the most important female heroine across Indian myth and history. While historical figures like Meerabai or Rani of Jhansi have acquired semi-divine status, Draupadi is as real to modern-day Indians as any historical figure. Problematic woman She is a problematic woman who has walked the tightrope between being villainised as the cause of fratricide and idealised as the one who occasioned the Dharma yudh against injustice. When Draupadi says, “I shall never forgive the Kauravas for doing what they have done to me. I shall not tie my hair until I wash it in Dusshasana’s blood,” the violence inherent in her words is undeniable. Draupadi uses two powerful symbols, unbound hair and blood, to flaunt her disgrace for the remainder of the Mahabharata till the end of the Kurukshetra war, when the scale of her personal losses more than makes up for the violence she unleashes as retribution for the injustice done to her. The other reason Mukhoty gives for Draupadi’s importance is that she maintains her claim for vengeance and justice although it makes her stand alone against all the forces of patriarchy. She claims justice in the name of all women. Like Mahasweta Devi’s Dopdi, who vows to continue the fight against injustice, Mukhoty’s Draupadi too is relentless. Ravi Varma’s submissive, fair Draupadi praying for rescue is a far cry from Mukhoty’s Draupadi who questions Krishna when she says, “I have no husbands, no sons, no brothers, no father, no relatives, not even you, Madhusudana. As if free from all grief, you all stood by while vile men insulted me.” She’s the one who can cynically point out that at the end of the war, the only clan left unscathed is Krishna’s and the only child left to the Pandavas is from Krishna’s sister, Subhadra. Forceful studies Mukhoty falters in handling time in Song of Draupadi, which is perhaps excusable given this is her first attempt at fiction-writing. The Mahabharata uses Time or Kaal as a narrative device to justify the knowledge of events happening over generations. In Song of Draupadi, we are left wondering about the identity of the narrator, who is present simultaneously during the childhoods of Ganga, Satyavati, Amba, Gandhari, Kunti and Draupadi, all of whose stories are narrated in the present tense. The age-defying narrator’s intimate access to the minds of the women is baffling too. Mukhoty, however, excels in the depiction of space. She expertly builds up the locales of which these six women are a part. The descriptions of Gandhari suffering in the heat of U.P. after having come down from Kandhahar or of the foods of Panchal, where Draupadi grows up, are indelible. The examination of an age where queens are almost as powerless as sakhis/ dasis reminds us that the Mahabharata was written around the same time as the Manusmriti . Kunti’s life as an unloved foster child or Ganga’s postpartum depression are forceful studies into what makes them the women they are. At the same time, women are not idealised — there’s the pettiness of Sudeshna as she sends Draupadi to Kichaka or the ineffectuality of Ambika, Ambalika and the Kaurava wives. But the condition of women at the time hardly gives them any options. They can only take the routes of cunning, defiance, submission, death, or actually become a man, like Amba. It is, of course, Draupadi who stays with you. From her birth through black magic as an instrument of revenge to the time she is left alone in the cold of the Himalayas hoping that at least the dog will return to keep her warm to her voiceless submission to the disgrace of being a wife of five men; from her careful, constant stoking of the fire of vengeance in her husbands to her final quiet days in the palace as the Queen of Dharma while the Pandavas move on with their other wives, Mukhoty’s Draupadi is a living presence. The book establishes why Draupadi is the conscience of the Mahabharata and a hero far beyond the men who fought the battle. The reviewer is the author of the fantasy seriesWeapons of Kalki, and an expert on South Asian art and culture.  Song of Draupadi Ira Mukhoty Aleph Book Company  Rs. 699    Like Mahasweta Devi’s Dopdi, who vows to continue the fight against injustice, Mukhoty’s Draupadi too is relentless||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-queen-of-dharma/article36676793.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||An Eiffel moment||This happened on the top platform of the Eiffel Tower in Paris in April 1968. Four of us from the Indian team undergoing training in the Bouwcentrum in Rotterdam had joined a three-day conducted tour to Paris by bus during the Easter holidays. So there I was on a pleasant morning standing on top of the Eiffel Tower and enjoying the great view around. Suddenly, my attention was distracted by the sound of a child crying inconsolably. When I looked in that direction I found that it was a small boy of around four. He seemed to be part of a group of three, an elderly lady and a younger lady with a baby sleeping on her shoulder. The ladies seemed to be mother and daughter. They seemed to be of rural origin.  The crying boy was perhaps the elder child of the younger woman. The ladies were chattering away about the various sights without giving any attention to the crying child. It was obvious that the boy was crying because he was shorter than the parapet wall around the platform and he could see nothing. Quick connection I was reminded of my own children in far-off Kerala, both nearly of the same age, one nearing five years and the other three years younger. As the boy continued to cry, a sudden impulse seized me and I went to him and lifted him up from behind so that he could see the great view around. For a moment, he was lost in the view, then he turned his head towards me and smiled. When they realised that the child had stopped crying, the ladies turned around to see what happened. They must have been surprised to see their child smiling in the hands of a stranger from some far-off land. They smiled and said something in French which I could not follow. I put the child down with a smile and joined my group. That boy must be a 50-plus man now. He will not remember the stranger who lifted him up on the top of the Eiffel Tower. But the smile on his face is ever fresh in my memory. The smile which proved that fundamental human emotions can cross barriers of language, culture and geography — a great truth that Tagore narrated so poetically in his great short story Kabuliwala . sskaimaltvm@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-eiffel-moment/article36676780.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On September 26, 1887, Emile Berliner applied for a patent for his invention. Earlier, a contest had developed between Thomas Alva Edison and the Volta Laboratory team of Chichester A. Bell and Charles Sumner Tainter in a bid to transform Edison’s 1877 tinfoil talking machine into an instrument that could be used as a business correspondence device. Both were using a wax cylinder, and Berliner came up with a disc made of zinc coated with beeswax. He coined a name for it as an improvement on Edison’s phonograph. What did Berliner invent that revolutionised the world of music? 2 Two of the most important and famous records in the known universe are aboard the Voyager 1 and 2 spacecrafts. They feature musical selections from different cultures and eras, spoken greetings in 55 languages, sounds of water, animals and chatter. Instructions, in symbolic language, explain the origin of the spacecraft and how the record is to be played. Currently about 12 billion miles away from Earth, what material are the records made of, which gives them their names? 3 The very first 12-inch recording was released by RCA Victor in 1931. Victor’s new vinyl-based polyvinyl chloride (PVC) compound, which was used for this recording, provided a much quieter playing surface compared to the shellac typically used for 78s. This became so popular that ‘vinyl’ became a generic term for records. The very first recording was of an iconic piece of music known for its easily identifiable beginning. Usually described as ‘Da-da-da daaah’ or ‘Fifth Symphony’, whose music was the first on vinyl? 4 In 1949, RCA introduced seven-inch-wide 45-rpm disks that were more durable and more easily portable than the heavy shellac 78-rpm discs. They were also cheap to make and to buy, which made them easy to market to teenagers in the mid-1950s. A 45 was also the best to use in radio stations and jukeboxes. If a band wanted its music to become popular, it needed to fit on a 45 disc. This led to the birth of ‘pop’ music as we know it. What still-important feature of pop music has its origins in the physical limitations of a 45 disc? 5 This word originates in jazz slang, referring to music that’s swinging, tight, funky, in the pocket. The analogy is to a unique attribute in a vinyl record. Basically, the musicians are so together that it’s like they’re the needle guided by this attribute. What word is this that’s often used in reviews of live concerts or hit songs? 6 Red Rose Speedway was the second album by Paul McCartney and Wings. Its front cover shows McCartney with a Harley Davidson. At the back, on the bottom of the cover, there is a secret message that says ‘We love ya baby!’. This was intended for Stevie Wonder, who was a friend of the band. How was the message embedded in the cover, which made it special for people with a certain disability? 7 On Earth Day 2010, the Smithsonian National Zoo and Conservation Biology Institute teamed up with the band Portugal. The Man to create an ‘endangered’ song produced on only 400 records. It is ‘the first song meant to go extinct unless it’s reproduced’. These 400 refer to the critically endangered P t.sumatrae species. What species that’s only present in Sumatra in Indonesia, and whose closest cousin is the ‘Royal Bengal’, is this record about? 8 Zoviet France is a band from Newcastle that makes ambient dissonant music made of industrial textures. They are known for interesting releases such as records made from hessian, tar paper and aluminium foil. In 2012, they released an album with three records that were 7-inch, 10-inch and 12-inch respectively. The name of the album is the date on which it was released, written in numerals. On what date was it released, and what was its name? 9 The Planets , Op. 32, is a seven-movement orchestral suite by the English composer Gustav Holst, released in 1920. It’s one of the most popular classical music records ever. Each movement is named after a planet of the Solar System and its corresponding astrological character, as defined by Holst. Two planets that are left out are Earth and Pluto. Why were they left out? 10 The ELP LT-1000 is a Japanese vinyl player that costs $15,000 and promises two things. It can read any black-coloured vinyl record, and it will never damage the record. Damage from contact with the needle is one of the biggest drawbacks of record players. What does this player use to read the record? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article36676817.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Outfit of the day||I hesitate to say this, but there may be hope around the corner. There’s traffic on the streets, masked faces I now recognise, and more street noise than I care for, but such is urban life. As I edge slowly back into the world, I am beset by the malady of most decently-off women in the world. I have no clothes. Which is, actually, not true, for I have too many clothes. But having spent the past year and something in moth-eaten pyjamas and T-shirts, I now have no sense of how to dress for the outside. For what are clothes but a daily performance for the world? In Tom Ford’s superbly lit and immaculately coiffured film, A Single Man , Colin Firth’s character ruminates about how, every morning, it takes him some time to become himself. His words follow his movements as he picks clothes stored in some rather spectacular dressers of mid-century modern persuasion. I love that scene for it recalls my own morning ritual in the days of face-to-face classes as I would set out to teach. Colours, cuts, moods, accessories. A casually mixed pattern on pattern, an unexpected T-shirt, brogues on an uncharacteristically pleasant Chennai day. Blingy shoulder-dusters. If you think I’m a bit extra for a teaching job, trust me, there are others. Many years ago, my fellow anthropology graduate students and I leafed eagerly through the pages of The New York Times Magazine , which in 2008 chronicled the lives of ‘The Stylish and the Tenured’. Michael Taussig, Professor of Anthropology at Columbia University, featured prominent and resplendent. All academics ought, I think, to follow in the footsteps of Chimamanda Adichie and love ourselves some fashion. Perhaps you’re thinking that what I say does not refer to a large percentage of the population that cannot afford this cornucopia of possibilities. Think again. For a sense of self is not only the property of the landed rich. Pay attention to the teeming working classes out and about on the streets and see how you can pick out those with an eye for colour, matching clothes, accessories and swag. Every time those boys with no respect for life or longevity whizz past on busy Chennai roads, I cannot help but notice their buzz-cuts, drainpipe pants and nifty sneakers. Fashion flânerie Pre-pandemic, my favourite form of flânerie was to just hang out in the ladies’ compartment of the local train where women of every fashion persuasion heading to and from work, home, festivals, weddings, celebrations, school, and college brought along a unique sense of self for the world. They were abetted by canny train vendors with their stock of earrings, scrunchies, safety pins, and keychains. And I would imagine how all manner of daily struggle, household nastiness, anxiety, fear and despair may well be briefly forgotten in the wake of a flower-studded blouse and a crisply ironed and pleated sari. In Rabih Alameddine’s exquisite novel The Hakawati, the protagonist tells us how the more agitated his mother’s state of mind, the more attention she paid to presenting a stunning visage for the outside. You might think that clothing and fashion bear paradoxical relationships to truth and authenticity. On the one hand, there is Gandhi, who via khadi and a loincloth wore his life truths on his sleeve. On the other hand are everyday life, popular culture and our own desirous selves with our ‘Outfits of the Day’ seeking validation, ephemeral joy, and daily pleasure. Are clothes, then, also a useful distraction to serve the world a version of ourselves that may have nothing to do with some true self? Better that we strive then to be like Sri Annapurani Amma, the naked and magnificent “raging river of a human being” whom Arundhathi Subramaniam profiles in Women Who Wear Only Themselves . We know that clothing is both a matter of free expression and of marking identity in an un-free, fixed fashion. It is seduction, pleasure, armour, resistance, dissent, ideology, power, and powerlessness. It is, in other words, deeply political. What if we were to wear all of these in the process of becoming ourselves? What if our outfits are merely versions of self we try out every day as we go about the daily work of finding resonance in the world? What if our clothes signify the hope that perhaps, one day, in an ideal world, we too may shed it all?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/outfit-of-the-day/article36676824.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Gone on a Thursday as birds flew into walls to die||“Life is not what one lived, but what one remembers and how one remembers in order to recount it.” The epigraph of Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s autobiography, Living to Tell the Tale ,  was another indication that he worked with memory, his raw material for the books. So, when his brother declared in 2012 that Gabo, the name given by family and friends, had been suffering from dementia for quite some time and that he had stopped writing altogether, it seemed like a cruel joke. Two years later, Marquez was gone, at 87. Now his son, Rodrigo Garcia, has penned a beautiful tribute to his parents, Gabo and Mercedes, where he recounts his father’s loss of memory, the bitter-sweet exchanges during moments of lucidity, the painful final days, and his mother’s innate resilience and courage. ‘I have killed the colonel’ Rodrigo, screenwriter and filmmaker, says he felt almost ashamed as he took notes but A Farewell to Gabo and Mercedes is an invaluable addition to Marquez’s writing legacy. He recalls stories from the past — how one afternoon in 1966 in Mexico City, Marquez told Mercedes that he had killed the colonel [Aureliano Buendia in One Hundred Years of Solitude ], and both “sat together in silence with the sad news.” His imagination was always “prodigiously fertile,” says his son: he had enough material for two more generations of the Buendia family and did not include it “for fear the novel would be too long and tiresome.” Marquez thought great discipline was one of the cornerstones of writing a novel. Despite being a successful writer, he had a suspicion of literary achievements. Marquez often reminded his family (and himself) that neither Leo Tolstoy, Marcel Proust, or Jorge Luis Borges ever won the Nobel Prize (unlike him), nor did three of his favourite writers: Virginia Woolf, Juan Rulfo and Graham Greene. Living the moment Up until late in his life he never reread his books, afraid that he would find them “embarrassingly wanting and that it would paralyse him creatively.” Eventually, says Rodrigo, Marquez read the books in his old age and once asked him, “Where on earth did all this come from?” In periods of tranquility, Marquez appeared to understand what was going on. He would deadpan, “I’m losing my memory, but fortunately I forget that I’m losing it.” The family ensured he was surrounded by familiar faces, though he could not recognise his boys sometimes, and things he loved like yellow roses. The vallenatos would be played in his room, Marquez’s favourite musical form. Ripping apart Rodrigo and his brother Gonzalo lost their mother, Mercedes, last August, her lungs diminishing after 65 years of smoking. Most of Marquez’s drafts of work in progress were salvaged by Mercedes behind his back, because he was against preserving unfinished work. During their childhood, the two brothers would sometimes be called into their father’s study to help him rip up entire previous versions.  Marquez’s secretary of many years offers a poignant anecdote: One afternoon she found him standing alone in the garden. “What are you doing out here, Don Gabriel?” she asked, to which he said, “Crying... But without tears. Don’t you realise that my head is now shit?” Still, there is a touch of Marquezian magic realism the day he passes away. He is gone on a Thursday, the day a bird is found dead inside the house after hitting a glass wall. A friend mails his secretary wanting to know whether the family is aware that Ursula Iguaran, one of his most famous characters [in Solitude ], also died on a Good Thursday, on a day which was “so hot that birds in their confusion were flying into walls... and breaking through screens to die in the bedrooms.”  A Farewell to Gabo and Mercedes Rodrigo Garcia HarperCollins India  Rs. 499    Up until late in his life Marquez never reread his books, afraid that he would find them ‘embarrassingly wanting and that it would paralyse him creatively’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/gone-on-a-thursday-as-birds-flew-into-walls-to-die/article36676803.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Shut up, Noomi||Mother-daughter relationships are trending in Indian feminist fiction, which seems to be realising for the first time that they can be fraught. Maybe this is a change, if one considers the ideal Indian mother to be Nirupa Rao in one of her screen avatars, eyes perpetually overflowing for her children, who cuddle up to her in a similarly lachrymose mood. At the other extreme, now we have mothers in fiction who are neglectful, selfish, self-destructive and vile. This is different, yes. But radical? Hardly. If we have been tutored by life rather than by movies, we knew this all along and hardly need novels to enlighten us. To think that mothers cannot be anything but loving is to deny them humanity. The central conceit of A Mirror Made of Rain is that the daughter sees her hated mother when she looks at herself in the mirror and shudders. Noomi Wadia, the spoilt daughter of a super-rich family in a small town, has a hard-drinking, smoking, possibly bisexual mother who loves to hate her (a perfunctory backstory involving a deceased male child is cited to explain this). Noomi doesn’t want history to repeat itself but drinks as hard — chiefly because she has nothing else to do. With no need to earn her living, she works briefly as a journalist, because the profession gives her “flexible hours”. If rebelliousness was weighed by how many cigarettes one smokes in the loo, Noomi would be a firebrand. In her entitled way, she has fits of rage when she isn’t feeling bored. To alleviate the tedium, she gets married to a super-rich man, revels in hip poverty by smoking joints in rented tenements, gnashes her teeth at her in-laws, gets an abortion to defy expectations, only to have a child eventually. The book ends with the suggestion that she will be a better mother, implying (unintentionally, hopefully) that the worth of a woman’s life is measured only by how she fares as a mother. The endorsements by the likes of Jerry Pinto and Mahesh Rao on the back cover are criminally misleading. Noomi is a sum total of her self-interests and you don’t feel a thing for her, dysfunctional family or not. The only reaction the book elicits is a violent desire to slap the brat and shut the book.  A Mirror Made of Rain Naheed Phiroze Patel Fourth Estate India  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/shut-up-noomi/article36676784.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The heart of love||I wish I could meet Qarar Ali, the protagonist of Moin Mir’s historical romance, The Lost Fragrance of Infinity . Mir’s debut fiction is brilliant, honest, sunny, and filled with Marquezian details about the life and times of his lead character. Mir paints a large canvas and the thread running through it all is love — love for life, self, others and humanity at large. The novel is grounded on three crucial historic events of the 17th century — the assassination of Dara Shikoh in 1659; the death of Shah Abbas II of Persia in 1666; and the Ottoman defeat at the gates of Vienna in 1683. With meticulous research, Mir weaves these events into the fabric of his novel. Qarar’s story starts off on a spring day of 1739 in Delhi’s Shahjahanabad, a place he adores. His belief in selfless love burns as brightly as the glazed girih tiles creating the sacred geometry of the monuments of this beautiful city. Restless for knowledge, he sets out on a quest to discover the nature of love. Flitting between India, Persia and the Ottoman dominions, the novel is filled with a multitude of characters whom Qarar meets on his long and gruelling journey. The characters not only move the story forward but also function like a Greek chorus, leading the protagonist towards catharsis. Mir’s craftsmanship, as evidenced in his earlier works of non-fiction, lends a magnificent realism to his descriptions of the golden cities of Central Asia — Merv, Khiva, Samarkhand, Busra — the Ottoman empire and Spain. Through all this, Mir examines the validity of Sufism — that syncretic philosophy based on knowledge, fraternity and cultural exchanges sans borders — asking whether it can be brought back to bear upon our lives again. At a time when the planet seems to be falling apart, this poetic, heart-touching novel is an essential read. The writer is an author and filmmaker.  The Lost Fragrance of Infinity Moin Mir Roli Books  Rs. 595||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-heart-of-love/article36676795.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Give a dog a bad name||I had a morbid fear of dogs since childhood, thanks to my mother’s graphic description of taking 11 painful injections on the stomach after a dog bite. During my adulthood, a street dog bit my neighbour’s school-going son. As was the practice then, the dog had to be observed for 14 days. But the mongrel was out of sight. Within a week of the bite, the boy developed hydrophobia and had to be hospitalised. When we visited him, he became violent on seeing a water bottle in my hand, unnerving me. The next day, he died. This increased my fear, and I avoided going anywhere near any dog, whether pet or otherwise. But two months after my marriage, my wife expressed a desire to have a pet dog. I put my foot down, but she would not give up easily. She tried to convince me that pet dog bites are not life-threatening. She pleaded, she cajoled, and she observed maun vrat . My very marriage seemed to reach its brink. My deputy, the local police inspector, was quick to sense this. Knowing me to be a tough and no-nonsense boss, he thought out a way to take revenge. He brought home a pedigree Doberman pup and gifted it to “Madam” with a flourish. I wanted to wring his neck, but my dear wife was his raksha-kavach . There was no escape now. I slowly started liking the pup whom we named Bingo. Bingo was very alert and a voracious eater. He had a great liking for me and refused to eat if I didn’t feed him. Gradually, I developed affection towards him and became comfortable sharing space with him. A year later, we brought home a Pomeranian to give him company. Though both fought incessantly, they complemented each other. When both the dogs grew old and died, we replaced them with two more. But when those dogs too died, we decided not to have any more pets. But our love for dogs did not abate. Full circle But an incident a few weeks ago brought life full circle. On my morning walk, a mongrel on the street bit my calf. Memories of my neighbour’s son in the hospital came rushing to my mind. My physician asked me to take anti-rabies vaccine immediately in a hospital. I was in a dilemma. If I went to a hospital, there was a risk of COVID-19. And if I didn’t, there was a risk of rabies. And I selected the devil over the deep sea. I went to the hospital four times. The injections were not painful, but the scare of dogs returned to my mind. drdvg@yahoo.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/give-a-dog-a-bad-name/article36676782.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Rakhing along||Dear Agony Akka,  It has been little more than a month since the festival of Rakhi. But on that day, I was left to wander around the city, searching for peace and happiness, which was missing at home. My brother had forgotten the special day and gone off to play cricket early morning onwards. My mother went off to visit her brother, but that did not go well either. Mama-ji gave her only Rs. 500. I was left holding a silk-thread rakhi and a brass plate with laddoos, waiting for my cricket-mad brother to come home. So I set out for a lonely walk to ponder on life’s injustices. Why have these valuable customs been rendered to mere formalities in today’s times? How can we revive these great traditions?  — Sad & Ignored Sibling      Dear SIS,  I hope you ate a few laddoos before leaving the home because it is never a good idea to embark upon sad and lonely walks on an empty stomach. You never know when you will get into the urge to burst into a sentimental number like ‘Bhaiyaa Mere Rakhi Ke Bandhan Ko Nibhana’ sung by Nanda in film Chhoti Behen. Such songs celebrating brothers can take the mickey out of you, energy-wise. A laddoo or two keeps you going. I guess you were loading the plate to feed your brother in the hope that he would burst into ‘Phoolon Ka Taaron Ka’, the iconic song sung by doting brother to sister in Hare Rama Hare Krishna, but you might have been a bit too optimistic. Unless it’s something really urgent, like Board exam or death, men cannot be dragged away from cricket. I have seen them surreptitiously checking their phones to catch the score even during funerals. When you are trying to be a future Virat, you cannot waste time on useless sister functions, unless it is for a suiting and shirting ad of course. Interestingly, there is no similar function in Tamil Nadu. Women are tying threads of many colours on their own wrists and necks to save husbands, but nothing to save brothers as far as I know, although laddoos are being consumed in enormous quantities nevertheless. And why not, I say. Long live laddoos. And barfi. And halwa. Speaking of which, in Tamil there is one saying called “giving halwa”, which basically means taking someone for a ride. I suspect that while you were waiting for brother with laddoo, your brother was giving you halwa. Hahaha, don’t mind, I am only joking. But you must realise that tying bejewelled twine to brother’s wrist and waiting for him to come and eat laddoo and pledge protection is a bit of a joke. For example, when you fall in love with man from another caste, this same brother won’t protect you but will use cricket bat to beat both you and boyfriend to death. But there is also one great quid pro quo happening in this function. You can tie rakhi and feed laddoos to any neighbourhood louts or college Romeos and claim that they are your ‘brothers’, whereupon they magnanimously agree to stop leering at you. An ingenious arrangement, like how footpath vendors have to give hafta to gangsters for protection. Meanwhile, I would not worry too much about Rakhi function dying out. Like other meaningless days — Father’s Day, Mother’s Day, Virus Day — a thriving consumer industry has sprung up around this custom as well. But if you want your brother to substitute his square leg with a long arm, you will have to up the ante. Buy him a Swarovski rakhi and fill brass plate with Godiva chocolates.  — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rakhing-along/article36676816.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||If you need it, play for it||North did not want to pass South’s penalty double with a huge fit that partner did not know about. Four diamonds doubled would have been a sure plus score for North-South. The five-club contract was in danger of losing two spades and a heart. The opening heart lead went to East’s king and South’s ace. It was obvious to South that he would need one of his opponents to hold two spade honours doubleton if the contract was to have any chance. South ruffed a diamond in dummy and cashed the ace of spades, happy to see the jack fall. He led a club to his 10 and ruffed another diamond in dummy. Another club toward South’s hand gave East a discarding problem. Should East discard a diamond, South would win, ruff his last diamond, and play the queen and another heart. East could win and cash a spade, but he would then have to yield a ruff-sluff and present South with his contract. East chose to discard his king of spades, instead, hoping his partner held the queen and 10. Declarer won the club, which drew the last trump, ruffed his last diamond, and led a spade to the 10. West won with the queen, but the nine and eight in dummy were established as winners. East’s enterprising discard of the king of spades had cost a trick, as declarer ended up with an overtrick. A nice reward for a well-played hand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/if-you-need-it-play-for-it/article36676819.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Death of a dream foretold||In the 1990s, when the Taliban emerged out of the Mujahideen, that had fought and defeated the Soviet army with the help of Pakistan and the U.S., Afghanistan was truly a forgotten land. Little was written about the Taliban’s rise, or about the Northern Alliance’s resistance to their brutal and arcane regime, as focus had moved to other conflicts, like the Gulf war, genocide in Rwanda, and the Balkanisation of the Balkans (Yugoslavia). The 9/11 attacks changed all of that, and with it came a series of accounts in the past two decades, on the U.S. defeat of the Taliban in revenge for the losses it suffered, botched attempts by U.S. and NATO forces at controlling the violence, and the British and American initiative for talks with Taliban leaders, aimed at ending their military engagement with the country. Some books went further, pinning the West’s refusal to hold Pakistan to account for its role in harbouring and funding the Taliban for the mounting losses, as in Carlotta Gall’s The Wrong Enemy , and Steve Coll’s Directorate S . Timely sequel In his sequel to Quest for a New Afghanistan (2012), author and an international consultant in Afghanistan Sujeet Sarkar has a new book that goes further in unravelling the reasons for the abject failure of the West in Afghanistan. While Quest for a Stable Afghanistan is essentially a collation of news reports and interviews with leaders of the time by various journalists, Sarkar brings to it his clinical analysis, and grounded understanding of why Afghanistan has passed back into the hands of the Taliban exactly 20 years after they were ousted. Divided into six chapters, the book pulls few punches on where to lay the blame for the disastrous denouement: U.S. follies (“A colossal mistake to assume the Taliban would ever disarm”) , the U.K.’s misreading of Helmand (“They returned with their egos battered and credibility diminished”), an on-again off-again peace process, corruption and failed governance by Afghanistan’s leadership, vested interests in the poppy business that destroyed Afghanistan’s future, and the Indo-Pak proxy battle (“Afghanistan is the new epicentre of India-Pakistan rivalry after Kashmir”). India’s role The author is relentless in recounting missed opportunities, like the failure to hit the Taliban’s “command and control” structure in Pakistan: a former Afghan intelligence chief was brushed aside by the Trump administration when he made a startling prescription to solve violence in Afghanistan: Eliminate 15-30 of Taliban’s tier one leadership in Quetta (Pakistan) and place another 15-30 Pakistani generals under sanctions. Sarkar is no less critical of India playing a “mute spectator” on U.S.-Taliban talks despite being one of Afghanistan’s most valuable strategic partners, although he is clearly appreciative of India’s development assistance to Afghanistan. The book is remarkably up to date, and even carries an introductory note on the Taliban takeover of Kabul on August 15 this year, an end to the western war that the author more or less foretells in the book. While this may well mean the death of democracy and representation that Afghans once dreamed of, the story of Afghanistan is by no means over, and will require more such chronicling, as the consequences of forgetting the country again will be felt around the world.  Quest for a Stable Afghanistan: A View from Ground Zero Sujeet Sarkar Rupa  Rs. 595||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/death-of-a-dream-foretold/article36676805.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Step forward||Two recent advertisements, one of Cadbury Dairy Milk and one of clothing brand Manyavar, have provided new grist to the social media mill. Their claim to fame is that they question gender stereotypes, that too rather tepidly, although the ongoing excitement and outrage would suggest that they are ground-breaking. While the Cadbury ad performs a simple gender swap on the popular ad from the 90s that had a girl bypassing security in a cricket stadium to dance on the outfield for her batsman friend, the Manyavar ad has Alia Bhatt as the bride going the whole hog for a traditional marriage, with expensive clothes, jewellery and rituals, but suggesting a replacement of the notion ofkanyadaanwithkanyamaan. Both ads are certainly a step forward in that they defy prevailing expectations and the social stereotyping that Indian ads are wont to promote (women endorsing household appliances, for example). But after the approving uproar dies down, perhaps ads will also focus on more important issues such as reducing the amount of money wasted on obscenely extravagant Indian weddings or increasing funding for struggling sportswomen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/step-forward/article36676776.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Through the Kaleidoscope||V. Kalidas  Creative Workshop Rs. 300 V. Kalidas began his career as a trainee in the Kolkata office ofThe Hindu. He spent 45 years with the organisation, retiring as Vice-President (Advertisement). In his memoir, he writes about his experiences, and the joys and perils of a life in advertising.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/through-the-kaleidoscope/article36676810.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||India vs UK||Syed Akbaruddin  HarperCollins Rs. 599 In the 2017 election for a seat at the International Court of Justice, India and the U.K. were pitted on opposite sides. India entered the ring in the wake of the Kulbhushan Jadhav case. Akbaruddin, then India’s Permanent Representative to the UN, presents a behind-the-scenes account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-vs-uk/article36676812.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||(M)otherhood: On the choices of being a Woman||Pragya Agarwal  Canongate Rs. 699 A behavioural scientist uses her own varied experiences to examine the broader societal, historical and scientific factors that drive how we think and talk about motherhood. She looks at how women’s bodies have been controlled through history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/motherhood-on-the-choices-of-being-a-woman/article36676814.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet Me In The Middle||Vani Mahesh  Black Ink Rs. 299 Anu’s husband develops a sudden desire for a life of luxury, forcing her to move to the plush neighbourhood of Verdant Green. The sudden jump from a middle-class life to a super-luxurious one lands Anu in one mess after the other. She must tackle this new life even as her marriage crumbles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/meet-me-in-the-middle/article36676797.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Velvet was the Night||Silvia Moreno-Garcia  Quercus Rs. 899 In Mexico City in the 1970s, while student protests and political unrest rage, Maite escapes her humdrum life through adventure stories. When her neighbour, Leonora, an art student, disappears, Maite teams up with Elvis, a goon-for-hire longing to escape his violent life, to find her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/velvet-was-the-night/article36676799.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Inherited Memories: Third-Generation Perspectives on Partition in the East||Firdous Azim  Zubaan Rs. 645 In 2015, the Goethe-Instituts in Kolkata and Dhaka began a collaborative project titled ‘Inherited Memories’, to talk about Partition among children and grandchildren about the harrowing event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/inherited-memories-third-generation-perspectives-on-partition-in-the-east/article36676801.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Karna: The King of Anga||Kevin Missal  Simon & Schuster India Rs. 350 Vasu’s life is shaped by his birth. He grows up neglected by his own, stripped of his birthright. Armoured with hope, the great warrior ventures out alone to fight against against his arch enemy, King Jarasandha, for a title he knows he deserves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/karna-the-king-of-anga/article36676786.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||The Man Who Died Twice||Richard Osman  Viking Rs. 699 In this second novel in theThursday Murder Clubseries, Elizabeth receives a letter from an old colleague, about stolen diamonds, a violent mobster, and a real threat to his life. As bodies start piling up, Elizabeth enlists Joyce, Ibrahim and Ron in the hunt for the murderer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-man-who-died-twice/article36676788.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||mRNA vaccine manufacturers loath to share know-how||While many low- and middle-income countries have received by far insufficient supply of vital COVID-19 vaccines so far, vaccine inequity has been most striking in Africa. Of the nearly 6 billion doses administered globally, only 2% have been in Africa. And less than 3.5% of people in Africa have been fully vaccinated till date. In contrast, 54% of the total population in the U.S. is fully vaccinated. After approving booster shots for the immunocompromised people, on September 22, the U.S. FDA greenlighted booster shots for people older than 65 years, adults between 18 and 64 years who are at high risk of severe disease and those at high risk of getting infected and at high risk of serious complications of COVID-19 including severe disease. Facilitating manufacture With attempts by the African Union to buy vaccines being unsuccessful, the continent has to wait for donations. It is to correct this anomaly and ensure that low- and middle-income countries can have easy access to vaccines to fight the pandemic that, in April, the WHO and COVAX wanted these countries to produce COVID-19 vaccines themselves. For this, the global health body is facilitating the establishment of technology transfer hubs to transfer necessary technology to manufacture COVID-19 vaccines and provide training to interested manufacturers in these countries. The initial focus has been on developing vaccines using the mRNA vaccine platform and expanding to other technologies in the future. According to Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore, the reason why WHO zeroed in on mRNA vaccines is that such vaccines have been found to be extremely efficacious in protecting against COVID-19, and protection is maintained to a large degree against variants. Second, the technology needed to manufacture mRNA vaccines is very flexible and allows relatively rapid adaptation of the vaccine to variants, if needed. Third, such vaccines can be produced by manufacturers of medicines and medical active substances, and finally, the availability of several technical features that are free of Intellectual Property Rights in many countries of the world. Dr Kang is also the vice-chair of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovation (CEPI) which the is part of COVAX that is identifying technology partners for the hub The WHO, a South African consortium — Biovac, Afrigen Biologics and Vaccines, a network of universities and the Africa CDC — and COVAX partners are working to set-up the first technology transfer hub in South Africa. The assumption is that companies such as Pfizer and Moderna will show a “willingness to transfer technologies”. As early as October last year, Moderna announced that it will not enforce patents related to its mRNA vaccine during the course of the pandemic. “We feel a special obligation under the current circumstances to use our resources to bring this pandemic to an end as quickly as possible. Accordingly, while the pandemic continues, Moderna will not enforce our COVID-19 related patents against those making vaccines intended to combat the pandemic,” Moderna said last year. Promises unkept However, according to an exclusive Reuters report, the promise made last year by Moderna is not translating into reality as the company is yet to reach a deal to transfer the technology to the South African hub. The New York Times quoted Dr. Martin Friede, a WHO official and Charles Gore, who runs a United Nations-backed nonprofit organisation, Medicines Patent Pool as saying that they have had “trouble getting Moderna to the negotiating table”. “We would love to get a discussion with Moderna, about a license to their intellectual property — this would make life so much simpler, but for the moment all attempts have resulted in no reply,” Dr. Friede told The New York Times.  It also reported a Moderna spokeswoman saying that the company was “willing to license its intellectual property for COVID-19 vaccines to others for the post pandemic period.” In effect, contrary to the promise made last year, the company is unwilling to license its mRNA vaccine IP during the pandemic and transfer technology to the South African hub. Vaccination is one sure way to protect people from severe disease and death and end the pandemic. Research funded Incidentally, unlike Pfizer that did not take any funding from the U.S. government to develop its vaccine, Moderna was given $1 billion as part of Operation Warp Speed to specifically fund its research efforts. Moderna’s vaccine was in part developed by National Institutes of Health.  Dr. Lawrence Gostin, faculty director of the O’Neill Institute for National and Global Health Law and Georgetown University Law Center tweeted on September 22: “LMIC companies are ready & able to produce mRNA vaccines, but Pfizer-BioNTech & Moderna are refusing to share technology & know-how. LMICs are fed-up with going hat-in-hand to rich countries for donations, which never come in time or at the scale needed.” He then added: “Biden can legally compel mRNA manufacturers to sign technology transfer contracts in exchange for reasonable compensation. The DPA [Defense Production Act of 1950] confers vast powers to act for the national defense. The DPA specifically includes “emergency preparedness.” Under pressure from U.S. President Joe Biden to enter into joint ventures to contract manufacture the vaccines in low- and middle-income countries, Pfizer took an easy route. It entered into an agreement with the U.S. to sell an “additional 500 million doses at a not-for-profit price for donation to low- and lower-middle-income countries and the organisations that support them”, according to a Pfizer release. The company had agreed to sell the first lot of 500 million doses in June. However, deliveries of the initial 500 million doses began only in August 2021 and only 300 million are expected to be shipped this year. The total one billion doses are expected to be delivered only by next September. In July, Pfizer signed a deal with South Africa’s Biovac Institute to help manufacture around 100 million doses annually of the mRNA vaccine for distribution exclusively to 55 member States of the African Union. However, as per the Pfizer press release, the drug substance will be manufactured in Europe and shipped to Biovac. Clearly, the agreement is for “fill and finish” of the vaccine, which does not require technology transfer. Also, manufacturing of finished doses will commence only next year. Reaching targets Even as President Biden wants 70% of the global population to be vaccinated by September next year, much of the low- and middle-income countries may not come anywhere close to the target unless companies freely share their technology and know-how. “I see no reason why only one or two companies should be considered when there are several companies that work on mRNA products,” Dr. Kang says. “Moderna is not the only company with the technology to transfer — it was just potentially the easiest. I have no idea why Moderna is not willing to participate given that they have set up contract manufacturing on other continents. However, WHO and COVAX have other potential partners with whom engagement is being explored.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/mrna-vaccine-manufacturers-loath-to-share-know-how/article36676593.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Rainy Septembers point to monsoon shifts||For the first time since 2010, India is poised to see three consecutive Septembers with excess rainfall. Experts say that this is a sign of a change in monsoon patterns though it is too early yet to demonstrably prove that is a lasting consequence of global warming. As of September 24, monsoon rainfall for the month is nearly 19 cm. The normal for the entire month is 17 cm, and there is still a week’s worth of rainfall to come. Spikes in rain While September is usually the month that marks the beginning of the end, for the monsoon’s four month sojourn over India, both 2020 and 2019 have seen spikes in rain. In 2019, September rain was a staggering 152% or close to 25 cm. To put that in perspective, that is close to what the country gets in August (26 cm), usually the second rainiest of the monsoon months. That year saw India get the highest monsoon rainfall since 1994. Last September’s rainfall was 17.7 cm which was not too high but more than what is normal. From 2013 to 2018, September rainfall has been less than normal save for 2014, when it was 18 cm, or 1 cm above normal. From 2010–2012, the three years of extra-rainy Septembers did not do much to boost the total rainfall India received. India only got 2% more monsoon rain in 2010 and 2011, and ended up with an overall 7% deficit in 2012 (largely due to weak rains in June and July). However, both in 2019 and 2020, India received close to 10% more monsoon rain than normal. When August ended, India appeared to be dangerously close to a rainfall deficit and almost 9% short of what is normal from June–August end. Narrowed deficit This year, with weak August rainfall, the India Meteorological Department said that September rainfall would be stronger than usual but India would still end up with only around 96% of what's normal. However, rainfall this month has significantly narrowed the deficit from 9% at the beginning of the month to 2% at the last week of September. A rain-bearing circulation is forming in the Bay of Bengal—unusual for this time of the year—and is expected to bring significant rain over several parts of India for most of the coming week. “The most obvious reason is that the monsoon is withdrawing much later than usual,” said Mahesh Palawat, Chief Meteorologist, Skymet, a private weather forecast agency, “This means more September rainfall. But why it's staying on for longer is still to be understood.” Delayed withdrawal The monsoon normally starts to withdraw by the 1st of September and completely exits by October. Last year, to reflect the increasingly delayed withdrawal of the monsoon, the IMD updated the beginning of the withdrawal date to September 17th. In both 2019 and 2020, the monsoon began its withdrawal in October and the same is expected this year too. “Overall global warming is increasing moisture levels during the monsoon period but this is affecting the distribution of the rain,” said KJ Ramesh, former Director General, IMD, “July and August see periods of active rains and breaks. June and September because they have low base rainfall, even the slightest increase shows up big percentage gains.” A study by scientists at the Central Water Commission published in Theoretical and Applied Climatology, 2018 analysed changes in monsoon patterns and concluded that the monthly variability of the summer rainfall was due to changing patterns of low pressure over the Indian landmass as well as fluctuations in moisture distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/rainy-septembers-point-to-monsoon-shifts/article36676583.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Indigenous memory technology moves from lab to fab||IIT Bombay researchers have developed a “memory technology” that can, in principle, revolutionise Indian industry and the many applications that need semiconductor chips, such as in the defence sector, automobiles and future aspirations in cell phone manufacturing. Hard disks, flash memory, etc, are examples of memory technology. There is also another form of memory called the one-time programmable memory (OTP) where the memory is written once, stored for a lifetime, and retrieved and used many times. This finds varied uses, one of which is in correcting faulty chips that have been mass produced for specific applications. Correcting offsets For instance, think of a chip that helps read off the temperature. Due to a manufacturing defect, the chip may read 100 degree Celsius as 101 degree Celsius. This “offset” of 1 degree may be corrected by storing the error correction parameter in the OTP memory. This is done uniquely for each chip and once stored, the memory corrects the chip’s output for its lifetime. “OTP memories are also used for other purposes, mainly three: chip identity, secure information storage and chip calibration for error correction,” says Udayan Ganguly, professor at IIT Bombay, who holds the patents for the invention along with A. Lele, S. Sadana and P. Kumbhare. Storing values To store the correction value, the researchers used eight memory cells, each of which would store one “bit” (that is a value of zero or one). Each of the memory cells consist of an ultrathin silicon dioxide layer which is 10-15 atomic layers thick. This is deposited uniformly over a dinner plate–sized eight-inch silicon wafer to form millions of nanoscale capacitors. “The pristine silicon dioxide layer is insulating, passing a very low current [which in digital electronics is read as a “0”]. A nanoscale lightning is generated of 3.3 volts to blow the capacitor, leading to a short circuit that produced high current [this is a “1”],” says Prof. Ganguly. Thus, the OTP memory remembers either the “0” state or “1” state through its lifetime. The group, in collaboration with the Semi-Conductor Laboratory, Mohali, Punjab (SCL), has successfully demonstrated CMOS 180-nanometre–based, production-ready, eight-bit memory technology, according to a press release from the office of the Principal Scientific Adviser to Government of India. Reiterating this, Prof Ganguly says, “We have shown that the memory cells and arrays pass all the specifications for the trimming application when manufactured in the SCL 180-nanometre CMOS line. These include successful operation between minus 40 degrees C to 125 degrees C and reliability to ensure excess of 95% yield on eight-bit memories.” According to him, a large fraction of manufactured chips may need to be discarded for faults that can be corrected using this technology. This technology is the first indigenous semiconductor memory technology adoption to manufacturing at 180-nanometre node. Thus, this is a major national milestone for semiconductor innovation, says Prof Ganguly. Better process There exist other methods of achieving OTP memories than described above. However, these demand challenging engineering techniques and also require high voltage, which comes with a large area penalty. “In contrast, we use a dedicated insulator material which is specially engineered silicon dioxide at 2.5-nanometre thickness to breakdown at 3.3 volt without any special structures along with a standard transistor. Thus, the transistor is not disturbed, and no special high voltage generation is needed,” says Prof. Ganguly, pointing out the attractive features of the technology. First customer Semi-Conductor Lab (SCL), Punjab, is the first customer to try and use this technology for internal purposes. Apart from collaborating with SCL, the team at IIT Bombay partnered with IIT Delhi, SETS Chennai and Defence Research and Development Organization for hardware encryption. “The concept came out of a PhD Thesis in IIT Bombay… This is the first indigenous 180-nanometre memory technology to have successfully graduated from lab to fab in 2021. It has taken six years in the process of translating research to manufacturing,” says Prof. Ganguly.  Semi-Conductor Lab located in Mohali, Punjab, is the first customer to try and use this technology for internal purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/indigenous-memory-technology-moves-from-lab-to-fab/article36676587.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Martian mystery||Does Mars have water to enable habitability? Water is essential for life, on Earth and other planets but Mars has no liquid water on its surface today. New research from Washington University in St. Louis suggests a fundamental reason: Mars may be just too small to hold on to large amounts of water. The study (Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences)  used stable isotopes of the element potassium to estimate the presence, distribution and abundance of volatile elements on different planetary bodies. Potassium is a moderately volatile element, but the scientists decided to use it as a tracer for more volatile compounds, such as water. They measured the potassium isotope compositions of 20 previously confirmed Martian meteorites and determined that Mars lost more potassium and other volatiles than Earth during its formation. The researchers found a well-defined correlation between body size and potassium isotopic composition. The finding of the correlation of potassium isotopic compositions with planet gravity is a novel discovery with important quantitative implications for when and how the differentiated planets received and lost their volatiles, Dr. Katharina Lodders from Washington University and a coauthor of the study said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/martian-mystery/article36676585.ece
26 September 2021||Patna,||60% voting in first phase of Bihar panchayat election||The first phase of the panchayat election in Bihar passed off peacefully on Friday amid webcast and biometric attendance of the voters to maintain transparency and avoid bogus voting. The 11-phase polling is scheduled to be held from September 24 to December 12 with huge deployment of security personnel and officials. The first phase poll for three-tier Panchayati Raj Institutions was held at 2,119 polling stations across 12 blocks of 10 districts with 60% voters’ turn out. “The first phase passed off peacefully and voting was held in free and fair manner. The voters’ turn out was also encouraging,” said State Election Commissioner Deepak Prasad. On incidents of violence, he said, “Complaints of incidents of clashes and other discrepancies were negligible due to measures like webcasting and biometric verification of voters’ identity.” EVMs, ballot papers In the first phase, polling was conducted for 4,646 posts for which 15,078 candidates were in the fray in 151 panchayats. Electronic Voting Machines too were used for the first time in the poll along with ballot papers. Some reports of EVMs not working had come but they were rectified, said Mr. Prasad. However, reports of huge consignment of illegal liquor bottles seized ahead of the poll had also come. As many as 12,065 illegal liquor manufacturing units were destroyed in different districts while 5,46,143 litres of illicit liquor was seized. Besides, 362 illegal arms and 1,606 cartridges too were recovered. “Liquor and money do play a major role in Panchayat elections in Bihar but this time it was not like previous polls,” said Ankit Sharma of Jehanabad district where voters’ turn out was 56.69%. On the issues dominating the voters, Sanket Mishra, a sexagenarian farmer of Rohtas district, told The Hindu over phone, “The dominating issues were corruption at local level and crime along with sale of illegal liquor in villages.” Rohtas witnessed maximum number of voters’ turn out (62.50%). Polling was also held in Kaimur, Aurangabad, Gaya, Nawada, Arwal, Banka, Munger and Jamui districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/60-voting-in-first-phase-of-bihar-panchayat-election/article36677335.ece
26 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Allot land to the evicted, Assam CM told||The All Assam Minority Students’ Union (AAMSU) on Saturday set a seven-day deadline for Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to allot land for thousands of people being evicted from large swathes of government land in Darrang district’s Sipajhar. The union also accused the State administration of a pre-planned move to instigate the people by not giving them sufficient time to vacate the land. “We did meet the Chief Minister on the Gorukhuti project [reclamation of 77,000 bighas of government land from squatters] and decided that the people will be given space elsewhere to resettle. But there was a disconnect between the CM and the Darrang district administration, which showed no interest in the resettlement of the people to be evicted,” AAMSU president Rejaul Karim Sarkar said in northern Assam’s Kharupetia. He said the eviction notice was given to 244 families in Dhalpur No. 3 village at midnight and were asked to vacate within a few hours. No time given “They did not give time to the people to dismantle their houses and three mosques. Although the people agreed to shift quietly, the police started damaging their belongings and setting them on fire. This agitated the villagers,” Mr. Sarkar said. Impartial probe The AAMSU leader said the government must allot land within seven days for the displaced families. “We have agreed to move out, but there is no clarity on where they will go. We cannot trust the district authorities since 800 families evicted on September 20 were shown an inhabitable area where 300 families are already living,” he said. In Guwahati, a team of eight All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) legislators submitted a memorandum to Governor Jagdish Mukhi demanding an impartial probe into the Sipajhar incident where two people, including a minor, were shot dead. “Assam’s land policy says people living on government land for 10-15 years are entitled to land rights. But here, the government evicted people settled for more than 50 years inhumanely,” AIUDF legislator Aminul Islam said. Muslims in Assam have been harassed in the name of National Register of Citizens, D (doubtful) voters, declared foreigners, population control bill, cattle protection and such policies, he said. “It seems that the Chief Minister and his government derive sadistic pleasure from killing and harassing poor people belonging to the minority community. This is being done to please their BJP and RSS masters since the Hindutva forces are losing ground elsewhere in the country,” Mr. Islam said. He said it was natural for people with their backs to the wall to react. “If you strike a beehive, won’t the bees sting? The Constitution of India bestows the right to private defence, but that does not mean they should be shot. A CM is for all communities, not for Hindus alone,” he said.  Assam’s land policy says people living on government land for 10-15 years are entitled to land rights. But here, the government evicted people settled for more than 50 years inhumanely Aminul Islam AIUDF legislator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/allot-land-to-the-evicted-assam-cm-told/article36677081.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||How will Covishield nod impact travel to U.K.?||The story so far: The United Kingdom updated its travel guidelines for international travel this week, saying that from October 4, the U.K. will recognise passengers vaccinated in the U.S., the U.K. and Europe, and 17 other jurisdictions (16 countries and Taiwan), which do not include India. Adding to the measures, against which India protested, the U.K. amended the guidelines ensuring that passengers from those named countries who had taken the India-made Covishield vaccine would be allowed entry without having to be tested or undergoing the mandatory 10-day quarantine, but Indians who have taken the vaccine in India would still need to go through both. Is the U.K. rule discriminatory? The U.K. guidelines, originally put out this week, were not just discriminatory but also contradictory. The beneficiaries of the new rule would be the allies of the U.K., like European countries and the United States, as well as the named 17 jurisdictions: Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan (https://www.nidirect.gov.uk/articles/coronavirus-covid-19-changes-international-travel-rules-4-october). Many of these countries still have COVID-19 cases, and all don’t have higher vaccination rates than India. What made the rules particularly confusing was that many of these countries have accepted India’s Serum Institute-made AstraZeneca variant Covishield, including the U.K. itself that received five million doses. Officials said Covishield was not the problem, but the U.K. had questions about India’s CoWIN certification process. What are the concerns? U.K. High Commissioner Alexander Ellis didn’t spell out the specific concerns, but said British and India officials are in talks to discuss the interoperability of the CoWIN app, which holds the database of vaccinated Indians, with the U.K. NHS app. This has raised speculation that there are questions in the U.K. about the authenticity of CoWIN data, a contention that Indian officials have rejected outright, saying more than 50 countries worldwide have reportedly expressed an interest in adopting CoWIN technology. However, more questions were raised after the government announced a record 2.5 crore vaccinations on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, which does not match the demonstrated Indian capacity on other days. By the end of the week, both the U.K. and Indian officials said their teams had no “technical concerns” over the process, but the U.K. guidelines still haven’t been amended for Indians as the government had hoped. If the issue is not resolved in the coming week, the guidelines will come into place from October 4. What was India’s reaction? The government called the British decision “discriminatory” and lodged strong protests in Delhi, London and New York, where External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his U.K. counterpart Elizabeth Truss on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly and warned of reciprocal measures against the U.K. India mandates travel under an “air travel bubble” arrangement, but accepts mostly Indian citizens and OCI (U.K. nationals of Indian-origin) on flights into India. It also has a separate rule for passengers from the U.K., who must undergo RT-PCR tests and 14 days of home quarantine when they arrive, and it remains to be seen what further reprisals India would wish to take if the U.K. doesn’t resolve the issue (https://www.civilaviation.gov.in/en/about-air-transport-bubbles https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/Guidelinesforinternationalarrivals17022021.pdf ). Significantly, the government has also diluted its earlier position, wherein it demanded that the U.K. and other countries not only recognise Covishield, which has World Health Organization (WHO) approval, but that they recognise all Indian vaccines like Covaxin that are certified by Indian processes. How does this impact India-U.K. ties? India and the U.K. are in the process of talks on upgrading ties, including their strategic partnership, negotiating a trade agreement, and discussing cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, and the current controversy makes for bad optics, particularly since it involves the Covishield vaccine, once hailed as a symbol of U.K.-India collaboration with British technology and Indian manufacturing. If unresolved, the issue could also overshadow an expected visit by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson to India in the next few months. His previously scheduled visits in January and then April this year had to be cancelled owing to COVID-19 outbreaks in India and the U.K.  The Indian government has called the British rules ‘discriminatory’ and lodged strong protests in Delhi, London and New York, where External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar met his U.K. counterpart Elizabeth Truss||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/how-will-covishield-nod-impact-travel-to-uk/article36676516.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||LJP MP gets anticipatory bail in rape case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted anticipatory bail to Lok Janshakti Party MP Prince Raj in a rape case. Special Judge Vikas Dhull granted the relief to the politician on a bond of Rs. 1 lakh and one surety of like amount, saying there was “unusual delay” in lodging the FIR against Mr. Raj by the complainant. “In the event of arrest of applicant, the investigating officer (IO)/ station house officer of Connaught Place police station is directed to release the accused on his furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 1 lakh with one surety in the like amount,” the judge said. The judge also directed Mr. Raj to join the investigation and not “threaten, pressurise or contact the prosecutrix.” Blackmail, extortion In its 25-page order, the court accepted the argument made by senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, counsel for Mr. Raj, that the complainant and her male friend were extorting money and blackmailing his client since 2020. The judge played an audio recording before the court in which the friend was heard threatening to upload objectionable videos and pictures of the accused on Facebook and noted that the call, according to Mr. Raj, was made to his relative. The court also noted that the transcripts of another audio recording show the alleged victim had told the friend that whatever happened between her and Mr. Raj “was as per mutual understanding and with consent of each other.” “In another transcript, the prosecutrix is threatening to make a video viral which she had prepared to put the reputation of the accused at stake,” the court noted. It noted from the arguments of advocate Nitesh Rana, also appearing for Mr. Raj, that there were more audio and video recordings of such nature. “All the facts show that it was the prosecutrix who was trying to threaten the accused and she also corroborated the allegations made in the FIR lodged by the accused that they had consensual physical relationship,” the judge noted. “The custodial interrogation is not required as nothing is to be recovered from him,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ljp-mp-gets-anticipatory-bail-in-rape-case/article36677259.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Where it all began: How Ford drove into Madras||There was an air of excitement around the automobile industry in the early 90s. The country had opened up, and India was a huge untapped market stuck with the now vintage car models such as Ambassadors and Premier Padminis. Suzuki, a Japanese company, had set up a joint venture with the government and introduced the Maruti 800 in 1983, which became a super hit ‘affordable, family automobile’ in a car-starved country. Nothing more happened in the next 10 years. Then, in the early 90s, American auto major Ford announced its decision to come to India when the government started allowing joint ventures in the auto sector. Ford tied up with Maharashtra’s Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) and Ford Mahindra was set up. The international manufacturer announced its decision to put up a plant to manufacture locally, and that’s when the fun began. Business journalists began to learn how difficult it was to deal with a large American multinational which followed strict procedures and processes regarding media relations. Information came in trickles. Given the tie-up, it was assumed that Ford would put up their factory in Maharashtra. The company shortlisted three probable locations: Pune, Gurgaon and Madras. Madras had a strong auto component industry, a trained workforce, engineers, and a port. The city already had commercial vehicles, two-wheeler and tractor companies, among others, and a strong ecosystem was in place. Although the industry knew Madras was a good choice, the rest of the country could not believe sleepy Madras stood a chance. The city did not have an industry-friendly image. Tamil Nadu was seen as a corrupt state, though this was far from the truth. J Jayalalithaa was the chief minister when Ford made its entry. She understood that getting Ford to come to Madras was not only prestigious, but would also create jobs, and downstream industries. She impressed the various teams which trooped in from Dearborn, Michigan (Ford’s headquarters) to her office in Madras, having facts and figures at her fingertips. She was punctual, spoke fluent English, and served refreshments in the best bone China available. Poor Manohar Joshi, Maharashtra’s CM, was no match for her. Ford sent a 200-query questionnaire covering every aspect of Madras imaginable. The site chosen had to pass 40 parameters — for example, they did not want any other industry within 20 kilometers of their factory (to avoid dust pollution at their ultra-modern paint shop). There were tough negotiations for a year, but the Tamil Nadu government worked everything out and Ford came to Madras. When the MOU was signed there was a celebratory dinner, and I was one of the privileged few to get an invitation. I asked John Parker, the managing director of Ford Mahindra what he thought of the newcomer Hyundai, the South Korean auto manufacturer, who was also coming to the city sans the fanfare. He looked amused. “You guys may get along better with them,” he said. Parker did not know how prescient he was.  The writer is a journalist and author.   Read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/where-it-all-began-how-ford-drove-into-madras/article36677244.ece
26 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||BKU will remain apolitical, says Tikait||The poll pundits are watching which way the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) would tilt during the upcoming Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. In an interview with The Hindu , Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the BKU, categorically stated that the union would remain apolitical and that he had no political ambitions. “We are farmers and not into politics. Those who will work for their interests, farmers will elect them on their own,” he said. There are indications that the U.P. government would increase the State Advisory Price (SAP) of sugarcane soon. Mr. Tikait said the BJP would try to distract farmers before the polls. “The party promised the rate of Rs.370 [per quintal] before the 2017 polls. Even if they increase the SAP after four years, the party has a lot to answer. Considering the inflation, the farmers would not settle for less than Rs.425 [per quintal],” he said. Refusing to take credit for mounting the farmers’ movement in western Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Tikait said the BKU would continue to work as a pressure group to keep a check on the promises made by political parties to the farmers. “The movement has given an opportunity to Opposition parties to become the face of farmers. How will it pan out, I don’t know as I am not into vote-bank arithmetic. I have no political ambition,” he said. Baghpat event Describing the ritual ceremony of former Rashtriya Lok Dal president Ajit Singh in Baghpat as a “social event”, he said political meanings should not be drawn out of his elder brother and BKU president Naresh Tikait’s presence at the event last week. “You will not see me sharing the political stage with Jayant (Chaudhary) or for that matter any political leader. We pay tribute to Chaudhary Devi Lal on his birth anniversary as well but that doesn’t mean we are politically aligned with the INLD.” On the notion that the BKU cadre would put its weight behind the RLD, Mr. Tikait said there were many in the movement who would eventually vote for the BJP. “There are many who render all support to the movement but I know they will go with the BJP because of local pressures. If the government decides to increase the sugarcane price, it will benefit all farmers, not farmers of a particular caste or religion.” However, he didn’t rule out the possibility of members of the Tikait family entering the fray. “I can guarantee only about my vote. I can’t assure you of even my wife’s,” he laughed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bku-will-remain-apolitical-says-tikait/article36677264.ece
26 September 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai child receives special injection to treat rare cancer||A toddler from Mumbai has become the first child in the country to receive Dinutuximab Immunotherapy to treat neuroblastoma — a rare type of cancer of the nerve cells. Diya Gala, a three-and-a-half-year-old girl from Andheri in Mumbai, received injections worth Rs. 1.35 crore on compassionate basis at the Bai Jerbai Wadia Hospital for Children, Mumbai. Rajesh Deoji Gala and Kalpana Gala had not been able to understand why their second child, Diya, used to cry profusely. When they noticed that she had become quite weak, they took her to a local doctor who prescribed medicines that gave her relief for some time. Later a visit to a specialist confirmed her disease. Dr. Prashant Hiwarkar, a bone marrow transplant physician at the Wadia Hospital, said, “Diya was brought here with non-resolving abdominal pain. An ultrasound showed a mass in her abdomen and a battery of tests later diagnosed her with metastatic neuroblastoma. It is the second most common solid tumour in childhood. The symptoms are bone pain and a lump in the abdomen area, neck, or chest. In India, children get treated with a conglomerate of therapy involving chemotherapy, surgery, autologous stem cell transplant followed by radiotherapy. Only 40% survive long term.” Dr. Hiwarkar added that a year after the diagnosis, Diya was given Dinutuximab, one of the new generations of medications called immunotherapy. “It is used for those patients whose condition hasn’t improved despite the standard treatment.” “Our world came crashing down after the diagnosis. We took the help of various platforms for raising funds. But Wadia hospital treated our daughter on a compassionate basis. Over the last year, Diya had to make continuous trips to the hospital and has spent around eight months in the hospital. Now, she is slowly getting back on track. She has completed the first course and will receive the second course after 35 days,” said Mr. Gala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mumbai-child-receives-special-injection-to-treat-rare-cancer/article36677333.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||Lawyers stay away from work in all Delhi district courts||A day after the armed hit on a dreaded gangster followed by a shoot-out between the police and the assailants inside the Rohini district courts, lawyers abstained from work in all district courts on Saturday demanding better security on court premises. Jitender Maan alias Gogi and two assailants who gunned him down were killed in a shoot-out inside a courtroom in Rohini on Friday. No work took place in the district courts except urgent matters such as bail and custody extension as the lawyers did not appear before the judges, said Sanjeev Nasiar, the spokesperson of the Coordination Committee of all District Courts Bar Associations in Delhi. The strike was called by the committee seeking modification of security norms on all the seven district courts premises. The courts, however, passed orders and judgments that were already scheduled for Saturday, he said. Met police chief Mr. Nasiar added that a team of lawyers also met the Delhi Police Commissioner on Saturday to discuss matters related to the security. Advocate Manjeet Mathur, secretary of the Rohini District Courts Bar Association, said the strike was peaceful and no information regarding any unpleasant incident was received from any of the seven courts. Advocate Dilip Kumar, who has his chamber in the Patiala House Courts, said though the lawyers went to their offices they did not appear before the judges. Advocates also abstained from virtual or physical hearings in other district courts including Rouse Avenue, Tis Hazari, Dwarka, Saket and Karkardooma. Maan was killed by two assailants as part of a turf war with a rival gang inside a crowded Rohini courtroom yesterday. The assailants were gunned down by the police in retaliation during an exchange of fire as pandemonium broke loose with gunshots ringing out inside courtroom number 207.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lawyers-stay-away-from-work-in-all-delhi-district-courts/article36677260.ece
26 September 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt. calls off Health Dept. recruitment exam||In a major embarrassment for the Maharashtra government, recruitment examination for 6,200 posts in the Public Health Department had to be postponed on Friday night. The exam was scheduled on Saturday for which over six lakh applicants had enrolled. The State government claimed that the company to whom the responsibility of making necessary arrangements was outsourced, was unable to fulfill the duty. As per the schedule, on September 25 and 26, examination for the Group C and Group D posts were to be held respectively. ‘Shows carelessness’ The Opposition and student bodies slammed the State government over its carelessness and appointing a company which was already blacklisted demanding inquiry and action against officials involved. According to the statement issued by the State’s Public Health Department, the next date of the examination will be announced only after fulfilling all thetechnical requirements. “The examinations are being postponed because outsourced company Nyasa Communications Pvt. Ltd. could not make the necessary arrangements for the exams in due time,” it said. State’s Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope apologised to the students and their families for the trouble. “The Health Department extended all necessary cooperation to conduct the exam to the company. Despite all the cooperation and help, the company conveyed on September 24 at 7 p.m. that it could not finish preparations of providing hall tickets and making seating arrangements,” the statement said. According to the company’s agreement with the State government, the Health Department was to provide question papers; rest of the arrangements, including designing website, online applications, provide hall ticket, make sitting arrangements and publish merit list was to be done by the said company. Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded inquiry into the incident alleging middlemen having infiltrated the system leading to its collapse. “The State government cannot do away with its responsibility. It cannot do a single work properly. It messes everything that it touches,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-govt-calls-off-health-dept-recruitment-exam/article36677083.ece
26 September 2021||JAIPUR,||All-woman police squad completes two years of formation||The all-woman Nirbhaya Squad of the Jaipur police has completed two years of its formation while offering safety and security to women in the capital city. The high-spirited task force was felicitated for the grit and determination in rendering its services and was praised for taking swift action against those harassing women on the streets. The bike-borne Nirbhaya Squad was formed in 2019 with women constables trained in martial arts, who are deployed at places such as schools, colleges, malls and bus stops to extend protection to women. The squad took out flag marches during the COVID-19 pandemic and distributed sanitary pads free of cost in Jaipur’s containment zones during the lockdown. Digital skills The task force has expressed willingness to join a consortium of organisations to impart skills training to women at the grassroots level. The digital skills training has been stated to be useful even for the squad members, who could guide community efforts in the fields of healthcare, sanitation and hygiene. As part of “Operation Safe Wheels”, the Nirbhaya Squad caught 505 persons on charges of harassing or molesting women during August and formally arrested 84 of them. Others were let off with a strict warning after counselling. The police have identified as many as 200 vulnerable hotspots in the capital city. Additional Commissioner of Police Rahul Prakash said at a felicitation ceremony here that the Nirbhaya Sqaud was extremely supportive during the COVID-19 testing drive and had sensitised the local communities, especially women, for giving samples. The squad members, equipped with wireless sets, are posted in the usual civil dresses at public places, where they look for troublemakers. Mr. Prakash said another mission, “Safer city, safer streets”, would be shortly initiated in Jaipur, with the the Nirbhaya Squad members posing as civilians and ready to promptly report any security issue to the police control room. The teams, whose numbers will be increased from five to 15 in different zones, will also have body cameras to report live actions and crimes. Sumita Minhas, Principal, Podar World School – which organised the ceremony marking the foundation day – said the Nirbhaya Squad was providing security to women, children and everyone in need and had set a perfect example of “women leading the way” in the society. ‘No worry’ Meghna Choudhary, 22, an architecture student living in the city’s Bani Park area, said the presence of the Nirbhaya Squad members in the public transport system and markets had instilled a sense of security among girls. “I feel safe when I go to my college or venture out with my friends. I don’t have to worry about eve-teasers,” she said. Nirbhaya Squad’s nodal officer Sunita Meena said the task force would devise new strategies to ward off threats to women and girls in Jaipur. The foundation day witnessed street plays, police band procession and an oath taking ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/all-woman-police-squad-completes-two-years-of-formation/article36677337.ece
26 September 2021||Lucknow,||U.P. Cong. extends date for poll ticket seekers||The Congress party on Saturday extended by a fortnight the date for its leaders and workers to apply for party tickets to contest the 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu, in a letter sent to party leaders and office-bearers, said the date for submission of applications earlier was September 25 but it has now been extended to October 10. When contacted, party leaders said this step has been taken on the request of party workers and leaders who had been busy in training camps and other organisational issues and had found it difficult to apply in time. They also said some prospective candidates did not want to apply during the “pitr paksha’ period, considered inauspicious by many to start a new work. The partymen had been busy in training programmes and other organisational issues and they needed to visit the party office physically to apply for tickets, the leaders said. They had requested the leadership for more time and so this decision has been taken, party spokesman Ashok Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/up-cong-extends-date-for-poll-ticket-seekers/article36677265.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Status quo on petrol||The story so far: The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council last week decided to let petrol and diesel remain out of the ambit of the GST, at least for now. The discussion on including the domestic fuels under the GST was taken up by the Council after a nudge by the Kerala High Court, but members of the Council chose to opt for the status quo. Why is there a demand to bring petrol and diesel under the GST? The climbing cost of petrol and diesel has increased pressure on the government to reduce taxes on the fuels in order to rein in their pump prices. The price of petrol has risen above the Rs. 100-mark in major cities across the country. The government has blamed rising international crude oil prices for the increase in domestic fuel prices. India imports more than 80% of its oil supplies and the price of crude oil in the international market does have a significant impact on domestic fuel prices. However, high taxes are also seen as a major reason for the rise in fuel prices. It should be noted that more than half of the money paid by the consumer to purchase fuels goes towards some tax or the other. Even when international crude oil prices decline, the government has tended not to let domestic fuel prices drop. Instead, it has in the past raised taxes to capture the windfall gains that could accrue to oil companies. For instance, even though the prices of international crude oil futures dropped to less than $20 a barrel in April last year due to the huge drop in demand during the global COVID-19 lockdown, the domestic retail price of petrol and diesel continued to stay high. The government says it increased taxes on fuels to compensate for the loss of other revenues. Opposition parties and even the RBI have urged the government to slash taxes to make fuels not only more affordable for the consumer but also to lessen the second-order inflationary impacts since diesel is the main fuel used by road freight operators, and its high price pushes up transport costs. Why are Central and State governments reluctant? Petrol and diesel are two of the most highly taxed goods in the country and bring in huge revenues to both the Central and State governments. Fuel taxes were projected to contribute almost Rs. 6 lakh crore to the Central and State exchequers combined in 2020-21, and bringing domestic fuels under the GST would effectively mean reducing taxes on them. The highest tax slab under the GST is 28%, while the fuels such as petrol and diesel are taxed at more than 100% currently. So both the Centre and the States are reluctant to lower taxes. The States, in particular, are wary of losing even more of their already curtailed independent power to raise tax revenue by allowing petrol and diesel to be brought under the ambit of the GST since it would make them further dependent on the Centre to receive their share of the taxes. At the moment, the States can independently impose a value added tax on petrol and diesel. The Centre and the States have also justified their decision to tax fuels heavily by saying that the revenue collected helps them fund social programmes. Critics of the government’s policy of imposing high fuel taxes, however, argue that high taxes are a drag on the economy. If taxes are reduced, not only would more petrol and diesel be consumed but the money saved by motorists on this count could likely be diverted to other parts of consumption spending, thus boosting economic growth. And if the increment to overall economic output is greater than the revenue foregone through a reduction in the tax rates, the governments could end up actually collecting more revenue than under the current high fuel tax regime. What lies ahead? Since the revenues of both the Centre and the States will be heavily affected by a lower tax on petrol and diesel, it is unlikely that these fuels will be brought under the ambit of the GST any time soon. Even if these fuels are brought under the GST, there is likely to be a steep rate imposed on them to prevent any loss in tax revenues. So the real question is not whether the Centre and the States are willing to bring fuels under the GST but whether they truly wish to reduce taxes on fuels. It should be noted that the share of the final price of petrol that goes towards taxes has increased from approximately 30% in 2014 to about 60% now. So, a scenario in which there is no further increase in fuel taxes may be the best that consumers can hope for.  Petrol and diesel bring in huge revenues to both the Centre and the State governments. Fuel taxes were projected to contribute almost Rs. 6 lakh crore to the Central and State exchequers combined in 2020-21||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/status-quo-on-petrol/article36676515.ece
26 September 2021||Mumbai,||Quota row: Maharashtra BJP calls for deferment of local body byelections||The State BJP on Saturday demanded to defer the October 5 byelections of Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samiti after the Maharashtra State Election Commission refused to adhere to the amendment introduced in the Act limiting reservation to 50% in rural local bodies. Party leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule said that the State government should immediately approach the Supreme Court to ensure elections are conducted as per the amendments. The State government has been constantly misleading the OBCs and has no intention whatsoever to give political reservation to OBCs,” he said. “The amendments should have been cleared before the commission announced the poll programme,” he said. Governor’s approval Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday signed the amended ordinance by the State Cabinet as per which 27% reservation for OBCs will be extended in Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis by maintaining the 50% upper limit of reservation. The move was necessitated after the apex court scrapped political reservation of OBCs in local body polls, citing it was breaching the 50% limit. The State Election Commission has called for byelections for seats which fell vacant in Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samiti after the court verdict. Earlier, all parties had agreed against conducting polls until reservation is restored. However, the Supreme Court directed that the poll commission is the final authority to decide on the same after which bypolls were announced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/quota-row-maharashtra-bjp-calls-for-deferment-of-local-body-byelections/article36677263.ece
26 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Courts should start specifying penal as well as digital consequences’||‘Right to be forgotten’ is a fairly new concept in India and the courts have so far given varying opinions on a case-by-case basis. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2018, refers to it as the ability of individuals to limit, delete, or correct disclosure of personal information on the Internet that is misleading, embarrassing, irrelevant, or anachronistic. The Delhi High Court is currently hearing two pleas that deal with this provision. Reality show celebrity Ashutosh Kaushik speaks to The Hindu on his petition to remove certain online articles and videos relating to his arrest in a drunk driving incident in 2009. Excerpts:  What triggered you to approach the Delhi High Court? The idea was borne out of necessity. My family, including my mother and sisters, would always question me as to why these videos and stories are not being taken down. Whenever my family or friends get a hold of these videos or articles, they forward it to me and ask: “Now what have you done?”. The incident happened over a decade ago. Also, I am currently pursuing my LLB and I came to know about the Right to be Forgotten and my Right to Privacy. With this awareness, I contacted my lawyer and decided to move the court. Why do you want to take these videos and articles down? If I have faced punishment for these offences, why am I still bearing the brunt of it.? I had earlier requested the news portals and channels to take down the stories. But the news channels and portals declined. I have faced commercial damages. I have even stopped getting work in the entertainment industry. When the court has given me punishment, why should I continue to face ‘digital punishment’? What happened in the drunk driving case? The day after the incident, I went to the local court where I pleaded guilty. The court sentenced me to one-day imprisonment. Now that I have faced the punishment, why am I being hounded till now? The court should specify penal and digital consequences. Why do LLB now? We did not have a father while growing up. I had to drop my education to help my sisters complete theirs. Today, my sisters are established and I am now completing my education. I want to do a PhD also. You won MTV Hero Honda Roadies 5.0 in 2007 and the second season of Big Boss in 2008, but your public appearances have dwindled in recent years. Why?  Azadi ki value usi ko pata hai jisne ghulami dekhi ho (the value of freedom is known only to those who have experienced slavery). If I had struggled in Mumbai, I would have known how to appreciate it. I had no knowledge of how to speak and what to speak to people in the industry in Mumbai. My point is, if you are getting things in time, or even late then its good. But, you should not get anything before your time, or else, it will be laid to waste. Its been 10 years since the incident happened. It’s a long time. People change. Being a celebrity and a public figure, can you really ask the media to be selective in portraying you? I am fighting for my rights. No news channel or media will ever report that I go to school and colleges to educate students against indulging in bad habits such as drunk driving. I currently run a YouTube channel under my name and all the proceeds from it go to charity. I distribute blankets to the poor. How will you prevent individuals from reposting the videos and articles on social media sites? My priority is to remove the videos and articles from mainstream news channels and big media houses. For any individual, I can only request them. There should be specific provisions in law that a person found guilty of a crime will face physical as well as digital punishment.  I have even stopped getting work in the entertainment industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/courts-should-start-specifying-penal-as-well-as-digital-consequences/article36677077.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||Operation clean-up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/operation-clean-up/article36677257.ece
26 September 2021||Mumbai,||Man acquitted of charges of raping minor||The Bombay High Court recently acquitted a man for kidnapping and raping a minor. It held “the evidence suggests that the physical relationship between them was consensual”. The case dates back to 2015, when the minor was residing with her parents at Lohagaon, Pune and was studying in Class IX. On April 8, 2015, the minor was picked up by the man. They went to Dadar and then to Pandarpur. He rented a room and allegedly had forcible intercourse with her. After three days, he dropped her at Pune. She then called her brother, and an FIR was registered. On September 21, 2019, POCSO convicted the man under Sections of the IPC and Section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO. He then challenged his conviction and filed an appeal before a Single Bench of Justice Anuja Prabhudessai. The man’s advocate said the prosecution has failed to prove that the victim was a minor. He also said that the girl’s brother said he was 27 years old at the time of the incident and that the girl was five younger to him, ie. 22 years old.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-acquitted-of-charges-of-abducting-raping-minor/article36677079.ece
26 September 2021||Jind,||Regional parties’ show of strength in Jind||Several regional political outfits, including the Indian National Lok Dal, Shiromani Akali Dal and the National Conference, here on Saturday put up a show of strength on the 108th birth anniversary of the late Deputy PM Devi Lal and also backed the stir against the Centre’s farm laws. The event saw a surprise participation of BJP leader and former Union Minister Rao Birender Singh. The INLD had organised a “Samman Diwas Samaroh” at Jind to mark the event. Akali leader Parkash Singh Badal, former Jammu and Kashmir CM Farooq Abdullah, Janata Dal (U) leader K.C. Tyagi and former Haryana CM O.P. Chautala attended the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/regional-parties-show-of-strength-in-jind/article36677261.ece
26 September 2021||September 26 2021 00:00 IST,||fierce and||There was no big a-ha moment but sometime over the last few years, Richa Chadha realised that she did not care about others’ opinion of her choices. And this applies to different facets of her life. “I am less afraid to embrace my own whimsy, to write a book or get into production. I want to chart my own growth and create my own opportunities,” the actor and newly-minted producer explains. While she was never short on confidence, this new attitude has helped the 34-year-old stand up a little taller. “I’ve had people who I knew on Gangs of Wasseypur (2012) tell me to my face that they didn’t expect me to last in the industry. I don’t know if they realised how offensive they were being but I just didn’t care.” In the decade plus years that she’s been in the movies, not only has Chadha survived but she’s positively thriving. Her latest long-format offering alongside Ronit Roy, Voot Select’s Candy , a psychological whodunit set in the hills, is getting favourable reviews for her role as a cop. The third season of Amazon Prime’s Inside Edge will drop soon and she is shooting for The Six Suspects, which is based on Vikas Swaroop’s bestseller and is directed by Tigmanshu Dhulia. There is also Fukrey 3 that will go on the floors soon and Anubhav Sinha’s Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hua Hai . Film projects aside, there is the production house Pushing Buttons Studios where she’s partnered with her real-life partner Ali Fazal. Their first film, Girl Will Be Girls is an Indo-French production to be directed by her long-time friend and director, Shuchi Talati. The film’s script has already been a part of the Berlinale Script Station, the Jerusalem Script Lab, and the recently-concluded Gotham Week. An all-female crew The inception of Pushing Buttons was triggered not just by Chadha’s new boost of confidence but also ‘wanting more creative control’. “There’s nothing more heart-breaking than watching a film with great potential not go anywhere because it wasn’t edited properly or someone turned out to be a sleazebag,” she says. The couple’s vision for the production house is to bridge ‘the tremendous disconnect between the kind of people we are and the stories we are telling’. “Also being able to fearlessly approach stories and ideas,” adds Chadha. In what would be a radical move of sorts, both Talati and Chadha are keen on having an all-female crew for the film. “This is a coming-of age story of a girl and it has a lot to do with her gender, her space in her school, and her relationship with her mother. There have been times when I have wished that there were only women on a set, and I have been on sets where, apart from the actors, the only women were hairdressers.” Playing producer Turning producer brings with it a whole new world of challenges, one that Chadha is prepared for. “Both Ali and I have seen the struggles, so we wanted to do our homework right and tick all the boxes in terms of what we have always wished for. This could be something as simple as writers and directors getting their due and more of a star status. Girls Will Be Girls has been in development for over two years. We’ve worked on the script, done the casting right, and applied for grants.” While Chadha and Fazal have worked together in the past, this is their first experience of partnering on a venture. “It’s all very new right now but I am looking forward to it. He’s a smart guy who knows his mind, our aesthetics match and we’ve both done the grind. I don’t think there’s any place for ego in our relationship, but I do anticipate some amount of creative disagreements. It’s natural,” she says. Another new experience for Chadha has been writing a film script. While she doesn’t share details of the story, the actor describes the experience of writing as ‘surreal and interesting’. “I started about five years ago and I had a male writing partner. Again, this was an area that I didn’t have a lot of confidence in. I remember being always worried if he’d feel bad if I had a counterpoint. Again, it’s something I no longer worry about.” In Chadha’s words A non-film commitment that Chadha is hoping to complete this year is a book of ‘personal essays that examine the long-term effects of colonialism’ for Penguin. “I’ve written close to 30,000 words, which includes interviews with people and all the research. But now, when I read what I have written, it doesn’t feel right because I have changed — my belief systems or understanding of body positivity, feminism or the industry isn’t what it used to be. So, I am very confused about whether I should go back and rewrite.” Whatever her decision, Chadha is mindful of not wanting to be ‘just another Bollywood acquisition for a publishing firm’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fierce-and/article36677243.ece
