27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Maoist influence down from 96 to 41 districts: Home Ministry||The geographical influence of Maoists has contracted to only 41 districts in the country, a sharp reduction from 96 such districts in 10 States in 2010, according to data provided by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to Chief Ministers and other officials at a meeting held on Sunday. “These miscreants have been pushed to a few pockets with only 25 districts accounting for 85% of the LWE (Left Wing Extremism) violence in the country,” the Ministry said in a statement. Union Home Minister Amit Shah chaired the meeting to review the security and other developmental aspects in the LWE-hit States. The Chief Ministers of Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana, Maharashtra and Odisha were present, while Chattisgarh, West Bengal and Kerala were represented by Directors-General of Police and Chief Secretaries. Andhra Pradesh was represented by its Home Minister. Addressing the meeting, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren accused the Centre of slashing the number of LWE-affected districts in the State that could avail Rs. 33 crore under the Special Central Assistance (SCA) and Security Related Expenditure (SRA) scheme for infrastructure-related projects. Mr. Soren said the MHA had raised a bill of Rs. 10,000 crore against Jharkhand (for deployment of forces) and requested that the bills be written off and the “Government of India take a decision not to send such bills to State governments in the future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maoist-influence-down-to-just-41-districts-says-home-ministry/article36688009.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,||MUDA completes work to remove silt from six waterbodies in city||Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), which has identified 35 waterbodies for removing silt and beautification, has now completed six of those projects, according to MUDA chairman Ravishankar Mijar. The projects taken up at Kudroli, Bajal, Jeppinamogaru, Katipalla, Bellayur (in Mulki hobli) and at Konaje have been completed, he told The Hindu . He added that eight projects are under progress. The projects completed were taken up a year ago. The eight projects under progress are at Kadri Kambla, Kadri Kaibattalu, Kadri Jogimutt, Mahakalipadpu (Moily Kere), Car Street (Mahammayi Kere), Someshwara, Bairady (Padil) and at Kulashekara. The water bodies identified are in Mangaluru City South, Mangaluru City North, Mangaluru and in Moodbidri-Mulki Assembly constituencies. The chairman said that the authority has plans to develop 63 gardens, including 43 in Mangaluru City South and 20 in Mangaluru City North, in consultation with the corporation. “Our plan is to develop at least one garden per four wards within the jurisdiction of the Mangaluru City Corporation,” he said and added that they will be developed in three categories depending on the area availability. Miyawaki type small gardens will be developed in small areas. The second type of gardens will be medium ones with walking tracks and the third type will have amusement facilities for children with walking tracks. The gardens will be developed in areas provided by the city corporation. He said that the authority is in talks with the Ramakrishna Mutt and the corporation on beautifying the road median between Lady Hill and Kottara Chowki by keeping large pots with flowering plants. It might require 1,250 pots to decorate the 2.25-km-long median. A pot will be kept at a distance of two metres each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muda-completes-work-to-remove-silt-from-six-waterbodies-in-city/article36688454.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||MCI nod sought for eight new medical colleges||The State government has formally made an application with the Medical Council of India (MCI) seeking permission for eight new government medical colleges offering MBBS course at Ramagundam, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Mahabubabad, Kothagudem, Jagtial, Mancherial and Sangareddy. As Sunday was the last date to apply, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said the application was made well before the deadline, duly complying with the procedures for an intake of 150 seats in each of the college, aggregating to 1,200 seats. Present strength  The State presently has 5,240 MBBS seats in each batch in government and private medical colleges. While 1,640 seats were filled in nine existing colleges of the State government, the ESI Medical College had an intake of 100 and the Bibinagar campus of All India Institute of Medical Sciences admitted 50 students every year for the past two years. The third batch will be admitted after NEET results of this year. There are 23 private medical colleges with an yearly intake of 3,450 seats. Dr. Reddy said the government will be going ahead with starting the new government colleges next year with super speciality departments to offer clinical services at the attached hospitals straightaway. The idea is to develop full- fledged health care services at the hospitals and not merely limit them to teaching. About 8,000 posts of doctors, para-medical staff and other categories will be filled up. Each college will have 60 posts of super specialists in 12 departments, including cardiology, cardio-thoracic, neurology, neurosurgery and gastroenterology. He expected the MCI teams to visit the colleges by November - December when the construction of the buildings was over. The construction of buildings was already taken up by Roads and Buildings department. Telangana had only five government medical colleges — Osmania, Gandhi, Kakatiya, Nizamabad and Rajiv Institute of Medical Sciences at Adilabad — before the formation of State. Four colleges were started after that at Mahabubnagar, Siddipet, Nalgonda and Suryapet. The government handed over 200 acres with buildings of Bibinagar campus of NIMS to AIIMS. The first batch of MBBS commenced at the hospital within six months of handing over in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mci-nod-sought-for-eight-new-medical-colleges-in-telangana/article36688316.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||GHMC gears up for very heavy rainfall||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has issued a slew of instructions to its officers and teams in view of very heavy rainfall warning issued by India Meteorological Department for Hyderabad on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. The officers were asked to alert monsoon emergency teams and station them at possible inundation locations based on previous occasions. They were told to ensure availability of boats, pumps and other necessary equipment and machinery to tackle flood emergency based on last year’s experiences. Rehab centres Pre-emptively, all teams were asked to check regular choke points and clear catch pits in those areas. Weekly offs and leaves of officers may be limited for next one week to ensure sufficient personnel are available at all times. Prepare relief and rehabilitation centres for shifting citizens when need arises and ensure availability of basic amenities, ensure the availability of transport facility to evacuate/shift population from possible inundation areas, the officials were instructed. Finally, the officers of the civic body were also asked to prepare protocol for alerting residents of possible inundation and evacuating them from low-lying areas at short notice. The Heads of Departments and Zonal Commissioners were asked to consider these instructions on high priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ghmc-gears-up-for-very-heavy-rainfall/article36688317.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,||With classes still closed, demand is up for home tutors for lower primary students||Ever since the new academic year began, Indrani S., has been scouting for a private tutor to come to her house and teach her daughter who is in Class I. “My husband and I have to log in for work at least 8-10 hours a day, and we have no time to teach our daughter,” said Ms. Indrani, who realised that though her child was attending classes online, she was finding it difficult to grasp basic concepts. “So my husband and I have decided to hire a teacher who will come home and help my daughter in all the subjects,” she said. With no decision on when lower primary school students can resume physical classes, an increasing number of parents are turning to private tutors. They are worried that their children’s learning outcomes will suffer as online classes are not enough to engage young minds. The demand for teachers has increased tremendously in the last few months; so much so that some tutors have increased their rates almost four-fold since the previous academic year. The hourly cost for personalised home tutoring ranges from Rs. 300 to Rs. 600, depending on the subjects taught and the teacher’s work experience. Boon for teachers In many ways, this has come as a boon to teachers who were forced to take pay cuts or who lost their jobs during the pandemic. The demand for Kannada teachers, especially, has increased. Madhavi K., who tutors students for Kannada, said she offers both private online classes as well as personal tutoring. “My online classes are similar to those conducted by the school, but there is only one student so he or she gets individual attention. It may be difficult for a child to learn in a class of 30,” she said. Tooba S., another tutor, said that many parents have understood the need for private coaching as they realised that their child’s learning curve dipped in the last academic year. “Although I teach Class IV students, I have to start from the basics and cover concepts they studied in Class II, as students have forgotten what they learned before the pandemic. It’s challenging and therefore I have increased my hourly rates,” she said. Many parents also feel that recruiting a home tutor is safe as it would minimise their child’s chances of contracting COVID-19. Girish Kumar, a software professional, said that he and his wife have decided not to allow their child to attend physical classes until he is vaccinated. “Even if schools reopen for lower classes, we will not send our son to school as we believe it is very difficult for children to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour,” he said. Meanwhile, upper primary and high schools are gearing up to conduct offline classes after the State government decided to lift physical attendance restrictions and allow them operate in full capacity in districts which has less than 1% positivity rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-classes-still-closed-demand-is-up-for-home-tutors-for-lower-primary-students/article36688044.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Two Udupi students get CSIR innovation award||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu presented the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) innovation award to two Class 10 students of Udupi district in a virtual ceremony on Sunday. The students, Anusha and Rakshitha Naik from Charamakki Narayana Shetty Memorial Government High School, Ardi Village, Kundapur taluk, received the award for their project, Gas Saving Kit. The award, sponsored by the Union Ministry of Science and Technology, will reach students in a week. The award comprises a cash prize of Rs. 20,000. The certificate and trophy will reach the students via post. Among 14 schools that have been awarded from across the country, Charamakki Narayana Shetty Memorial Government High School is the only government school and is the only one from the State to get the award. The gas saving kit developed by the students once placed on the stove enables a family of four to source hot water for bathing while they can simultaneously cook food. The device allows water to flow through a copper coiled frame kept over a flaming stove and in the process, water that flows through the outlet pipe is heated. The two students had prepared the kit at a cost of Rs. 600. According to them, if more families used this type of kit, LPG can be put to efficient use. Both Ms. Anusha and Ms. Naik are from the Kudubi community, regarded as the most backward in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-udupi-students-get-csir-innovation-award/article36688449.ece
27 September 2021||Belagavi,||NEP will reform student mentality to compete with the best: CM||“The new National Education Policy (NEP) will address some long-standing loopholes in the education system that have promoted slavish mentality among students. It is aimed at liberating children from the colonial education system and expose them to the glory of India,” Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Sunday. He was speaking after felicitating newly elected members of the Belagavi City Corporation. “The current education system was then designed to create slavish mentality among children. This system has history from the point of view of foreigners. It has history lessons that glorify only those of the invaders. Our children do not know about our real history and culture. They are taught English, which is a sign of slavish mentality plaguing our system. The new National Education Policy is aimed at correcting such anomalies. It is an education system of Indians, made for Indians, by Indians. It will reform the education system in such a way that poor students from rural India will be able to compete with the best educated students in the west,” he said. Public service “The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is not only a national party but also a nationalist party. That is the main difference between us and the other parties. Public service is the second nature of our party. Service is ingrained in all our leaders and workers, from the booth level to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister sees himself as the servant of the people,” he said. Mr. Bommai said that parties other than the BJP did not have it in them to work for the interests of the nation. “In the name of service, they are looting the people. That is why the people have rejected them,” he added. He said that the government was committed to protecting temples and places of worship in the State and it will introduce the necessary legislation for the purpose. The Chief Minister congratulated the newly elected councillors and asked them to work for the all-round development of the city. “It is one thing to get elected as members of the corporation council, but an entirely different thing to be a councillor from the BJP. It is of great political significance,” Mr. Bommai said. Member of Legislative Assembly Abhay Patil said that the decision to fight elections on party ticket had ushered in a new era of development politics in the city. “The councillors should never lose sight of the fact that they have won only because of the hard work of the party workers,’’ Mr. Patil said.  ‘The current education system was then designed to create slavish mentality among children; this system has history from the point of view of foreigners and it has history lessons that glorify only those of the invaders’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nep-will-reform-student-mentality-to-compete-with-the-best-cm/article36688292.ece
27 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Bharat Bandh: Security tightened in Karnataka||Security has been tightened in the State, particularly in Bengaluru city, in the wake of nationwide bandh call given by farmers’ organisations on Monday. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has instructed the police to take all precautionary measures to maintain law and order as well as peace. He has particularly asked the police to dedicated special attention on Bengaluru city, district centres and sensitive areas. Over 15 platoons of KSRP and CAR battalion along with the city police will monitor law and order in Bengaluru. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said patrolling had been intensified to ensure that protesters do not block roads and cause inconvenience to the general public. Forcing anyone to participate in bandh would attract strict action, he warned. The police had been instructed not to allow rasta roko or blocking of roads, he said. The nationwide strike call given by farmers’ association is unlikely to impact transport services. The KSRTC will run buses as usual. The KSRTC has sought police protection from the jurisdictional police. In the State capital, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation will operate buses as per schedules. The Namma Metro services by Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) will be available as usual. Some auto and taxi unions have supported the bandh, however, a majority of the drivers are likely to ply on Monday. Schools and colleges will function as usual on Monday. R. Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that the schools and examination would be held as usual as public transport would not be affected. Private school managements, however, said that they would show solidarity with farmers by conducting classes wearing a green badge. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, “Farmers have a right to protest. But they should not shut down the country in the name of Bharat Bandh. It will adversely affect everyone. The economy is slowly getting back to normalcy. Farmers should not do anything to cripple the economy. Farmers have to cooperate with the government and see that the other sectors of the economy will get a chance to recover.” Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress and Janata Dal (S) have extended support to the bandh. Stating that the bandh should be observed peacefully, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said his party would support any pro-people movement. “Our party will work for the good of the people. If public interest is threatened, we will raise our voice on every platform,” he said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar also said that the Congress would extend its support to the peaceful bandh, and alleged that the Narendra Modi-led Union government had been following anti-farmer policies for the past seven years. The Centre had been supporting a few industrialists at the cost of farmers. The Samyuktha Kisan Morcha will hold a protest at Maurya Circle here along with several other like-minded organisations on Monday, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bharat-bandh-security-tightened-in-state/article36688043.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Hartal likely to hit normal life||The dawn-to-dusk hartal called by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) in response to a call for nationwide Bharat Bandh led by Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmers’ unions, is likely to affect normal life on Monday. The Joint Committee of Trade Unions, comprising 21 trade unions, have pledged support towards the cause. With the motor vehicle sector set to come to a standstill, Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses, taxis, auto-rickshaws and lorries will remain off roads. However, the movement of private vehicles will remain unaffected. In a joint statement, CITU State general secretary Elamaram Kareem, INTUC State president R. Chandrasekharan and AITUC State general secretary K.P. Rajendran said the trading community has been urged to cooperate with the hartal. Plantation, coir, cashew and fish workers will abstain from work on the day. Distribution of milk and paper, hospitals, ambulance services, patients’ travel and marriages will be exempted from the hartal. Seeks support Rallying support for the hartal, LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said the shutdown must become an indicator of the State’s support towards the mounting protests against the farm laws introduced by the BJP-led Central government. A State coordination committee of Kerala Union of Working Journalists and Kerala Newspaper Employees Federation has pledged support from journalists and other employees to the hartal. KSRTC bus services will remain affected from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. However, essential services would be conducted on a demand basis and upon the instruction of the police. Efforts would be made to ply local services with police convoy to hospitals, railway stations and airports from the respective units, he said. All kinds of services, including long-distance buses, will resume operations after 6 p.m. Exams postponed The Kerala University and A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) have postponed all examinations that were scheduled to be held on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hartal-likely-to-hit-normal-life-in-state/article36688425.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana registers 170 COVID cases||Telangana has recorded only 170 COVID-19 cases on Sunday as only 34,200 samples were examined. Usually, in the last week, 50,000 to 55,000 samples are tested and around 250 people are detected with coronavirus. No one has died of the infectious disease on September 26. The new 170 cases include 68 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 18 from Karimnagar, 11 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in eight districts including Nirmal, Narayanpet. From March 2, 2020 to September 26 of this year, a total of 2.61 crore samples were put to test and 6,65,068 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 4,612 are active cases, 6,56,544 have recovered, and 3,912 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ts-registers-170-covid-cases/article36688314.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,||Techie swept away in roadside trench||A techie was swept away in a roadside trench laid for laying drainage pipelines at Puppalaguda on Saturday evening and is feared to have drowned. Gopishetty Rajinikanth (42) from Golden Temple building, Neknampur, worked at Nova Green Company, Shadnagar. Around 9 p.m. on Saturday, Rajinikanth, came out of his house to smoke a cigarette and was walking on the road when he accidentally fell in the under-construction trench and got washed away due to the heavy current of flood waters on the road following heavy rain, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Madhapur Division) Ch Raghunandan Rao said, adding that the incident took place at 9.14 p.m. The spot was nearly 100 metres from his residence. The entire episode was videographed by the locals on their mobile phones and the video went viral on the Internet, he said. The officer said that the Disaster Response Force of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Special Police Parties of Cyberabad Commissionerates launched a massive manhunt for Rajinikanth. “The teams are searching for Rajinikanth in Neknampur lake and other nalas where the drainage canals join,” Mr. Rao said. Wife identifies him Meanwhile, in-charge DCP (Madhapur) M Venkateshwarlu said that the victim was identified as Rajinikanth after his wife watched the recorded video and identified him by his shirt colour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/techie-swept-away-in-trench/article36688328.ece
27 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Film industry sought online ticket system’||I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah on Sunday criticised actor and JSP president Pawan Kalyan for his comments on the online ticketing system, for which a request had been made by the film industry in 2003. Mr. Venkataramaiah said Telugu Film Chamber of Commerce (TFCC) honorary secretary Damodar Prasad had submitted a written plea for online ticketing on December 24, 2016, and on December 1, 2018. Actor Chiranjeevi and other Tollywood representatives had met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in June 2020, and made another request for the system, the Minister stated. Addressing the media, Mr. Venkataramaiah said industry bigwigs had met him on September 20, 2021, and submitted another request for online ticketing, and the government agreed to it after considering the requests. The Minister said the government would run only an online portal and the theatre staff would sell the tickets. The amount collected through the portal would be transferred to the theatre owners through a Reserve Bank gateway the following day, he said. He flayed Mr. Kalyan for alleging that the government planned to take loans by showing the revenue generated through the system. Even if the government intended to raise loans in the manner, it would be barely sufficient to implement the slew of welfare schemes, he said. Mr. Venkataramaiah insisted that Mr. Kalyan question the Central Government on the GST and other taxes levied on the film industry, and various cases being probed by the Central agencies. Meanwhile, TFCC president Narayandas Kishandas Narang said in a release that the views expressed by a few individuals were not the voices of the industry as a whole. “The Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have been supportive and their cooperation is required at this juncture,” he observed. ‘Allegations baseless’ Staff Reporter in Vizianagaram writes: Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana said the online ticketing system was aimed at protecting the interests of the common man. Advising Mr. Pawan Kalyan not to make baseless allegations against the government, he said, “Many producers and distributors have sought the system to prevent evasion of taxes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/film-industry-sought-online-ticket-system/article36688588.ece
27 September 2021||Kozhikode,||Reinventing Kathaprasangam for modern era||At a time when Kathaprasangam is literally on the verge of extinction, a youth from Koodaranhi village in Kozhikode is making people aware of social issues through the art form. S.V. Jayesh, who made his entry into the field nearly 30 years ago, comes up with at least one production every month with the support of his two other team members. “We make this art form survive among us by giving voice to contemporary issues and problems that affect people’s lives. Instead of recreating old stories, we weave our own stories and present them through this most entertaining art form,” says Jayesh, who was also a winner of several State-level contests during his school days. He says that Kathaprasangam has the power to easily capture the attention of people and convey messages in the form of entertainment. Unlike those who train youngsters in the art form only for competitions, Jayesh is giving training to over 15 students from his village to make them professional artistes. “During this COVID-19 time, we managed to produce 17 Kathaprasangam stories on diverse topics for public awareness. Our stories mostly deal with issues such as drug abuse, assault on women, COVID-19 crisis and farmers’ struggle to survive amidst the wild animal menace,” says Jayesh who is now preparing for the presentation of an exclusive Kathaprasangam on E.M.S. Namboodiripad, the first Chief Minister of the State. “On all possible occasions, we try to solicit the support of the police and government departments for increasing the reach of the art-based awareness activities,” he adds. The three-member team, including story writer Koombara Baby and music director Shaji Augustine, spend evenings to discuss socially relevant stories. They use social media platforms to reach their audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reinventing-kathaprasangam-for-modern-era/article36688346.ece
27 September 2021||Visakhapatnam,||Cyclone crosses coast near Kalingapatnam||Cyclonic storm Gulab crossed the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts, about 20 km north of Kalingapatnam in Srikakulam district, with a maximum sustained wind speed of 75-85 kmph, gusting to 95 kmph, between 7.30 p.m. and 8.30 p.m. on Sunday. It lay centred at 8.30 p.m. over north coastal Andhra Pradesh, about 160 km south-southwest of Gopalpur (Odisha) and 30 km west of Kalingapatnam. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and weaken into a deep depression during the next six hours. Staff Reporter in Srikakulam writes: The cyclonic storm, which made landfall between Vajrapukotturu and Santabommali mandals in the district, caused significant damage in eight mandals close to the coast. Life was thrown out of gear since morning as several places experienced heavy rain. Hundreds of trees were uprooted in several mandals. Power supply was affected in many areas in the Tekkali division as electrical poles fell off. Roads too were badly damaged. Heavy rain was reported at Sandipeta, Rajapuram, Bhavanapadu, Devunaltada and other villages when Gulab made landfall. According to officials, the impact of Gulab is relatively less compared to cyclones Laila, Hudhud, Phailin and Titli. “The administration will continue to be alert for the next two days as heavy to very heavy rainfall is forecast. The situation is under control though damages have been reported from several locations,” Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar said. Irrigation and Revenue departments were directed to monitor the situation since heavy inflows were likely into the Vamsadhara and the Nagavali, he said. Mr. Shrikesh asked fishermen not to venture into sea. Holiday for schools As many as 61 relief centres had been established in 13 mandals to ensure safety of people in the low-lying areas. The government had already declared a holiday for schools and colleges for the next two days. The officials urged people to remain indoors till normalcy was restored. People facing trouble could contact the control room (08942-240557) in the District Collector’s office. Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das visited the Vamsadhara river and asked the officials to inform people in advance about the discharge of excess water from the Gotta barrage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cyclone-gulab-crosses-coast-near-kalingapatnam/article36688014.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||A technocrat’s push for Indian manufacturing||Before the pandemic started, the major players in India’s room air conditioner market had no plans to invest in larger manufacturing operations, relying instead on convenient imports for over 80% of ACs. Over the past week, despite COVID-19 denting AC sales, global brands like Hitachi, Daikin and Panasonic, as well as domestic majors like Voltas and Blue Star, have announced investments of about Rs. 5,000 crore to reverse the reliance on imported parts from 80% to 20% over the next five years. The seeds for this about-turn, driven partly by a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme, were being sown from a third-floor corner office of an auto major in Worli, Mumbai. Mr. Pawan Goenka, the Mahindra group’s managing director till this April, is driving an unusual public-private partnership that is informing and helping finetune policy changes leading to outcomes on the ground already in sectors like air conditioners. For instance, when domestic and global AC players conveyed that India’s Rs. 25,000-crore AC market didn’t necessitate larger manufacturing investments to replace established import supply chains, Mr. Goenka tapped his deal-making skills to arrive at an attractive formulation. Recalling the challenge, he said: “An Indian player may not have technology for a compressor, so they are forced to import. An MNC has technology, but doesn’t want to make it in India, given the volumes.” His solution — convince the MNC to make more compressors in India by getting the domestic player to buy from them instead of importing — thus adding up volumes that justify fresh investments and repeat this idea for various AC components with both domestic and foreign players stepping up to invest for each. While this debate played out and Dr Goenka engaged with industry players on ideas to expand the market to Rs. 1 lakh crore, take local value addition higher and over time, begin exporting AC components, another battle was won without much ado. Imports of finished ACs, accounting for nearly a quarter of the room ACs market last year, have virtually come down to zero, after the government ban on import of ACs with pre-filled refrigerants in October 2020. Over the 18 months, Mr. Goenka has been spending two days a week deep-diving into sectors like ACs, far removed from the auto industry he spent 41 years in, to recommend practical strategies and policy tweaks — to scale up manufacturing, boost exports, reduce import dependence and expand domestic demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-quiet-technocrat-scaling-up-indian-manufacturing/article36688003.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Weekend fun turns tragic as three drown||Two youth from Andhra Pradesh drowned in the sea at Besant Nagar beach on Saturday evening. A police official of Shastri Nagar station said Sailesh Babu, 17, hailing from Andhra Pradesh, was a student of a private catering institute in Taramani. His elder brother Prakash and his cousin Puneeth Kumar were on a visit to his house last week. The three went for a swim in Elliots beach on Saturday evening. Sailesh Babu and Puneeth Kumar were washed away by a huge wave. Fishermen roped in The police, with the help of fishermen, searched, in vain, for the duo. The body of Sailesh Babu was washed ashore near Pattinapakkam on Sunday morning. The police sent the body to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for post-mortem examination. In another case, a 26-year-old software engineer drowned in the Poondi lake canal on Saturday evening in Sevvapet police station limits in Tiruvallur district. The police and personnel of the Fire and Rescue Services of Thiruvur fished out the body and sent it to Tiruvallur Government Hospital for post-mortem examination. A police official of Sevvapet station said the victim, Sanjeev of Maduravoyal, had gone to swim in canal along with two of his friends. Sanjeev drowned when there was sudden surge in the water flow in the canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/weekend-fun-turns-tragic-as-3-drown-in-separate-incidents/article36688112.ece
27 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Tribal woman given two successive vaccine shots||In a bizarre incident, a 72-year-old tribal woman was administered two doses of COVID-19 vaccine in quick succession within a gap of less than 15 minutes by an Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) worker in Pokalagudem village of Chandrugonda mandal on Friday. The incident came to light belatedly after the elderly woman, identified as Sakri, experienced severe muscle ache and pain at both injection sites on Saturday. Sources said that Sakri was given the second dose of the vaccine minutes after administering the first dose by an ASHA worker, who reportedly had a telephonic conversation during the inoculation drive. The condition of the elderly woman is stated to be stable and her health condition is being constantly monitored by the field-level health functionaries in Pokalagudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tribal-woman-given-two-successive-vaccine-shots/article36688543.ece
27 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||7 new faces in as Punjab CM expands his Cabinet||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday expanded his Cabinet by inducting 15 Ministers, including seven fresh faces. The expansion came days after the Congress high command cornered former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh into resigning and chose Mr. Channi to head the government in the poll-bound State. The newly expanded Cabinet includes Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli, all fresh faces. Former Irrigation Minister and three-time MLA from Kapurthala Rana Gurjit Singh was also inducted, despite opposition from a few party leaders over his alleged involvement in a sand mining scam. The Ministers who have been retained from former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s Cabinet are Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the legislators at the Raj Bhavan here. The Ministers from the earlier Cabinet who have been left out include Balbir Singh Sidhu, Sunder Sham Arora, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Gurpreet Singh Kangar. Mr. Balbir Singh Sidhu and Mr. Kangar have questioned the rationale behind being left out. They told reporters that they were unaware of any reason for not being included. Earlier this week, Mr. Channi took oath as the Chief Minister of Punjab. Two Deputy Chief Ministers — O.P. Soni and Sukhjinder Randhawa — were also sworn in. A few Congress leaders had written to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu against including Rana Gurjit Singh in the Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-new-faces-in-as-punjab-cm-expands-his-cabinet/article36688007.ece
27 September 2021||Vijayawada,||Naxal presence limited to Vizag, E.G.: Sucharitha||While claiming that the influence of Naxalites was limited to the Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts in Andhra Pradesh, Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha said their number came down to just 50 as reforms initiated by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy facilitated development of the tribal areas though a lot more remained to be done. Speaking to mediapersons after taking part in a review meeting on Left Wing Extremism (LWE) chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Sunday, Ms. Sucharitha said that the welfare schemes were reaching remote tribal areas through village secretariats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naxal-presence-limited-to-vizag-eg-says-sucharitha/article36688013.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Supriya Sahu to hold TNPCB chair post||Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary, Environment, Climate Change and Forest Department, will hold full additional charge of the post of Chairperson, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. V. Irai Anbu, Chief Secretary, in an order dated September 25, said the posting came into immediate effect. Ms. Sahu, a 1991 batch officer of the Indian Administrative Service of Tamil Nadu cadre, will replace retired Forest Service officer A.V. Venkatachalam, whose term came to an end on Sunday. It may be recalled that the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption had registered a case of corruption against him and raided his office and residence last week. During the searches, cash, several kilograms of gold, sandalwood articles and documents were recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/supriya-sahu-to-hold-tnpcb-chair-post/article36688129.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,||RTC services to run normally today||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has announced that it would be operating its regular services on Monday, both within the State and also the inter-State services, according to a statement issued here on Sunday. The services would operate as usual despite the Bharat Bandh call given by various trade unions and political parties demanding that the Centre repeal its farm laws, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rtc-services-to-run-normally-today/article36688315.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Moving the stocks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/moving-the-stocks/article36688319.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Fighting for their rights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fighting-for-their-rights/article36688046.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Travel ban unscientific’||China’s continuing travel ban, which has hit people from India, including thousands of students, reflected an “unscientific approach” from the Chinese authorities, Ambassador to China Vikram Misri said.page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/travel-ban-unscientific/article36688015.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Avoid shifting goalposts, Indian envoy tells China||India’s envoy to China has called on Beijing to “avoid shifting goalposts” by blurring the immediate challenge of managing disputed border areas with the longer term negotiations to resolve the boundary dispute, saying both sides needed to follow past agreements and pursue both objectives on parallel tracks. Underlining the obstacles that India-China relations currently face, Ambassador to China Vikram Misri said, “The first is to avoid shifting goalposts.” He was speaking at a Track Two dialogue held by Indian and Chinese institutes last week and the transcript was made available by the Indian Embassy in Beijing on Saturday. Mr. Misri said both sides continued to have conversations about resolving the crisis on the Line of Actual Control, and following disengagement at Galwan Valley, the north and south banks of Pangong Lake, and most recently at Gogra last month, were now taking up remaining friction areas. “For long, the Indian and Chinese sides have adhered to a well-understood distinction between resolving the boundary question and managing border affairs,” he said. “The 1988 understanding between our leaders was precisely for keeping the resolution of the boundary question on a track separate yet parallel to the bilateral relationship, with maintenance of peace and tranquillity as the prerequisite,” Mr. Misri said. Specific mechanisms “The Special Representatives mechanism, the Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles of 2005 and the three-phase framework were all designed to work on the boundary question, which we agreed was a complex and sensitive issue requiring time to work through,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-shift-goalposts-envoy-tells-china/article36688005.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||CJI backs 50% quota for women in judiciary||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday backed 50% representation for women in judiciary. “It is your right. It is not a matter of charity... Enough of this thousands of years of suppression,” Chief Justice Ramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cji-backs-50-quota-for-women-in-judiciary/article36688177.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Pvt. jet brings tourists||On the occasion of World Tourism Day, several tourists from Pune landed in Mangaluru by a private jet on Sunday, while tour operators said that the development is encouraging. As many as 13 tourists reached the international airport here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pvt-jet-brings-tourists/article36688444.ece
27 September 2021||Pune,||Civic polls: Raut hints at Sena going it alone||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said his party would go it alone in the civic body polls in Maharashtra unless a “respectable seat sharing arrangement” was reached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/civic-polls-raut-hints-at-sena-going-it-alone/article36688375.ece
27 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Experts to look into flyover issue||A meeting convened to address concerns over an elevated corridor in Hubballi concluded with Union Minister Pralhad Joshi announcing the formation of an experts committee to address all concerns and objections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/experts-to-look-into-flyover-issue/article36688294.ece
27 September 2021||BELAGAVI,||‘We have released over Rs. 1,000 cr. for flood loss’||The State government has released over Rs. 1,000 crore as flood loss compensation to Belagavi district, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Sunday. The district suffered huge losses due to floods in 2019 and 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/we-have-released-over-rs-1000-cr-for-flood-loss/article36688295.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Soren meets Amit Shah seeking caste census||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, leading an all-party delegation from the State, met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday to demand a caste-based census and handed over a memorandum for Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/soren-meets-amit-shah-seeking-caste-census/article36688376.ece
27 September 2021||Belagavi,||Winter session will be held in Belagavi: CM||The winter session of the Karnataka legislature will be held in Belagavi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Sunday. “We are thinking about it. It needs to be ratified by the Cabinet,” he told presspersons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/winter-session-will-be-held-in-belagavi-cm/article36688481.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||China’s continuing travel ban on Indians ‘unscientific’: envoy||China’s continuing travel ban that has barred travellers from India, including thousands of students, from going to the country for more than one year reflected an “unscientific approach” from the Chinese authorities, India’s Ambassador to China Vikram Misri has said. Speaking on the current difficult state of bilateral relations in a dialogue held by Indian and Chinese institutes last week, Mr. Misri said, “Far less complex issues, which have a purely humanitarian context and are not connected to bilateral diplomatic stances, such as facilitating the movement of students, businesspersons and stranded family members from India to China for over a year and a half now, await a more balanced and sensitive approach.” Indian stand “I might add here that India has also attempted to keep our trade and commercial relationship insulated from current differences, for instance by continuing to issue visas to Chinese businesspersons to visit India,” Mr. Misri said, according to remarks made available on Saturday by the Indian Embassy in Beijing. “However, we are disappointed to see an unscientific approach with regard to several problems currently being faced by Indian students, businessmen, marine crew and exporters, to name a few,” Mr. Misri said. As The Hindu reported in July, many of the close to 23,000 Indian students enrolled in Chinese universities remain in India and are unable to return to their courses. Most are in medical degrees, and are concerned that online programmes arranged by their universities will not adequately prepare them especially in hands-on clinical subjects. Their pleas to Chinese authorities for more than one year have made no headway. In June, 3,000 students under the banner of “Indian Students in China” sent a letter via email to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking clarity on a possible date of return and noting that they were willing to undergo vaccination, testing and quarantine protocols as required. No visa being issued China’s Embassy in India has largely not been issuing any visas since a travel ban imposed in November last year. The Embassy has since March this year also effectively barred even Chinese nationals in India from returning home by denying them health codes that are needed to board flights to China. The ban includes even family members, leading to many cases of families being split up for over a year. Several Chinese nationals in India told The Hindu some have not seen their children for over a year and have even been unable to visit ailing relatives, while some families are meeting in third countries such as Nepal, Sri Lanka, and the UAE. India has been issuing visas to Chinese citizens to enable them to visit their family in India, although if they visit they face the prospect of being unable to return to China. Mr. Misri pointed out India was now also issuing visas to Chinese businesspersons to enable their travel to India. All travellers to China face up to 21 days in quarantine. However, even those willing to undertake the required testing and complete the quarantine are not being issued visas or health codes. China has so far offered no timetable as to when it will open up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinas-continuing-travel-ban-on-indians-unscientific-envoy/article36687799.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt.-industry panel drives policy to revive manufacturing||A meeting between industry captains and Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal soon after the national lockdown was announced in 2020, has led to the setting up of the Steering Committee for Local Value Addition, Manufacturing and Exports or SCALE, aimed at navigating Indian manufacturing away from the import-dependence pitfalls exposed by the pandemic. Noting that many of them had more time on their hands due to the lockdown, Mr. Goyal had suggested the CEOs come up with ideas to tap the global sentiment against China and strengthen Indian manufacturing. The Minister asked Pawan Goenka, the Mahindra group’s managing director till April 2021, to drive this introspection. The group is now working on such ideas for 17 sectors — from toys, textiles, furniture and e-cycles to drones, and even fisheries. The SCALE includes the top brass from three industry bodies — CII, FICCI and Asshocham — three representatives from government, with member secretary Manmeet Kaur Nanda from the Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), and three industry honchos, including JSW Steel joint managing director and group CFO Seshagiri Rao MVS and Salil Singhal, chairman emeritus, PI Industries. India has seen multiple similar committees India over the past two decades to enhance the share of manufacturing in the economy, with recommendations either gathering dust, scuttled by inter-ministerial and intra-industry crossfire, or leading to botched policies like the non-starter National Manufacturing Investment Zones (NMIZ). SCALE is different for a few reasons. The SCALE group is different for a few reasons. First, it has no deadlines and drafts no voluminous reports — all its proposals are laid out in a presentation at best. Second, it doesn’t just gather up ideas from various sectoral players and splash them together for the government to consider, as usual industry representations tend to be. Third, it follows a rigorous process of consultations to align different factions of industry with varying agendas at multiple levels and tries to nudge an alignment of interests where differences seem intractable, before it takes up the relevant issues with the government. “Generally, industry bodies come to government and say, ‘Give me this, Give me that’,” Dr. Goenka told The Hindu.   “ My first sentence to them in SCALE interactions is, “It should be ‘I am going to do this, and this is the help I need.’ And if you don't have an ‘I am going to do this’, then let's not even talk,” he said. Industry commitment Consequently, none of its presentations have had policy suggestions without an equal commitment from the industry, in terms of investments and job creation etc., if those suggestions were accepted. In fact, in the case of air conditioners, one of the first sectors it began working on, the industry players actually gave a letter of commitment to Mr. Goyal that they will invest more and take domestic value-addition to 80% from the present 20% in five years, even before the government notified the PLI scheme for the sector. “This was signed off by the industry and is almost a contract,” Dr Goenka said, adding that air conditioners , was considered a sunset sector with no scope for a change in status quo. The panel’s ideas for other uninteresting sectors, including fisheries and TVs, are also at advanced stages of deliberations within the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-industry-panel-drives-policy-to-revive-manufacturing/article36687809.ece
27 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||7 new faces in U.P. Ministry||With less than six months left for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election, the BJP government led by Yogi Adityanath on Sunday expanded its Council of Ministers, inducting seven fresh faces, including six from the numerically significant non-Yadav OBC and non-Jatav Dalit castes, whose support has been the key to the BJP’s success in the State in the last few elections. Jitin Prasada, Brahmin leader and former MP who quit the Congress and joined the BJP in June, was rewarded with a Cabinet berth as the BJP tries to consolidate its grip over the influential community. The remaining six, who were administered oath as Ministers of State by Governor Anandiben Patel, comprise three OBCs and three Dalits, including one from the Scheduled Tribe community. It was widely speculated that Nishad Party president Sanjay Nishad, an ally of the BJP, would find a place in the Cabinet expansion but that did not happen. However, later his name along with Mr. Prasada featured among the four leaders nominated to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council. Three out of the four are OBCs. Others nominated to the MLC posts are Chaudhary Virendra Singh and Ram Gopal alias Gopal Anjaan. Kurmi caste Chhatrapal Singh Gangwar, who took oath, is an MLA from Baheri in Bareilly district and belongs to the Kurmi caste, traditionally associated with farming. Sangeeta Balwant, an MLA from Ghazipur, is a Bind, an OBC, part of the riverine backward caste communities in the State. She held the post of a district mantri of the BJP in 2016 before going on to win her first Assembly election in 2017. Dharmveer Singh Prajapati, an OBC MLC from Agra, also took oath. Out of the three Dalit Ministers, two belong to the Khatik community, a Scheduled Caste found across the State. The non-Yadav OBCs and the non-Jatav SCs make up over 40-45% of the votes and it has been a part of the BJP strategy to polarise these smaller communities against the Yadavs and Jatavs to alienate the SP and the BSP which rely heavily on these two castes. This is the second Cabinet expansion by Mr. Adityanath. In the first expansion in August 2019, ‘upper caste’ and leaders with RSS background were favoured. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said the Cabinet expansion was a deception.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-new-faces-in-up-ministry/article36687813.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Going digital for better health solutions: Centre||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission (PM-DHM) on September 27 via video conferencing. Currently, the PM-DHM is being implemented in a pilot phase in six Union Territories. According to a release issued by the Central government, the PM-DHM will create a seamless online platform through the provision of a wide range of data, information and infrastructure services by leveraging open, interoperable, standards-based digital systems, while ensuring the security, confidentiality and privacy of health-related personal information. The Centre said the project will enable access and exchange of longitudinal health records of citizens with their consent. The mission aims to create interoperability within the digital health ecosystem, similar to the role played by the Unified Payments Interface in revolutionising payments, said the release, adding that people can access health facilities more easily. Unique id “The key components of PM-DHM include a health ID for every citizen that will also work as their health account, to which personal health records can be linked and viewed with the help of a mobile application; a Healthcare Professionals Registry (HPR) and Healthcare Facilities Registries (HFR) that will act as a repository of all healthcare providers across both modern and traditional systems of medicine. This will ensure ease of doing business for doctors/hospitals and healthcare service providers,” the release added. PM-DHM Sandbox, created as a part of the Mission, will act as a framework for technology and product testing that will help organisations, including private players intending to be a part of the National Digital Health Ecosystem, become a ‘Health Information Provider’ or ‘Health Information User’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/going-digital-for-better-health-solutions-centre/article36687826.ece
27 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||Adityanath announces hike in sugarcane prices||In a bid to woo disgruntled farmers in western Uttar Pradesh ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday announced a hike in cane prices for farmers and stated that the move would lead to a rise in the income of the agrarian community by around 8%. The BJP leader used the double plank of income and security to appeal to the farmers, especially those in the western parts of the State where some agrarian outfits have been protesting against the government’s three new farm laws for a few months. Muzaffarnagar violence Linking the law and order situation in the State to the interests of farmers, Mr. Adityanath also recalled the communal violence in Muzaffarnagar in 2013, and stressed that the “sons of farmers” had died then. Mr. Adityanath accused the previous Samajwadi Party government of ‘honouring rioters’ as he claimed that not a single riot had taken place in Uttar Pradesh since the BJP came to power. Addressing a Kisan Sammelan, Mr. Adityanath said his government had increased the rates of usual variety sugarcane from Rs. 315 per quintal to Rs. 340 while the price (State advisory price) for the early variety had been increased from Rs. 325 per quintal to Rs. 350. This would “bring a change” in the lives of over 45 lakh farmers and lead to an addition to their income by 8%, said Mr. Adityanath. Mr. Adityanath also told farmers that his government had initiated steps to withdraw cases lodged against them for burning stubble. Claiming that buffaloes and cows would get easily stolen from dairies and dairy farmers under the previous government, he said now the farmer was safe, and so were his buffalo cart and motor used in farming. Sudhir Panwar, Samajwadi Party leader and Professor in Lucknow University, said the hike of Rs. 25 per quintal of sugarcane was disproportionate to increase in input cost on account of diesel, power, labour, insecticide and pesticides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanath-announces-hike-in-sugarcane-prices/article36687815.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||‘India’s big problem is lack of scale’||Industry players largely want to do what is good for India, even if there may be some exceptions, believes SCALE Chairman Pawan Goenka . While the committee is fleshing out sector-specific policy advice, it has also identified ‘horizontal enablers’ that India needs to fix to become more competitive across the board, including the cost of doing business. Steep logistics costs and import duties on raw materials and machines, along with over-regulation, are also areas of concern, he says. Edited excerpts:  What are the big challenges ailing Indian manufacturing? Our primary focus is on how to make Indian manufacturing competitive in terms of cost. There is a misnomer that because of lower labour costs, Indian manufacturing is very competitive. That’s a misnomer, because there are many factors that offset that advantage and make our manufacturing non-competitive. There are a few overall themes that run across almost all the sectors… We are putting it under the umbrella of cost of doing business. We talk a lot about ease of doing business, but the biggest problem India has is the lack of scale. Industry needs to come forward and invest for large scale and the government needs to facilitate that with a viability gap. But primarily, the foot is on the industry end on how to invest on a large scale as China did. Second is the cost of land — which is one of the most expensive industrial land in the world — and power, which is the most expensive industrial power in the world, part of which is the cross subsidy. But now, in the competitive world, Indian manufacturing industry cannot afford the cross subsidy burden. Third is the cost of capital. If you leave aside the current low cost of capital because of COVID-19 and low interest rates, the cost of capital in India is 20% to 30% higher than cost of capital in most other countries which are exporting. These are our factor costs. The third area which is well acknowledged, but we have not been able to make much headway is logistic costs. India’s average logistic cost by government data is 13% of the revenue when the global average is 8%. So India has a 5% disadvantage because of logistic costs. Obviously that disadvantage cannot be made up by industry in labour costs. The fourth area is labour productivity and skill which is primarily industry’s responsibility. The fifth area is to strengthen the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector because while the scale will be created by the large companies, they cannot do everything themselves without a strong MSME sector. The government’s focus always has to be on making MSMEs stronger, working together with industry. It’s not about giving some sort of financial benefit… That doesn’t make them strong, but a good technology and skill base will. Though we have improved the ease of doing business, for manufacturing, we still need a lot of things to be done. How has your interaction with different Ministries worked out? The personal involvement of the Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has been intense even after he set up the committee. He has spent at least two hours with us at over 15 such meetings pertaining to different sectors. I recall one meeting where we had six or seven ministers participating for over two hours to go through all the all the details of the recommendations. Mr. Goyal has also personally taken up matters with other ministries to get traction for our ideas and create a buy-in for changes in policies and rules. Committed champions across sectors have helped tremendously in diagnosing and addressing challenges — for instance, in ACs, we had Panasonic India CEO Manish Sharma, FICCI and DPIIT additional secretary Anil Agrawal, combining to deliver results. The DPIIT, in fact, does a lot of the critical background work to co-ordinate with other ministries. The contribution of all the SCALE committee members who are devoting significant personal time to this effort on a voluntary basis cannot be ignored either.  (Read full interview at      bit.ly/pawangoenka)    But primarily, the foot is on the industry end on how to invest on a large scale as China did||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-big-problem-is-lack-of-scale/article36687819.ece
27 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||28 trains cancelled, many diverted ahead of cyclone||The East Coast Railway (ECoR) cancelled 28 trains, diverted five trains and rescheduled eight as Cyclone Gulab made landfall in Kalongapatnam affecting north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha. Eleven trains were regulated in South East Central and South Central Railway jurisdictions. “In view of forecast of heavy rain with cyclonic wind, all necessary precautions have been taken by ECoR. Intensive and extensive patrolling in areas forecast to be affected are being ensured and monitored. Stationary watchmen have been deployed where heavy rainfall is likely. Bridges are kept under watch. Appropriate steps have been taken for electrical and signalling installations,” the ECoR said in a statement. The cyclonic storm caused significant damage in eight mandals close to the coast in Srikakulam district of A.P. Life was thrown out of gear since morning as several places experienced heavy rain. Hundreds of trees were uprooted in several mandals. Power supply was affected in many areas in the Tekkali division as electrical poles fell off. Roads too were badly damaged. Heavy rain was reported at Sandipeta, Rajapuram, Bhavanapadu, Devunaltada and other villages when Gulab made landfall.  (With inputs from    Visakhapatnam Bure au )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/28-trains-cancelled-many-diverted-ahead-of-cyclone/article36687801.ece
27 September 2021||MUMBAI,||‘India needs 4-5 more banks like SBI’||Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said India would need four or five more banks like the SBI to support economic growth. “The way in which the economy is shifting to a different plane altogether, the way in which industry is adapting, so many new challenges keep arising. To address these challenges, we need not just more, but bigger banks,” she told bankers at the 74th Annual General Meeting of the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) in Mumbai. A video of her speech has been released by the Press Information Bureau. Exhorting the banking industry to imagine how banking has to be in the immediate and long-term future, she said, “If we look at post-COVID scenario, India’s banking contour will have to be very unique to India, where there has been an extremely successful adoption of digitisation.” Underlining the importance of seamless and interconnected digital systems in creating a sustainable future, she said: “The long-term future of Indian banking is going to be largely driven by digitised processes.” She urged the IBA to improve access to banking in every district through a rationalised approach and optimal utilisation of digital technologies. To achieve this, she advised the IBA to carry out digitised location-wise mapping of all bank branches for every district. “Almost two-thirds of nearly 7.5 lakh panchayats have optical fibre connection. The IBA should consider this and conduct an exercise and decide where banks should have a physical presence and where we are able to serve customers even without a physical branch,” she said. Financial inclusion “The IBA should take the initiative and complement government’s efforts for financial inclusion and enhancing access to financial services, especially in unserved and under-served areas.” Stressing on strengthening the UPI, the FM said: “In the payment world today, Indian UPI has actually made a very big impression. A RuPay card which was not as glamorous as a foreign card is now accepted in so many parts of the world, symbolic of India’s futuristic digital payment intentions.” “FinTech understands that UPI is its backbone. You have to give it its flesh and blood, you have to strengthen UPI,” she said. The FM commended the banks for executing amalgamation even during the pandemic, without causing disruption in services to customers. Lauding the efforts of the IBA for having come together for establishment of the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd. and India Debt Resolution Company Ltd. she said the NARCL was not a bad bank. “It is a formulation which is intended to clean up banks’ assets and dispose of NPAs in a speedy manner. Banks are now able to raise money from the market. Hence the burden on the government to recapitalise banks will be less, this is how we want banks to function — a lot more professional, with a changed mindset,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-needs-4-5-more-banks-like-sbi/article36687831.ece
27 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Cyclone Gulab: 40,000 evacuated in Odisha||Cyclone Gulab crossed the north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coast about 20 km north of Kalingapatnam on Sunday evening, triggering widespread rain in the region. “The cyclonic storm, ‘Gulab’ crossed north Andhra Pradesh-South Odisha coasts, about 20 km north of Kalingapatnam with maximum wind speed of 75-85 km per hour between 7.30 pm and 8.30 pm,”the India Meteorological Department said in its latest bulletin. Odisha evacuated about 40,000 people in six southern districts ahead of the storm. “We have not received reports of any major damage,” said Pradeep Kumar Jena, Special Relief Commissioner of Odisha. East Coast Railway (ECoR) cancelled 28 trains, diverted five and rescheduled eight. Eleven trains were regulated in the South East Central and South Central Railway jurisdictions. The storm caused significant damage in eight mandals close to the coast in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. Hundreds of trees were uprooted in several mandals. Power supply was affected in many areas in the Tekkali division as electrical poles fell off. Heavy rain was reported at Sandipeta, Rajapuram, Bhavanapadu, Devunaltada and other villages when Gulab made landfall.  (With inputs from    Visakhapatnam Bure au )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cyclone-gulab-crosses-coast-near-kalingapatnam/article36687996.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Modi back from U.S., Nadda calls him a ‘global leader’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was given a warm welcome by BJP leaders, including party chief J.P. Nadda, after his arrival from the U.S. at the Palam airport here on Sunday. Mr. Modi, who walked for nearly two kilometres meeting party workers and the people lined up along the road outside the airport, thanked them for welcoming him. Lavishing praise on the Prime Minister upon his arrival in the country from the United States, Mr. Nadda hailed him as a “global leader” who had made India a “global player”. Citing Mr. Modi’s meetings with U.S. President Joe Biden and Vice-President Kamala Harris, besides his participation in the Quad meet and address at the UNGA, the BJP president said the Prime Minister put across strongly and frankly global issues and also India’s views over threats like terrorism and expansionism. Folk artistes from different States in their traditional costumes greeted Mr. Modi playing different kinds of drums and musical instruments, Delhi BJP vice-president Virendra Sachdeva said. Senior BJP leaders, including party national general secretaries Arun Singh and Tarun Chugh, former Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta, MP Ramesh Bidhuri were among those who welcomed Mr. Modi at the airport. Mr. Modi’s three-day trip was packed with meetings as he attended 20 of them during the around 65 hours he spent in the country, government sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-back-from-us-nadda-calls-him-a-global-leader/article36687796.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||GoM set up to rationalise GST rates||Setting the stage for an overhaul of the multiple tax rates under the Goods and Services Tax regime, the government has tasked a Group of Ministers (GoM), led by Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S. Bommai, with proposing a rationalisation of tax rates and considering the merger of different tax slabs within two months. Currently, the GST regime has five broad tax rate slabs of zero, 5%, 12%, 18% and 28%, with a cess levied over and above the 28% on some goods, and special rates for items like precious stones and diamonds. Mr. Bommai’s seven-member group constituted by the Finance Ministry on Friday includes West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra and Kerala Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, as well as GST Council members from Goa, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. “The GoM shall review the current tax slab rates and recommend changes in the same as may be needed to garner required resources (and) review the current rate slab structure of GST, including special rates, and recommend rationalisation measures, including merger of tax rate slabs, required for a simpler rate structure in GST,” the terms of reference for the GoM stated. Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar has been made the convenor of another GoM on GST System Reforms, which will look at tapping IT tools to minimise tax evasion and make compliance easier for taxpayers. This group will subsume two existing ministerial groups on IT challenges and revenue mobilisation owing to the overlap in their mandates, the Ministry said. The GoM includes seven other Ministers, including Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, Haryana and Delhi Deputy CMs Dushyant Chautala and Manish Sisodia, as well as Ministers representing Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Assam in the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gom-set-up-to-rationalise-gst-rates/article36687834.ece
27 September 2021||Srinagar,||Ripples over Dal Lake: Air Force planes inspire awe with a stunning show||After a gap of 14 years, the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Sunday mesmerised locals in Srinagar with its jets performing aerobatics and awe-inspiring manoeuvring in the skies. Hundreds of students drawn from different schools in the Valley enjoyed watching the IAF jets skilfully navigating and synchronising while hovering over the famous Dal Lake on the lawns of the Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre. The IAF show, which was inaugurated by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, was named “Give wings to your dream”. It was organised as part of the ongoing celebrations commemorating Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav . “It was organised to inculcate the spirit of nationalism among the Kashmir youth,” the spokesman said. The show saw a display by the IAF’s Surya Kiran Aerobatics Team, Paramotor and powered hang-glider display, flypast by MiG-21 Bison and aerobatics by Su-30 aircraft. It also included the Akashganga skydiving display, IAF symphony orchestra display and a photo exhibition depicting the history of IAF. “I witnessed a spectacular air show by the IAF showcasing the capabilities and skills of the Indian Air Force, the audience was treated to sheer excellence,” Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu said. The routes heading towards the boulevard in Srinagar were closed to traffic for the past two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ripples-over-dal-lake-air-force-jets-inspire-awe-with-skill-and-bravery/article36687805.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Proportion of all cancer cases higher in men: study||The proportion of all cancer cases was higher in males (52.4%) than females (47.4%) with gynaecological cancers, including breast cancer, comprising over half of all cancers in females. Childhood (0-14 years) cancers constitute 7.9% of all cancers, noted the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) ‘Clinicopathological Profile of Cancers in India: A Report of the Hospital Based Cancer Registries, 2021’ released on Sunday. The report said that cancers of the head and neck region accounted for nearly one third (31.2%) of the cancers among males. The highest proportion of cancer from all sites was reported in the 45 to 64 years age group, except for prostate cancer in males, which was higher in those over 65 years. For the report, a total of 13,32,207 cancer cases were registered from 96 hospitals under the National Cancer Registry Programme (NCRP) during 2012-19. Of these, 6,10,084 cases were included for analysis, based on the completeness and quality of data. Site-specific cancer The report further states that out of the 6,10,084 cancers, 3,19,098 (52.4%) cancers were reported in males, and 2,90,986 (47.6%) in females. Cancers in sites associated with tobacco use comprised 48.7% of cancers among males and 16.5% among females. “The relative proportion of site-specific cancers was higher in males than females, except for thyroid cancer (2.5% in females versus 1% in males) and gallbladder cancer (3.7% in females versus 2.2 % in males),” notes the report. The report states that over one-third of patients with cancers of the tongue, larynx, thyroid, corpus uteri, kidney (including children), bladder and retinoblastoma had localised disease at the time of presentation. “Chemotherapy was the most typical treatment modality for many cancers regardless of the clinical extent of disease at presentation, including cancers of the liver, gallbladder, stomach, lung and childhood cancers and regardless of the organ site and clinical extent, most cancer patients, were initiated on cancer-directed treatment within 8 to 30 days of diagnosis,” states the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/proportion-of-all-cancer-cases-higher-in-men-study/article36687824.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Beijing-Lhasa key road link completed||Continuing its infrastructure build-up in Tibet, China has completed a key section of the Beijing-Lhasa expressway, a 295-km stretch from Lhasa to Nagqu. This section is located at an average altitude of 4,500 metres above sea level, which Chinese state media have termed the world’s highest expressway. In a separate development opposite the Central sector in Uttarakhand, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has set up surveillance equipment and cameras opposite the Kio Dhura pass, according to intelligence inputs. “Yellow balloon-shaped surveillance equipment are co-located with a windmill and solar panel at the site,” according to inputs. The Lhasa-Nagqu section is part of the G6 Beijing-Lhasa expressway and is the first expressway linking Lhasa, the capital of the Tibet Autonomous Region to north Tibet. It also connects the PLA’s Central Theatre Command with the Western Theatre Command which is responsible for the border with India, an official source said. “An important stretch of the expressway between Nagqu to Yangbaijain of Lhasa-Nagqu section was put into operational trial on August 21. On completion of Lhasa-Nagqu section, the driving time between Lhasa and Nagqu has reduced from six hours to three hours,” an official source said. The completed expressway will pass through seven major cities of China including Beijing, Hebei, inner Mangolia, Ningxia, Gansu, Qinghai and Lhasa with an approximate length of 3,710 km, the official added. In June, China had launched a high speed bullet train connecting Lhasa with Nyingchi, a strategically located Tibetan town located close to Arunachal Pradesh. Continuing regular exercises in the area, the PLA has conducted two live firing exercises under its Xinjiang Military District (XMD in the first week of September, officials said. The Artillery regiment of 8 Mountain Infantry Division conducted live firing exercise employing PCL-181 155mm vehicle mounted howitzer guns in the high altitude plateau, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/beijing-lhasa-key-road-link-completed/article36687791.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Modi visits site of new Parliament building||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday visited the construction site of the new Parliament building, which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2022. Mr. Modi spoke to people involved in the construction as he inspected the ongoing work, official sources said. The building is part of the Central Vista project, which has faced criticism from the Opposition. Government officials have said that Parliament's winter session in 2022 will be held in the new building. The new Parliament building will have an area of 64,500 square metres. It will also have a grand Constitution Hall to showcase India’s democratic heritage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-visits-site-of-new-parliament-building/article36687998.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t shift goalposts, Indian envoy tells China||“On the other hand,” he said, “for managing border affairs on a daily basis, we evolved a mechanism, consisting of instruments such as the WMCC [Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on border affairs] and a succession of agreements, protocols and CBMs, to govern behaviour on the ground and ensure peace and tranquillity. A serious violation of peace and tranquillity in the border areas naturally requires us to apply our minds on the basis of established agreements, protocols and mechanisms to resolve it. As we do so, any attempt to confuse border affairs with the boundary question is a disservice to the work of those involved in finding solutions.” He said this was why India had been “consistently saying that the current issue is about restoring peace and tranquillity to the border areas and is not about the resolution of the larger boundary question, on which our stance has not changed, despite what happened last year,” referring to the crisis in eastern Ladakh. Differing claims to LAC Chinese officials in statements have justified Beijing’s mobilising of thousands of troops along the LAC last summer by citing China’s territorial claims, including to the Galwan Valley, and accusing India of infringing on those claims. Indian officials have said China’s unilateral actions went against the four border agreements that govern the behaviour of troops in disputed areas.  Differing claims The agreements also acknowledge both sides’ differing claims to the LAC. Clashes in the Galwan Valley in June last year led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops, marking the worst violence since 1967. On Friday, India’s Ministry of External Affairs said, “It was the provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity”, responding to a statement from China’s Foreign Ministry saying the Galwan Valley clash “was caused by the Indian side’s illegal trespass of the LAC to encroach on Chinese territory”. Address sensitivities  Mr. Misri called on both sides to address the other’s sensitivities. “It cannot be that only one side’s concerns are of relevance while the other side’s case goes unheard. Safeguarding territorial integrity and national security holds equal value for both sides. Affixing blame exclusively on the other side is not a helpful approach.” He said both had space to cooperate on issues including tackling the pandemic, concerns about terrorism in the region and the situation in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-shift-goalposts-envoy-tells-china/article36687790.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||CJI backs 50% quota for women in judiciary||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Sunday backed 50% representation for women in judiciary. “It is your right. It is not a matter of charity... Enough of this thousands of years of suppression,” Chief Justice Ramana said. The CJI paraphrased Karl Marx to say, “Women of the world, unite! You have nothing to lose but your chains.” Speaking to women judges and advocates of the Supreme Court at an event organised to felicitate him and the nine new apex court judges, the CJI said women constituted only about 30% of the subordinate judiciary. “In High Courts, women judges constitute 11.5%. Here in the Supreme Court, we currently have four women Justices out of the sitting 33. That makes it just 12%. Of the 1.7 million advocates, only 15% are women. Only 2% of the elected representatives in the State Bar Councils are women... There is no woman member in the Bar Council of India. This needs urgent correction,” Chief Justice Ramana said. “I am also forcing the Executive for applying necessary correctives... I am happy to have colleagues in the Collegium who are progressive and determined to bridge the gap in the higher judiciary,” the CJI said. He highlighted the need to increase gender diversity in legal education. “I strongly advocate reservation of a significant percentage of seats in law schools and universities for women, as a first step. Ultimately, inclusion of women judges and lawyers will substantially improve the quality of justice delivery,” the CJI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-backs-50-quota-for-women-in-judiciary/article36687793.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Maoist influence down to just 41 districts: govt.||As per norms, State governments have to reimburse the amount incurred on deployment of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) in a State. Mr. Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken a decision to bring down the fixed expenditure of States on deployment of CAPFs and the expenditure by States has reduced by about Rs. 2,900 crore in 2019-20 as compared to the 2018-19. Mr. Soren also said Maoists have made an inaccessible place called Budha Pahar their sanctuary and a large portion of this area falls in Chhattisgarh and sought the neighbouring State’s cooperation for conducting a joint operation. Study of children Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik demanded that the Union Home Ministry should conduct a study on how many children from LWE affected areas across the country are able to clear national level exams such as NEET, IIT-JEE. “If our systems continue to bypass these areas, it is not going to help the cause of people of LWE affected areas,” Mr. Patnaik said. Mr. Shah said in the past two years, a successful effort has been made to increase the security camps in areas where security was not stringent, especially in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Odisha. Mr. Shah said those who want to give up arms and join mainstream are heartily welcome, but those who take up arms and hurt innocent people and the police, will be given the same response. Root cause “The root cause of dissatisfaction is that development has not reached there in last six decades since Independence and now to deal with it, it is very essential to ensure accessibility to fast-paced development so that common and innocent people do not join them,” he said. According to the ministry, there has been a gradual decline in the number of LWE incidents in the last decade. The incidents have reduced from 2,258 in 2009 to 349 incidents till August 31 this year. The number of deaths reduced from 908 to 110 during the same period. The Union Home Ministry first created the LWE desk, a separate department to address the Maoist issue in 2006. “Few new areas have been identified as potential locations for emergence of this phenomenon. To arrest the expansion plan of the CPI (Maoist) and also to restrict them to bounce back in the areas recently taken away from LWE influence, 8 districts have been categorized as ‘District of Concern’. The revised categorisation is a more realistic representation of current LWE scenario,” the Union Home Ministry stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maoist-influence-down-to-just-41-districts-govt/article36687794.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||7 new faces in as Punjab CM expands his Cabinet||The Ministers from the earlier Cabinet who have been left out include Balbir Singh Sidhu, Sunder Sham Arora, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Gurpreet Singh Kangar. Mr. Balbir Singh Sidhu and Mr. Kangar have questioned the rationale behind being left out. They told reporters that they were unaware of any reason for not being included. Earlier this week, Mr. Channi took oath as the Chief Minister of Punjab. Two Deputy Chief Ministers — O.P. Soni and Sukhjinder Randhawa — were also sworn in. Ahead of the expansion, a few Congress leaders had written to State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu against including Rana Gurjit Singh in the Cabinet over his alleged involvement in a sand mining scam. The Aam Aadmi Party has condemned the inclusion of certain MLAs in the Cabinet who were facing allegations of corruption. Leader of the Opposition and AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema said the inclusion of “tainted Ministers” in the new Cabinet made it clear that the new Chief Minister was no different from his predecessor. “Mr. Channi and the Congress state president Navjot Singh Sidhu should clarify their views on Rana Gurjit,” said Mr. Cheema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-new-faces-in-as-punjab-cm-expands-his-cabinet/article36687806.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||No one should be left out of ‘circle of safety’: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged Indians to continue following COVID-19 related protocol and ensure high levels of vaccination against the disease ahead of the festival season. In his monthly radio broadcast, ‘Mann ki Baat’ Mr. Modi said that while record levels of vaccination were taking place in India, the efforts should be kept up and no one should be left out of the ‘circle of safety’ of vaccination. The broadcast had been recorded before the Prime Minister’s trip to the United States, a fact shared by him. “Team India is creating several records daily on this front. Several records have been created in the vaccination drive that are being discussed globally,” he said, adding, “We not only have to get the vaccine administered when it’s our turn, but we also have to ensure that no one is left out of this circle of safety.” Even after getting vaccinated, the necessary protocol had to be followed, Mr. Modi said, adding that he hoped once again that Team India would keep the flag flying high in this fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. He made special reference to the festival of Dasara, and the festival season as well. “The whole country is also going to celebrate the festival of victory over untruth by Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram. But during this festival we have to remember about one more fight — that is the fight against corona. Every Indian has an important role in this fight,” he said. Clean rivers A large part of Mr. Modi’s address was reserved for World Rivers Day, and he called for collective efforts to keep rivers pollution-free. He mentioned the Namami Gange project for the cleaning of the Ganga and the e-auction of gifts given to him, the proceeds of which will accrue to the project. He also called for setting a record in sale and purchase of Khadi products on Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2, and gave a push for the continuation of the Swachch Bharat Mission, for cleanliness in public spaces.  Several records have been created in the vaccination drive that are being discussed globally Narendra Modi Prime Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-one-should-be-left-out-of-circle-of-safety-modi/article36687840.ece
27 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||AAP’s promise of quota in private jobs questioned||The Aam Aadmi Party’s electoral promise of quota for locals in private jobs in States has sparked reactions with political parties, scholars and activists questioning the practicality of tickling the nativist sentiments of the electorate. Some described it as “competitive chauvinism” while others dubbed it a “vote-catching phrase” that has not been thought through. On Sunday, Rashtriya Lok Dal president Jayant Chaudhary commented on the AAP’s promise of an 80% quota to locals in private jobs in Goa. “Can no one see the slippery slope we are setting up? If every State were to enact similar legislation, what would happen to internal migrations that create efficient labour markets? How will industry compete?” he tweeted. The AAP, working on spreading its footprints outside Delhi, has made similar promises in Punjab and Uttarakhand as well, touching an emotional chord. Last week, its national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal made a promise in Haldwani that the party would provide 80% reservation for Uttarakhand residents in the jobs. In the past, Mr. Kejriwal had made a similar promise in Punjab. With an eye on the districts of western Uttar Pradesh that share boundaries with Delhi, observers say, the AAP’s outreach with jobs and free electricity up to 300 units, is going to directly affect the RLD. The AAP is not alone in raising the son of the soil pitch. The Shiromani Akali Das promised that it would provide 75% quota to locals in private jobs. Anoop Nautiyal, founder of the Dehradun-based Social Development For Communities Foundation, said such promises had also been made in the past but could not be practically implemented. “Unemployment is a reality in Uttarakhand but it is also true that Uttarakhand trains high quality hospitality professionals who work in many States. It seems like a vote-catching phrase in the election season,” Mr. Nautiyal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aaps-promise-of-quota-in-private-jobs-questioned/article36687810.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Lord’s birth in unique night||Andal, in Her Thiruppavai, refers to the night on which Krishna was born as “Or iravu,’ meaning it was a unique night. What made it unique? It was the night when the One without birth was born, elaborated V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Krishna said in the Bhagavad Gita that for those who seek moksha, He is the only hope. The One who gave us this promise was born on that rainy night, thus making it unique. Sage Parasara, in his Vishnu Purana, refers to Krishna’s birth as the night on which the Sun that dispelled the darkness of the world made His appearance. So, on this night, one can say that the Sun shone at midnight! The Supreme One is a parent to all. Yet He was born as a child to human parents on this night, thereby making it unique. That night the doors of the prison opened of their own accord; chains binding Vasudeva fell off; except for a chosen few, the rest of the world was asleep. In his Yadavabhyudaya, Vedanta Desika devotes several verses to describing this night. The child that was born that night was unique too. He spoke as soon as He was born! Devaki saw that her child had four hands, and lotus-like eyes. The latter is a defining feature of the Supreme One. Even when the Lord took the Varaha avatara, His eyes looked like lotuses, thus making Him the only boar ever heard of that had lotus-like lovely eyes. Alavandar says Purushottama’s most distinguishing features are His lotus-like eyes. Suka refers to the newborn Krishna as adbhutam baalakam — the amazing boy. But why say balakam, when he could have just said baala, which also means boy? ‘Ka’ refers to Brahma. When Krishna was born, Brahma was seated in the navel of the baby! So Suka uses the word baalakam to refer to baby Krishna to indicate Brahma’s presence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lords-birth-in-unique-night/article36687827.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Soren meets Shah seeking caste census||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, leading an all-party delegation from the State, met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday to demand caste-based census and handed over a memorandum for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The delegation included leaders of nine political parties including the principal Opposition party BJP and ally Congress. “A caste-based census is the need of the hour,” Mr. Soren tweeted along with the photos of the meeting. The memorandum was signed by all the members of the delegation. The three-page document argued that the absence of caste specific data since Independence has created difficulties in providing special facilities to the backward classes. It said in the absence of caste census, “the educational, social and economic condition of the backward/most backward castes will not be assessed”. “Neither proper policy related to their betterment will be made nor will their numbers be determined so that proportional Budget can be allotted.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soren-meets-shah-seeking-caste-census/article36687817.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mamata urged to address meet virtually||The Italian organisation that invited West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is “highly prestigious,” said former Indian Ambassador to Italy K.P. Fabian. His comments came in the backdrop of allegations by Ms. Banerjee that the Ministry of External Affairs denied her permission saying that Sant’Egidio, the Rome-based organisation, did not deserve such high-level participation. “Sant’Egidio is a highly prestigious international organisation and it has mediated for peace in different locations across the world, including in Algeria, and their conferences are attended by leaders and religious heads,” said Mr. Fabian, who served as the Indian envoy in Rome. Earlier on Sunday, Ms. Banerjee said the Central government had repeatedly denied her permission to attend prominent international conferences. Mr. Fabian suggested, Ms. Banerjee may consider addressing the conference virtually. “The presence of Pope Francis and German Chancellor Angela Merkel makes it a really important event,” Mr. Fabian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-urged-to-address-meet-virtually/article36687811.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Modi greets Manmohan on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted his predecessor Manmohan Singh on his birthday on Sunday, wishing him a long and healthy life. Manmohan Singh, who headed the United Progressive Alliance coalition government between 2004 and 2014, turned 89 on Sunday. “Birthday greetings to our former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray for his long life and wonderful health,” Mr. Modi tweeted. The Congress, on its official Twitter handle, posted, “A visionary. A devoted patriot. A man of his words. Dr. Manmohan Singh, you are the leader India truly deserves.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-greets-manmohan-on-his-birthday/article36687820.ece
27 September 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Two more arrested in gang rape case||The number of arrests in the Dombivli gang rape case has gone to 31 with the police taking into custody two more accused men. Two others are on the run. The rape survivor, who had been in hospital since Wednesday, was discharged on Saturday and kept under police protection as there were more accused men to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-more-arrested-in-gang-rape-case/article36687833.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Correction||The authors of the Open Page Web article “A policy note that renders POCSO Act vague” published on September 26 are Nancy Thomas and Alamu R., and not as mentioned in the “More on the Web” pointer on Open Page in print. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/correction/article36687835.ece
27 September 2021||Patna,||Nitish to hold all-party meet for caste census||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated that conducting a caste-based census in the country is the “need of the hour”. Mr. Kumar said he would be holding an all-party meeting after the Central government informed the Supreme Court that conducting such a census was not feasible. Last month, leaders of 10 political parties from Bihar, led by Mr. Kumar, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand a caste census. “Caste-based census is a legitimate demand and need of the hour. The Central government should think over it as it is pro-development and will help policy makers frame targeted welfare policies for the backward class. It [caste-based census] must take place. We’ll hold an all-party meeting again over this issue in Bihar,” he told media persons in Delhi after attending a high-level meeting on Left Wing Extremism. On Saturday, Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, wrote to 33 non-BJP leaders seeking a caste-based census in the country. “The ruling party does not have a single rational reason against conducting a caste-based census,” Mr. Yadav said in his two-page letter. The RJD leader earlier served a three-day ultimatum to Mr. Kumar to reveal the next step after the Centre’s refusal. On September 23, the Centre told the Supreme Court that a caste census was not feasible as it was “administratively difficult and cumbersome, and excluding such information from the purview of census is a conscious policy decision”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-to-hold-all-party-meet-for-caste-census/article36687807.ece
27 September 2021||Lakhimpur Khiri (U.P.),||Carcass of tiger found in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve||A tiger was found dead in the Mailani range of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve on Sunday, officials said. It is estimated to be around two years old and the carcass was found alongside the Gola-Pilibhit road, Field Director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve Sanjay Kumar Pathak said. All vital organs were intact, he said, adding that there were some abrasion marks. “The tigress might have died in a road accident or due to fighting,” Mr. Pathak said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/carcass-of-tiger-found-in-dudhwa-tiger-reserve/article36688179.ece
27 September 2021||Guwahati,||Amid eviction unrest, Assam govt. starts farm project||Less than 48 hours after an eviction drive led to the death of two persons including a minor in police firing, the Assam government has begun its ambitious farm project in areas from where settlers were evicted. Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Padma Hazarika, who heads the committee set up for implementing the government’s Gorukhuti farming project, said seeds of various crops had been sown in 4,000 bighas of land made encroachment-free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-eviction-unrest-assam-govt-starts-farm-project/article36687828.ece
27 September 2021||Guwahati,||Assam’s rice wine Judima gets GI tag||Judima, the wine brewed by the Dimasa community in Assam, has been awarded the geographical indication (GI) tag. This wine made from rice and a certain herb is the first beverage from the north-eastern region to earn this label.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assams-rice-wine-judima-gets-gi-tag/article36687829.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Chidamabaram takes swipe at Modi’s address to U.N.||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram on Sunday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the U.N. General Assembly (UNGA) pointing out that very few seats were occupied and none applauded the speech. “India’s Permanent Mission at the U.N. has goofed up massively,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chidamabaram-takes-swipe-at-modis-address-to-un/article36687832.ece
27 September 2021||Srinagar,||2 militants killed in J&K, another held||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants were killed and a militant of The Resistance Front (TRF) was arrested in two separate anti-militancy operations in J&K on Sunday. The police identified the slain militants as Abid Rashid Dar alias Haqani and Azad Ahmed Shah. Two AK-47 rifles were recovered from the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-militants-killed-in-jk-another-held/article36687841.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. speeds up flood mitigation work||The Greater Chennai Corporation has advanced the deadline for the completion of work on monsoon preparedness in the city. Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi has ordered officials to complete the work before October 10 so that the city was well prepared for the onset of the northeast monsoon this year. Of the 4,254 stretches of stormwater drains identified, desilting had been completed on 3,076 stretches. Over 14,000 silt catch pits, which were an interface between the road and stormwater drains, were being cleared for the first time, the officials said. Despite initiatives to mitigate flooding in the past few years, monsoon remains a nightmare for people in many areas. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has started inspecting monsoon preparedness work. While a number of spot inspections had been done by senior officials such as Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and Municipal Administration and Water Supply Secretary Shiv Das Meena in the last few days, residents had been flagging the issues on social media. Vidyasagar Jagadeesan of Pallikaranai tweeted: “Bedi Sir, please come to ward 189 too to check. Low-lying areas at the fag end of Tulukkanathamman Kovil Street in Pallikaranai are flooded during rains. Have to wait for a month to get the water drained.” CM visits Velachery On Saturday, groups of residents gathered at various locations to request the Chief Minister to speed up completion of projects and initiatives to mitigate flooding. Velachery residents said they submitted a petition to the security personnel of the Chief Minister on Saturday during his inspection, requesting a permanent solution to the problem of flooding that affected 50,000 people. They also cited absence of a “proper planned permanent system” to drain water to Veerangal Odai. At present, the Corporation has made temporary arrangements for a 100 Hp pump to drain water into the canal. The residents have sought a direct road to 100 feet road through AGS Colony Fourth Main Road in ward 177. Residents stressed the need for restoration of Pallikaranai marshland to prevent flooding by reducing the area used for dumping waste. More than 200 acres of marshland had been used to dump waste. Although the Corporation had announced that the dumping of waste would be stopped by December 2020, it had not been done. “Pallikaranai marshland should be preserved as it acts as a sponge and if there are any obstructions in the flow of water from the marshland to Buckingham Canal, they have to be removed periodically by the Forest Department to ensure not only the retention of water in the marshland, but also to enable quicker free flow of additional or excess water to Buckingham Canal,” said Geetha Ganesh, secretary of Velachery AGS Colony Residents’ Welfare Association. Residents of areas such as Egmore had demanded infrastructure projects by other civic agencies to reduce waterlogging. For instance, the stretch of Poonamallee High Road near Police Commissioner’s Office and Vepery Sub-Registrar Office was prone to flooding during rainy season. The officials had been unable to solve this problem as it involved coordination with Highways Department and Southern Railway. Need for culverts The government order of September 13 giving administrative sanction of Rs. 392.16 crore to flood mitigation work by the Highways and Minor Ports Department in various parts of the State is expected to facilitate the construction of permanent pipe culverts and other drains to prevent flooding in such locations. Egmore MLA I. Paranthaman said the Corporation officials and the Highway officials planned to complete the work on Poonamallee High Road before the onset of the monsoon. “Work on the additional culvert across the railway track in Egmore and lead drain will be taken up at a cost of Rs. 2.9 crore,” he said. Culverts and drains would be built in at least 27 locations along the highways in Chennai to mitigate flooding in residential areas. The work includes construction of additional culverts across the railway tracks near Whannels Road, across Grand Northern Trunk Road, Grand Southern Trunk Road, Marmalong Bridge Irumbuliyur Road and Tambaram-Mudichur-Sriperumbudur Road. Officials are planning to organise a coordination meeting of various departments to speed up such projects ahead of the onset of the northeast monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-speeds-up-flood-mitigation-work/article36688103.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Murders with juveniles as accused doubled in five years in Tamil Nadu||The number of murder cases in which juveniles were named as accused has more than doubled in the five years from 2016 to 2020 in Tamil Nadu, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) reports. This was despite no sharp increase in the overall number of murders that took place in the State every year since 2016. While 48 of the 1,603 murders (3%) had juveniles among the accused in 2016, 104 of the 1,661 murders (6.3%) in 2020 involved juvenile offenders. Murders with juveniles as the accused have steadily increased in the past five years. Between 2019 and 2020, while the total number of murders in the State declined from 1,745 to 1,661, cases in which juvenile were booked increased from 92 to 104. The increasing trend in Tamil Nadu was in contrast to the national average. Across the country, the percentage of murders in which juveniles were counted among the accused has remained just below 3. Among the places that reported a significant number of murders, Delhi (12.1 %), Gujarat (6.7%) and Madhya Pradesh (6.4%) had a relatively higher percentage of murders involving juvenile offenders than Tamil Nadu. However, Tamil Nadu was the only major State that saw a steady increase in the percentage in the past five years. Chennai, the Madurai rural police jurisdiction, the Madurai city police jurisdiction, Tiruvallur and Thoothukudi districts reported the highest number of murders with juvenile offenders in absolute numbers. The trend of juveniles getting in conflict with the law has remained a concern in Tamil Nadu. According to the NCRB’s Crime in India report for 2020, among the major States, Tamil Nadu had the fourth highest rate (16.4%) of juveniles getting involved in crime, which referred to the number of cases involving juvenile offenders per one lakh population of those aged under 18. Activists said the sharp increase was alarming. Andrew Sesuraj, State convener, Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch, said the trend indicated targeted exploitation of children by anti-social elements. “We see increasing incidents of adolescent children getting involved in crimes like theft to meet their lifestyle needs like a mobile phone or a bike. However, such an increase in their involvement in murders is very concerning.” He said it was important to look at the possible correlation between this trend and the problematic messaging done in certain movies and other mass media on “using” juveniles to commit murders as the penal provisions for murder under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act were less severe than the Indian Penal Code. Girija Kumarbabu, child rights consultant and former member of the Juvenile Justice Board, Chennai, said students dropping out of schools required more attention. “There are many students who drop out of school after Class VIII as the exams become mandatory from Class IX. There are also cases in which they remain enrolled, but stop learning. These children fall into the hands of slightly older men who had a similar trajectory and were involved in anti-social activities.” Most children who allegedly commit such murders were under the influence of drugs, she said, stressing the need for curbing the availability of and access to drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murders-with-juveniles-as-accused-doubled-in-five-years-in-tamil-nadu/article36688096.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A walk recalling the history of Fort St. George||Did you know that after the British completed all the security arrangements at Fort St. George in the late 1780s, not a single war happened? Historian V. Sriram, who led a heritage walk for college students, children and adults around Fort St. George on the occasion of World Tourism Day on Sunday, said the security arrangements included five gates, including inner and outside gates, thick walls, a moat and four bastions. The water gate, the original gate to the port, was sealed during the World War II. It is now inside the moat since the height of the road has gone up. “Even today, cannon mounting markers can be seen,” he explained to the guests, who included Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan, Tourism Secretary B. Chandra Mohan and Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation Managing Director Sandeep Nanduri. The Minister and officials took part in the 3-km walk that lasted over two-and-a-half hours. They got to hear stories, including that of how Arya Bhashyam climbed up the flag pole and hoisted the Congress flag on January 26, 1932 and was later arrested. Mr. Sriram said the black granite pillars from Pallavaram inside the Fort had initially served as a ceremonial passage way from the port, which the French took away in 1740 and were brought back by the British after they laid siege to Pondicherry. Although most of the children did not have many questions during the walk, they said they were happy to have heard very interesting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-walk-recalling-the-history-of-fort-st-george/article36688117.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many students back on campus||In a few days, it will nearly be a month since schools across Tamil Nadu reopened for Classes 9-12. While there were some parents who were hesitant to send their children back to school, many schools in Chennai say more than 90% of the senior students have returned to the campus. “We have over 95% of our students back on campus, and most of the students who have not returned belong to families that have shifted out of the city because of the loss of livelihood. The school has reached out to these students to ensure that they continue learning through alternate modes or we have helped them find admission to other government schools,” said G. Shanmugavel, Headmaster, Government Higher Secondary School, MGR Nagar. At Chennai High School in Kottur, Headmistress K. Maheshwari Kalpana said only around 4 students of Class 10 and 8 students of Class 9 had not returned. “Most of these children are not keeping away from school for health reasons, and we are working with the School Education Department to reach out to them. There are strict safety protocols in place on the campus, which are being followed by the students,” she said. Ahead of the reopening, the School Education Department had made it compulsory for all schools to get the parents’ consent for their children to attend in-person classes. “We reached out to a few parents who had reservations about sending their children back and had to brief them about the safety measures we had implemented,” said Lakshmi Prabha, Principal, Prasan Vidya Mandir. Ms. Lakshmi Prabha, who is the chairperson of the Kanchi Cluster of CBSE schools under Chennai Sahodaya, said over 95% students of around 29 member-schools were back on the campus, from Perungulathur to Melmaruvathur. “For schools in semi-urban areas where it has been tough to reach out to all students through online classes, this has been a welcome sign.” School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi has reiterated that students should not be forced to return to school if they have reservations about their safety, and alternate modes of teaching should continue. “Compared with earlier this year, there is a better awareness among students and teachers across the State of the safety measures to be followed,” R. Visalakshi. president, Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association, said. The inoculation of most teaching and non-teaching staff members has encouraged the schools to keep the campuses open. “Several schools have been raising awareness through students to ensure the vaccination of their parents too.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-students-back-on-campus/article36688090.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 1,694 fresh COVID-19 cases, 14 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,694 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. Coimbatore and Chennai, where daily cases had been exceeding 200 over the past week, reported 196 and 190 cases, respectively. While four districts reported over 100 fresh infections, three districts had fewer than 10 cases each. As many as 1,54,692 people were tested in 24 hours, according to the daily bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health. A total of 118 people each in Chengalpattu and Erode were found to have contracted the infection. Till date, 26,57,266 people in the State have tested positive for the infection. Ramanathapuram (5); Perambalur (7) and Ariyalur (8) had the lowest number of fresh infections. As many as 17,285 people are undergoing treatment in healthcare facilities or at home. In Chennai district, 5,49,088 people have contracted the infection so far, and 5,38,537 have been discharged after treatment. As of date, 2,087 people are undergoing treatment, and the district has recorded 8,464 casualties. A total of 26,04,491 people have been discharged in the State so far, including the 1,658 people discharged on Sunday. All 14 people whose deaths were recorded on Sunday had pre-existing health conditions. Four persons admitted to private hospitals and 10 persons undergoing treatment in government hospitals succumbed to the infection. So far, 35,490 people have died of COVID-19 in the State. Among the 14 casualties were two 81-year-old women and an 80-year-old man. Six persons were in their sixties and three were in their seventies. Two were in their fifties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-reports-1694-fresh-covid-19-cases-14-deaths/article36688098.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Children have similar antibody exposure as adults’||“Children have the same percentage of antibody exposure that adults have. We had shut schools saying children should not be exposed to the virus, but there has been community exposure since they have been doing other activities. Children have been going to malls, they have been playing outside, and are around their family,” said Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, WHO. “This is why organisations such as UNICEF and WHO have emphasised this and said that due to schools specifically, there is not much chance of infection spreading,” Dr. Soumya said. She was speaking on the sidelines of “Every Child A Scientist” programme at the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation on Sunday. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said that over the last one-and-a-half years, learning outcome deficits had been a huge concern. “The Chief Minister and the Tamil Nadu government will take a number of factors into consideration before making a careful decision about the reopening of schools. Student safety is our first priority,” he told the media after the event. The “Every Child A Scientist” programme aims to encourage children, particularly those who come from underpriviledged backgrounds to take an interest in science. MSSRF is being supported by Larsen and Toubro (L&T), Chennai, in the programme. In Tamil Nadu, the programme will enable access to modern learning tools, well equipped labs and field visits for students of classes VI to VIII from government schools. It aims to strengthen their inquisitiveness towards science and understanding of scientific concepts. Scientific platforms Speaking at the inauguration, Mr. Mahesh Poyyamozhi said that there was a need for dedicated scientific platforms where young students and teachers could learn basic process skills and develop attitudes towards science such as observing, classifying, communicating, measuring, inferring, and predicting. “The earlier version of the ECAS programme laid more emphasis on classroom teaching while the current version will have more interactive learning sessions and connect them with leading scientists and laboratories enabling them to get up-to-date information in the chosen research area,” said Prof. Swaminathan, agricultural scientist. He said that children’s scientific temperament directly contributed to the country’s progress. Dr. Soumya spoke about inculcating scientific temper among children to counter misinformation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-have-similar-antibody-exposure-as-adults/article36688119.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Soon, revenue maps can be obtained online||Village, town block and district maps will very soon be made available online for the benefit of land buyers, industrialists and realtors. As part of the reforms aimed at transparency and efficiency in the Revenue Department, the Tamil Nadu government is strengthening its online services. A senior official told  The Hindu , “We are designing a portal for the Survey and Settlement Department, and the services through this portal will be launched soon.” The survey number correlation statements for every district will also be uploaded online, and this is expected to help landowners with the old and new survey/subdivision numbers of a land parcel, the official said. At present, village maps can be accessed only in person from the taluk offices or a copy of it can be obtained in person from the offices of the Regional Deputy Directors of Survey or the office of the Director of Survey and Settlement in Chennai. As for the survey number correlation statements, only a few districts have uploaded them online. Village maps primarily help in identifying waterbodies, especially the lesser known channels or streams, and poromboke lands, and in checking the suitability of a land parcel for agriculture. According to the Revenue Department, all 16,721 village maps have been scanned. Town block maps help town planners, property buyers and construction companies with the length and width of streets and roads; hence, they come in handy for obtaining approval for a building plan. District maps help industrialists while opening factories, besides being useful to government agencies and academics. Correlation statements help landowners know their land’s new survey/subdivision numbers if the area revenue records are updated after a town survey. A town survey is undertaken when a revenue unit is upgraded. For instance, the survey is done when a village panchayat is upgraded as a town panchayat. Delay in survey The delay in the survey of land, requested by landowners, is expected to come down as the Revenue Department is planning to fill about 600 vacancies for the post of field surveyor. The Department, which has about 800 vacancies for the post, has written to the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission for recruitment. The Department also trains diploma-holders in civil engineering to certify them as licensed surveyors. They are offered a three-month training programme at the Survey Training Institute at Orathanadu in Thanjavur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soon-all-revenue-maps-in-state-can-be-accessed-online/article36688093.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kancheepuram residents demand MTC bus services||The residents of Kancheepuram want the Transport Department to resume Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus services between the temple town to Chennai. Because of the presence of several major industries in the district, a large number of people travel between Kancheepuram and Chennai. Although the town has buses to other places and suburban trains, the residents complained about the absence of MTC buses to Chennai. The MTC, which used to operate buses from T. Nagar bus terminus on route no. 576, had stopped the service five years ago. Now, the MTC operates buses only till Walajabad. Hardship to residents F. Berry, secretary of the Tamil Nadu Makkal Urimai Pathukappu Ozhal Ozhippu Sangam, said lack of MTC bus service caused hardship to residents and traders. Also, the suburban train services operated till Thirumalpur via Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu were limited. He wanted the MTC to extend the purview of its operations to 75 km from the present 50 km as the city had expanded beyond Tambaram. He wanted to know why buses could not be operated to temple town when MTC could run buses to Chengalpattu district. The residents had made a representation to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Transport Minister R.S. Rajakannappan to operate direct buses to T. Nagar, Broadway and Secretariat. A similar demand was put forth by the residents of Tiruvallur to resume bus service on route no. 597 which used to be operated from T. Nagar bus terminus. A senior official said direct bus services to Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur were stopped after it was decided to reduce the operating distance of the MTC to 50 km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kancheepuram-residents-demand-mtc-bus-services/article36688108.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Early withdrawal of joint FD only if there is mandate’||Banks will allow premature withdrawal by the surviving depositor in the case of joint fixed deposit and term deposit accounts in the event of the death of one of the two, only if there is a joint mandate from the depositors to do so as per the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines, which not many customers are aware of. Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said there had been recent instances where the surviving depositors had approached banks for early withdrawal of fixed deposit accounts due to the death of the other account holder and their requests had been rejected by banks citing the RBI guidelines. In the case of joint fixed deposit and term deposit accounts, the joint holders choose between two mandates, “Either or Survivor” and “Former or Survivor”. In case of “Either or Survivor”, both the holders can operate the account while in the case of “Former or Survivor”, the former alone can operate the account when both are alive. In both cases, banks are permitted to allow premature withdrawal of the deposit by the surviving joint depositor on the death of the other, only if there was a joint mandate from the depositors to this effect, according to the master circular on customer service by banks issued by RBI in 2015. In the absence of a joint mandate, no pre-payment of the deposits would be allowed if the concurrence of the deceased joint holder had not been obtained as per the guidelines. If the operating instruction was “Either or Survivor” and one of the depositors died, no pre-payment of the fixed/term deposit may be allowed without the concurrence of the legal heirs of the deceased depositor. This would not stand in the way of making payment to the survivor on maturity, it said. In the case of “Former or Survivor” mandate, premature withdrawal would require the consent of both the parties, when both of them were alive, and that of the surviving depositor and the legal heirs of the deceased in the case of death of one of the depositors, the circular said. In its circular, the RBI had noted that many banks had neither incorporated such a clause in the account opening form nor had they taken steps to make the customers aware of the facility of such a mandate, thereby putting the “surviving” deposit account holder(s) to inconvenience. It had advised banks to incorporate the clause in the account opening form and inform their existing as well as future term deposit holders about the availability of such an option. Mr. Sadagopan alleged that despite clear instructions from RBI, banks hadn’t created awareness among customers.  In the absence of a joint mandate, no pre-payment of the deposits would be allowed if the concurrence of the deceased joint holder had not been obtained as per the guidelines||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-withdrawal-of-joint-fixed-deposit-only-if-there-is-mandate/article36688121.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Storming operation: 3,325 history-sheeters nabbed||The police nabbed 3,325 history-sheeters and seized more than 1,000 weapons, including country-made pistols, during the storming operation carried out for 52 hours. The storming operation, which began on Thursday night, was continued for two days. The intensive raids were conducted throughout the State based on the directions from Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu. The police officials had identified 21,592 persons involved in various crimes and during the search operations 3,325 history-sheeters were arrested. Of them, 294 had criminal cases pending in the court and 972 persons had several criminal cases against them. During the search operations, the police seized 1,117 deadly weapons, including seven country-made pistols from the criminals. The Greater Chennai Police listed 2,439 criminals for intensive checks and arrested 257 history-sheeters who had several cases against them and seized 52 weapons. The city police detained several criminals who had cases pending against them in several stations. Among those detained were Suresh, 43, alias Arcot Suresh of Vellore district, R. Vimalkumar, 21, of Kasimedu, K. Venkatesan, 51, alias Kuthirai Venkatesan of Manali and S. Rathinam, 37, and S. Ranjith, 26, in Madhavaram police station limits. The DGP said the storming operation would be carried out regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/storming-operation-3325-history-sheeters-nabbed/article36688110.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AAI mulls building parallel runway at Chennai airport||In what could be a game changer for Chennai airport, the Airports Authority of India is mulling constructing a parallel runway to reduce congestion and improve capacity. Sources said a few weeks ago, at a high-level meeting, an idea was proposed detailing why Chennai airport should have a parallel runway. “A team from the headquarters will carry out a feasibility study in a few months on where it can be constructed, how much land needs to be acquired, what will be the capacity enhancement and the pros and cons of building it. Only based on the conclusions of the report, it will be decided whether or not to go ahead with this plan. One of the options we have considered is to build it close to the 30-end of the secondary runway, extending towards the Tambaram side. It will be implemented only if it is safe,” a source said. With the second airport for the city remaining a non-starter for more than a decade now, it is imperative that the airport needs some kind of an airside capacity enhancement, sources said. Chennai airport has been falling behind the other metro airports like Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru in terms of air traffic and passenger traffic growth, especially in the last two years. The airport has been managing with a main runway and a secondary runway, whose capacity remains limited and the cross runway operations too are not carried out any more. In 2006, there was a plan to build a parallel runway and 1,084 acres of land had been notified by the State government but it was dropped when the residents nearby opposed the plan and since there was a plan to build a second airport at Sriperumbudur. “With no second airport and limited capacity here, the airport at least needs a parallel runway now,” another source said. While Delhi had parallel runways already, Bengaluru became the first in south India to have independent parallel runways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aai-mulls-building-parallel-runway-at-chennai-airport/article36688114.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PTR on panel to look into GST system reforms||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan has been nominated as a member of a Group of Ministers (GoM) constituted by the GST Council to look into the system reforms. Ajit Pawar, Deputy Chief Minister, Maharashtra, will be the convener. Manish Sisodia, Deputy Chief Minister, Delhi; Dushyant Chautala, Deputy Chief Minister, Haryana; Andhra Pradesh Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath; Assam Finance Minister Ajanta Neog; Chhattisgarh Commerical Taxes Minister T.S. Singh Deo; and Odisha Finance Minister Niranjan Pujari are the other members. The earlier GoMs on information technology challenges and revenue mobilisation have been subsumed under the newly constituted GoM. It said the GoM would identify mechanisms for better coordination between the Central and State tax administration and the tax administration of different States and suggest timelines for the changes recommended. Mr. Rajan wrote on Twitter that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had asked him and Commercial Taxes Minister P. Moorthy to work on similar issues in the State. “Now, look forward to working with friends and colleagues to improve the process for all of India,” he said. In an interview to a Tamil news channel on Sunday, he said there was a contradiction between what Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at the press conference on the GST compensation and what he heard had happened at the 45th GST Council meeting held in Lucknow on September 17. At the press conference, the Union Minister had said the compensation would not be extended beyond 2022 at any cost, he said. “The meeting was attended by our Additional Chief Secretary, and some of my colleagues, who are the Finance Ministers from other States [such as] Kerala, Andhra, Telangana, Punjab, West Bengal and Delhi. I am talking to them on a regular basis,” he said. “The information I received from these people was that no decision was made on the issue and the options have been given, and the topic will be taken for discussion at the next meeting.” “I hope there will be some clarity in the follow-up communications with the GST Council. Of course, communications and interactions will happen regularly, not just during the council meeting,” he said. The compensation issue was the last item (no. 18) on the third list of agendas, which was circulated by the GST Council at the last minute, he said.  The earlier GoMs on information technology challenges and revenue mobilisation have been subsumed under the newly constituted GoM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ptr-on-panel-to-look-into-gst-system-reforms/article36688092.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body plans integrated storm drains, restoration of lakes||Projects in added areas of Greater Chennai Corporation and suburban areas hold the key to flood mitigation in the city. The civic body had announced construction of integrated stormwater drains linking lakes and canals in each river basin. Work on integrated stormwater drains of Kosasthalaiyar basin in north Chennai, Kovalam basin in south Chennai and restoration of Buckingham Canal is expected to be taken up only after addressing the concerns raised by local residents. The proposal for development of huge underground stormwater drains from southern suburbs to the sea was made a few years ago. The proposal for eco-restoration of large lakes in the suburban areas is expected to control flooding in a big way. The Corporation has identified 210 lakes for restoration. But the removal of encroachments remains a challenge in most of these waterbodies, the officials said. Biometric identification of encroachers had not been taken up along many waterbodies because of protests by local residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-plans-integrated-storm-drains-restoration-of-lakes/article36688100.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t overload vehicles, trailer owners urge ports||The All Sea Ports Trailer Owners Consortium has urged the Chennai port, Kamarajar port and the private port at Kattupalli to ensure that trailers are not forced to carry excessive weights. A trailer with three axles can carry a maximum of 30 tonnes of weight but many times they end up carrying 64 tonnes, said consortium president P. Gopinath. Plying overloaded vehicles only caused accidents since the drivers could not manage the additional weight. “If they brake, the vehicle will not stop and sometimes the trailer overturns causing unfortunate deaths. We have been writing to the ports regularly asking them not to overburden trailers but to no avail,” he said. Accident in city Consortium secretary K. Suresh Babu said that after a container-carrying trailer proceeding from the Chennai port sank when the bridge collapsed on Poonamallee High Road last year, overloading had stopped for several months. “Last week, there was a sudden checking of over loaded vehicles on roads leading to the ports by teams of RTOs and fines were collected. Such checks should be done regularly to prevent overloading,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-overload-vehicles-trailer-owners-urge-ports/article36688115.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCC district president offers gold to cadres for enrolling people in party||In a rather unique move to increase the cadre base of the party, a district president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) on Sunday announced rewards of gold rings and coins to cadres who enroll the maximum number of people in to the Congress. The meeting also passed resolutions demanding that its Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi be made the president of the Indian National Congress again. The party also unveiled a campaign ‘Veethidhorum Congress, Veedudhorum Congress’ with an eye on the 2024 Parliamentary polls. At a meeting organised by the South Chennai Central District Congress to celebrate the 77th birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, district president M.A. Muthalakan announced that he will reward cadre who enroll the maximum number of people with an 8-g gold ring. Those with the second highest enrolment rate will get a 4-g of gold ring and the rest will be given gold coins. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri and AICC secretary Sirivella Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncc-district-president-offers-gold-to-cadres-for-enrolling-people-in-party/article36688128.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK ally VCK announces protest against T.N. police||The Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, a staunch ally of the ruling DMK, has announced protests for September 29 in all district headquarters (except in districts where the model code is in force for the local bodies elections) against the police for allegedly not allowing its workers to hoist the party flag at public places. The police recently prevented VCK workers from hoisting their flag near the Morur bus stand in Salem district, citing law and order issues. Flag-hoisting Announcing the protests, VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan asked whether the VCK was barred from hoisting its flag at public places and criticised the police for citing law and order as an excuse. “Don’t we have the right to hoist our flag at public places? When all other party flags can fly, why can’t the VCK’s? Using caste fanatics as an excuse — is that the legal approach? What kind of justice is this,” he asked. Speaking to The Hindu , Kattumannarkoil MLA and VCK general secretary Sinthanai Selvan made it clear that the protest was not against the State government. “The Chief Minister has said social justice is the cornerstone of his government, but the police department has not understood it. We want to draw the government’s attention to the issue through the protest.” He said that while the VCK had a strong partnership with the DMK, the alliance would become stronger only when pertinent issues are raised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-ally-vck-announces-protest-against-tn-police/article36688132.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal campaign for local body polls to begin today||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday said he will start campaigning for his party on September 27 in Kancheepuram for the upcoming rural local bodies elections in 9 districts. Party sources said he will campaign in Kancheepuram district on September 27 and in Chengalpattu district on September 30. A release said the party believes strong local bodies alone can ensure State autonomy. “Party founder Kamal Haasan has already announced that MNM will contest the polls in 9 districts alone. MNM candidates are contesting as agents of change.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamals-poll-campaign-to-begin-today/article36688133.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC confirms life sentence for four in gang-rape case||The Madras High Court has confirmed the conviction and life sentence imposed by a trial court on four men for gang-raping a Dalit woman at Namagiripet in Namakkal district. Though there were five convicts in the case, one of them did not prefer any appeal, and hence, the High Court dealt with only the appeals preferred by four of them. Justices P.N. Prakash and R.N. Manjula pointed out that the victim was the mother of two girl children. She and her husband were waylaid by three men, while two others joined them later. After committing the crime, the accused left the couple on the road, warning them not to go to the police. No ulterior motive Though the appellant’s counsel had accused the victim of having falsely implicated the convicts in the case, the Bench said there was no material on record to suggest that there was any ulterior motive behind the complaint. The crime had taken place on March 15, 2015 and a Mahila Court in Namakkal had convicted all five accused — Jayasurya, Ganesh Kumar, Ajeeth, Birla and Rajesh — on June 5, 2018. The second convict, Ganesh Kumar, chose not to prefer an appeal before the High Court challenging his conviction and the life sentence imposed on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-confirms-life-term-for-four-in-gang-rape-case/article36688134.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Laparoscopic surgery is the best option to treat cancers: experts||Laparoscopic surgery is the best option to treat cancerous tumours as it reduces the need for large incisions and is less painful, say experts. At a wellness webinar hosted jointly by GEM Hospital and The Hindu , experts felt keyhole surgery (as laparoscopic procedures are referred to commonly), was quicker and ensured faster recovery. Ho-Seong Han, professor in the Department of Surgery in Seoul National University’s College of Medicine, said studies had shown that “keyhole surgery results may be better in cancer than even open surgery”. Chairman of GEM Hospital C. Palanivelu referred to studies done in Asia that pointed out that laparoscopic and robotics surgeries can increase the chance of survival of patients. “In open oesophageal cancer surgeries, there is a 60% higher possibility of complication. Anastomotic leak and lung infection could delay recovery and patients need longer hospital stay. Such complications are ruled out in keyhole surgery, he said. Laparoscope provides better vision than the naked eye of the tissues as there are cameras that are constantly improving. When cancerous tumours are removed using laparoscopes it is done carefully ensuring no spillage happens, explained P. Senthilnathan, head of the Department of HPB Surgery, Department of Minimal Access Surgery and Liver Transplantation, GEM Hospital. M. Vijayakumar, vice-chancellor of Yenepoya deemed university in Mangaluru, said if people came early for treatment, the outcome would be better. Two-thirds of cancers can be prevented by giving proper health education and awareness, Mr. Vijayakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/laparoscopic-surgery-is-the-best-option-to-treat-cancers-experts/article36688135.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,981 candidates elected unopposed in ordinary polls for local bodies||A total of 2,981 persons were elected unopposed to various posts in nine districts, where ordinary elections are scheduled for October 6 and 9, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission said on Sunday. A total of 79,433 candidates are in the fray for the remaining 23,998 posts. There were no contestants for two posts of village panchayat president and 21 village panchayat ward members, an official release said. Though 27,003 vacancies were initially notified, the election for one post in the Sriperumbudur panchayat union was put on hold following a court order. A total of 98,151 nominations were received after ordinary elections were notified to these posts, 1,166 were rejected, and 14,751 were withdrawn on Saturday. As for the casual elections scheduled in 28 districts for October 9, candidates were elected unopposed for 365 posts. A total of 1,386 candidates are in the fray for the remaining 418 posts. Though the casual elections for 789 posts were notified, there were no contestants for two posts of village panchayat president and four village panchayat ward members, the release said. A total of 2,547 nominations were received for these posts, 80 were rejected and 716 were withdrawn on Saturday.  Though 27,003 vacancies were initially notified, the election for one post in the Sriperumbudur panchayat union was put on hold following a court order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2981-candidates-elected-unopposed-in-ordinary-polls-for-local-bodies/article36688094.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Caste-wise population census necessary’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday urged the Centre to take caste-wise population census data. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said the reasons cited to collect SC/ST population data since 1951 were applicable for collecting population data of Other Backward Classes since 2001. “If the caste-wise population data is not collected, there is a danger of removal of OBC reservations. In India, caste-wise census is necessary and cannot be ignored,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss also said the Centre’s reasoning that the caste-wise population census was not necessary when the government was trying to create a ‘casteless’ society showed its ignorance. “Castes didn’t create themselves all of a sudden. Castes were created based on jobs done by people and the discrimination faced by them. The inequality and caste-based professions have to be abolished to create an equal society. For this, all communities have to develop and reservation is the basis for this. Centre must realise that caste-wise population census is necessary to ensure this,” the PMK leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caste-wise-census-necessary-says-pmk-founder/article36688130.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||Chennai Customs seized 864 g of gold ingot worth Rs. 39.95 lakh from a passenger at Chennai airport. The passenger, aged 41, who had come from Dubai, was detained on suspicion. Customs officials found that he had concealed gold bundles in his the rectum, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized/article36688105.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT imposes fine on jallikattu organiser||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal has levied an environmental compensation of Rs. 1.92 lakh on Alagumalai Jallikattu Kaalaigal Nalasangam in Tiruppur district for illegal mining of minor minerals to conduct jallikattu. The bench directed the association to take steps to plant the trees and fill the pit that was created for conducting the event on January 31, 2021 on a temple land. The petitioner alleged that the association had excavated a portion of the hillock in the south-western region using earth removing equipment like JCB. several trees were cut and removed for that purpose. Refuting the charges, the association said the event was conducted with the permission of the district administration which earmarked the location, and that the sport was held on a private patta land and not on a forest area. However, the committee found top soil and gravel removed on the location.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-imposes-fine-on-jallikattu-organiser/article36688433.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM greets former PM on birthday||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday extended his greetings to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on his birthday. In a tweet, Mr. Stalin said, “Hearty birthday greetings to our former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh. The yeoman service you rendered to our country by lifting millions of citizens from poverty and the crucial role you played during the period of recession can’t be forgotten by anyone.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-greets-former-pm/article36688122.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bharat Bandh politically motivated: BJP||The Bharat Bandh called on September 27 was an attempt by opposition parties to dent the image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP leader Sudhakar Reddy has said. The protest was politically motivated, he said. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday after participating in a virtual conference, Mr. Reddy, who is also the party’s Tamil Nadu in-charge, said the opposition to National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test by the DMK was only to benefit its leaders who owned medical colleges. Mr. Reddy said students in the State were benefitting due to NEET. He further said the Tamil Nadu government was opposing every Central government scheme only due to a political motive, and the people of the State had started understanding the “drama and misrepresentations” made by the DMK.  The Tamil Nadu government is opposing every Central government scheme only due to a political motiveSudhakar ReddyBJP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharat-bandh-politically-motivated-bjp-leader/article36688131.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK has not implemented much-awaited promises: OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said on Sunday that the DMK government had not kept its election promises that people eagerly waited for and urged it to fulfil them. In a statement, he said the DMK had promised the voters that it would get the NEET cancelled. It would not acceptable to say that the promise was fulfilled with the adoption of a resolution in the Assembly. “Only when the NEET is cancelled can that promise be considered fulfilled.” Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said 202 of the 505 promises made by his party had been implemented within four months of its coming to power. But people were disappointed that the promises on which they had voted for the DMK had not been kept, Mr. Panneerselvam said. People hoped that the DMK would waive educational loans. But that promise had not been implemented, and the interest on these loans were increasing. “The reality is that the debt burden is only increasing,” he said. The grant of Rs. 4,000 in relief, free bus travel for women and a reduction in the milk price by Rs. 3 a litre were the promises that had been implemented fully. The other promises had not been fulfilled. The reduction of petrol and diesel prices by Rs. 5 and Rs. 4 a litre respectively could be considered a promise kept only by 25%, Mr. Panneerselvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-has-not-implemented-much-awaited-promises-ops/article36688232.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras School of Social Work graduation day||The 65th graduation day of the Madras School of Social Work was held at Don Bosco School on Saturday. M. Krishnan, Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Tamil Nadu, Tiruvarur, spoke. Principal Raja Samuel presented the annual report. K.A. Mathew, retired IAS officer, inaugurated the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madras-school-of-social-work-graduation-day/article36688104.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital holds conference on CTO, angioplasty||Promed Hospital here organised a hybrid conference, involving both online and in-person participation, focussing on chronic total occlusion (CTO) and angioplasty on Saturday and Sunday. The conference, organised ahead of World Heart Day, saw international and national faculty delivering lectures on recent advances in interventional cardiology. Arun Kalyanasundaram, chief cardiologist of the hospital, performed live procedures on patients with difficult coronary blockages to demonstrate the latest advancements in angioplasty. This was done in conjunction with the 11th Singapore CTO Summit, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-holds-conference-on-cto-angioplasty/article36688123.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Over 1.13 lakh doses administered||A total of 1,13,618 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered to those aged above 18 in the third mega vaccination drive held in Coimbatore district on Sunday. While 46,932 persons received the first dose, 66,686 persons received second dose. The district administration aimed to administer 1.4 lakh doses in the drive. District Collector G.S. Sameeran oversaw the mega vaccination drive which was held at 484 centres of which 288 were in Coimbatore rural. According to the district administration, there are 29,27,149 persons aged above 18 eligible for vaccination in Coimbatore district. While a total 1,51,685 doses of vaccines were administered to the public in the first mega drive held on September 12, health workers administered jabs to 94,723 persons in the second drive held on September 19. In Tiruppur district, 77,897 persons were inoculated in the mega drive on Sunday which was held under the supervision of District Collector S. Vineeth. According to the district administration, Tiruppur district has 20,77,095 persons who are eligible to receive vaccines. A total of 1,23,163 doses were administered to the eligible population in the first mega drive and 89,379 doses in the second mega drive. The third drive which was carried out through 672 centres aimed to inoculate 80,210 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-113-lakh-doses-administered/article36688169.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects flyover work||Minister for Public Works and Highways E.V. Velu on Saturday inspected the Avinashi Road flyover works and the segmental box girder casting yard set up for the project. According to a press release, an elevated flyover for 10.10 km from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins on Avinashi Road is under construction at a total cost of Rs. 1,157 crore. The project, which is expected to be completed by September 2024, will be a four-lane one with service roads and entry and exit ramps at four locations. The proposal also envisages construction of subways at five places, the release said. Construction of the flyover and the ramps will involve acquisition of 2.6 ha. As many as 3,656 segmental box girders will be constructed and 98 of them are completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-flyover-work/article36688164.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Resolution reveals Corporation sought special grant from govt.||Nine months ago the Coimbatore Corporation approached the State Government demanding over Rs. 100 crore saying it was unable to pay salary and pension, besides payments to contractors. The details of the frantic call the Corporation made in December 2020 came to light now with the council resolutions out in the open. The Corporation sought a one-time special grant of Rs. 142.06 crore from the State Government saying it had not paid contractors for projects completed, pension for 112 workers who had retired in the recent past and private agencies for workers engaged on contract – all adding up to Rs. 222.46 crore. Of the total amount, the Corporation sought only Rs. 142.06 crore it ought to pay the contractors. And, in asking for the money, the Corporation said it wanted the money accounted for as grant and not loan. To justify its demand, the Corporation said it had since 2011, when the city expanded to include 11 added areas, taken up various development works. In April 2018 when its property tax demand was Rs. 176.94 crore, the State Government’s order revising property tax rate saw its demand jump to Rs. 302.96 crore. But the Government reversing the tax revision order pushed the total tax demand to Rs. 176.94 crore. In the process the Corporation was also forced to adjust the Rs. 53.28 crore it had collected between the first order and second order. In 2019-20, it adjusted Rs. 13.85 crore, in 2020-21 Rs. 32.89 crore and in 2021-22 Rs. 6.54 crore. Even as it went about adjusting the tax collected, the Government waiving non-tax items like rent dented its revenue by another Rs. 3.06 crore, the Corporation said. Further explaining its plight, the Corporation said the Government adjusting the principal and interest against the State Finance Commission Grant had left it almost nothing. It was at that point in time, it had incurred an unplanned expenditure of Rs. 36.21 crore to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The Corporation had also paid around Rs. 230 crore – its share of cost of projects executed under the then Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Mission – and Rs. 74.18 crore towards servicing interest-free loans it had taken from the State Government. It had paid the money from its General Fund, which had also impacted its capacity to carry out development works, the Corporation said to further justify its demand for the one-time grant. Sources in the civic body said the Government consented to the Corporation’s demand and released the sum. But this had not, however, brought the Corporation out of the woods as it continued to reel under financial stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resolution-reveals-corporation-sought-special-grant-from-govt/article36688159.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||East Zone tops in vaccination||Coimbatore Corporation on Sunday administered 52,773 vaccines at the third mega vaccination conducted in the city. The Corporation had organised 196 camps across the city. The civic body administered the highest number of vaccine in East Zone – 11,269, followed by North Zone – 11,106, South Zone – 10,638, West Zone – 10,089 and Central Zone – 9,671. Of those, 20,995 persons took their first dose of vaccine – Covishield and 28,635 their second dose. The number of those who took their first dose of Covaxin was 850 and second dose 2,293.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/east-zone-tops-in-vaccination/article36688162.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani worker assaulted at Mettupalayam||Unidentified persons attacked a Hindu Munnani worker at Mettupalayam late on Saturday. The police said that Chandrasekar (35), Mettupalayam urban secretary of Hindu Munnani, was assaulted by two men who came on a two-wheeler. Minor tension prevailed at Mettupalayam after hundreds of Hindu Munnani workers gathered outside the hospital where Mr. Chandrasekar was admitted. According to the police, the incident happened when Mr. Chandrasekar was heading to the Hindu Munnani office. As per the statement Mr. Chandrasekar gave to the police, two men followed him on a two-wheeler. The duo attacked him using iron rods. The assailants escaped after seeing other motorists, he told the police. Mr. Chandrasekar got himself admitted to a private hospital for treatment. His condition was stable, the police said. The police have launched an investigation to trace the assailants. A senior official said police presence was increased at Mettupalayam to avoid law and order issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hindu-munnani-worker-assaulted-at-mettupalayam/article36688165.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries seek more infrastructure projects in western districts||Industries in the western districts have called for extending the proposed metro rail in Coimbatore to Tiruppur. In a detailed presentation on the infrastructure needs of the western districts to Ministers E.V. Velu and K. Ramachandran and the MPs on Saturday, the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, and the Kongu Global Forum listed out the road, rail and air connectivity needs of the region. The organisations said the metro rail project should be extended to Tiruppur, too. Similarly, there should suburban trains and intra-city train service here. The inter-city train service should be increased to more destinations. Coimbatore should have trains to Hyderabad, Madurai, and Thoothukudi. Kinathukadavu and Pollachi should be brought under the Salem Division from Palakkad Division, they said. The Erode goods shed should be shifted to Ingur and some of the south-bound trains should pass through Namakkal. The region, which has a large concentration of industries, should have a multi-mode logistics park for freight aggregation and segregation, integrated storage and warehousing and other value-added services. A SIPCOT park, announced for Namakkal, should be set up at the earliest. Regarding roads, the associations said the Palladam to Karur should be widened into a four-lane one for 100 km with flyovers or bypass roads at Pongalur, Avinashipalayam, Kangeyam, Vellakovil, and Paramathi. A bypass road should be developed for 30 km from Narasimhanaikenpalayam to Karanampettai. Coimbatore International Airport should have direct flights to west Asian countries and south-east Asian countries. It needs more flights to New Delhi. Coimbatore should be declared as a call airport, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-seek-more-infrastructure-projects-in-western-districts/article36688151.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. engineers relieved from posts||Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department has relieved Coimbatore Corporation City Engineer A. Lakshmanan and Assistant Executive Engineer K. Saravanakumar from posts. In an order issued on Saturday, Department Secretary Shiv Das Meena said the government relieved the two officers from the present posts with immediate effect and would issue separate order regarding their next posting. The names of the two engineers surfaced during the recent raids the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption conducted in the city, a few weeks ago. In the order, Mr. Meena transferred Executive Engineers Parvathi to Vellore Corporation, T. Gnanavel to Erode Corporation and Town Planning Officer S. Ravichandran to Madurai Corporation. R. Ramasamy, Executive Engineer, Erode Corporation would replace Mr. Gnanavel, and Karupathaal would replace Mr. Ravichandran. The major reshuffle, unprecedented in the last 10 years, comes barely a few days after the Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara relieved Deputy Commissioner G. Vimalraj from duty with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-engineers-relieved-from-posts/article36688149.ece
27 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IAF officer arrested for raping colleague||An officer of the Indian Air Force (IAF) was arrested by the Coimbatore City Police for allegedly raping a colleague. The police said Flight Lieutenant Amitesh (29) had come from Chhattisgarh to the IAF campus near Race Course for a training. He was arrested based on the complaint lodged by a woman colleague. A senior police officer said Amitesh was accused of raping his colleague 10 days ago. A complaint was lodged with the All Women Police Station, Coimbatore central, in this regard. The officer was arrested for offence under Section 376 (punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code in the early hours of Sunday. He was produced before a judge and remanded in judicial custody, said the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iaf-officer-held-for-raping-colleague/article36688136.ece
27 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Civic body’s new payment system fully operational||Coimbatore Corporation has resumed assessing properties for tax, vacant lands for tax, processing applications for water or underground connection and accepting payments online as the new software is ready. A release from the Corporation said since it migrated to the Urban Tree Information System, it had facilitated 82,278 transactions. Now, applicants could pay fee online for assessing property tax. They should go to the Corporation website,www.ccmc.gov.in, click on ‘online payment of tax’ to pay tax or charges or fee or visithttps://tnurbanepay.tn .gov.into register their tax details. While paying property tax, they should choose old assessment no/old connection no, prefix 162 to their property tax assess number of water connection number to pay tax. A detailed know-how, the release said, was available online athttps://youtu.be/ o3iICtxpqiE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-bodys-new-payment-system-fully-operational/article36688155.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Protest against Centre today||Trade unions affiliated to political parties in the Secular Progressive Alliance will stage a 'rail roko' protest against the Central Government on Monday, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president Mayura S. Jayakumar has said. Addressing reporters, he said the protest was against the Government's anti-people, anti-farmer and anti-labourer policies. By enacting the three farm laws, passing the Citizenship Amendment Act, failing to reduce fuel prices and planning to monetise assets, the Government acted against national interest and in a way that threatened the country's sovereignty. Mr. Jayakumar accused the Government of trampling upon the people's rights and added that the BJP should be dislodged from power in people's interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-centre-today/article36688161.ece
27 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore in the deficit this SW monsoon season||This Southwest monsoon season – June to September – it appears has been not good thus far for Coimbatore. The data available with the Agro Climate Research in the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University shows that as of September 24, the district has received 113mm. The predicted rainfall was 210mm.The deficit in the SW monsoon rainfall started in June and has continued since. In June this year Coimbatore received 15mm against the predicted 42.8mm, July 30.5mm against 68.5mm and August 38.5mm against 30.7mm. In September, the district had received rain on five days – 4mm on September 2, 3.5mm on September 3, 4mm on September 6, 3mm on September 18 and 13mm on September 24. The district is likely to receive more rainfall – at least 50mm – in the next few days, the Centre head S.P. Ramanathan says. The predicted rainfall is, however, unlikely to move the district from the monsoon deficit category to normal or surplus categories as the current deficit is over 50%. This year, as per the Indian Meteorological Department prediction, the Southwest monsoon is likely to extend beyond September, just as the Northeast monsoon extended beyond December 2020. As for the Siruvani Reservoir, the water is at 42.20 feet as against the full reservoir level of 49.50 feet. During this Southwest monsoon season, the water level has not touched even the 45 feet mark, the level that Kerala has set in the last two years since floods. The current water level is sufficient to meet the city’s drinking water needs till February but there after it might be difficult, say the city’s water managers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-in-the-deficit-this-sw-monsoon-season/article36688156.ece
27 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CDIIC to incubate four startups in the defence sector||Codissia Defence Innovation and Atal Incubation Centre (CDIIC), Defence Research Development Organisation - Technology Development Fund, Bharat Electronics, and Defence Innovation Organisation will work jointly to make Coimbatore a Defence Manufacturing Hub, according to a press release from the Centre. The CDIIC organised a road show for Defence India Start up Challenge and exchanged MoUs with startups on Sunday. At a virtual meeting held on Sunday, Nidhi Bansal, director of Technology Development Fund, Defence R&D Organisation, shared details of the funding opportunities for startups and MSMEs under the technology development fund. Sa. K. Vishnoo Prathap, Programme Executive of the Defence Innovation Organisation, said the Defence Secretary has instructed all defence PSUs to share the indigenisation list with the Centre in 10 days and finalise the products to be developed under the Defence Innovation Hub. Four startups, Dataspire Technologies, Coimbatore, Edgeforce Solutions, Hyderabad, Mano Aircraft, Coimbatore, and Vellon Space, Madurai, signed incubation agreement with the CDIIC, according to the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cdiic-to-incubate-four-startups-in-the-defence-sector/article36688150.ece
27 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||KMCH opens free paediatric oncology ward||Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH), Coimbatore, opened a free paediatric oncology ward on Sunday. M.S. Muthusmay, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore range), inaugurated the facility at the KMCH Medical College General Hospital in the presence of V. Booma, professor and Head of the Department of Paediatrics at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and Thavamani Devi Palaniswami, vice-chairman of KMCH. A release issued by the hospital said the paediatric oncology ward will cater to the needs of children with cancer who cannot afford appropriate therapy. Children with potentially treatable cancers who cannot afford treatment would be treated in the unit, completely free of cost, it said. According to the hospital, the exclusive unit has both in-patient and day care services and it follows latest protocols for the kids with cancer. KMCH executive director Arun N. Palaniswami said the ward will help the needy children with treatable cancer to overcome it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kmch-opens-free-paediatric-oncology-ward/article36688152.ece
27 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘SIHS Colony bridge work to be completed soon’||The bridge over the railway crossing in SIHS Colony would be completed soon, DMK Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik said here on Sunday. The work that was kept pending from 2011-21 during the AIADMK regime would be completed soon as the State Government had sanctioned funds. Minister for Public Works E.V. Velu, who was in the city recently, had said the Government had sanctioned Rs. 29.37 crore to complete the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sihs-colony-bridge-work-to-be-completed-soon/article36688160.ece
27 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Tank in Cuddalore restored as tribute to writer||Writer Ashokamitran’s Thanneer, published in 1973, portrayed the severe water scarcity and travails faced by middle class residents from a neighbourhood in Chennai. Inspired by the writer’s works, his eldest son, in association with a non-governmental organization, restored a tank in Cuddalore district by paying a fitting homage to his father’s lofty ideals. For Ravishankar Thyagarajan, a bank manager in Chennai, the inspiration to give a makeover of the tank came from the sustained concern and attention his father had during the severe water crisis in Chennai in the 1970s. The Pillaiyar Kovil Kulam at Kumudimoolai village in Cuddalore, which was in disuse and covered with vegetation, was restored by Mr. Ravishankar as a tribute to his late father, who would have turned 90 on September 22. He had visited Cuddalore to inaugurate a ecosan toilet for villagers through Sanitation India, an NGO, when he came to know about the waterbodies lying in disuse due to lack of maintenance and encroachments. As a child, Mr. Ravishankar had personally experienced the severe water crisis in Chennai and grew up listening to his father about the need for using water prudently. Sanitation India mentioned about the Pillaiyar Kovil Kulam lying in disuse and Mr. Ravishankar decided to rejuvenate it. “It was a seasonal pond, and the restoration work began in 2019. The first phase was completed by December 2019. No work was carried out in 2020 due to the pandemic and the tank was completed in 2021. The tank can hold up to 3.5 million litres of water,” he says. According to Padmapriya Baskaran, chief executive of the Sanitation First India, the tank was in bad shape and the inlets, outlets and bunds were broken. Restoration first began on the northern side with the inlets and outlets being rebuilt. A soak pit was built in the middle of the tank. The first phase was completed in 2019 and work began on the eastern side in 2021. The southern side of the tank had remained intact. Ms. Padmapriya recalled that Ashokamitran settled in T. Nagar when he had come to Chennai in 1952. There was an acute water shortage in the city, and he saw how women struggled to get even one bucket of water for drinking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tank-in-cuddalore-restored-as-tribute-to-writer/article36688127.ece
27 September 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Tourism activities to resume in Hogenekkal from today||Coracle operations and tourism activities in Hogenekkal will resume from Monday, according to the district administration. However, tourists would not be allowed to bath in the falls. According to a release, the administration has made it mandatory for tourists to carry COVID-19 vaccination certificate for coracle rides. They would be asked to produce vaccination certificates at Madom checkpost, Hogenekkal bus stand and Alampadi checkpost here. Coracle operators, cooks, and traders should get vaccinated and all businesses on the premises must adhere to COVID-19 safety protocols. Coracle operators must ensure that life jackets are worn during the ride. Tourists must avoid using banned plastic items in the area. Visitors would be allowed between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. to Hogenekkal and private vehicles would not be allowed to travel towards Hogenekkal after 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-activities-to-resume-in-hogenekkal-from-today/article36688154.ece
27 September 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Three of family found dead in house||A 35-year-old woman, her 15-year-old son and 13-year-old daughter were found dead in their house at Kariambatti near Nilakottai in Dindigul district on Sunday. Chandrabose (40) was selling vegetables on a cart at Kariambatti. He lived with his wife Murugeswari, son Santhosh and daughter Soundarya. The children were studying Class X and Class VII respectively. After Chandrabose had gone out to sell vegetables, his son was spotted near the house. But, around noon, the three were found hanging in the house. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s helpline 104 and Sneha’s helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-family-found-dead-in-house/article36688435.ece
27 September 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmer murdered||Thadicombu police have planned to take the five accused, who had surrendered before a Tiruchi court in the Nirmala Devi murder case, into custody for interrogation. Following the beheading of the woman on September 22, the police formed five special teams. The assailants had abandoned the severed head in front of the residence of the slain leader of Devendrakula Vellalar Kootamaippu Pasupathi Pandian, situated some three kilometres away from Chettinaickenpatti, the scene of crime. The five persons who surrendered were Ramesh Kumar, Sangili Karuppan, Tamil Selvan, Alex Pandi and Muthumani.      A farmer Vellai (65) of Pallathukadu near Natham in Dindigul district was murdered allegedly by his relative on Sunday. Police said Vellai had a property dispute with Rasu, 50. When they were engaged in a discussion, Rasu’s son Arjunan took out a weapon and stabbed Vellai, killing him on the spot. The police arrested Arjunan, 36, and Arumugam, 32. The body was sent to Natham Government Hospital for post-mortem. Rasu, who suffered injuries, was admitted to hospital. Natham police have registered a case. ASP Arun Kabilan inspected the scene of crime.    A 35-year-old woman, her 15-year-old son and 13-year-old daughter were found dead in their house at Kariambatti near Nilakottai in Dindigul district on Sunday. Police said Chandrabose (40) was selling vegetables on a cart at Kariambatti. He lived with his wife Murugeswari, son Santhosh and daughter Soundarya. The children were studying Class X and Class VII respectively. After Chandrabose had gone out to sell vegetables, his son was spotted in front of the house. However, around noon, the three were found hanging in the house. Nilakottai Inspector Guru Venkatraj visited the spot. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-take-custody-of-five-accused/article36688243.ece
27 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two female figurines unearthed at Anjur village in Kodumudi||Two female figurines with vensamaram (white fly-whisks), dating back to the 5th Century, were unearthed by a team of archaeological enthusiasts at Anjur village in Kodumudi block here. S. Ravikumar, Director, Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre, Tiruppur, and members K. Ponnusamy and Sakthiprakash found the figurines on the western bank of River Noyyal bordering Erode and Tiruppur districts. “Based on the information provided by Thangamuthu, administrator of Anjur Pandeeswarar Temple, we visited the spot and found the figurines at the rear side of a 10th Century Kottravai temple,” said Mr. Ravikumar. He said that among the eight sacred materials offered to God, vensamaram , was one. “They are Dwaara Balagais (gatekeepers) and considered to be the earliest figurines made and found in the Kongu region,” he claimed. While one figurines measured 150 cm in height and 45 cm in width, the otherone measured 120 cm in height and 60 cm in width.   “Both these figurines are in sathviga thiru uruva posture”, said Mr. Ravikumar. R. Poongundran, former Assistant Commissioner of State Archaeological Department, said that the figurines with vensamaram were the earliest ones to have discovered so far n the Kongu region. “The figurines could date back to 5th Century AD,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-female-figurines-unearthed-at-anjur-village-in-kodumudi/article36688273.ece
27 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A 30-year-old man was reportedly stoned to death by an unidentified gang near Chennimalai during the late hours of Saturday. Police said that the gang hurled stones at the man near Ingur rail flyover near Chennimalai during the late hours of Saturday and fled the place. People residing nearby noticed the incident and immediately alerted the police. Chennimalai police rushed to the spot and found the man severely injured. He was rushed to Erode government hospital and later shifted to Salem Government Hospital. However, he succumbed to the injuries in the early hours of Sunday. Police have registered a case and are inquiring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered/article36688276.ece
27 September 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK functionary booked for hitting official||The Kallakurichi police have booked a case against an AIADMK functionary for slapping an Assistant Returning Officer during the withdrawal of nominations for the upcoming rural local body polls in the district. The incident occurred on Saturday evening, and the video has gone viral on social media. The police said the nomination process for the local body polls had come to a close on September 22 and the withdrawal of nominations began on Saturday. The DMK candidate Alamelu Arumugam, contesting for Kallakurichi panchayat union ward number 11, was declared elected after the other candidates withdrew their nominations. However, AIADMK party cadres resorted to a protest and engaged in heated arguments with Assistant Returning Officer Samidurai over declaring the DMK candidate as elected unopposed. At one stage, AIADMK north union secretary Rajasekar slapped Mr. Samidurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-functionary-booked-for-hitting-official/article36688267.ece
27 September 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine drive: Collector springs a surprise||Collector T. Prabu Shankar on Sunday sprang a surprise by visiting a house at Pudupatti near Palaya Jayankondam to prevail upon elders to take COVID-19 vaccination. Dr. Shankar, who was determining first-hand the progress of mega vaccination camps being held in different parts of the district on Sunday, visited various villages. On information that some elders in Palaya Jayankondam and Krishnarayapuram had been showing reluctance to get themselves vaccinated, he entered a house in Pudupatti. The elated inmates offered him a seat. He then had a lengthy conversation with them and explained the benefits of vaccination to an elderly couple. They then agreed to get themselves vaccinated. Following this, a mobile vaccination team was summoned to the house for immunising the elderly couple. He also visited a few other houses as part of the vaccine drive. Dr. Shankar said 624 camps were held in different parts of the district on Sunday to vaccinate hitherto uncovered people. More than 50,000 people had been vaccinated on Sunday alone. Of them, 14,461 persons had received the second dose, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-drive-collector-springs-a-surprise/article36688209.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||University’s ‘no dowry’ demand from students draws criticism||The University of Calicut has come under fire for seeking an undertaking from its students that their admissions and degrees shall be cancelled or withdrawn if they breach the provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act. The university, following a proposal from Kerala Governor Arif Mohammad Khan, had asked the students to sign an undertaking stating that they would not demand or accept dowry, directly or indirectly. B.G. Harindranath, former Kerala Law Secretary, felt that the order was legally unsustainable if challenged before a court of law. The constitutional authorities should be mindful of the fact that their orders should remain in consonance with the laws passed by the legislatures. Though accepting or demanding dowry was punishable under the Act, the cancellation of a degree certificate was not contemplated under the Act, he said. T. Asaf Ali, former director-general of prosecution, too, criticised the move, terming it illegal, unconstitutional, arbitrary and whimsical. A mere complaint to the police was sufficient for the university to deprive a candidate of his/her degree certificate, which could violate his/her constitutional right to life and livelihood. The withdrawal of a degree for an unrelated offence would deprive a person of his/her livelihood, which was unconstitutional, he said. The circular negated the presumption of Indian jurisprudence that a person shall be presumed innocent until proven guilty by a competent court of final authority, he said. ‘Irrational’ Kaleeswaram Raj, a Supreme Court lawyer, said the directive was irrational and unconstitutional. The awarding of a degree was based on educational parameters and could not be linked to an extraneous act. Creating awareness against dowry was one thing. But it was absurd to seek an undertaking that he/she would not engage in a penal act, he said. M.K. Jayaraj, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said the intention was to create awareness among students against dowry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/universitys-no-dowry-demand-from-students-draws-criticism/article36687849.ece
27 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Empathy more important than knowledge and skill: Collector||More than knowledge and skill, young doctors should develop an empathetic attitude for a successful career and inner gratification, said Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. Addressing the graduation ceremony of 2014 batch of MBBS students here on Sunday, he said that doctors should learn to patiently hear to the problems of their patients and find solutions to them. COVID-19 had made people realise the true value and character of medical community that helped them tide over the humanitarian crisis. “Medical career is not a profession but a calling and lure of money should not stand in the way of realising the greatest satisfaction of helping others in reducing their sufferings and saving their lives,” he said. Alerting the doctors to increasing legal cases in medical profession, Dr. Sekhar advised them to learn how to document every medical action with proper reasoning. They should also learn the art of communicating with the patients and their relatives. He gave away awards to university toppers. A total of 148 students received their certificates. Medical profession had seen a great revolution in the last two centuries with advanced scientific equipment. “COVID-19 has taught that medicine and humanity should go hand in hand for the betterment of the world,” said Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan. He appealed to the doctors to decide on their field of specialisation and work hard so that the society at large benefited. Former Government Rajaji Hospital Dean D. Marudhupandian urged the doctors to use simple language while explaining to the patients about the treatment and ensure that they understand the procedure. GRH Dean A. Rathinavel, Vice-Principal V. Dhanalakshmi, Medical Superintendent S. Vijayaragavan, Staff Advisor S. Pappiah and Senior Warden (Rajaji Hospital Resident Doctors’Association) L. Arul Sundaresh Kumar were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/empathy-more-important-than-knowledge-and-skill-collector/article36688237.ece
27 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Time for T.N. to take leadership in IT’||The fourth edition of Connect Madurai, organised by CII Madurai Zone, concluded on Saturday with speakers calling for developing southern parts of Tamil Nadu as a value-added ICT destination. The two-day virtual event focussed on opportunities for IT Companies in the region, the role of information, communication and technology in education and skill development and crafting fresh dynamics in the new-normal. Speakers lauded the role of the CII in shaping southern districts as a favoured choice for IT and ITES investment, retaining talent and creating jobs and urged to further tap the huge potential of entrepreneurs and nurture a start-up ecosystem, particularly in Tier II and III cities. It was felt that local administrations needed to take ownership and drive investments into their districts. But before attracting investments, it was important to create infrastructure in the districts. A strong industry and academia connect after school and college was suggested with industry partnerships, incubators and accelerators concepts under the Smart Cities scheme to motivate the youth. Key speakers included Mahesh Babladkar and Prakash Raman (HCL Technologies Ltd.), Sudhan Ramesh (NASSCOM), M. Senthil Kumar (JioVio Healthcare), Kotresh Jogikalmath (Co-convenor, ICT Task Force), Rakeshwaran R (Aparajitha Corporate Services) and Prasun Das (Honeywell Technology Solutions).  Before attracting investments, it was important to create infrastructure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/time-for-tn-to-take-leadership-in-it/article36688437.ece
27 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Do not fill vacant posts with candidates from NE Railway: MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has raised objection to Indian Railways filling up 51 vacancies in the posts of assistant loco pilots (ALPs) in Southern Railway with candidates selected through Railway Recruitment Board (RRB) of North Eastern Railway. In a letter addressed to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, Mr. Venkatesan said that the move had been made even as over 60 candidates were waiting in standby panel of the RRB-Chennai. While the RRB-Gorakhpur notified 1,681 vacancies along with 168 for ex-servicemen, the RRB-Chennai had notified only 761 vacancies along with 77 for ex-servicemen. As per rules, vacancies notified for Southern Railway should be filled by candidates only from that particular region. Already, in the category of technicians in Southern Railway, 60% of the vacancies had been garnered by candidates who wrote exam in Hindi and 13% posts of ALPs had gone to Hindi-speaking candidates as per the statement of the Railway Minister. “Bringing 51 candidates from Gorakhpur to Southern Railway in ALP category will definitely ignite ill feelings among south Indians apart from affecting the employment opportunities of standby candidates in the RRB-Chennai,” he said. He also drew the attention of the Minister to the fact that the cut-off marks of the Gorakhpur candidates were incidentally lower than that of the standby candidates in Southern Railway. Recently two candidates in electrical category II and one candidate in mechanical category I were placed in the replacement panel from the standby panel and given appointment in Southern Railway on August 10. Mr. Venkatesan sought the Railway Minister’s intervention in stopping Southern Railway from filling 51 vacancies of ALPs from out of Gorakhpur panel. Meanwhile, Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union has condemned the move to fill vacancies in Southern Railway from outside the region. Its Madurai divisional secretary R. Sankaranarayanan said that the railway was violating its own rules and it was illegal. It would deprive local candidates of their employment opportunity, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-fill-vacanct-posts-with-candidates-from-north-eastern-railway-says-mp/article36688250.ece
27 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Open Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in State’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought response from the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to establish Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas in Tamil Nadu. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response in the petition filed by I. Mohamed Razvi of Madurai. He said that Navodaya Vidyalayas residential schools run by the Centre in rural areas were one of the biggest educational schemes. The main objective of Navodaya Vidyalayas was to provide education in the rural areas to children who belonged to weaker sections of society. The education was free of cost at the residential schools and had well equipped infrastructure like laboratories and libraries. Unfortunately, this scheme has not been implemented in Tamil Nadu. Political parties in the State have opposed the scheme apprehending that Hindi would be taught in these schools as Tamil Nadu follows a two language policy — Tamil and English, he said. A representation was made in this regard, but no action was taken so far, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-jawahar-navodaya-vidyalayas-in-state/article36688436.ece
27 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Strengthen local complaints committee’||In view of the growing number of crimes against women in workplaces, Tamil Nadu Labour Rights Federation (TLRF) has urged the Central and the State governments to ensure that the local complaints committees were strengthened. This was stated in a press meet held here on Friday. A survey was conducted by the TLRF in collaboration with Gram Vaani to understand the level of awareness among women, particularly among unorganised sector women labourers. More than 700 women workers from organised and unorganised sectors participated in the survey which was conducted across Tamil Nadu. Though they were aware of the issue, 40% of them did not know how or to whom to file a complaint. In order to help the women who face harassment in workplaces, the TLRF has come out with a set of recommendations. It said that the Collector should be nominated as chairperson to monitor its functioning and experienced and well-trained women should be appointed as members of the committee to make it convenient for women to lodge complaints. Capacity-building training should be provided to the committee members. It must be made mandatory for the local complaints committees to file yearly reports on their functioning. A State-level committee should monitor their functioning, the federation said. Complaint boxes must be installed at Collectorate/taluk/panchayat offices. Websites and other such platforms must be established, in case people wanted to lodge complaints online. The provisions of The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, must be widely publicised. Helpline numbers must be established and also widely publicised through the State Commission for Women, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strengthen-local-complaints-committee-says-federation/article36688438.ece
27 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Masked men rob Tasmac salesmen||Two masked men robbed two Tasmac salesmen of Rs. 51,000 on Sorrikkampatti Road in Chekkanoorani on Saturday night. Police said that the robbers brandished a knife and threatened salesmen P. Gnanasekar, 42, and Parameswaran, 48, with dire consequences and emptied the cash box and escaped on a two-wheeler. Usually the shop would remain secured with a grille gate locked from inside. The salesman had opened the gate to dispose of some cartons at around 7 p.m. The two robbers suddenly barged into the shop at that time and broke the CCTV cameras. There were no customers at the shop, located in a secluded place. Chekkanoorani police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masked-men-rob-liquor-shop-employees/article36688235.ece
27 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 128.35 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 688 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 54.45 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 982 cusecs and a discharge of 1,219 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,793 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36688240.ece
27 September 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Thirteen panchaloka idols found during temple renovation||Thirteen panchaloka idols and puja materials believed to be of the 12th century Kulottunga Cholar era were unearthed during renovation of Deva Pureeswarar Temple at Thevur village in Kilvelur block in the district. The statues were found when the work was being carried out near Navagraha Peeda. The renovation work was temporarily stopped and the Revenue Department was sounded of the finding. The excavation using heavy machinery was further intensified in the presence of Revenue and Police officials. The statues measured between two and four feet. In all, about 35 statues and puja materials dating back to the 12th century were unearthed, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thirteen-panchaloka-idols-found-during-temple-renovation/article36688222.ece
27 September 2021||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Conclave focuses on exports||Nagapattinam district administration has plans to accord thrust for exports through the departments of Agriculture, Horticulture and Fisheries. Urging prospective exporters to popularise ‘Made in Tamil Nadu’ slogan at a district conclave organised as part of the celebrations to commemorate India’s 75 years of Independence ( Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav), Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said there was immense potential to produce export-quality value-added products of cotton, pulses, and sugarcane in Nagapattinam, sodium chloride and potassium chloride industries from salt sourced in Vedaranyam, and chemical industries from calcium available in Kollidam river. The conclave was chaired by the Central Government's Special representative of Centre A. K. S. Vijayan. Local manufacturers displayed their products with export potential, which have been identified in the meetings of the ‘District Export Hub’ programme. A document prepared by MSME Development Institute - Chennai, Office of the Development Commissioner Ministry of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises Government of India, states that fish and prawn are exported to UK/ US and Arab countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conclave-focuses-on-exports/article36688220.ece
27 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Once a stormwater drain, now an open sewer||Cutting through the Boulevard, the Grand Canal, an architectural landmark was once a stormwater drain that channelised the water of Uppar river to the west of the town. Constructed for the purpose of discharging the run-off during the monsoon into the sea, the Grand Canal has now degraded due to inflow of sewage and rampant encroachments. “The Grand Canal was built as a stormwater drain by the French around 1765. It was designed to regulate the flow of rainwater towards the north-end into the Uppar drainage and to the south into the sea near the New Light House,” an urban planner said. “Gradually, the Grand Canal has become a sewage line in the heart of town, with the waste water getting choked before it reaches the Uppar drain. A long stretch of the canal was covered about 20 years ago. Now it is being used as a dumpyard, parking space for vehicles and as a space for local market,” the urban planner said. The local body also did not attach much importance to proper maintenance of the canal, and it remains clogged with plastic and paper waste on the southern end. Raw sewage from homes and commercial establishments continues to drain into the canal from multiple entry points, officials said. A survey by the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) revealed that around 250 houses were letting their waste into the drain. According to an official, “the unplanned boom in residential and commercial buildings has led to the flow of sewage water into the canal. It is difficult to clear the encroachments on the stormwater drain unless a policy is drafted by the government. In the absence of a full-fledged drainage system, it is difficult to prevent the raw sewage from entering the canal.” Underground drainage An underground drainage system was constructed in 1979 and designed for a population of 117,000 as per the City Development Plan. However, due to the insufficient carrying capacity of the sewer, the manholes began overflowing onto the roads before reaching the Grand Canal through the side drains. As a result the stormwater rain has become the biggest casualty, carrying only contaminated water, a report explained. According to S. Nadarajan, a resident of Ambalathadayar Madam Street, “The Grand Canal was designed in such a way that it had three sluices on the seashore to regulate the entry of sea water into the canal for cleaning. But now the sluices themselves have either been removed or damaged. The covering of the Grand Canal with concrete structures should not have been permitted because it obstructed the flow of sewage. The government must have a another look at the structure and understand the purpose for which the canal was created.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/once-a-stormwater-drain-now-an-open-sewer/article36688535.ece
27 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Extensive infrastructure set up in U.T. for local body elections||Around 1,300 polling booths and four counting centres will be established in Puducherry and Oulgaret for the elections to local bodies next month. A press note said on the instructions of the State Election Commission, the District Collector-cum-District Election Officer had initiated efforts to put in place elaborate polling/counting arrangements for the smooth conduct of the elections. Oulgaret Municipality will have 377 polling booths and Puducherry Municipality 283 booths. The number of polling booths in the five commune panchayats in the region are Villianur (203), Bahour (107) Ariyankuppam (112), Mannadipet (133) and Nettapakkam (81). Returning officers There will be nine Assistant Returning Officers, each under the respective Returning Officers, for Puducherry and Oulgaret, 16 for Villianur, seven each for Bahour and Ariyankuppam, nine for Mannadipet and eight for Nettapakkam. Under the three-phase schedule set by the SEC, the polls will kick off with elections in Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam on October 21, followed by elections on October 25 for Puducherry and Oulgaret Municipalities and the five commune panchayats in Puducherry region on October 28. Counting of votes would be held on October 31. There are four counting centres in Puducherry — Women’s Polytechnic College, Mothilal Nehru Government Polytechnic, Tagore Government Arts College and Bharatidasan Government College for Women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extensive-infrastructure-set-up-in-ut-for-local-body-elections/article36688531.ece
27 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry reports 78 new COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 78 new cases on Sunday. Puducherry and Karaikal reported one death each to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,838. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,442), Karaikal (247), Yanam (106) and Mahe (43). Puducherry accounted for 50 of the new cases, which were detected from 4,677 tests, followed by Karaikal (19) and Mahe (9). No new case was reported from Yanam. The test positivity rate was 1.67%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.83%. With 107 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 901. This comprised 119 patients in hospitals and 782 cases in home isolation. Puducherry has so far reported an aggregate of 1,26,090 cases against 1,23,351 recoveries. Of an estimated 17.72 lakh tests conducted so far, over 15 lakh samples returned negative. Vaccination numbers Meanwhile, 11,601 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered 9,71,937 vaccines, including 2.90 lakh second doses.  With 107 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 901. This comprised 119 patients in hospitals and 782 cases in home isolation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-reports-78-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/article36688530.ece
27 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Govt. college principal ends 175-day protest||Following the intervention of Education Minister A. Namassivayam, the principal of the Tagore Government Arts College has called off his 175-day sathyagraha, protesting the dearth of facilities at the institution. TAC principal Sasi Kanta Dash had launched his unique protest over five months ago, refusing to use a chair at work until his 15-point charter of demands to improve infrastructure and long-pending promotion for lecturers at the institution were met. Mr. Namassivayam, who was recently the chief guest at a function in the campus, came to know about this. The Minister met the principal and instructed the Director of Higher and Technical Education to resolve the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-college-principal-ends-175-day-protest/article36688532.ece
27 September 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Special initiative launched on World Tourism Day||Minister for Law S. Regupathy on Sunday initiated a special tour for persons with disabilities, girl students of sports hostels and general public to take them to various tourists and heritage spots in the district. The tour was organised jointly by the district administration and the Tourism Department in connection with the World Tourism Day. Three groups were formed for the tour- one consisting of persons with disabilities; another consisting of girl students of sports hostels and the third comprising a section of general public who were taken in separate buses arranged for this purpose. The tour covered various spots including Kundrandarkoil, Narthamalai Kadambar Koil, Vijayalayasozhishwaram, Kudumiyanmalai, Tirumayam Fort, Tiruvengaivasal, Kodumbalur and Kaatubava Pallivasal. In an interaction with reporters at the Collectorate campus here, Mr. Regupathy said the tour would provide an opportunity for people to learn about each spot. Collector Kavitha Ramu, District Tourism Officer Nelson and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-initiative-launched-on-world-tourism-day/article36688217.ece
27 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 vaccination camps receive overwhelming response||People turned out in large numbers at the third mega vaccination camp held in the districts on Sunday. In Dharmapuri, District Collector S. Divyadarshini visited the vaccination centres including P.S.Agraharam anganwadi, Somanahalli Panchayat Union Primary School, Nagadasampatti Panchayat Union Primary School, Mulluvadi Government School, and Krishnapuram Government Middle School. The drive was conducted at 379 centres in the district. As of Sunday, over 51% of eligible population in the district has received their first dose. In Namakkal, District Collector Shreya P. Singh visited the vaccination centres set up at Aniyapuram Government Higher Secondary School, Subramaniapuram Panchayat Union Middle School and others. A total of 476 centres and 24 mobile teams were arranged for the drive. About 210 doctors, 430 nurses, 1,600 anganwadi workers, 1,400 teachers, 415 trainee nurses, 265 trainee health inspectors were involved in the camp. The district targeted to administer 55,000 doses on the day. Krishnagiri Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy said in a release that the vaccination drive was conducted at 601 centres in the district. The district targeted to administer 55,000 doses on Sunday. In Salem, the third mega vaccination drive was held at 1,392 places and 1.11 lakh doses were distributed to the centres. In Erode, the vaccination drive was arranged at 579 centres. As many as 84,402 persons were vaccinated on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-vaccination-camps-receive-overwhelming-response/article36688281.ece
27 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three of a family found dead||A 33-year-old man and his two children were found dead in a mango grove near Sankari here on Sunday. The police identified the deceased as Murugan (33), a cook at an eatery near Kuppanur here, and his children Srinivasan (9), and Krishnapriya (5). According to the police, Murugan and his family were living in the workers’ quarters next to the dhaba. Recently, he suffered burns and was under rest. On Saturday evening, Murugan left home along with children and did not return. A few hours later, he sent a video message to his wife Murugeshwari and other relatives in which the children were seen dead. Murugan reportedly killed himself after sending the message, police said. Murugeshwari and the dhaba owner lodged a complaint at the Sankari police in the early hours of Sunday. Police recovered the bodies from a farm near Sankari on Sunday evening. The police have registered a case and are investigating. Helpline Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-a-family-found-dead/article36688282.ece
27 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Community certificates issued to residents in Panamarathupatti||The Revenue Divisional Officer for Salem sub-division, on Saturday, issued community certificates to residents of two villages in Panamarathupatti here. RDO S.Vishnuvardhini visited Jarugumalai village in Panamarathupatti and issued ‘Hindu Malayalee’ certificates to 18 persons. She later visited Thumbalpatti village and conducted inquiries with 22 persons. She told the villagers that tahsildhars in the Division have been instructed to forward files recommending community certificates to eligible persons at the earliest. ‘Beware of middlemen’ The officer advised the public not to trust middlemen or to get cheated by them. Ms.Vishnuvardhini also advised Panamarathupatti police to register case against an individual named Annamalai, who acted an agent for getting the certificates and mislead the people. Residents from four villages in Panamarathupatti had staged a protest in front of the Salem Collectorate recently alleging delay in issuance of community certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/community-certificates-issued-to-residents-in-panamarathupatti/article36688277.ece
27 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Kolu dolls on display at Poompuhar||An exhibition of kolu dolls is under way at the Poompuhar outlet near Thiruvaluvar Statue here in view of Navarathri and Vijayadashmi celebrations. The exhibition was launched by District Collector S.Karmegham. The sets on display include Sai Baba Temple, Ayyappa Temple, Srirangam Temple, Meenakshi Amman Temple, Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Thanjavur Big Temple, Ashtalakshmi, Dashavatharam, Narasimhar, and Dakshinamoorthy. Officials said that dolls ranging from Rs. 15 to Rs. 7,500 were available at the exhibition and a discount of 10% would be available on all purchases. The exhibition is on till October 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kolu-dolls-on-display-at-poompuhar/article36688278.ece
27 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||68 new cases in Salem||Salem district on Sunday reported 68 new COVID-19 cases. According to the Health Department, 46 cases were indigenous and 13 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 49 cases, all indigenous. Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri saw 36 cases each. As per bulletin, one person died in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/68-new-cases-in-salem/article36688268.ece
27 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Restrooms sought for women workers at Co-optex||The Co-optex Employees Union has demanded the organisation to construct restrooms for women workers. Various resolutions were passed at the executive committee meeting of the Union held here on Tuesday. The Union demanded stern action against those who purchased low quality goods for Co-optex and wanted the government to withdraw charge memo issued on workers for poor sales. The other demands were construction of restrooms for women, revoking revised working hours, job permanency for temporary workers, and filling up of vacancies.  Assistance sought The Union also demanded the Co-optex to procure all goods that remain stagnated with the weavers’ associations. It wanted the government to provide welfare assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the families of the deceased weavers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restrooms-sought-for-women-workers-at-co-optex/article36688269.ece
27 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Petition submitted||The Federation of Tamil Nadu Agriculturists’ Associations has petitioned the District Collector to include farmers in the sago adulteration monitoring committee. Association secretary S. Nallasamy and other members met the Collector and appreciated him for setting up a committee to check adulteration in sago production. The petitioners warned that sago manufacturers might continue to use adulterants and hence sought inclusion of tapioca farmers in the monitoring committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-submitted/article36688270.ece
27 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Newborns screened for hearing defects||International Week of the Deaf was observed at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Saturday. Various awareness events were organised as part of the week. An otoacoustic emission screening programme was conducted for newborns. Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal, Head of ENT Department M. Krishnasundari, Resident Medical Officer Rani, and other senior doctors took part in the events organised as part of the week. Various competitions were conducted for students of nursing school and medical college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborns-screened-for-hearing-defects/article36688274.ece
27 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two detained under Bootleggers Act||The Salem District Police have detained two persons under the Bootleggers Act for their continuous involvement in sale and distillation of illicit arrack. The police said that Tamilarasan (41) from Pethanaikenpalayam here and Kanagaraj (49) from Medukkumal in Kanyakumari district, were involved in illegal sale of illicit liquor in Vazhapadi and nearby areas in the district. The accused were arrested recently by the police and based on the recommendation of Superintendent of Police M. Sree Abhinav, District Collector S.Karmegham detained them under the Bootleggers Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-detained-under-bootleggers-act/article36688283.ece
27 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TAMIL NADU||Sir C.V. Raman Science Museum ready for inauguration||Sir C.V. Raman Science Museum, established at a cost of Rs. 1.4 crore, including building and equipment, is all set for inauguration. The equipment was provided by B.M. Birla Science Centre in Hyderabad, with which an MoU was signed. The walls are painted with different science themes to attract the attention of students. There is also a range of photos related to astronomy and writings on them. As many as 54 subjects are covered in the science museum with a list of experiments and principles on which it works. The subjects covered include Physics, Electronics, Biology, Astronomy (Space), and Mathematics. In the stream of Mathematics, there are nine models that explain 45 theorems from Class VI to X, which includes geometrical verification and algebraic identity, Venn Diagrams and area of circle and triangles. The museum is full of photographs of great scientists and has a space gallery. It has paintings of unique science concepts. Botanical Garden is an eco-friendly element in the museum that has an auditorium with science pictures. “Our intention is to enhance the scientific temper among students so that the way they look at things and their perspective changes for the better,” District Science Officer H. Vijaya Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sir-cv-raman-science-museum-ready-for-inauguration/article36687854.ece
27 September 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Over 12,000 differently abled vaccinated in Theni||Over 12,000 differently-abled persons were benefited through the vaccination camps held in the district, said Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said that till September 25, a total of 6.98 lakh people had benefited, including 5.25 lakh with first dose and 1.72 lakh with second dose. The district health officials, social welfare and the differently abled department officials coordinated in vaccinating the differently abled persons in the district. Since July, the number of people with disabilities were taken block-wise and vaccine shots were given. Till date, 12,047 differently abled persons have got the vaccination, Mr Muralidharan said. The administration had focused on the tribal population as well in Andipatti, Periakulam and Bodinayakkanur. Through 193 sites, 58,583 people were benefited which included 35,056 with first dose and 23,527 second dose. On the day, 204 differently abled persons were vaccinated. The Collector visited a few of the centres in Allinagaram, Periakulam and Andipatti blocks, wherein a maximum of 150 to 200 people were there in each of the centres. There was no over crowding as the people were told to maintain social distance while getting the vaccine. The Collector said that wherever there were requests for additional doses, they were moved immediately from the nearest PHCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-12000-differently-abled-persons-vaccinated-in-theni/article36688245.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Sudheeran signals no confidence in KPCC||Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran’s surprise resignation from the party's political affairs committee (PAC) is widely perceived as a vote of no confidence against the present KPCC leadership. It reflected the festering divisions in the party and has precipitated a new crisis in the flailing Congress in the State. The move has also retarded the party’s attempt to inject a sense of purpose and direction into the rank and file to counter the drift that had gripped the party in the aftermath of the crushing 2021 Assembly election debacle. Mr. Sudheeran, a former KPCC president himself, was for long the ethical face of the party in the State. Of late, he had a series of run-ins with the KPCC leadership. Mr. Sudheeran had reportedly inveighed against KPCC president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan, arguably the new "power centre" in the party, for acting arbitrarily and rendering the PAC impotent. By one account, Mr. Sudheeran's resignation was a message to the party's national leadership. Notably, it had come at an ominous time when defection to the CPI(M) was in vogue among disgruntled Congress leaders. Mr. Sudheeran has not revealed the reason for his stepping down from the PAC. His critics alleged that the veteran had stirred up unnecessary political theatre for getting accommodation at the party's national level. Mr. Sudheeran's reticence triggered intense media speculation that he was ‘resentful’ of AICC general secretary K. Venugopal's ‘ascendancy’ in the party affairs in the State. Meanwhile, Mr. Satheesan called on Mr. Sudheeran and requested him to retract the decision. He told reporters later that a leader of Mr. Sudheeran’s stature should be in the PAC. KPCC president Mr. Sudhakaran said the KPCC would settle the issue amicably and away from the media glare. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar is also likely to meet Mr. Sudheeran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudheeran-signals-no-confidence-in-kpcc/article36687851.ece
27 September 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Third mega vaccination camp held||The third mega vaccination campaign for administration of COVID-19 vaccine was widely beneficial to those above 18 years of age in Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli districts on Sunday. Kanniyakumari Collector M. Arvind and Corporation Commissioner Asha Ajit visited a few vaccination centres, which opened at 7 a.m. According to the Collector, 510 centres were designated for administering the vaccine and the district had a stock of one lakh vials. Thoothukudi Collector K Senthil Raj said that after the first and second mega campaigns, which were held on September 12 and 19, 605 centres were opened for administering the vaccine on Sunday. A health official in the Corporation said they had close to 85,000 vaccine shots and did not see any shortage through out the day. In the last campaign (September 19), there was shortage in many centres. In Tirunelveli, 435 centres, including 110 in Corporation limits, were opened for administering the vaccine, officials said. In Tenkasi district, officials opened up centres in schools, anganwadis and in designated PHCs and government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/third-mega-vaccination-camp-held/article36688570.ece
27 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dilapidated bridge poses safety risk for residents||A small bridge connecting Alwarthoppu with Bheema Nagar across Uyyakondan Canal lies in a dilapidated condition. With pedestrians, two-wheelers, autorickshaws and even mini trucks using it, the bad condition of the bridge poses a safety risk to the residents. The Uyyakondan canal, which runs right through the heart of Tiruchi, originates from Cauvery river near Pettavaithalai. Said to be over 1,000 years old, it was dug by Raja Raja Cholan to irrigate agricultural lands. Later small bridges were constructed across the canal so that people and vehicles from one side of the canal can go to the other side. S. Ibrahim, a resident of Alwarthoppu, said, “A wooden bridge was originally constructed and eventually made way for a metal structure. When the metal bridge experienced wear and tear, it was replaced with the concrete bridge around 30 years ago.” The parapet on either side of the bridge began to show signs of damage five years ago, and with heavy rains and increase in vehicular traffic, its condition is becoming worse by the day, the residents say. “While only small vehicles used this bridge earlier, these days load-carrying vehicles take it as a shortcut to reach Bheema Nagar and Palakkarai,” Mr. Ibrahim said. The bridge is also used by students of a few schools in Alwarthoppu. “Traffic is heavy around 9 a.m. We do not know if the bridge can bear the weight of so many vehicles at one time,” he said. Since the bridge is narrow, only one vehicle from one direction can use it at a time. When auto-rickshaws or mini goods carriers cross the bridge, they block the way and disrupt the traffic flow. The residents have written to the Public Works Department seeking renovation and expansion of the bridge. It should be wide enough to facilitate two-way traffic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dilapidated-bridge-poses-safety-risk-for-residents/article36688207.ece
27 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Professional counselling for all who attempted NEET: Minister||All students who attempted the National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test (NEET) this year will be counselled by a team of mental health professionals, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Sunday. Of the 1,10,971 students who attempted the examination this year, 80% had spoken to a team of 333 professionals at least once. The effort was an attempt to provide guidance to students and parents in the light of recent death of three students who had ended their lives following the conduct of the examination, he said. Of the 80% students, 20% seemed to be stressed and were being regularly monitored by the team, the Minister said while addressing mediapersons after inspecting a mega vaccination camp in Tiruchi. Tiruchi would soon get a Department of Radiation Therapy, Mr. Subramanian said. The need was conveyed to the Chief Minister, who subsequently issued a government order and allotted Rs. 21 crore. “The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation will begin the purchase of necessary equipment, and the department will be inaugurated within 30 days,” he said. Mr. Subramanian took stock of the third instalment of the mega COVID-19 vaccination drive underway in Tiruchi and said the district had set a target to vaccinate 94,000 people by the end of the day. Earlier in the day, the heads of village panchayats, including Thiruparaithurai, Kottapattu, Sanamangalam, E. Vellanur, Peramangalam, Kanakiliyanallur, Oorudayapatti, Tholurpatti, Chokkanathapuram and Kamatchipuram were awarded tokens of appreciation for 100% vaccination coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/professional-counselling-for-all-who-attempted-neet-minister/article36688138.ece
27 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Meet on systematising beat system in Tiruchi range held||Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, A. Saravana Sundar who assumed charge a couple of days ago here held separate meetings with the officers of Pudukottai and Ariyalur districts on Sunday regarding systematising the beat system in order to gain the confidence of the public and thereby ensure maintenance of law and order and prevent offences. Superintendents of Police of Pudukottai and Ariyalur and officers in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police of all sub divisions in both districts were present during the meetings held at the respective District Police Offices. The need to march beats round-the-clock covering all vulnerable locations in shifts by the constables attached to the respective police station was discussed during the meetings held at Pudukottai and Ariyalur, said police sources. Vulnerable locations which the constables would be instructed to cover while carrying out the beat includes old age homes, children homes and places where senior citizens were found to be staying alone. The whole idea behind systematising the beat system was to gain the confidence of the public and ensure visible policing in an effort to maintain order and prevent crimes, the sources said. The DIG held a similar meeting with the officers of Karur district and Tiruchi Rural Police on Saturday, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-on-systematising-beat-system-in-tiruchi-range-held/article36688219.ece
27 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘State’s performance ‘average’ in NJJM implementation’||Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries and Jal Shakti Prahalad Singh Patel on Sunday said that the State government had committed to submit its Annual Action Plan for 2021-22 for using the financial resources under the National Jal Jeevan Mission (NJJM). Speaking to reporters here after declaring open a sanitary complex and projects under provision of drinking water scheme to the residents of Ceylon Colony at Navalurkuttapattu on the outskirts of the city, Mr. Patel said that the Centre had introduced a change in allocating funds to the State government for providing tap water supply to every household. As per the decision, the States could tap as much funds as possible by implementing the components of the National Jal Jeevan Mission. There was no limit in allocating funds. As and when the States allocated 40% of their share, the Centre would release its share of 60%. To a question, the Minister said that the performance of the Tamil Nadu government in implementing the NJJM was “average” as per national performance parameters. There was a delay in submitting its Annual Action Plan for 2021-22. He had asked the officials of the State government to submit its plan as early as possible. The officials had promised to submit it within October. Mr. Patel said that the State had only one laboratory certified by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration to test the quality of water. It was insufficient to cater to the needs of the people. Hence, he had asked the State government officials to upgrade the district-level laboratories to accelerate the process of random water testing. Collector S. Sivarasu, Project Director, Rural Development, Pichai and senior officials participated.  State should upgrade district-level laboratories to accelerate the process of random water testing Prahalad Singh Patel Union Minister of State for Food Processing Industries and Jal Shakti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-performance-average-in-njjm-implementation/article36688224.ece
27 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts report 293 COVID-19 cases||The central region reported 293 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. Eight patients succumbed to the illness in the region. Of them, three hailed from Thanjavur, two each from Nagapattinam and Pudukottai and one from Pudukottai. In Thanjavur district, 77 fresh cases were reported, while in Tiruvarur, there were 71 cases. In Tiruchi, 62 people reported COVID-19 positive. Nagapattinam reported 30 fresh cases, Mayiladuthurai 24, and Pudukottai, 21. Karur reported 17 COVID-19 positive cases , and Ariyalur, eight. In Perambalur, seven patients registered COVID-19 positive, the least number of cases reported in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-report-293-covid-19-cases/article36688210.ece
27 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive a success||Tiruchi district achieved more than 100% of its target at the third edition of the mega vaccination drive. A total of 97,199 people took the jab on Sunday. A total of 515 centres were set up, including 162 in the city. Tiruchi stood third among all districts in the day's achievement. In Thanjavur district, 62,783 patients were inoculated, allowing the district to secure the ninth position. Nagapattinam was in the 14th place, inoculating 49,702 people, and Tiruvarur was in the 20th position following the inoculation of 38,001 people. Karur inoculated 35,784 people and stood in the 21st place. Pudukottai inoculated 17,147 and was in the 38th place, and Perambalur in the 40th place with 15,775 people taking the jab. Ariyalur stood in the 44th position and inoculated 12,429 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-a-success/article36688211.ece
27 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lankan Tamil refugees thank CM for cash assistance||A section of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living outside refugee camps in Tiruchi city have thanked Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for launching a scheme to provide cash assistance of Rs. 4,000 per family to them to tide over difficulties caused by COVID-19 pandemic. At an hour-long meeting organised by ‘Ilangai Tamizh Makkal Oringinaippu Arakattalai’ here on Sunday, about 20 Sri Lankan Tamil refugees staying in and around Srinivasa Nagar took part. “The meeting was essentially a thanksgiving exercise to express our gratitude to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin for providing monetary assistance for the first time to the Sri Lankan Tamil refugees living outside the camps,” said A. Arulanandham, the secretary of the Arakattalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lankan-tamil-refugees-thank-cm-for-cash-assistance/article36688213.ece
27 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 73.48 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 4,859 cusecs and the discharge 7,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article36688214.ece
27 September 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two boys drown in canal||Two boys - both aged 14 years - drowned in a canal at Anna Nagar in Navalpat on the city’s outskirts on Sunday. Police gave the names of the deceased as M. Kamal and R. Jethin. Both were students of class IX in a private school. The two boys entered the canal to take bath unaware of the depth and they drowned. The bodies which were retrieved by the public and firefighters were sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for post mortem. The Navalpat police are investigating, said police sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-boys-drown-in-canal/article36688212.ece
27 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI/TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||788 candidates elected unopposed in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi districts||A total of 788 candidates contesting for various posts in rural local bodies in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts have been elected unopposed, officials said. The State Election Commission announced two-phased elections on October 6 and 9 for nine newly formed districts including Tirunelveli and Tenkasi. Election officials in Tenkasi district said for 2,284 posts, which included panchayat ward members, 7,832 people filed nominations since September 15. After scrutiny, 147 applications were rejected, 903 withdrew their nominations and 406 candidates were elected unopposed. In all, for 1,878 posts, 6,376 candidates were in fray. In Tirunelveli district, 6,879 persons filed nominations fo 2,069 posts and 173 were rejected during scrutiny. As many as 796 candidates withdrew their papers and 382 candidates were declared elected unopposed. A total of 5,528 candidates were contesting for 1,687 posts in the district, officials added. Campaign was in full swing in the two districts. The candidates and their supporters are criss-crossing villages canvassing vote. Their promises to the voters include laying of roads and uninterrupted supply of power and potable water. Interestingly, in small hamlets, youth are also given promises of jobs to womenfolk through establishment of self-help groups. A senior official in Tenkasi district said the candidates had taken a pledge to conduct themselves as per the law and adhere to COVID-19 protocols. However, activists in the two districts faulted the officials, especially police, for their nonchalant attitude in regulating the crowds. There were complaints of tokens being given to voters in blocks which were exchanged in select TASMAC outlets. Leaders campaign After former Chief Minister and AIADMK co coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami kicked off the campaign in Sankarankoil and Tirunelveli, the DMK led by Ministers K.R. Periakaruppan, K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, P. Moorthy and Anitha Radhakrishnan, MPs and MLAs from the districts participated in the indoor and public meetings. For the posts of district panchayat council and panchayat union, the political parties have fielded their candidates. BJP’s minority wing functionary Syed Ibrahim campaigned for the party and AIADMK candidates. Similarly, in Tirunelveli, DMK leaders, led by MP Kanimozhi and Geetha Jeevan, are camping to oversee the campaign process. While many public walls have been defaced by political outfits, campaigns are also being carried out on social media and local cable television.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/788-candidates-elected-unopposed-in-tirunelveli-tenkasi-districts/article36688242.ece
27 September 2021||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Couple held for chit fraud||A special team of the Tiruppur City Police on Sunday arrested a couple on charges of cheating several persons through various chit schemes they ran illegally. The arrested have been identified as Mohandas and his wife Manimegalai. The police said that P. Manikandan and his wife joined chit schemes offered by the couple in 2018. The payments in the schemes were completed in December 2019, after which Mr. Manikandan and wife asked the couple to return their money. However, the couple was reportedly missing. They later came to know that the couple had cheated 70 persons of Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-held-for-chit-fraud/article36688153.ece
27 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Bearhatty Panchayat in Coonoor takes baby steps in waste management||A pilot project in Bearhatty Panchayat in Coonoor is attempting to set an example on how waste can be managed at source in village panchayats in the Nilgiris. The project is spearheaded by local activists in association with village panchayat officials. The initiative is spurred by the fact that local bodies have no sustainable means of processing the waste generated in the villages, unlike in municipal areas, where regular door-to-door collection of waste is being undertaken. Bearhatty Panchayat president G. Jagathesan told The Hindu the panchayat was home to more than 3,000 people in 14 villages. He said that the pilot project was undertaken in Arul Nagar (Ward No. 7). “It has been one of the panchayat’s goals to become completely self-sufficient in managing its waste, and with the help of local activists and the Collector we have taken a first step towards this goal,” said Mr. Jagathesan. “To get people segregate the waste generated in their homes involved efforts by the panchayat president, councillor and even the parish priest to speak to residents about the importance of segregating waste at source,” said Shobana Chandrashekar, a member of the Make Ooty Beautiful (MOB) Project, a citizens’ collective that has been spearheading clean-up and greening projects across Udhagamandalam town and the Nilgiris for the last few years. A worker has been employed to wait and collect the waste from residents at a drop-point in the village and record the details in an attendance register. “The register logs whether a household has dropped off their waste for the day, as well as the quantity and whether it has been correctly segregated,” said Ms. Chandrashekar. Cecily Kumari, Councillor of Ward 7 in Bearhatty Panchayat, said that segregating waste has been incentivised and that children too now regularly drop off segregated waste. “This is a clear indicator that our message is reaching the public, ” she said. The wet waste is composted in pits dug at site, while recyclable, e-waste and non-recyclable waste is sent to the larger recycling and processing centres in Coonoor. If the initiative proves to be successful, Ms. Chandrashekar hopes that more private organisations would come forward to help implement the model in more village panchayats in the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bearhatty-panchayat-in-coonoor-takes-baby-steps-in-waste-management/article36688158.ece
27 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for covering up elephant’s death in Kil Kotagiri||Three persons were booked for covering up the death by electrocution of a wild elephant at Kil Kotagiri in the Nilgiris. The incident had happened four years ago but was unearthed only recently by the Forest Department. The three persons were identified as M. Easwaran (40), S. Katturaja (27) and S. Natheeshkumar (24) all from Mettukkal. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF), Nilgiris division, said that the Department received a tip-off during recent combing operations that Easwaran was cultivating a small plot of land in the area a few years ago. Easwaran had used an electric fence to keep out wildlife, and was illegally powering the fence. An elephant was said to have come into contact with the fence and died. Easwaran, with two others, Katturaja and Natheeshkumar, who were paid to be part of the cover-up, had buried the carcass of the elephant without informing the Forest Department, he said. After information was received about the incident, Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, District Forest Officer (Nilgiris division), directed the department staff to visit the area and exhume the remains of the elephant. On Saturday, a team accompanied by the Assistant Conservator of Forests succeeded in locating the carcass of the elephant, and dug up the remains. Two of the accused were arrested and remanded in judicial custody. The third person, Natheeshkumar had died in a road accident in 2019. Mr. Saravanakumar said that samples of the elephant’s remains have been sent for forensic analysis to identify the age and sex of the animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-elephants-death-in-kil-kotagiri/article36688147.ece
27 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Stay indoors till tiger is captured: Collector||The Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya, has urged residents staying near Devan Estate in Gudalur to stay indoors till the tiger that killed a man, a few days ago, was captured by the Forest Department. Ms. Divya, who visited the family members of the deceased as well as local residents, spoke to the press after her visit. The Collector said that the animal was proving to be difficult to track as it was staying hidden due to high footfall of people in the area. As a result, she urged the residents to stay indoors and said that arrangements had been made with the local panchayat to deliver provisions to the people’s homes till the animal was captured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stay-indoors-till-tiger-is-captured-collector/article36688170.ece
27 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Three civil servants and their unique outreach initiatives||A fortnight ago, when Class XI students at the Government Higher Secondary School at Kurusilapattu near Tirupattur were getting ready for the next class, the headmaster introduced a bespectacled man to them. He started teaching English grammar until the bell rang for the next class. He was not their English teacher. He was Tirupattur Collector Amar Kushwaha, who had visited the school, a polling booth, to check the arrangements for the local bodies elections. “Whenever I visit schools, I never fail to interact with students. If time permits, I also take English classes,” Mr. Kushwaha told The Hindu . A native of the backward Siddharthnagar district in Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Kushwaha did his schooling in his village before completing science graduation. He belongs to the 2012 batch of the Indian Administrative Service and started out as a trainee officer in Tiruvallur before becoming Sub-Collector in Sivakasi. At the third mega vaccination camp held on Sunday, Kushwaha’s wife, Shivalika, took her second dose at Mookkannoor village, inspiring tribal villagers. Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian never hesitates to hop on a bike if that is the only way to reach the remote tribal villages in Jawadhu Hills. Tribal villages, including Nelkani, Thanimarathur, Nellampattu and Kollyam, in the Anaicut panchayat union are inaccessible. More than 40 permanent vaccination camps have been set up in these areas. Door-to-door vaccination is also done. “I gave rural development officials four days to build temporary roads to these villages. I will make my road trip to these villages again,” Mr. Pandian says. A native of Ottanchatiram, Mr. Pandian belongs to the 2014 batch and served as Deputy Commissioner (Works), Greater Chennai Corporation, and Commissioner of the Coimbatore Corporation before taking charge as Vellore Collector in June this year. In neighbouring Ranipet district, residents got a new Superintendent of Police a month ago. In an effort to instil confidence in residents, especially those in remote areas, and also boost the morale of her colleagues, Deepa Satyan does night rounds between 10 p.m and 6 a.m. at least thrice a week, covering Arakkonam, Walajah and Arcot. According to norms, night rounds are restricted to the DSP, with each police station allotting one Sub-Inspector every day. Ranipet has 25 police stations. A native of Thiruvananthapuram, Ms. Deepa completed MBBS in the city before taking up the civil service. She belongs to the 2015 batch and was first posted as ASP for Vriddhachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-civil-servants-and-their-unique-outreach-initiatives/article36688527.ece
27 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Poll duty training held for teachers||A day-long training for teachers was organised by the district administrations in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur ahead of the local bodies elections which will be held in two phases between October 6 and 9. As the model code of conduct has come into force, the district administrations led by the Collectors in these three districts have been reviewing poll preparedness. Friday’s training is a continuation of such poll-related exercises. These teachers would be mainly deployed as booth officials on voting days. “More such training sessions will be held to ensure they handle the polling days smoothly. Teachers were also asked to follow COVID-19 norms strictly during their election related work,” said Amar Kushwaha, Collector, Tirupattur. Divided into seven panchayat unions including Katpadi, Annaicut and Gudiyatham, Vellore district has more than 15,000 teachers, who will work as booth officials. The newly-carved out districts, Ranipet and Tirupattur, have been taking several poll-related measures for the past fortnight. In Ranipet, 11,496 teachers were given training on Friday to work in 1,410 poll booths in its seven panchayat unions including Arakkonam, Walajah, Arcot and Sholinghur. The Tirupattur district, which comprises six panchayat unions like Jolarpet, Vanniyambadi and Natrampalli, has 9,432 teachers in its roll for the election duty, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poll-duty-training-held-for-teachers/article36688529.ece
27 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Over one lakh vaccinated in Vellore, nearby districts||The district administrations in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur altogether vaccinated more than one lakh persons in the third mega vaccination camp that was held between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. on Sunday. Among the four districts, Tiruvannamalai set up 1,017 camps, vaccinating 64,321 persons, including 27,197 from Cheyyar block. This is less than the second mega camp that was on September 12, where 77,085, including 35,000, who took the second dose, were vaccinated. At present, the district has a total of 19.62 lakh people aged over 18. More than 11 lakh persons had been vaccinated in the district at the end of the third camp. “Door-to-door visits by health staff is also being done to cover more residents, especially in tribal villages,” said B. Murugesh, District Collector, Tiruvannamalai. In Vellore, 804 camps were organised covering 247 villages, four town panchayats and two municipalities. More than 20,000 persons were vaccinated. The district has a population of 13 lakh persons, who can be vaccinated. The newly formed Tirupattur and Ranipet districts organised 526 and 546 camps respectively, covering 27,000 and 33,236 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-one-lakh-vaccinated-in-vellore-nearby-districts/article36688576.ece
27 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||60,865 vaccinated at third mega camp in Virudhunagar district||Virudhunagar district on Sunday vaccinated 60,865 persons, which is 106% of the 57,200 doses allotted for the third mega vaccination camp. A statement said that the vaccination camps were held at 514 locations – 239 locations in Virudhunagar health unit district and 275 locations in Sivakasi health unit district. Among the 60,865 doses administered, 35,031 were the first dose and 25,834 the second dose. With this, out of the 16,31558 eligible persons above 18 years, 12,50,591 have been vaccinated. This included 9.45 lakh people who have got first dose and 3.05 lakh who have got the second dose also. Inspection Collector J. Meghanath Reddy inspected the vaccination camps at Tiruthangal and Sivakasi. Sivakasi MLA G. Ashokan, Sivakasi Sub-Collector M. Birathiviraj, and Deputy Director (Health Services – Sivakasi) Kalusivalingam were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/60865-vaccinated-in-virudhunagar-district/article36688252.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||196 new cases in Coimbatore||A total of 196 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The Health Department said that 216 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 2,074 active cases on Sunday. A 68-year-old woman died of COVID-19 in the district on Friday, taking the official death toll to 2,330. Coimbatore district’s test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 1.8 % on Saturday when it reported 198 cases out of the 11,259 swab samples subjected to tests. Tiruppur district reported 86 new cases. The district had 944 active cases and 96 persons recovered on Sunday. The district had a test positivity rate of 1.7 % on Saturday when it reported 91 new cases of COVID-19. In the Nilgiris, 38 persons test positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,603. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 198 on Sunday while 348 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/196-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article36688167.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu exceeds COVID vaccination target by 9.86 lakh doses at mega camp||So far in September, 1,38,60,328 people have been vaccinated. In the morning, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inspected the camps held at Central Railway Station; Dakshinamurthi wedding hall at Pattalam; Chennai High School, Strahans Road, Ayanavaram; and Nehru marriage hall and Bethel School, also at Ayanavaram. The government said the first mega vaccination drive held on September 12 benefited 28,91,021 people, including 21,48,526 people who received their first dose and 7,42,495 who were given the second dose. In the second camp held on September 19,10,85,097 people were administered the first dose and 5,58,782 got their second dose. After visiting camps at Mayiladuthurai, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said 500 panchayats had achieved 100% coverage and all pregnant women had been vaccinated in Ariyalur and Pudukottai. Health officials said no vaccination would be done on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-exceeds-covid-vaccination-target-by-986-lakh-doses-at-mega-camp/article36688099.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The dusty condition of the path leading to the parking lot near Samayapuram Temple is troublesome for motorists. Pilgrims coming by their own vehicles face trouble while taking the dusty entry/exit path to a length of about 400 metres. Two-wheeler riders face the maximum brunt when dust particles fly due to movement of four-wheelers. Protruding vegetation on the sides makes things more difficult for vehicle users. The devotees would appreciate rectification of the problems. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti   Overgrowth of prosopis juliflora along the embankments of Koraiyar river obstructs flow of water in the river. The vegetation has to be removed so that there is no water stagnation or flooding of nearby localities during the northeast monsoon season X. Rosario Rajkumar Karumandapam   There seems to be a dangerous misconception that COVID-19 menace has been overcome. Technology or money has not yet offered solutions to the pandemic. Strict adherence to safety protocol remains to be the dependable approach to stave off the possible consequences of a probable third wave. There are lessons to be learnt from the impact caused by the second wave of the pandemic. Monitoring of adherence to safety protocol needs to be further tightened. S. Raghavan Cantonment   The decision of the Tiruchi Corporation to recycle the accumulated garbage at Ariyamangalam dumpsite is an ideal step at the right time. The garbage mounds are not only an eyesore but also causes serious health hazards for the people in the neighbourhood. The workers need to be adequately protected from the toxic effects of accumulated garbage. R. Soundararajan Nagapattinam   It is a million dollar question as to why Tamil Nadu alone witnesses so many tragic deaths of students due to NEET, while a sense of enthusiasm and confidence prevails elsewhere in the country. It would be in the interests of students and parents if politicians desist from interfering with the policies of higher education. It is high time students were counselled for mental health so as to prepare them for pursuing their dreams of higher education without fear. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram   Politics must have no place in matters of education. In Tamil Nadu, in particular, political parties ought to understand that NEET provides equal opportunity for all and that every serious aspirant will be in a position to secure admission into medical colleges, irrespective of their socio-economic background. Scoring well is all that matters; poor and meritorious students will not have to spend on capitation fees etc. Political parties must see reason and encourage students to compete at the national level. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article36688227.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - TVL||The PRS ticket counter timings at Pavoorchathiram railway station are 08.30 to 10.30; 11.30 to 12.30; and 16.00 to 18.00 hrs. Since one cannot book at 08.00 and 11.00 hrs., people are unable to book advance booking and tatkal booking for non-AC Classes on the first day respectively. If the PRS counter functions between 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., it will be of immense help to thousands of people in and around Pavoorchathiram. R. Pandiaraja, Pavoorchathiram   Renovation of the Kalakkad Union Elementary School in Eruvadi North in Tirunelveli district is halfway through. The debris from a section of the wall which was demolished and a mound of clayey soil remain uncleared at the entrance. I request the authorities to clear the debris and the clayey soil and finish the work. A. Kaja Nazimudeen,  Eruvadi   Kodaikanal municipality has announced that visitors to the hill station will be allowed if they have taken at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. It is not clear whether they have received instructions from the State government or Ministry of Tourism. Pregnant and lactating women and persons with complicated ailments cannot be inoculated. So I request the municipal authorities to permit such people if they bring a letter from their doctor stating their case. P. Selwyn Basker, Thoothukudi   Apropos the report on death of 1.2 lakh people in road accidents in 2020 despite COVID-19 lockdown, so many factors contribute to the high rate of fatality - reckless and rash driving, especially by two-wheelers and autorickshaws, drunken driving, sleepless drivers dashing the median. To avert such accidents, the police must enforce stricter rules and take stern action against violators of traffic rules. Lessons on traffic rules must be included in the curriculum right from Class VI. Rajamani Chelladurai, Tirunelveli   The Nagercoil Corporation Commissioner Asha Ajit has initiated a novel scheme of converting the plastic water bottles stuffed with other non-degradable plastic wastes as bricks to build parapet around trees in parks. These ‘eco-bricks’ also look good and protect the trees as well. This initiative must be replicated in Tirunelveli district also. Rajakumar Arulanandham Palayamkottai   This refers to the news report on ‘Heinous crimes unabated in Dindigul district.’ One of the main reasons for rise in murders is unemployment of youth in southern districts. So the government should take urgent steps to generate employment by developing more IT and industrial parks in the south. Since wine shops are the breeding grounds for criminal activities, they should be closed in areas vulnerable to caste clashes. The police and revenue authorities should hold frequent meetings with people and educate them about communal harmony and the consequence of crimes. S. Nallasivan,  Tirunelveli||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail-dindigul/article36688246.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DELTA ENGAGEMENTS||THANJAVUR  Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology: Prahlad Singh Patel, Minister for State, Ministry of Food Processing Industry, inaugurates Coconut Water 'Prasadam' Unit at Mariamman Temple; Confectionary Processing Pilot Plant and Food Packaging Testing Laboratory; and inaugurates Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises for Self-Help Groups and Farmer Producer Organisations, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-engagements/article36688215.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City Engagements||GENERAL   Jamal Mohamed College: College Day celebrations, C. Jothi Venkateswaran, Joint Director of Collegiate Education, Dharmapuri Region, delivers address and distributes prizes, 10 a.m.  TN Handicrafts Development Corporation: Kolu dolls exhibition, Poompuhar showroom, Singarathope, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article36688566.ece
27 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||We’ve released over Rs. 1,000 cr. for flood loss in Belagavi: CM||The State government has released over Rs. 1,000 crore as flood loss compensation to Belagavi district, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Sunday. The district suffered huge losses due to floods in 2019 and 2020. That included house collapse and crop loss. Then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had announced suitable compensation for all such incidents. The district administration reported that 44,205 houses had suffered various levels of damage. Rs. 263 cr. for crop loss “Till now, the State government has released Rs. 861 crore for house collapse and Rs. 263 crore towards crop loss. There are some technical issues in the way of releasing compensation to the rest of those whose houses collapsed. We will hold a meeting with Revenue and Finance department officers, along with the district administration officers, to resolve them,” he said. Sugarcane arrears “The government has clear rules about payment of arrears by sugar factories to farmers. But there is confusion about clearance of arrears by private factories. To resolve this, we will soon have a meeting with factory representatives, Apex Bank officers, Finance Department officers and farmers,” he told journalists. Viral fever He said that he had instructed Health Department officers to take steps to arrest the trend of growing viral fever among children. “I have asked officers to conduct health check-up camps in villages and maintain strict surveillance about signs of the disease. All facilities will be made available by the State government to diagnose and treat children with viral fever at all district and taluk hospitals and primary health centres,” he said. Jarkiholi brothers To a query about the Jarkiholi brothers not accompanying him during his official visit to the district, he said that they spoke to him. “Balachandra Jarkiholi wrote me a letter about this. There is problem about it,” he said, but did not elaborate. “The government will take steps to strengthen the State Border Protection Authority and will consider the suggestion of appointing a senior Minister as chairman of the authority,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/weve-released-over-rs-1000-cr-for-flood-loss-in-belagavi-cm/article36688296.ece
27 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Winter session will be held in Belagavi: CM||The winter session of the Karnataka legislature will be held in Belagavi, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Sunday. “We are thinking about it. It needs to be ratified by the Cabinet. We will place the proposal before the Cabinet and get it approved,” he told presspersons. He assured the people of Belagavi that the State government would shift the offices of some departments from Bengaluru to Belagavi before the commencement of the winter session. “The sugar directorate will be shifted to Belagavi. It will start functioning here from October 3. The orders have been issued already,” he said. “Some other offices will also be shifted. While the orders for some have already been issued, the formalities for the remaining will be completed soon.” On quota issue On the proposed protest by the Panchamasali community for inclusion under the 2A Other Backward Classes category, he said he was in constanttouch with the seer Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami. “I will speak to him today also. It is a problem that has to be resolved by all of us together,”Mr. Bommai said. “The inclusion of the community has to be done as per the established procedure. It has to be recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission. Once the commission gives its report, it will have to be studied and implemented by the government. We will address the issue in a systematic manner,” he said. About the rumours that the BJP high command was not allowing veteran leader B.S.Yediyurappa to begin a tour of the State, he said Arun Singh, the BJPs national general secretary in charge of Karnataka, had already clarified about it and said there were no such hurdles in the way of Mr. Yediyurappa. To a question, he said there was no truth in the Congress’ allegations that the government had not taken off. “People’s opinion is important to us. People feel that the government has taken off. The Opposition can say what it feels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/winter-session-will-be-held-in-belagavi-cm/article36688078.ece
27 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘We will urge the Centre to name train after Angadi’||The State government will urge the Unioni government to name the Belagavi-Bengaluru Express after late Suresh Angadi, former Railway Minister who was instrumental in starting the night train, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Belagavi on Sunday. Proposal “We all want the train to be named after him. We will send a formal proposal to the Centre regarding this,” he said, after unveiling a bust of the late leader inside the campus of the Angadi Institute of Engineering and Management in Savagaon village near Belagavi. The Chief Minister also promised that the State government will work with the Railways to see that the direct rail link between Belagavi and Dharwad, via Kittur, is fast-tracked. “We will bear our share of the cost of land acquisition and construction. Mr. Angadi began the project and it is our responsibility to complete it soon,” he said. He spoke about the political life of Mr. Angadi and his contribution to the development of North Karnataka and some railway projects that he began. The former MP and Congress leader Prakash Hukkeri urged the Chief Minister to release enough funds for the quick completion of work on the Belagavi-Kittur-Dharwad line. Member of Parliament Mangala Angadi sought the Chief Minister’s help to complete projects, including a ring road, in Belagavi and also work on the new building of the Rani Channamma University. She urged the State government to release Rs. 900 crore for the Belagavi-Dharwad railway line so that the triple cities will emerge as one industrial hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-urge-the-centre-to-name-train-after-angadi/article36688298.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Locals allege dedicated ramps are prioritised at their cost||Residents in localities on either side of the Outer Ring Road (ORR) stretch between Hebbal and Nagawara are upset after their access to the flyover was cut off. The down ramp of Nagawara flyover and up ramp of Veerannapalya flyover have been demolished to facilitate the construction of two dedicated ramps to the Embassy Manyata Business Park, a major tech park on the ORR. Work on the ramps to the tech park, which allows employees to drive directly into the campus, is nearing completion. Md. Ibrahim, general secretary of the Nagawara Residential Welfare Association, and B.K. Dhar from Veerannapalya Residents’ Welfare Association told The Hindu that this appeared to be a deliberate attempt to cut off direct access to surrounding areas such as Govindapura, Veerannapalya, L.R. Bande, Kempapura, Thanisandra, and Mariyannapalya. Residents now have to take circuitous routes, they said. Earlier, motorists coming from Hennur and travelling towards Nagawara and surrounding areas would go over the Nagawara flyover, avoiding the signal at Nagawara junction. Similarly, the Veerannapalya flyover helped motorists from Veerannapalya, Thanisandra and surrounding areas. Those travelling from Thanisandra towards Hebbal would enter the ORR from the Nagawara signal and avoid the signal by using Veerannapalya flyover. Now, commuters are forced to pass through the signal, explained Sanjay Jangam, also from Veerannapalya RWA. He added that a major Namma Metro terminus that would come up at Nagawara would compound traffic woes of the locals. Appeal to authorities Representatives of both the associations have approached the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and politicians. “We met with MLAs Krishna Byre Gowda and K.J. George, and Bengaluru North MP D.V. Sadananda Gowda,” said Mr. Ibrahim. The associations have suggested three solutions: a one-lane ramp from Nagawara flyover to the service road and another to Veerannapalya flyover from the service road, and a signal at the Dhee Road-ORR service road junction. BBMP’s chief engineer (road infrastructure) B.S. Prahallad told The Hindu that following the earlier traffic study, the plan was to accommodate local traffic on the service road itself. “However, after visiting the spot and receiving petitions from residents, we have decided on an up ramp at Veerannapalya signal and down ramp at Nagawara signal as an add-on feature. This could be done without disturbing the existing structure,” he said. He also said that the same had already been discussed with the contractors and Embassy Office Parks, which is constructing the ramps. They have agreed to foot the additional cost that would be incurred, he said. “The new drawing with these add-on features will be submitted to the BBMP for approval in another week. Once approved, work on the same will be taken up,” he added. However, spokespersons of Embassy Office Parks said the construction of these ramps may be possible only after the construction of at least the metro pillars. They added that part of the service road from Hebbal to Hennur would be taken up for metro construction work. This means that only the one-lane service road on the other side would remain for use. “That apart, land acquisition may be required for the construction of the two ramps, given that the service road (from Hennur to Hebbal) is very narrow,” said the spokespersons, adding that a large part of the traffic that was currently on the service roads now would be diverted over the flyover once the two ramps into the business park were opened. “The ramps were designed after a scientific traffic study and approved by the BBMP,” they added.  Solutions suggested by RWAs A one-lane ramp from Nagawara flyover to service road Another ramp to Veerannapalya flyover from the service road Signal at Dhee Road-ORR service road junction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/locals-allege-dedicated-ramps-are-prioritised-at-their-cost/article36688050.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Office leasing in city is looking up as people start returning to work||With new COVID-19 cases reducing and more people returning to work, the real estate market is seeing a positive response to office leasing. According to ANAROCK Property Consultants, the main southern office market has overtaken other regions in terms of new supply, net absorption, and even rental growth, with Bengaluru, Hyderabad, and Chennai seeing an increase in their share of total office leasing. Raghu Cheluvaraju, general manager-Corporate Leasing, Vaishnavi Group, said Bengaluru continues to see above average vacancy levels through 2021. However, market sentiment has improved and leasing has picked up through Q2 and especially in Q3, he said. Set for recovery “Leasing has gone up as occupiers that have been looking to come back to office for sometime have found opportunities to lease new spaces or consolidate. Some IT occupiers are announcing back-to-office plans, whereas occupiers that work around teamwork and collaborative approach have already come back to office. The fact that people are going everywhere except offices has been noticed, but companies have been sensitive, considering employees have elderly people or children at home. With the vaccination drive being aggressive and schools reopening now, even these apprehensions are being addressed,” he said, adding that the high vacancy peripheral markets would experience some stress over the next quarter, but the market was poised to recover in Q1–Q2 period of 2022, when most employees were expected to come back to office. Monica Matthias, director, Hoysala Projects, said premium office spaces in the MNC technology spaces had seen an absorption increase of over 20% this year despite the second wave of COVID-19. Errol Fernandes, vice-president, CREDAI Bengaluru, said the sector was currently facing an over supply situation. “Constructing an office space takes around three years. All builders have slowed down construction and new projects are on hold till the situation improves. Large clients (such as IT parks) continue to pay rent as their servers cannot be relocated and are critical to their functioning. However, small clients have surrendered their office space or are not renewing their leases. Current vacancies are in the region of 10%,” he said. How then is leasing up? Mr. Fernandes explained that they are taken up by large IT companies as they foresee substantial growth going ahead. New opportunities Despite a multitude of challenges, the sector is on the growth trajectory and new opportunities are emerging from sub-sectors such as warehousing, data centres, and logistics. The growth of this sector is well complemented by the growth in the corporate environment and the demand for office space as well as urban and semi-urban accommodations, said Farook Mahmood, chairman and managing director of Silverline Group. “On a positive note for commercial real estate leasing business, the market was hopeful of a gradual return to business as usual. And the immunisation drive carried out by the government added much-needed confidence as vaccinations pick up pace, business sentiments improve, and occupiers start to revisit their return to office and space strategies. Despite the second wave, several RFPs and ongoing deals remained active, suggesting that demand is expected to bounce back as conditions improve over the next six to 12 months,” he added.  Leasing has gone up as occupiers that have been looking to come back to office for sometime have found opportunities to lease new spaces or consolidate. Raghu Cheluvaraju, general manager, Corporate Leasing, Vaishnavi Group||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/office-leasing-in-city-is-looking-up-as-people-start-returning-to-work/article36688048.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Proposal to divert forest land for concrete road to Kodachadri hilltop draws flak||A proposal to divert forest land to lay a concrete road to the Kodachadri hilltop has become a cause for concern among environmentalists. Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd. (KRDCL), Shivamogga, has sought permission to divert 5.5 hectares of forest land and 0.0676 hectares of non-forest land for the “improvement of mud road to CC road from Kattinahole to Kodachadri hilltop”. The alignment passes through Chakra forest, Hosanagar, Sagar taluk, and Kundapur, Udupi. “While the total forest area to be diverted for the project is 5.5 ha, around 4.5053 ha is in Mookambika Wildlife Sanctuary. The remaining 0.9947 ha is in Nagara range of Sagar division, which falls within the eco-sensitive zone of Mookambika Wildlife Sanctuary,” a wildlife activist said, requesting anonymity. Apart from the DCF of Sagar Division, the CCF of Shivamogga Circle, the DCF of Kudremukh Wildlife Division, the CCF of Mangaluru Circle, the PCCF (Forest Conservation), the PCCF (Head of Forest Force), the Additional Chief Secretary, Forest, Environment and Ecology Department of Karnataka also recommended the forest clearance proposal and sent it to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Government of India, for approval. The Regional Empowered Committee of Integrated Regional Office, MoEF&CC, has sought more information from the State. In addition, the Karnataka State Wildlife Board, in its meeting held in January, had recommended the wildlife clearance proposal, while the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife is yet to consider the proposal, they explained. The DCF, Sagar Division, had in the recommendation letter deemed the project “very much essential for visitors or tourists and also for villagers as Kodachadri hill has scenic religious, cultural, and tourism values”. The DCF, Kudremukh Wildlife Division, Karkala, had laid a few conditions that included the regulation of vehicles entering the area. Pleas to reject proposal But wildlife activists have objected to the proposal and sent a representation to the MoEF&CC, appealing for a rejection terming the existing road illegal as right of way is not mentioned in the reserve forest notification. “The road from Kattinahole to Kodachadri hilltop passes through Kodachadri Reserve Forest, Chakra State Forest and Madibare Reserve Forest. However, in the notifications of Kodachadri Reserve Forest, Chakra State Forest and Madibare Reserve Forest, there is no mention of right of way for this road and instead it is mentioned as footpath only. Hence, the existing road itself is illegal and therefore the present proposal amounts to formation of a new road,” the representation said. It added that any attempt to recommend this proposal would be in clear violation of the recommendations of the sub-committee on guidelines for roads in protected areas, which state that new roads shall not be proposed in national parks and sanctuaries. They also said attempts to recommend the proposal would be contrary to the Wildlife Protection Act as the present road is mainly proposed to facilitate tourists/trekkers/pilgrims. The road would endanger wildlife, especially the lion-tailed macaque, an endangered species facing threat from habitat loss, they added.  The existing road itself is illegal. Therefore, the present proposal amounts to the formation of a new road Wildlife activists, in a representation to MoEF&CC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proposal-to-divert-forest-land-for-concrete-road-to-kodachadri-hilltop-draws-flak/article36688069.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three have narrow escape after luxury car rams into taxi||In yet another case of rash and negligent driving in violation of curfew, a luxury car that was speeding rammed into a private taxi on HAL Airport Road before hitting a compound wall, late on Saturday night. On impact, the taxi overturned, but fortunately, the driver and the two passengers inside, escaped with minor injuries as the airbags were activated, said a police officer. The driver of the Porsche, identified as Zuhair Mevani, 32, a resident of Fraser Town, allegedly lost control of the wheel. “After hitting the taxi, the car rammed into the wall of the Command Hospital before coming to a halt,” said the police. The initial probe revealed that Mevani along with his friends had decided to go for a ride after dining at a restaurant in Indiranagar. The Halasuru traffic police have taken Mewani for questioning. “He underwent a medical examination and we are awaiting the report to ascertain whether he was driving under the influence of alcohol,” a police officer added. The car has also been seized. The police have registered a case of rash and negligent driving endangering lives of others, among other sections of the IPC. The accident on Saturday is similar to the one that occurred a few weeks ago when DMK MLA Y. Prakash’s son Karunaa Sagar and six of his friends died after the SUV they were in jumped onto the pavement and rammed into the compound wall of a bank at Koramangala. In another case of speeding, two friends were killed on Electronics City flyover when they were mowed down by a speeding car. “Fortunately, in Saturday’s incident, there were no fatalities,” said the police officer. Drunken driving cases In the wake of rising cases of drunken driving and speeding, the police in mid-September had resumed special drives to keep a check on those motorists flouting the law. On Saturday night, the traffic police booked52 cases against motorists allegedly driving under the influence of alcohol, said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-have-narrow-escape-after-luxury-car-rams-into-taxi/article36688057.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COMED-K: 44 of top 100 ranks bagged by Karnataka candidates||A total of 44 candidates from Karnataka bagged the first 100 ranks in the Consortium of Medical, Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMED-K) examination, the results of which were announced on Sunday. Of these five students from the State were in the top ten ranks. The competitive examination, which is the gateway for admissions into private engineering courses, was conducted online in 244 centres across the country. The toppers said that they got more time to prepare as board examinations were cancelled due to the pandemic. Veeresh B. Patil, a student of the Oxford Independent PU College, who bagged the first rank, said he used the opportunity to prepare a study plan. “I made notes in class, and this helped me immensely. I could revise key concepts by just looking at my notes,” he said. He is aspiring for a seat in the Indian Institute of Technology and is planning to write the Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) next month. Shiva Sudhan Rajamani from St. Paul’s English School, J.P. Nagar, who was ranked second, said he took multiple mock tests in preparation. “I mainly focused on preparing for the Common Entrance Test (CET) and that preparation helped me crack the COMED-K,” he said. Of the 66,304 candidates who registered for the test, 44,111 candidates wrote the COMED-K. More than 16,632 students were from Karnataka. Of the 4,660 candidates who were in 90th-100th percentile, 1,244 candidates were from the State. As many as 4,343 candidates were in the 80th-90th percentile with 1,193 from Karnataka, said COMED-K in a release.  Counselling The number of seats available, the quantum of tuition fees and counselling dates would be notified soon. The COMED-K counselling would be conducted online and the candidates have to upload the scanned copies of their documents using their login IDs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/comedk-karnataka-candidates-bag-44-of-top-100-ranks/article36688062.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS in Delhi to discuss inclusion of more MLAs||In the run-up to the Assembly elections in 2023, the Congress, which is in the process of revamping its organisational structure, is also expecting several BJP and Janata Dal (S) legislators to come into its fold. On Sunday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar went to Delhi to discuss the developing issue with the party’s central leadership. Sources said that many sitting legislators have evinced interest in joining from other parties and these issues need to be discussed with the central leadership. Sources said that besides many disgruntled legislators in the BJP and the JD(S), some of those who joined the BJP after deserting the Congress and the JD(S), resulting in the fall of the JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019, have also evinced interest. “It will be a homecoming for some legislators if the central leadership agrees,” a source said. With the BJP replacing B.S. Yediyurappa with Basavaraj Bommai as Chief Minister, the political scenario has changed in the State, the source said, adding that these issues also needed discussion. Apart from the legislators joining the party, sources said that the KPCC needed to be restructured. Another source said that it has been over a year since Mr. Shivakumar took over as KPCC chief and the party’s State unit has not been recast. “The district presidents need to be changed as well as various frontal cells. Mr. Shivakumar has gone with a list of candidates to get approval. The list was earlier discussed with Siddaramaiah too,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-in-delhi-to-discuss-inclusion-of-more-mlas/article36688074.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kumaraswamy hits back over JD(S) criticism||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday took on another former Chief Minister, Congress leader Siddaramaiah, for having criticised the Janata Dal (S) and even described him as a “liar”. “Who gave the political strength to Siddaramaiah? It is better that he tells the public where he was and where he came from. For someone like him who turns his back on the truth, he has no moral right to talk about the JD(S),” Mr. Kumaraswamy tweeted. His response came after Mr. Siddaramaiah said that the JD(S) did not have the capacity to come to power on its own and was a party dependent on others. “Siddaramaiah grew in the JD(S) and is now trying to destroy Congress leadership. People know who came to the doorstep of H.D. Deve Gowda and who was responsible for bringing down the government,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. He added that the JD(S) may be a small party, but its strength cannot be ignored. In another set of tweets, he alleged that Mr. Siddaramaiah was peddling lies on the distribution of free rice through Anna Bhagya to mislead people. “How much budgetary allocation was made by you before elections? Was it for 5 kg or 7 kg? Why is there a problem in telling the truth? Why were you telling lies that I reduced allocation from 7 kg to 5 kg of rice when you had made allocation only for 5 kg?” he asked, before urging Mr. Siddaramaiah to “stop lying at least now”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kumaraswamy-hits-back-over-jds-criticism/article36688075.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) can’t come to power on its own: Siddaramaiah||Urging electors to dislodge the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the State in the 2023 Assembly elections, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah said on Sunday that the Janata Dal (S) cannot come to power on its own. “For the JD(S), anybody would do. For the JD(S), secularism remains only in the name. It has no ideology and is opportunistic. We had extended support to the JD(S) [in 2018] only to prevent the communal BJP from coming to power,” the Congress leader said at a function here. “The programmes that we gave were for all sections of society. Is there discrimination based on caste?” ‘Undoing good work’ He said that the BJP government was undoing all the good work that the Congress government did. He pointed to the reduction of quantum of rice given under the Anna Bhagya scheme, closure of Indira Canteens, and cancellation of houses allotted to the poor. “Housing Minister V. Somanna only speaks and does no work. Did former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa give any good programmes except for looting the State? Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti says the ration being given is enough,” he said. Exuding confidence that the Congress would return to power in Karnataka in 2023, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that they would increase the quantity of Anna Bhagya rice to 5 kg and also reopen the Indira Canteen. He also criticised the Union government for price rise and for the sale of government assets, amongother things.  For the JD(S), secularism remains only in the name. It has no ideology and is opportunistic. We had extended support to the JD(S) [in 2018] only to prevent the communal BJP from coming to power Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-cant-come-to-power-on-its-own-siddaramaiah/article36688076.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KHB residential complex project inaugurated||A residential complex project by the Karnataka Housing Board (KHB) was inaugurated on Sunday in the first phase of Suryanagar at Chandapura. Housing Minister V. Somanna, after inaugurating the project, said flats would be allotted to applicants. The board has spent Rs. 77.14 crore to build the residential complex which is spread over 6.14 acres of land. The Minister said that in the coming days, Cauvery water supply would be made available in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/khb-residential-complex-project-inaugurated/article36688054.ece
27 September 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Applications have been invited from eligible teachers of Bangalore University (BU) and its affiliated colleges for appointment of full-time NSS programme coordinator at Bangalore University on deputation basis for three years. BU, in a release, said that those interested may download the application from university website (www.bangaloreauniversity.ac.in). Filled-in application forms along with relevant copies of certificates should be filed on or before October 18. For guest faculty Applications have also been invited for full-time/part-time guest faculty in Law, Kannada, English, Political Science, Sociology, and Economics to teach at the University Law College and the Department of Studies in Law, Bangalore University, for the 2021-22 academic year. According to a release from BU, those with a Masters degree in the respective subjects as per UGC/BCI rules are eligible to apply. Visit www.bangaloreuniversity.ac.in or www.ulc bangalore.com for more details. Applications must be submitted on or before September 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article36688070.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free travel for students||The Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), in view of the SSLC supplementary examination to be held on Monday and Wednesday, has extended the free travel facility to all the students attending the exam. The facility has been extended from their residence to the exam centre on production of exam hall/admission ticket or student pass (issued for 2020-21), said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-travel-for-students/article36688071.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deadline extended||The last date for submitting online applications for admission to undergraduate courses offered at Bengaluru City University’s Multi Disciplinary Constituent College for Women has been extended till October 11. The BCU, in a release, said that candidates who could not submit their applications within the last date may submit them online via the varsity website (www.bcu.ac.in).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadline-extended/article36688072.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||775 new cases, 9 deaths||Karnataka on Sunday recorded 775 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of positives to 29,73,395. Once again Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of cases with 255, followed by Dakshina Kannada with 99. Several districts including Chikkaballapura, Haveri and Kalaburgi recorded no new cases on Sunday. Nine people succumbed to COVID-19 on Sunday. With this, the death toll in the State rose to 37,726. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/775-new-cases-9-deaths/article36688060.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5 students held for vandalising 14 cars||The police have arrested five engineering students who had allegedly vandalised 14 cars at Rajarajeshwarinagar and Kengeri in the early hours of September 23. Investigations revealed the accused had committed the act while under the influence of alcohol. The group of friends — computer science students of a private engineering college in the city — were returning from a birthday party, said a police officer. On the way back, they vandalised six cars at Krishna Garden in Rajarajeshwarinagar police station limits and eight cars at Nanjappa Block in Kengeri station limits. “Based on CCTV camera footage and other clues, we identified five students who had attended a friend’s birthday party in an apartment at Kengeri. They had come out around 2 a.m. to buy soft drinks and had taken them from a store attached to a 24x7 petrol pump. While returning, they went on a rampage and hit the windshields of the cars with a cricket bat they were carrying,” the police said. The police have seized two bikes and the bat from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5-students-held-for-vandalising-14-cars/article36688053.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sand boa rescued and released||A sand boa was found in Rajarajeshwarinagar on Sunday. Wildlife conservationists rescued it and released it in the Bannerghatta National Park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sand-boa-rescued-and-released/article36688065.ece
27 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BHEL EDN, Bengaluru handed over Ambulance to BBMP under CSR||BHEL’s Electronics Division (EDN) donated an ambulance to the BBMP under its CSR initiative recently. According to a release, A.K Jain, Executive Director (EDN), handed over the key and documents of the ambulance to BBMP officials led by Shivakumar, Health Officer, BBMP-South Zone, and Komala, Health Officer, BBMP-Vijayanagar division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bhel-edn-bengaluru-handed-over-ambulance-to-bbmp-under-csr/article36688051.ece
27 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Kagodu Thimmappa: Fight for the rights of land-losers||Former Minister Kagodu Thimmappa has called upon the people to fight for the rights of farmers, who lost their land for the Sharavathi project and others in Shivamogga district. He spoke after inaugurating the three-day march from Kallukoppa to Tirthahalli taluk seeking relief for land-losers on Sunday. Mr. Thimmappa said the landless people could get land in the 1970s because of their long struggle. “It is good that now you have launched a padayatra for the benefit of the land losers. I suggest you make a list of people who have been cultivating the land and submit applications seeking the grant of land to the government. We will fight till all demands are fulfilled,” he said. Further, he said, he would be ready to stage protests in front of the taluk office or the forest office for the rights of the landless people. Congress leader R.M. Manjunath Gowda, JD (S) leader Shreekanth, and others participated in the protest. Mr. Manjunath Gowda, replying to allegations of former Minister Kimmane Ratnakar, said the protest march was not planned to claim the Congress ticket in the next election. “We are fighting for the people. The Congress is a national party and it will decide on the candidate at the time of elections. Now we are fighting for people’s issues,” he said. He was reacting to Mr. Ratnakar’s allegation that the padayatra was a private event to claim Congress ticket in the next election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kagodu-thimmappa-fight-for-the-rights-of-land-losers/article36688492.ece
27 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Grama One centres see huge response in Chikkamagaluru||Grama One centres, set up to render government services for the public at their places, have received an impressive response in Chikkamagaluru district. Within six months of setting up centres in the district, over 1 lakh transactions have been recorded. It is the highest among the four districts, where the Grama One project is being implemented on a pilot basis. Former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced Grama One centres in his Budget in 2020. The objective was to ensure that rural people did not have to visit offices in cities to apply for various services. On a pilot basis, centres were set up in Davangere of the Bengaluru division in November 2020. Later it was implemented in Bidar of Kalaburagi division, Vijayapura of Belagavi division, and Chikkamagaluru of Mysuru division. The public can avail of over 800 services related to various departments at these centres. B.N. Varaprasad Reddy, Project Director, told The Hindu that the response from Chikkamagaluru had been encouraging. “There have been more than 1 lakh transactions in the district. This shows how the centres have been useful for the public. We are planning to extend similar services to all districts,” he said. A majority of the services include getting health cards under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, certificates for education purposes, bus passes, among others. Many labourers have visited the centre to get the benefits offered by the Labour Department. The government is implementing this scheme through a public-private partnership. Educated youths with computer knowledge are involved as operators. They have to set up the centres with Internet, computers, scanner, and printer. They have to help the public by uploading the documents and deliver the services once their applications are cleared by the authorities concerned. “In some cases, the operators are issuing sanction certificates to the public at their doorsteps. We have added e-stamp services, Aadhaar card updating and soon we will introduce micro-financing and banking operations,” he said. The operator earns income with respect to the service delivered. The charge for each service is fixed considering the number of documents and the number of entries he has to make online. “Each operator is earning anywhere between Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 20,000 a month. One operator has already got his investment back. This is beneficial to the youths, who can earn well by setting up the centre at their village,” said H.L. Nagaraj, Assistant Commissioner of Chikkamagaluru. The officer said in April there were only 270 transactions in the district. Gradually, the number increased to 700, 1,200, and in the current month, 47,000 transactions had been recorded. “So far around 1.07 lakh transactions have been recorded in the district. With the increase in transactions, the operators also good returns,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/grama-one-centres-see-huge-response-in-chikkamagaluru/article36688490.ece
27 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘I got ministerial berth because I am a Vokkaliga’||Revenue Minister R. Ashok said he got a ministerial berth because he was a Vokkaliga. “I have been inducted into the Cabinet because I belong to the Vokkaliga community. I am proud to be a Vokkaliga,” he said at a ceremony organised by the Hassan district Vokkaliga Sangha to lay the foundation stone for a community hall in Hassan on Sunday. The Minister said the role of the community would be important in the career of a politician. Everybody should work to improve their community. “A 108-ft tall Kempe Gowda statue is coming up at Bengaluru airport. There is a plan to install a 114-ft tall statue of Kala Bhyraveshwara at Adichunchanagiri,” he said. The State government, he said, had constituted a corporation for Vokkaligas and Rs. 500 crore had been earmarked for the corporation. People of the community should make better use of the corporation for their welfare. He also appreciated the praised the Hassan district Vokkaliga Sangha in building a community hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-got-ministerial-berth-because-i-am-a-vokkaliga/article36688494.ece
27 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Alumni oppose school demolition||Alumni of the Government High School, established in 1964 in Hassan, have opposed the move to demolish the building and urged the State government to retain it either as a museum or a library. The 157-year-old building, where many well-known personalities studied, has been handed over to Hassan Institute of Medical Sciecnes. As part of its expansion, the institute has planned to demolish the old structure. The school had taught lakhs of students and many of them have contributed to society in many ways. “They include politicians, scientists, litterateurs, and artists. It is necessary to retain the structure in memory of those great souls”, opined Uttam H.N, an old student, now in Mysuru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alumni-oppose-school-demolition/article36688482.ece
27 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga sees 19 cases||Shivamogga district reported 19 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on Sunday. Among the fresh cases, seven were from Shivamogga, four from Tirthahalli, one in Shikaripur, three in Sagar, two in Hosanagar, and two more from outside the district. Hassan reported 11 cases and one death on the day. With that, the total deaths increased to 1,354 in the district. Among the fresh cases, one was from Arkalgud, two from Channarayapatna, five in Hassan, and three in Sakleshpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-sees-19-cases/article36688495.ece
27 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Experts to look into flyover issue||A meeting convened on Saturday to address concerns raised by experts in the twin cities on the reported flaws in the design of an elevated corridor at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi, concluded with Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi announcing the formation of an experts committee to address all concerns and objections. Making the concluding remarks at the meeting which began late on Saturday, the Union Minister clarified that there was no prestige issue involved and all concerns raised by the engineers and architects of the twin cities regarding the flyover will be addressed. Mr. Joshi directed Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil to constitute an experts committee comprising experts from IIT or Visvesvaraya Technological University, senior contractors who had handled flyover/highway projects, Member of Legislative Assembly Arvind Bellad (also an engineer), officials of National Highways and consultants. “Constitute the committee immediately and hear all concerns and objections raised by the Institute of Engineers and architects and address them. Ultimately, it should be a win-win situation for all,” he said. Pointing out that it was after repeated pleas from Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and other organisations that the flyover project had taken shape, Mr. Joshi said that now suggesting the flyover project could be done away with is not a solution for issues being raised. “After all is said and done, one should understand that the traffic island (Kittur Chennamma Circle) is a serious issue. I would say it is not a traffic island but a ‘terrible island’. Apart from initiating alternative projects, the traffic island continues to be a traffic nightmare and it needs to be addressed,” he said. He also pointed out that nine months had passed now after the virtual initiation of the project by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and since then various concerns raised by the engineers and architects have been incorporated in the flyover project. “We understand your concerns. After much effort the project was sanctioned despite guidelines not permitting it. Everyone wants the project to be useful for the city. We also want it to beneficial. We are open to suggestions even now also and together we will resolve the contentious issuesm” he said. Mr. Joshi also asked the Deputy Commissioner to resolve the issues in the next 10 days by constituting the experts committee. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Handloom and Textiles Shankar Patil Munenakoppa, Mr. Arvind Bellad, Mr. Nitesh Patil, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal and NHAI officials, office-bearers from KCCI, Institute of Engineers and architects and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/experts-to-look-into-flyover-issue/article36688301.ece
27 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Different viewpoints emerge||The meeting convened to resolve contentious issues concerning the elevated corridor project at Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi on Saturday brought to the fore the differences in the viewpoints of the engineers and architects of the twin cities and the officials and consultants for the project with each justifying their line of argument. As the meeting began, consultant for the project Harsh Ranade from Spectrum Techno Consultants made a detailed presentation on the elevated corridor project highlighting the vehicular traffic data based on which the flyover project was designed. He said that all the requisite parameters had been taken into consideration while finalising the project. Mr. Ranade said that the flyover’s design was done in such a way as to ensure free movement of vehicles below the elevated corridor. Even after the city having bypass and ring roads, there will still be lot of vehicular movement at Kittur Chennamma Circle and the elevated corridor will ease traffic congestion. In their response, representatives of Engineers and Architects Associations Anand Pandurangi, Mahesh Hiremath and Sharan made a detailed presentation expressing the concerns they have regarding the viability of the flyover project. Mr. Pandurangi pointed out what the association referred to as technical flaws and the problems they might cause on the ground. A road just 3.5 m wide will be a nightmare for motorists, he said. Industrialist Vikram Sirur pointed out what he termed as flaws and said that the main problem is that invariably everyone had to cross the arterial road (Siddappa Kambali Road) to visit the central business district and there were no alternatives developed that will bring down dependency on Kittur Chennamma Circle. KCCI president Mahendra Ladhad too concurred with Mr. Sirur and said that development of road junctions and widening of roads will help. National Highways official Vijayakumar mentioned about a few changes incorporated in the plan and said that further changes can be made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/different-viewpoints-emerge/article36688299.ece
27 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||More support for Bharat Bandh||The call for Bharat Bandh opposing and seeking repeal of farm laws has received support from various organisations in Dharwad and Hubballi. These have voluntarily come forward to extend support to the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is leading farmers’ agitation at New Delhi borders for over nine months now. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, S.R. Hiremath, convenor, Samyukta Horata, Karnataka, a group of various organisations, said that farmers, businessmen, the general public and youth had extended their voluntary support. Samyukta Kissan Morcha has given a call for the bandh seeking repeal of the the three contentious farm laws, privatisation of power sector, price rise of essential commodities and fuel prices and demanding Minimum Support Price of for all farm products. Mr. Hiremath said that soaring prices of fuel and essential commodities had further burdened the common man who was already reeling under distress due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite repeated pleas, the Union government had failed to take any concrete measure to check the soaring prices, he said. He said over 30 organisations had already extended support to the bandh call. On September 27, members of various organisations would congregate at Jubilee Circle in Dharwad to register their protest. Public and private transport buses would be stopped and a protest march would be taken out on the thoroughfares of the city, he said. Another convenor Venkanagouda Patil said that shopkeepers and autorickshaw drivers too have extended support to the bandh call. Meanwhile at another meeting in Hubballi, members of various organisations decided to take out a protest march from Indira Glass House in Hubballi to Kittur Chennamma Circle on Monday as part of the bandh. Tractors and autorickshaws would be part of the protest rally. Office-bearers of various organisations Mahesh Pattar, Amrut Ijari, Manjunath Koppad, Basher Mudhol and others took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-support-for-bharat-bandh/article36688306.ece
27 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Cycling expedition to Kanyakumari begins||Four cyclists and Rotarians from Rotary International District 3170 set off on an eight-day cycling expedition ‘Pride Ride’ from Hubballi to Kanyakumari on Saturday. The four cyclists Kaustubh Saunshikar, Gulzar Ahmed, Girish Hampiholi and Prasanna Joshi will be covering 1,111 kilometres in their journey to the southernmost tip of India, Kanyakumari. During the expedition, the cyclists and Rotarians will carry the messages of economical usage of water, economical and social development, child health and importance of education. The expedition was flagged off from the landmark Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi on Saturday by Past District Governor Basil D’Souza in the presence of other cycling enthusiasts and Rotarians. The cyclists will cover a distance of 93 to 163 kms, holding street meetings and also interactions with Rotary club members every day. This is just a small attempt to highlight the issues that need the attention of the people of the country, said Kaustubh Saunshikar, one of the cyclists. A support team would also be travelling alongside by car, carrying the luggage of the cyclists and other equipment required for emergency repairs, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cycling-expedition-begins/article36688312.ece
27 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Concern over rising cases of dengue||In view of the rising dengue cases in the district, Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav has directed the officials of the District Health and Family Welfare and the City Corporation to take necessary steps. Mr. Jadhav was chairing a meeting of officials here on Sunday to discuss the progress made so far in the battle against dengue. District Health Officer Sharanabasappa Ganjelkhed said that of the 1,782 total blood samples collected since January, 362 were confirmed for dengue in the district. Following a sudden increase in dengue cases, the department has intensified its efforts to tackle the disease through mass awareness campaign. It has started conducting door-to-door awareness programme in rural parts. District-wise data of dengue cases for the period January till September 25 compiled by the Health and Family Welfare Department showed that Kalaburagi city reported the highest of 105 confirmed cases. There were 453 suspected cases. This was followed by Chittapur taluk with 65 confirmed and 447 suspected cases, Jewargi taluk 64 confirmed and 247 suspected cases, Sedam taluk 14 confirmed and 114 suspected cases, Afzalpur taluk 14 confirmed and 106 suspected cases, Aland 18 confirmed and 85 suspected cases, Chincholi 12 confirmed and 82 suspected cases and Kalaburagi Rural with 11 confirmed and 36 suspected cases of dengue. Besides this, the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory received 212 blood samples of which 49 were confirmed for dengue. Dr. Jadhav directed the officials to intensify spraying and fogging across the district. He asked them to focus particularly on rural areas that had more cases. He also told them to make elaborate arrangements to check the further spread of dengue. He said that efforts should be made to have adequate number of oxygen beds and ventilators in the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) Hospital and at the ESIC Hospital to tackle any medical emergency. He asked the officials to provide details of maternal and child mortality ratio in the district. Dr. Jadhav told doctors that there is no excuse for medical negligence and that they will be held responsible for death of pregnant women during delivery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concern-over-rising-cases-of-dengue/article36688303.ece
27 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Union government insensitive to farmers’ problems: Cong. leaders||Expressing their active support to Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organisations demanding the repeal of three ‘anti-farmer’ laws enacted by the Union government, Congress party leaders Sharan Prakash Patil, B.R. Patil, M.Y. Patil and Jagdev Guttedar said that their party activists would participate in the planned agitation on Monday by taking out a massive bike rally in Kalaburagi. Addressing a media conference at the local party office here on Sunday, they said the rally would start from their party office at 9 a.m. and pass through SVP Circle, Bus Stand, Supermarket, Sedam Road, Aland Road, Nehru Gunj, Jewargi Road and other major streets across the city. “Farmers had not demanded the amendments to APMC, contract farming and Essential Commodities Acts. No Parliamentarian has demanded them in the Parliament. Yet, the BJP government unilaterally imposed them on the farming community despite the latter’s stiff resistance. Thousands of farmers have been on an indefinite agitation on the Delhi border for the last several months opposing these anti-farmer laws and the Modi government is going to implement the laws to serve their corporate masters and satisfy its ego. BJP is acting like a slave of big corporate companies scarifying the interests of farmers. If the farm sector collapses, the entire nation will collapse. The enactment and the implementation of the laws against the wishes of farmers is an injustice not just to farmers, but to 130 crore Indians. The Union government should stop serving as an agent to corporate giants like Ambani and Adani and come forward to safeguard the interests of common people,” Mr. B.R. Patil said. Referring to the BJP’s promises made in the manifesto during the last Lok Sabha elections, Mr. Sharan Prakash Patil said that the BJP did not implement the M.S. Swaminathan panel as promised to lift the farmers from the crisis but did take measures that would deepen the farm crisis and farmers’ woes just to help corporate companies in the farm sector. “The BJP government betrayed the farmers by not keeping its poll promise of implementing the M.S. Swaminathan report. It introduced the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana claiming that the insurance programme would protect the farmers from crop loss. But, in reality, it is a programme that was introduced to cheat the farmers and allow insurance companies to make fortunes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-insensitive-to-farmers-problems-congress-leaders/article36688309.ece
27 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Farm knowledge centre||To educate farmers about crops and allied commercial farming, Kalyana Karnataka Human Resource, Agricultural and Cultural Association (KKHRACA) will set up an Agriculture Knowledge Centre in its building. A team of 20 members, including agriculture experts and scientists from various Universities of Agricultural Sciences, will be roped in to help farmers with agriculture-related queries. Officials said that the objective of the centre is to provide farmers and agricultural workers information on better farming practices based on climatic conditions and methods to safeguard existing crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farm-knowledge-centre/article36688304.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fish wastewater menace returns to haunt road users, residents||Fish wastewater menace has again come to haunt the city residents as well as users of roads and highways with the beginning of the fishing season coupled with near-end of the south-west monsoon season. Trucks as well as mini goods vehicles that transport fish primarily from the Mangaluru Old Port (Bunder) spill wastewater right from Bunder all along the trunk roads of the city and further on the National Highways. The impunity with which the transporters operate now and the lack of enforcement are quite visible as fish transporting trucks fitted with twin wastewater tanks had almost stopped spilling wastewater in the last couple of years. Social activist Nemu Kottari from Jeppu, who was regular at the weekly phone-in programmes of the city police that were conducted till December 2019, and other residents were able to convince the police of the need to curb wastewater menace to a considerable extent. He recalled the then Commissioner T.R. Suresh warning seizure of fish transporting vehicles if they were found spilling wastewater and said that the traffic police were then able to contain the menace to a large extent. Fish transporters use mainly three exists from Bunder — Kulur Ferry Road towards Udupi, Mangaladevi Road and Jeppu towards Kerala and Mercara Trunk Road towards B.C. Road and beyond. All the arterial roads within the city and National Highways 66, 75 and 169 are dotted with wastewater spillage throughout. Manjunath Nayak, a resident of Kudroli said that besides filling the surroundings with foul smell, wastewater on the road is highly dangerous for two-wheeler riders as well as other road users. As wastewater is slippery in nature, two-wheeler riders often fall because of skidding, he said. Mr. Kottari said that the local bodies, including city corporations and municipalities, are bound to provide wastewater dumping areas for fish transporters as per relevant Acts governing their functioning. None of them have provided them thereby forcing transporters to create civic nuisance en route , he regretted. Added to the wastewater menace, transporting of decayed fish to fish meal factories too has been causing foul smell across the city, Mr. Kottari added. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that he will look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fish-wastewater-menace-returns-to-haunt-road-users-residents/article36688461.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Private jet brings tourists||On the occasion of World Tourism Day, several tourists from Pune landed in Mangaluru by a private jet on Sunday, while tour operators said that the development is encouraging. As many as 13 tourists reached the international airport here by the private jet at 11.30 a.m. They were welcomed by officials of the Tourism Department. The former CEO of Panambur Beach Development Project Yatish Baikampady said that the trend of tourists arriving by private jets is increasing and it is a good sign for the sector. At a time when the whole country is recovering from COVID-19-induced difficulties, such developments offer considerable boost to the tourism sector that was one of the worst affected during the global pandemic, he said. Increased visits of tourists will also benefit the hospitality and transport sectors that too were severely affected during the pandemic, Mr. Baikampady said. The group of 13 tourists from Pune is expected to visit the Thousand Pillar Basadi at Moodbidri, Sri Durgaparameshwari Temples at Bappanadu, Mulki and Kateel, Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala and Sri Kukke Subrahmanya, before proceeding towards Kodagu district, Mr. Baikampady said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-jet-brings-tourists/article36688459.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Railways urged to advance express train’s arrival time||Member of Railway Users Consultative Committee, Palakkad Railway Division, K.P. Jagadish Adhikari on Saturday urged the Southern Railway to advance the arrival time of Bengaluru-Mangaluru overnight express at Mangaluru Central and provide a halt for Mangaluru Central-Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Central Matsyagandha Express at Mangaluru Junction. Mr. Adhkari met Palakkad Divisional Railway Manager Trilok Kothari, who was visiting Mangaluru, along with Railway activist Gopalakrishna Bhat and submitted a list of demands. Southern Railway has proposed to postpone the arrival time of Train No 06515 (Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Kannur), the only overnight train between Bengaluru and Mangaluru Central, from 7.18 a.m. to 7.28 a.m. This causes severe inconvenience to the travelling public, he said. Instead, the train that arrives at Mangaluru Junction at 6.45 a.m., instead of its scheduled arrival timing of 7.18 a.m., should be made to leave Mangaluru Junction at 7 a.m. to reach Mangaluru Central at 7.15 a.m.. From Mangaluru Central, it may leave for Kannur at 7.45 a.m., he said. This revision of time will not affect the arrival time of Train No 02619 Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Central Matsyagandha Special that operates with an average delay of 15 minutes. Its arrival time at Mangaluru Central may be revised to 7.50 a.m., the activists told Mr. Kothari. Mr. Adhikari also urged Mr. Kothari to postpone the departure time of Mangaluru Central-Madgaon Passenger to 6 a.m. as the 5.30 a.m. departure is inconvenient to passengers. The Mangaluru-Kabakaputtur evening passenger should be extended till Subrahmanya Road Station and allowed to commence its journey from Subrahmanya Road at 6.30 a.m. so as to reach Mangaluru Central at 8.50 a.m. They also demanded extension of Vijayapura-Mangaluru Central-Vijayapura Special Express to Mangaluru Central. They said that the train can be received before 9.30 a.m. and dispatched at around 6 p.m. The Mangaluru-Bengaluru day train services should be scheduled to leave Mangaluru Junction at 8.15 a.m., instead of 11.30 a.m. Mangaluru Junction-Mumbai CSMT-Mangaluru Junction (Train 02134/02133) Special is regularly running late since a year and this could be avoided by a rake-sharing arrangement with Chennai-Mangaluru Superfast Express by extending the CSMT Special to Mangaluru Central.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-urged-to-advance-express-trains-arrival-time/article36688463.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Plan to get Blue Flag certification for Tannirbavi and Idya beaches||Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada K.V. Rajendra has said that the district administration has sent a proposal to the government to develop Tannirbavi and Idya beaches to get the coveted eco-label (certification) Blue Flag from the international agency Foundation for Environment Education, Denmark. Speaking at a meet-the-press organised by the Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists at the Patrika Bhavan here, Dr. Rajendra said that a 1-km stretch of each of the two beaches will be developed to get the certification. According to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, a Blue Flag beach is an eco-tourism model to provide tourists clean and hygienic bathing water, facilities/amenities, safe and healthy environment and sustainable development of the area. The certification is awarded by the Denmark-based agency based on 33 stringent criteria in four major heads — environmental education and information, bathing water quality, environment management and conservation, and safety and services on the beaches. He said that the government has released Rs. 5 crore to develop Sasihitlu and Hejmady beaches but there are issues of sea erosion which will have to be addressed first before taking up the development works. Plans are being made to tackle this. The Deputy Commissioner said that there is a plan to open government surfing schools at Sasihitlu and Tannirbavi beaches. To a question on the maintenance of Panambur beach, he said that a meeting will be held with potential bidders in a week. There is a plan to build temporary uniform shops, a watch tower, a cloak room and changing rooms; introduce water sports; deploy guards for safety; and focus on cleanliness and maintenance of the beach. Dr. Rajendra said that Opus Laguna Golf and Resorts Pvt. Ltd. had won the bid in 2007-08 to develop a golf course and an international convention centre on 130 acres in Bengre. It has now obtained the coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) clearance for the project. When the project comes up, about 800 local people will get employment. There are some issues related to encroachment of land in Tota Bengre and Kasba bengre which will be addressed through fencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plan-to-get-blue-flag-certification-for-tannirbavi-and-idya-beaches/article36688475.ece
27 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||SDPI shows solidarity with farmers’ struggle||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has supported the Bharat Bandh on Monday demanding the repeal of farm laws. It will stage protests and street plays in Mangaluru, B.C. Road and Puttur in support, its Dakshina Kannada unit president Athaullah Jokatte said in a release. CPI(M) activists will stage a protest near the Clock Tower supporting the demand of the morcha. Procession Meanwhile, Raita, Dalita, Karmika Janapara Chaluvaligala Okkuta, Dakshina Kannada has said it will block NH 75 at B.C. Road. A procession from Mini Vidhana Soudha, B.C. Road, to Brahmashree Narayana Guru Circle will be taken out at 10 a.m. before blocking the highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sdpi-shows-solidarity-with-farmers-struggle/article36688472.ece
27 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Workshop today to review tourism scenario||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has said that the District Tourism Development Committee will organise a workshop to review the tourism scenario in the district at the World Tourism Day celebration in the city on Monday. This year’s theme is ‘Tourism for inclusive growth’. The day will be observed at Hotel Ocean Pearl. Speaking at a meet-the-press organised by the Dakshina Kannada Union of Working Journalists at the Patrika Bhavan Dr. Rajendra said that there will be a group discussion on the topics like eco-tourism, medical tourism, cultural tourism, religious tourism, beach tourism and the like. The stakeholders will discuss issues that need to be addressed for the growth of particular sectors of tourism. In addition, the discussion will also review why tourism did not develop at the expected level in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workshop-today-to-review-tourism-scenario/article36688471.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bus to Sulthan Bathery||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will launch a city bus service between Sulthan Bathery and Mangaluru Junction on Monday. Member of Legislative Assembly D. Vedavyas Kamath will launch the inaugural service at Amruta Vidyalaya School Grounds, Boloor, at 10.30 a.m. The bus will operate via Urwa Market, Lady Hill, Lalbagh, PVS Circle, Ambedkar Circle and Kankanady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bus-to-sulthan-bathery/article36688465.ece
27 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Boat sinks||A fishing boat sank after reportedly hitting breakwater rocks near the estuary off Malpe Port in Udupi district on Friday night. The crew of another boat that was accompanying it rescued the four fishermen in the boat. Sources said that the boat hit the rocks after its engine developed a technical snag. The loss is estimated at Rs. 26 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boat-sinks/article36688467.ece
27 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Breakthrough infection itself will act like a booster dose’||How long does immunity against COVID-19 last after vaccination? Does one need a booster dose? Reports of health agencies in parts of the world considering a booster dose against fading immunity, particularly among the elderly, even after two doses of vaccine, has raised the uncomfortable question in India, which is struggling to vaccinate its vast population. Though breakthrough infections – people testing positive for COVID-19 even after vaccination – have been reported in Karnataka, Mudassir Azeez Khan, Head of Community Medicine at Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI), during a presentation at a recent meeting of the Mysuru District Technical Experts Committee on COVID-19, argued against the need for a booster dose. “A breakthrough infection itself will act like a booster dose. A human body produces a better antibody response against COVID-19 through natural infection than a third dose of vaccination,” he said. Elaborating, Dr. Khan said SARS-COV-2, the virus strain causing COVID-19, has a total of 28 different proteins. “The antibodies generated from the vaccination will act only against the spike protein, which is on the surface. The remaining 27 proteins are not exposed to the antibodies generated from the vaccination. But, in the case of natural infection of COVID-19, all the 28 proteins will get exposed and the antibodies will fight the virus from all sides,” he said. K.S. Satish, pulmonologist and member of State COVID-19 Expert Committee, also said studies have indicated that antibodies generated through natural infection, combined with vaccination, would give more lasting immunity. “A booster dose has been indicated only for those persons who are not expected to mount any antibody response because they are immuno-compromised. It is for people like cancer patients, who have undergone chemotherapy and have low immunity,” he explained. In a year Though immunity through vaccination is expected to last up to nine months as ‘we now know’, Dr. Satish said a lot of studies were under way to see if everyone requires a booster dose once a year, like the flu-shot in some countries. “We will know by the end of this year when the first batch of vaccine recipients (with both doses) are studied,” he said. Dr. Khan pointed out that breakthrough infections, in most cases, are not life-threatening, and in a majority of instances do not even require hospitalisation. Supporting the argument, Mysore Sanjeev, convenor of Project Jeevan Raksha, which is studying COVID-19 trends, pointed out that 93 of the 130 people hospitalised in Houston Medical Centre and Perry Hospital in the U.S. in August 2021 had not been vaccinated. “The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) in countries, which have fully vaccinated over 50% of their population, has come down sharply,” he said. Dr. Khan recommends wider and swifter coverage of vaccination because the virus tends to mutate as it spreads among people. He attributed the emergence of Delta variant to the delay in vaccination in India. Third wave Ruling out the possibility of a third wave in October, as predicted in some quarters, Dr. Khan said there is a possibility of some new variant emerging in the next six-seven months if vaccination coverage is not sufficiently expanded. “The possibility of a new variant emerging and sparking a fresh wave depends on the number of people yet to be vaccinated by March 2022,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/breakthrough-infection-itself-will-act-like-a-booster-dose-says-expert/article36688058.ece
27 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers plan road blockade today||Farmers are planning to hold a blockade on the Mysuru-Nanjangud road near Sachchidananda Swamy Ashram in Mysuru early on Monday as part of the Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. In a statement by Attihalli Devaraj, organising secretary of Karnataka State Sugarcane Farmers’ Association, the farmers have threatened to block the highway in support of the bandh. However, city police officials have clarified that no permission was given for processions to be taken out on Monday. Strict action will be taken against people found forcibly closing shops or disturbing peace in the city, the police has warned. Additional forces will be deployed on Monday to ensure law and order. Battalions from the CAR and the KSRP will be deployed at sensitive places. Meanwhile, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader Badagalapura Nagendra has appealed to people, who had travels planned for Monday, to put off their travels and extend support to the bandh. He called upon the people to extend their support to the bandh called to protest against the three farm laws of the Centre and the rise in prices of essential commodities. Mr Nagendra claimed that Kannada organisations, labour organisations, and Dalit organisations are supporting the bandh. The Railway Goods Shed Lorry Owners’ Association and Mysuru and Chamarajanagar Lorry Owners’ Association have also extended their support. The truckers are scheduled to take out a procession to the office of Deputy Commissioner and submit a memorandum. However, the Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association have extended only moral support. President of association Narayanagowda said hotels and restaurants in the city will remain open. Closure of the hotels and restaurants will hit the industry very badly, particularly in the wake of the losses it had suffered during the COVID-19 lockdown, he said. KSRTC officials also said that buses will ply on Monday as scheduled.  The city police have clarified that no permission has been given given for processions on Monday. Strict action will be taken against people found forcibly closing shops or disturbing peace in the city, the police have warned||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-plan-road-blockade-today/article36688487.ece
27 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘CFTRI, CMTI can collaborate to develop future food manufacturing technologies’||Identifying drones, automated delivery vehicles, and 3D printing of edible goods as future food manufacturing technologies, Director of Central Manufacturing Technology Institute (CMTI), Bengaluru, Nagahanumaiah has offered to collaborate with the Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI), Mysuru, to develop emerging technologies in food processing and manufacturing industry. Delivering the 80th CSIR Foundation Day lecture virtually, on ‘4Ps: Challenges in inclusive innovation process’, Dr. Nagahanumaiah said CMTI has the basic expertise in some of the emerging technologies and added that there was an opportunity for the two institutions to collaborate in developing them. After identifying artificial intelligence and robotics (deployment of robotic butchers), automation, digital twins (virtual representation of physical) and block chain (a kind of digital ledger; Walmart is using the technology to track potential food contamination outbreaks) as transforming the food manufacturing sector, Dr. Nagahanumaiah said drones and automated delivery vehicles, 3D printing of edible goods, smart and precision agriculture, high-tech packaging and smarter waste disposal and recycling are the future. “We should connect all the stake holders, including consumers and investors. Innovation must be an inclusive process,” he said and defined inclusive innovation as when new goods and services are developed for and/or by those, who have been excluded from the development mainstream. Dr. Nagahanumaiah said CMTI had developed Drishti, for inclusive innovation process[https://drishti.  cmti.res.in/]. The platform seeks to bring together “problem owners” like SMEs, enterprises and government agencies, “problem solvers” like technology innovators, start-ups, researchers etc., along with “technology and market enablers” and “supporting tools” to develop “innovative products”. He called upon food scientists and researchers to register on the portal and become either problem solvers or problem owners. Over 3,816 people had registered till September 20, 2021. Earlier, CFTRI director Sridevi Singh said the laboratory will work towards enhancing the quality of research and double farmers’ income, and empower women entrepreneurs and rural people. Navin Rastogi from CFTRI said CSIR, since its inception, had acquired 14,000 patents and developed 1,400 technologies during the last 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cftri-cmti-can-collaborate-to-develop-future-food-manufacturing-technologies/article36688486.ece
27 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||8-metre-tall papaya tree is cynosure of all eyes||A papaya tree planted in the residential quarters of Airports Authority of India (AAI) here appears to be literally reaching for the skies. The tree planted in the house of AAI electrical officer Vaddi Suresh Babu about four years ago now stands at a height of 8 metres. The tree, which has become the cynosure of all eyes, bears fruit throughout the year. Mr. Babu’s father, Vaddi Abbai, spends considerable time gardening and nursing the plants on the premises. Along with the papaya tree, he has grown a variety of other organic vegetables and horticultural plants. Deputy Director of Horticulture Department, Mysuru, Rudresh, whose attention was drawn to the unusually tall tree, said it was quite rare for a papaya tree to grow up to 8 metres. “It is like some people growing 7 feet,” he said, attributing the height to the tree’s genotype, which had expressed itself during its growth. While the average height of a papaya tree ranges between 10 and 15 feet, Mr. Rudresh pointed out that it would be a challenge to harvest the fruit when the tree grows upto 8 metres, which is more than 26 feet. Though he ruled the possibility of commercially exploiting papaya trees that grew to such heights, the Horticulture Department official evinced interest in obtaining its seeds and sending it to the University of Agriculture Sciences or Horticultural Sciences for research. Meanwhile, Mysuru Airport Director R Manjunath, who recently visited the residential quarters of Mr. Babu, was impressed with the interest of residents of the quarters in environment-friendly activities, like gardening. He called upon the residents of the AAI quarters and the employees at the Mysuru airport to engage in eco-friendly activities and contribute to changing the landscape of the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/8-metre-tall-papaya-tree-is-cynosure-of-all-eyes/article36688484.ece
27 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Name park after Vishnuvardhan: MP||Pratap Simha, Mysuru MP, has written to Mayor Sunanda Palanetra to name the park near Chamaraja Circle after the late actor Vishnuvardhan. In the letter, Mr. Simha has asked the Mayor to take up the issue during next meeting of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Council. He also called upon the Mayor to also install a statue of the actor in the park after naming it after him. He pointed out that the actor’s birth and death anniversaries were being observed in the park for the past few years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/name-park-after-vishnuvardhan-mp/article36688488.ece
27 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||SC/ST colonies should develop with all facilities: DC||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has directed officials to identify the localities of Schedule Caste and Scheduled Tribes that lack facilities and ensure they are equipped with the same immediately. She was addressing a review meeting recently in Yadgir. Dr. Ragapriya said the government has earmarked adequate grants and announced various schemes under different departments such as Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Fishery, Forest, Cooperative, Transport, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Housing, Health, Urban Development, PWD, Energy, Major and Minor Irrigation, Planning, Medical Education, Primary and Higher Education, Backward Classes Welfare, Skill Development, Handlooms and Textile, Small Scale Industries, Food and Civil Supplies, Revenue, Labour, Kannada and Culture and Social Welfare to reach out the people with programmes. Hence, officials should implement such programmes effectively and ensure development of SC and ST colonies, she advised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scst-colonies-should-develop-with-all-facilities-dc/article36688307.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bharat Bandh: Security tightened in State||Schools and colleges will function as usual on Monday. R. Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction, said that the schools and examination would be held as usual as public transport would not be affected. Private school managements, however, said that they would show solidarity with farmers by conducting classes wearing a green badge. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, “Farmers have a right to protest. But they should not shut down the country in the name of Bharat Bandh. It will adversely affect everyone. The economy is slowly getting back to normalcy. Farmers should not do anything to cripple the economy.” Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress and Janata Dal (S) have extended support to the bandh. The Samyuktha Kisan Morcha will hold a protest at Maurya Circle here along with several other like-minded organisations on Monday, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bharat-bandh-security-tightened-in-state/article36688059.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lone traveller||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lone-traveller/article36688080.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Getting a facelift||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/getting-a-facelift/article36688056.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gadhayuddha||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gadhayuddha/article36688469.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of power||The cascading effect of fuel price hike cannot be missed by a daily wage earner who buys provisions for the next meal from what he earns that day, or even on a two-wheeler-owning middle class person. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai(in picture), who faced the heat on this issue, has little control over fuel prices, unless he wants to cut State taxes on the lines of Tamil Nadu. However, he mustered all the resources at his disposal to counter the Opposition Congress that staged three protests outside the Vidhana Soudha and also raised the price rise issue inside the House in the just-concluded legislature session. It looks like the Chief Minister’s team had to visit even city eateries and check the rates of dosas and idlis and work out the statistics. At one point in the price rise debate, he cited the cost of idlis and dosas, both past and present, at a popular eatery in Bengaluru and the percentage of increase, saying it was not as high as the Opposition was making it out to be. That must, indeed, be as micro as economics can get!   The gag order issued by the State government seems to be ineffective in restraining its employees from criticising policies in public and on social media platforms. A government servant, speaking at a public programme in Hassan recently, criticised the failure of successive governments to bring in uniformity to education. He also took the names of a couple of former Chief Ministers for the present failures in the education sector and the in the government’s functioning. As he went on commenting on the government’s failures, his wife, who is also a public servant, present among the audience, sent a text message asking him to stop commenting on the government. She was worried that if his statements were reported in the media, he would land land in trouble. The man, busy speaking with gusto, probably failed to see the message and continued in the same tenor. His wife grew increasingly restless, and as a last resort gave a ring to his phone to alert him. As his phone rang, the speaker told the audience straight away that his wife was asking him to stop criticising the government. “We government servants have some restrictions. But sometimes we have to speak and express our honest opinions,” he said. But it looked like the ring had its desired impact, as he soon wound up his speech.   A number of KSRTC buses, which stopped operating during the COVID-19 lockdown, are yet to get back on the road. This has caused inconvenience to the public, particularly students. Moreover, lack of maintenance during this period has resulted in other problems in the buses that have now been pressed back into service. Congress member Lakshmi Hebbalkar(in picture)raised this issue in the Legislative Assembly and said that several buses had holes in their roof, even as some northern districts have seen heavy rains over the last couple of months. Ms. Hebbalkar said she had met the managing director of the North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation and other senior officials on the issue and appealed to them to operate buses in good condition. About 70 buses operating in her constituency have not even recommenced services, she said. All her efforts to convince officials had gone in vain, she said, compelling her to appeal to Transport Minister B. Sriramulu on the floor of the House.  Bageshree S.   Sathish G.T.   Nagesh Prabhu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors-of-power/article36688083.ece
27 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||AC Road: two bridges to be opened by Oct.||The reconstruction of two bridges at Ponga and Pallathuruthy West (Pakki bridge) is making good progress and are likely to be opened to traffic in October. The bridges are being rebuilt as part of reconstructing the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road. Officials said that all 14 girders of the Ponga bridge had been placed and they hoped to open it by October 20 after completing the rest of the work. The Pallathuruthy West bridge would be opened by October 31. Meanwhile, preliminary works have been started for the demolition of the Parassery and Madhavassery bridges. The bridges will be reconstructed at a width of 14 m. The construction of a temporary route parallel to the Parassery bridge for the movement of light vehicles has commenced. The Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP) will prepare the design and estimate for two flyovers coming up between Onnamkara and Pallikuttumma and Parackal and Poovam. The two flyovers are new additions to the five already proposed — between the Onnamkara bridge and Mankombu Junction, Mankombu Junction and Mankombu culvert, Jyothi Junction and Parasseril bridge, Ponga culvert and Pandarakulam, and near Mankombu Thekkekara. To check flooding The AC road, under the KSTP, is being reconstructed as a semi-elevated highway at a cost of Rs. 649.76 crore. The work being taken up to prevent the flooding of the road during the monsoon season is expected to be completed by December 2022. Once completed, the two-lane road and flyovers with footpaths will have a width between 13 and 14 m. As part of the project, 2.9 km of the road will be refurbished using bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC). Another 8.27 km will be strengthened by laying geotextiles. A total of 9 km of the road will be rebuilt with geogrid and geotextile encased stone columns. Apart from the construction of seven flyovers, three existing bridges at Kidangara, Nedumudi and Pallathuruthy will be widened. The Muttar bridge across the AC canal will be reconstructed. Apart from these, the construction of nine causeways, 13 minor bridges, drains, ducts, retaining walls, culverts and bus shelters are also planned. The work is being carried out by the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ac-road-two-bridges-to-be-opened-by-oct/article36688394.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||Give Rs. 10-lakh aid to BCs too, BJP tells Telangana govt.||The State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party has demanded that the government take steps to implement a welfare scheme for grant of Rs. 10-lakh assistance to Backward Classes (BCs) on the lines of Dalit Bandhu being implemented on a pilot basis. The government should take steps to revive the BC sub-plan and ensure repayment of fee reimbursement dues to BCs. The government should stop adopting a “step-motherly” attitude towards BCs who constituted the largest chunk of population in the State, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar said. In a detailed letter addressed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Mr. Sanjay Kumar said that he had received several representations from BC communities, seeking implementation of scheme on the lines of Dalit Bandhu during his ongoing padayatra covering different districts. The BJP had welcomed Dalit Bandhu proposed by the government but wanted the scheme to be implemented across the State. Several representations submitted to the government in this regard went unheeded. “The implementation of Dalit Bandhu in Huzurabad and four other mandals exposes the government’s concern towards weaker sections and dalits,” he said. He expressed concern that artisans and others dependent on traditional occupations were suffering on account of mechanisation and corporatisation. Several BC communities which came under the most backward classes were suffering severe hardships on account of this and there were reports of starvation deaths of the members of these communities. The government had, however, remained unmoved by the plight of these sections and the BC sub-plan, the implementation of which was assured by the Chief Minister in 2017, had been shelved. “Implementation of BC sub-plan would have entailed additional budgetary allocation of Rs. 10,000 crore for the welfare of these communities and it would have gone a long way in alleviating the problems of these sections,” he said. The government should therefore accord top most priority to the welfare of these sections and ensure that adequate budgetary allocations were made for effective implementation of schemes aimed at their welfare. The government should fulfil the promises like construction of ‘atma gaurava’ (self respect) bhavans it had made for the BC communities and ensure that loans were sanctioned to the needy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/give-rs-10-lakh-grant-to-bcs-too-bjp/article36688334.ece
27 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Waste-free Kerala will be a reality, says Govindan||Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said that “waste-free Kerala” will be a reality in five years. He was releasing the Comprehensive Plan Document (DPR) for making Malappattam a waste-free panchayat. The Minister called upon local bodies to give priority to comprehensive plans for a pollution-free State. He said waste should be treated at source to protect people’s health. He added that Haritha Karma Sena members who collect and segregate waste should be paid at least Rs. 8,000 a month. The system of charging user fee for waste collection should be implemented in all wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/waste-free-kerala-will-be-a-reality-says-govindan/article36688352.ece
27 September 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Fire breaks out in two-storey building||A huge fire broke out in a two-storey building on the national highway at Thana on Sunday evening. The fire broke out in a room where interior work had been completed for the sale of home appliances. Five rooms on the first floor were gutted. There was no one inside the building at the time of the accident, and the crowd outside was evacuated. The fire also spread to nearby shops that remained locked. The fire was put out by three units of Fire and Rescue Services from Kannur. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. The loss was reportedly estimated at Rs. 55 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-breaks-out-in-two-storey-building/article36688353.ece
27 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Man killed in elephant attack||A 38-year-old man, who was on his way to the church with his wife, was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Vallithodu, Iritty, on Sunday morning. Justin and his wife Jenny were travelling on a motorbike when the animal attacked them around 7 a.m. Though both were rushed to a private hospital in Kannur, Justin could not be saved. Jenny sustained serious injuries and is in the intensive care unit. The couple have two children. As per local people, this is the first instance of a wild elephant incursion in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-killed-in-elephant-attack/article36688422.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Soon, a green plan for Ernakulam||Ernakulam will soon have a District Environment Plan (DEP) that will enable local bodies and the district administration to set their own goals in environment management. The plan is being formulated on the directive of the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in New Delhi. Deadline Many States, including Kerala, have already overshot the deadline set by the tribunal for formulating district-wise plans. The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) is coordinating preparations for drafting the DEP. It will map relevant information on seven thematic areas that include waste management (solid waste, biomedical waste, construction and demolition waste, hazardous waste, electronic waste, and plastic waste), water quality management, ambient air quality, domestic sewage, industrial wastewater, mining activity, and noise pollution. 64 action areas The information has to be captured on data sheet by including basic details on 64 action areas, with around 200 data points required for preparing the DEP. The government has to ensure that the plan includes all thematic points as per data templates formulated by the Central Pollution Control Board. The District Collector has to ascertain the drafting of time-bound action plans to resolve issues affecting the environment. The district-wise plans have to be integrated with the State Environment Plan. The plan has to specify the current status of compliance with waste management rules, setting up of sewage treatment plants and re-use of treated water, performance of common effluent treatment plants, groundwater extraction and contamination, air pollution (including noise pollution), illegal sand mining, and rejuvenation of waterbodies. Targets Local bodies and the district administration have to set their own targets to achieve the desired environmental quality. The DEP is intended as a quick reference for personnel of the district administration to identify key environmental issues, prioritise projects, and strategize and plan them for implementation. The report will also help regulators monitor compliance and will be structured to allow updates and monitoring at the State level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soon-a-green-plan-for-ernakulam/article36688371.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held for robbery||The Ernakulam South police arrested three youths on the charge of blackmailing a man and robbing him of his cell phone and cash beneath the South overbridge here, on Sunday. The arrested are Leon, Immanuel Josey, and Desmon, all natives of Fort Kochi. The issue came to light after a police patrol vehicle came that way and asked the victim about an injury on his face. It turned out that the two-wheeler on which the the youths had fled was a stolen one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-robbery/article36688364.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MLA opposes eviction of families from rly. land||T.J. Vinod, MLA, has said that the Railways should not be allowed to take a unilateral decision to evict the 23 families from the Old Railway Station purampoke. Participating in the District Development Council (DDC) meeting the other day, he said eviction should be carried out only after ensuring the rehabilitation of the families. Mr. Vinod called for the early completion of the survey for the Vaduthala-Perandoor bridge. The unused book depot building on the Kaloor Model Technical School campus should be demolished. He said Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) itself should undertake the task of repairing street lights installed by it and handed over to the Kochi Corporation. Steps should be taken to solve drinking water shortage at Cheranelloor. District Collector Jafar Malik has directed officials to ensure time-bound action on issues raised by MLAs at the DDC meeting. He also asked officials to file action taken reports in a week. P.V. Sreenijin, MLA, had alleged at the meeting that there were widespread irregularities in the construction of roads in Kizhakambalam panchayat. The MLA urged the Public Works Department to take steps to complete repair of Kizhakambalam-Pattimattam and Mannur-Ponjaassery roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-opposes-eviction-of-families-from-rly-land/article36688366.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL solar boat to power Muziris tourism||The Cochin International Airport and the Muziris Heritage Project have entered into an agreement to use a solar boat from the airport authority for tourism purposes. CIAL has a 24-seater solar-powered boat under Kerala Waterways and Infrastructures Limited, which is implementing the revival of canals across the State for backwater and coastal tourism. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had inaugurated the first phase of the backwater transport project in February, said a communication from CIAL on Sunday. The CIAL boat deploys 15 panels and can run on solar power throughout the day. It can also be electrically charged in case sunshine dips, and can run up to five hours if fully charged once. The boat has been designed in a such a way that it can move in water of 45-cm depth. MoU signed CIAL Managing Director S. Suhas and Muzuris Project Director P.M. Noushad signed the memorandum of understanding for the use of the solar-powered boat, the communication added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-solar-boat-to-power-muziris-tourism/article36688369.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Heritage walk in West Kochi||A heritage walk will be held along the streets of Fort Kochi and Mattancherry on Monday morning (September 27). The event is organised by Kerala Homestay and Tourism Society (Kerala-HATS) in connection with World Tourism Day celebrations. The walk will begin from Bastion Bungalow heritage museum at 6.30 a.m. Senior tour guide from Fort Kochi, Antony Thommen, will be honoured on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heritage-walk-in-west-kochi/article36688363.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand for underpasses||P.T. Thomas, MLA, has demanded the construction of an underpass from Padamugal to IMG Junction and at TV Centre Junction on Vennala-Palachuvadu Road-Seaport-Airport Road before the commencement of the Kochi metro Kakkanad extension work. Participating in the District Development Council (DDC) meeting, he demanded that Infopark road, Brahmapuram bridge, Tuthiyoor-Eloor bridge, Athani bridge, and Idachira approach road towards Manjerikkuzhi bridge be constructed without delay. The drains on service roads on the National Highway from Edappally to Thykoodam should be cleaned. Mr. Thomas also raised the issue of lack of street lights in Edappally and Palarivattom areas and near Vyttila and Edappally flyovers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-underpasses/article36688365.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,572 new COVID cases in district||A total of 2,572 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Ernakulam on Sunday. They include 2,547 cases of local spread. There are 21 cases of which the source of infection is not known. Four health workers are among those who were freshly infected. The test positivity rate was 15.12%, said a communication from the health authorities. Puthenvelikkara reported a total of 90 fresh cases on Sunday, which is the highest in the district. Pallippuram had 89 cases and Thrikkakara had 77 cases. Thripunithura had 74 fresh cases, while Kothamangalam had 33 cases, Kaloor and Kalamassery 30 each, Kumbalanghi 29, Angamaly 25, Nedumbassery 24, Edappally and Vyttila 22 each, Maradu 20, Palluruthy 19, Perumbavoor 17, Aluva 15, Mattancherry 12, Thevara and Fort Kochi 10 each, and Chellanam 11 cases. A total of 635 people were declared cured on Sunday. There are 24,920 under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2572-new-covid-cases-in-district/article36688368.ece
27 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Overseas demand for vannamei rekindles hope for aquaculturists||Supported by a sustained demand in overseas markets, vannamei, the exotic white-leg shrimp, is slowly becoming a game changer for aquaculturists in the State. In 2020-21, India exported 5.9 lakh tonnes of frozen shrimp worth Rs. 32,520 crore and States such as Andhra Pradesh have been extensively farming the variety. While many States switched from tiger shrimp to vannamei over the years due to high productivity and profit margin, Kerala is yet to tap the potential of vannamei culture. The Agency for Development of Aquaculture Kerala (ADAK) recently carried out a demonstration farming at its farm at Ayiramthengu, harvesting more than two tonnes of shrimp from half an acre. “This means that we can produce around 10 tonnes of vannamei from a one-hectare farm. When we take the national average, productivity of vannamei is five tonnes per hectare and even that ensures a profitable farming system,” says Dinesan Cheruvat, Executive Director, ADAK. Compared with fish varieties such as tilapia and pangusis that yield around 10 tonnes per hectare, the market value of vannamei is much higher. While a kg of vannamei, an export-oriented variety, can fetch anything from Rs. 300 to Rs. 400, pangusis is sold at Rs. 100. Kerala, with many seafood processing units, usually wait for vannamei consignments from other States. According to experts, shrimp farming in Kerala has come down considerably from 13,000 ha to 2,000 ha in the past 20 years. Though many aquaculture programmes had been implemented by the government, few focussed on enhancing shrimp production or adopting the practices opted by the leading States. A string of vannamei farms have come up across the State in recent times, but the farmers are struggling to develop a strong marketing network. “Vannamei culture is slowly becoming popular in districts such as Kannur. The specific pathogen-free (SPF) variety has comparatively higher survival rate and it’s an advantage,” says T.Prushothaman, State president, Kerala Aqua Farmers Federation. While the indigenous naaran (white shrimp) and tiger varieties are not ideal for intensive farming, the stocking density and yield of vannamei are much higher. “But right now the biggest challenge faced by farmers in Kerala is the inflow from other States. When we implement a project, everything from production to sales should be taken care of. There is no point in enhancing production if there is no provision for marketing,” says Mr.Prushothaman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/overseas-demand-for-vannamei-rekindles-hope-for-aquaculturists/article36688421.ece
27 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||100% Plan fund use by 11 depts.||Eleven out of the 49 government departments in the district have achieved 100% utilisation of Plan funds from the State. A review of the progress of the schemes sponsored by the State and the Centre in Kottayam, carried out by the district planning council, showed that the departments had utilised 57.99% of the State funds and 93.12% of the Central funds till September. In absolute terms, the district has utilised Rs. 98.99 crore out of Rs. 170.56 crore allocated by the State for the implementation of 233 projects. Central funds Of the Rs. 5.17 crore allocated for various Centrally sponsored schemes in the district to four departments, Rs. 3.78 crore has already been utilised. This is in addition to the utilisation of Rs. 129.14 crore out of Rs. 137.58 crore allocated to 14 other departments in the district. Kanjirappally bypass The meeting, held on Saturday, decided to expedite the acquisition of land for the Kanjirappally bypass project and hand over the land to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) by December 31. The buildings division of the Public Works Department has been tasked to asses the value of the buildings to be taken over. Replying to a demand raised by Kanjirapplly legislator N. Jayaraj, the meeting also decided to complete land acquisition for the Rs. 66- crore Karimbukayam potable water project. Project report According to officials with the Kerala Water Authority, the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) report of the project has already been prepared. On the recurring instances of wildlife attacks, as pointed out by Poonjar MLA Sebastian Kulathungal, the Divisional Forest Officer said solar fencing would be erected at a length of 3.5 km at Mangappetta, near Koruthodu, to restrict the entry of elephants to human settlements. Roadwork Kottayam MLA Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan sought the authorities to complete the maintenance of various roads in his constituency, including the Kottayam-Kumarakom tourism corridor. District Collector P.K. Jayasree, Additional District Magistrate Jinu Punnoose and district panchayat president Nirmala Jimmy were present.  Depts. use 57.99% of State funds, 93.12% of Central funds Of Rs. 5.17 cr. Centrally funds to four departments, Rs. 3.78 crore utilised Thiruvanchoor seeks to complete maintenance of various roads, including Kottayam-Kumarakom tourism corridor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-plan-fund-use-by-11-depts/article36688403.ece
27 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,486 fresh cases in Kottayam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to rise in the district with 1,486 persons testing positive for the disease on Sunday. Of the cases, 1,473 persons, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local transmission. With 132 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kanjirappally (77 cases). As many as 1,407 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,108. A total of 55,719 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. 623 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 623 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of these, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of two cases is yet to be ascertained. At 47, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamthitta, which reported 33 cases. With 438 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 9,128.  (With inputs from Pathanamthitta bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1486-fresh-cases-in-kottayam/article36688405.ece
27 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ezhumanthuruth opens for tourists||Keen to place itself on the global tourism map, Ezhumanthuruth, a picturesque village near Kallara in Kottayam, is now ready to welcome tourists. The Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission, Kerala, has come up with a tourism package specifically for the village, which envisages a ride along the Kariyar stream on board the shikara boats operated by the Ezhumanthuruthu Tourism Club . These boats will take the visitors to the tourism units run by the RT Mission through Ezhumanthuruth and Mundar and offer them a chance to experience rural life through ethnic cuisine and cultural programmes. The visitors will be offered a chance to prepare ethnic cuisine on their own and try a hand in local handicrafts such as coir spinning , mat weaving or even fishing. According to K. Rupesh Kumar, coordinator, RT Mission, the package involves massive local participation and seek to maintain a balance between the guests and the local community. The local bodies of Neendoor and Arpookkara too have kick-started similar programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ezhumanthuruth-opens-for-tourists/article36688413.ece
27 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mango Meadow owner wins award||N.K. Kurian, owner of Mango Meadow Agricultural Park at Kaduthuruthy, has been selected for this year’s P.K. Narayanan Oushadhamitram Award instituted by the Nagarjuna Ayurveda Group. The award instituted in memory of P.K. Narayanan, former executive director of Nagarjuna, comprises a purse of Rs. 25,001, a citation and a plaque. 1,000 varieties The award committee observed that Mr. Kurian created an artificial forest of more than 1,000 varieties of rare medicinal plants in nearly 30 acres of land at Ayamkudi. To impart knowledge about medicinal plants to the visitors, he placed boards displaying names of each plant and its importance. Agriculture Minister P. Prasad will present the award at a function to be held at the Pathanamthitta Press Club on September 30. Nava Kerala Mission coordinator T.N. Seema will deliver the keynote address. Nagarjuna director S. Krishna Kumar will preside. Marayur grama panchayat in Idukki will be declared as a total medicinal village on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mango-meadow-owner-wins-award/article36688398.ece
27 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two found dead||Two youths were found hanging from a tree at Kochangadi, near Vaikom, on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Amarjith, 23, and Krishna Priya, 21, both natives of Vaikom. The duo had gone missing from their respective residences in the morning and were found hanging from the tree on an isolated property during a search. Amarjith had pursued a course in hotel management while Krishna Priya was pursuing a diploma in aviation management. Preliminary investigation revealed that they had been in a relationship. Though the exact reason for the deaths has not been ascertained yet, the police suspect it to be a case of suicide. (Suicide prevention helpline- 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-found-dead/article36688395.ece
27 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Online classes for degree courses at MGU colleges||Classes for first-semester undergraduate courses in the arts and science colleges affiliated to Mahatma Gandhi University will begin on September 28. The classes will be held online initially and a decision on offline classes will be made subject to government directives. Students can get the schedule and other details of the online classes from the respective colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-classes-for-degree-courses-at-mgu-colleges/article36688397.ece
27 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Focus on LP, UP schools ahead of resumption of offline classes||The Education Department in Kozhikode district is focussing on lower primary schools and upper primary schools, especially those in grama panchayats, ahead of resumption of classes on November 1. U.K. Abdunnassar, district coordinator, Educare project, told The Hindu on Sunday that disinfection works had been done earlier in higher secondary schools and high schools for various exams. A majority of LP schools and UP schools, however, had not been opened ever since COVID-19 struck, he said. The department is holding a series of meetings from Monday with parent-teacher associations, assistant educational officers, district educational officers, representatives of political parties, youth and student organisations, and functionaries of ward-level rapid response teams before taking up various works from October 1, he added. According to sources, police personnel would be in touch with head-teachers and principals to understand their requirements. Traffic police personnel would ensure that the government guidelines related to the travel of students from and to schools are followed. Sanitation, fumigation and chlorination works would be taken up on the premises of all school buildings. Those who engage in cleaning works would be asked to take preventive medicines against leptospirosis as at least some of the buildings might be infested with rodents. Health inspectors would be in charge of this. The Kerala State Youth Welfare Board would chip in with its volunteer groups for the works. Along with this, psychological support too would be given to parents and students. Interactive sessions have been planned through WhatsApp groups and Google Meet platforms of neighbourhood groups associated with Kudumbashree units. The Women and Child Development Department would rope in 70 of its counsellors, and 1,800 teachers and helpers in anganwadis to prepare students for offline classes. The district administration had held a meeting on Saturday to discuss these issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-on-lp-up-schools-ahead-of-resumption-of-offline-classes/article36688348.ece
27 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||16% of vaccinated MCH staff got infected: study||Over 16% of healthcare workers at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, were found to have symptomatic breakthrough infections even after receiving two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. None of them, however, required intensive care unit support, says a first-of-its-kind study in Kerala titled ‘Breakthrough infection following COVID-19 vaccination among healthcare workers in South India’. The analysis was done by T. Jayakrishnan, Professor, Department of Community Medicine, and Ardra Merin George, junior resident doctor, at the hospital. The peer-reviewed article is slated to be published in Asian Journal of Pharmaceutical and Clinical Research in its October issue. The period of study was between February 27 and June 27. Breakthrough infections are defined as detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus in a person over 14 days after getting two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. The Regional Prevention of Epidemic and Infectious Diseases Cell under the department collected data from 737 healthcare workers at the hospital, most of them doctors and nurses. As many as 677 were found to have been vaccinated. A total of 642 had got Covishield and the rest Covaxin. In the vaccinated group, 144 people had tested positive for the virus before their vaccination. As the recovered persons were immune from reinfection for calculating breakthrough infections, they were excluded from the analysis. Among the remaining 533 persons, 114 were found to have tested positive even after getting both the doses. Out of this, 89 were symptomatic and tested positive 14 days after receiving the full course. Eighty-four persons had got Covishield and five others Covaxin. The breakthrough infection rate was found to be 16.7%. All the 89 had any of the mild symptoms such as fever, headache, runny nose, and partial or full loss of smell. Out of this, 36 persons (40.4%) underwent isolation in hospital and 53 persons (59.6%) at home. Combined vaccine efficiency after two doses was found to be 65.7%. The study says that since healthcare workers are more exposed to COVID-19, the reported breakthrough infections among them may be high. As only persons with symptoms were tested regularly, the actual cases may be under-reported because the asymptomatic never came under the radar. Asymptomatic “This was a significant area of concern as most of the breakthrough infections were asymptomatic and were missed. There was also increased probability of transmission to patients and co-workers. It is possible that the infection could be ascribed to virus variants such as Delta which may bypass vaccine-induced immunity,” it says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/16-of-vaccinated-mch-staff-got-infected-study/article36688419.ece
27 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Protest held seeking rejuvenation of river||A torch light protest was held on World River Day on Sunday seeking rejuvenation of the Kallai river. The Kallai River Protection Committee, which organised the event, claimed that Rs. 4.9 crore had been allocated from the River Management Fund 12 years ago and the Kozhikode Corporation had granted Rs. 7 crore for the revival of the river. However, the authorities were yet to take up any constructive work, they claimed. The Revenue Department had identified 23.5 acres on the banks of the river as being encroached upon by private persons. Markers were placed along a 4-km length to notify that it is government land. The committee functionaries demanded that steps be taken to stop the attempts by some people to encroach upon the land again. They also sought constitution of special squads to nab people who are trying to dump waste in the river. Committee president S.K. Kunjimon and Kozhikode Corporation councillor K. Moideen Koya were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protest-held-seeking-rejuvenation-of-river/article36688350.ece
27 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two killed as concrete slabs fall on labourers||Two labourers from Tamil Nadu died and three others were injured after concrete slabs at an under-construction building crashed on them near Pottammal here on Sunday morning. The police gave the names of the deceased as Saleem, a native of Tirunelveli and Karthik from Pudukkottai, both in Tamil Nadu. Those injured were Ganesh, Thankaraj and Jeevanandam. The condition of two of them is stated to be critical. Sources said, at the time of the accident, there were eight labourers at the construction site. The incident happened when the prefabricated slabs were being fixed using a crane. Police and Fire force personnel had to cut the slabs to extricate the bodies. A Tamil Nadu-based company is learnt to be engaged in the construction of the building and concrete beams and slabs are being brought from Tirupur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-killed-as-concrete-slabs-crash-on-labourers/article36688358.ece
27 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||53 wards declared containment zones||As many as 53 three wards in various local bodies have been declared COVID-19 containment zones in Kozhikode district, as the weekly infection population ratio is above 10. According to a release by District Collector N. Tej Lohit Reddy, strict restrictions on public life will be enforced in these areas. None of the wards in Kozhikode Corporation are included in it. Koyilandy Municipality (5, 8, 22, 44) and Kakkodi grama panchayat (7, 10, 17, 20) have the highest number of such wards. Three wards each in Maniyur grama panchayat (4, 12, 14), Moodadi grama panchayat (2, 14, 16), and Ulliyeri grama panchayat (2, 8, 17) have been included in the list, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/53-wards-declared-containment-zones/article36688351.ece
27 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||EMEA College wins honour||EMEA College, Kondotty, has won this year’s National Service Scheme (NSS) awards. When the college was selected as the best NSS unit, Mohammed Shafi Thachaparamban was chosen as the best programme officer. The award was given for EMEA NSS unit’s social and humanitarian activities in the last three years. The NSS unit of the college had played an active role in a housing scheme in Pallikkal panchayat as part of Calicut University’s golden jubilee celebrations. Its role in the fight against COVID-19, relief work during the floods, construction of check-dams, cleaning of canals and ponds, conservation of water, Anganvadi revival and beautification, palliative care, distribution of identity cards to the physically challenged, women empowerment programmes, Swachh Bharat programmes, agricultural schemes, wheelchair distribution, stationery distribution for school children, aid for treatment, library strengthening work, and road safety programmes were considered for the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/emea-college-wins-honour/article36688354.ece
27 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Women go on a power-packed ride||A group of 14 young women from across the State are on a three-day ride from Kasargod to Kanyakumari on their motorbikes. They will celebrate World Tourism Day as they reach their destination on Monday. The group has professionals, homemakers, students, and teachers. “We call the ride Mini K-to-K as we have restricted it from Kasaragod to Kanyakumari, instead of the celebrated Kanyakumari to Kashmir ride,” said Nasli K., secretary of CRF Women on Wheels, the forum organising the ride. Mounting her BMW G-310-R, Ms. Nasli said that she had developed a passion for riding only after her marriage. An interior designer from Malappuram, Ms. Nasli is riding her husband’s motorbike. After spending their night in Kozhikode, the rider group reached Kalpathy near here on Sunday morning, where they were given a reception by the local members of the CRF. The machines The women are riding Jawa, BMW, KTM Duke, Royal Enfield variants including Classic and Himalayan, Apache and Hero Xpulse. “It’s a short break from routine, and gives one a lot of scope for personal enrichment,” said Reshma K., a schoolteacher from Kozhikode, who rides a BMW GS-310. Excitement was visible on the faces of Meghana Mohammed from Thrissur, Amrita Joshi from Kasaragod, and Shamna K.V. from Kannur. “I feel proud,” said Ms. Shamna, a CMA student from Kannur. Ms. Joshi, a polymer science student and the youngest member, was all ears as CRF founder Faiz explained to them their route. They took the Palakkad route for the sheer excitement of traversing the Kuthiran tunnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-go-on-a-power-packed-ride/article36688407.ece
27 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Convocation of two batches at IIT Palakkad||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Palakkad held its convocation for the outgoing batches of 2020 and 2021 on Saturday. The event held in hybrid mode on the IIT Nila campus at Kanjikode had M.M. Murugappan, former chairman of the Murugappa Group, as the chief guest. As many as 283 degrees were awarded, which included the first doctoral degree from the institute and the first batches of MTech and MSc programmes, apart from the MS and BTech degrees. The convocation could not be held last year because of COVID-19. IIT Director P.B. Sunil Kumar gave away the degrees to 123 graduates who attended the ceremony in person. Ramesh Venkateswaran, chairman of the Board of Governors, IIT Palakkad, presided over the function. Delivering the convocation speech, Mr. Murugappan underscored the importance of facing the challenges and converting them into path-breaking opportunities to help build enduring institutions for tomorrow. “Education should not merely be seen as as an appreciation of science and technology, but it should also inculcate strong values of integrity and humility.” P.M. Abhilash, the first PhD graduate of IIT Palakkad, was the first to receive the degree from Dr. Sunil Kumar. Those who could not attend the function were given away the degrees in virtual mode. Best students Shidhin Tom was adjudged the best MTech student and Jyoti Yadav the best MSc student. The medals for the best BTech students in 2020 and 2021 were given away to Vishal Chaudhari and Pamu Abhitez respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/convocation-at-iit-palakkad/article36688400.ece
27 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Symbiosis wins moot court||Symbiosis Law School, Hyderabad, won the first National Moot Court Competition organised online by the Department of Law, Central University of Kerala, Thiruvalla Campus. School of Legal Studies, Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT), emerged the runners-up. G. Shubangi, second-year BA-LLB students at Symbiosis Law School, was adjudged the best speaker and the team comprising her bagged the best memorial award. Ten teams Ten teams from law schools across the country participated in the competition. Inaugurating the valedictory session of the event on Saturday, Justice A. Muhammed Mustaque of the Kerala High Court urged that law students must strive to understand the concepts of law in its philosophical sense. He said the universities must try to revise their curriculum of law with the help of modern technology. H. Venkateshwarlu, Vice Chancellor of Central University of Kerala, presided over the function online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/symbiosis-wins-moot-court/article36688396.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hartal: City police strengthen security||The City police have put security arrangements in place on account of the dawn-to-dusk hartal on Monday. According to City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay, all police officers attached to the Thiruvananthapuram City police will be mobilised for the purpose of preventing untoward incidents. The police will picket 142 points across the city limits. The picket posts will come up in 38 locations under the Cantonment sub-division, 49 under the Fort sub-division, 33 under the Cyber City sub-division, and 22 under the Shangumugham sub-division. Special striking forces headed by DySPs and station house officers (SHOs) will be deployed in the respective areas. Moreover, each police station limit has been divided into two sectors that will be monitored by bike and jeep patrol units. Trips As has been the practice during hartals in the past, the City police will undertake trips from the Central bus station and Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station in Thampanoor to the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) and the Government Medical College Hospital. Transport services will also be conducted to the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport from Thampanoor, the Commissioner says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hartal-city-police-strengthen-security/article36688562.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Children to be eased back into school||Along with guidelines for school reopening, discussions are under way on providing academic support to students once they return to the classroom on November 1. The General Education Department is of the opinion that starting academics right away may not be appropriate for children. They will need to be eased back into the school environment after more than 18 months away, and it should be done slowly. Talks are going on how to go about it—whether there should be a single strategy or should there be multiple ones suited to children in different classes. The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) had submitted a bridging proposal when school had opened for three months for a section of students earlier this year. However, it will need to be adapted to meet the current situation. The KITE Victers classes will continue, especially as students are likely to come to school in separate batches. The GSuite platform too will be slowly introduced once connectivity and device problems are resolved, especially as all students are unlikely to be attending physical schooling together. Arrangements for transporting students to schools are also under discussion. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will hold talks with Minister for Transport Antony Raju in this regard. The police and the Motor Vehicles Department too will be involved in the process. The Education Department has sought a report from Deputy Directors of Education on the vehicle details of each school. In case parent-teacher associations lack funds to arrange for transportation of students, the public should step in with help, the Minister says. The government is also considering how to deploy Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses to transport students to schools. One teacher should be posted as school safety officer. Mr. Sivankutty has already said that mid-day meals will not be provided for the time being. Instead students will be provided an allowance. Uniforms will not be mandatory. Thermal scanners to check body temperature and equipment to monitor oxygen levels will also be deployed in schools. Services of doctors will be ensured in schools. The government has also said that parents need not send children who are vulnerable to school. Once the guidelines are finalised by a committee comprising the Principal Secretaries of Health and Education departments and the Director of General Education, these will be circulated among various stakeholders, and followed up by awareness and training programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/children-to-be-eased-back-into-school/article36688559.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||7-km temporary cycle track in city||The city Corporation and the Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited have begun adding colourful cycling tracks to some of the major roads in the city, as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations to mark the 75th anniversary of Independence. The first of these colourful cycle tracks have now appeared on one side of the road along the Kowdiar junction-Vellayambalam stretch. The cycling track is being planned as a loop from the Corporation main office to Vellyambalam to Kowdiar to Pattom to PMG and back to the Corporation office. The seven-kilometre stretch is a temporary arrangement as part of the celebrations. Cycling, marathon, and skating events will be organised in these tracks under the theme ‘Freedom from diseases and pollution’. “We do have dedicated cycle tracks coming up as part of the Smart City project, but this is a temporary cycling track for the celebrations, with the permission of the Kerala Road Fund Board. Cycling tracks are proposed as part of the Smart Roads, the construction of which have now begun. Dedicated tracks will be provided in roads having enough space for these,” said a Smart City official. The first of the Smart Roads in the capital under the Smart City project of the city Corporation is expected to be completed by February next year. In this particular phase of the project, consisting mainly of Corporation roads, an amount of Rs. 104 crore will be spent on a total of 9.87 kilometres of roads. The works have already begun at Manaveeyam and inside the Fort area. Manaveeyam is one of the roads that is expected to have a cycling track. The increasing number of cycling enthusiasts have been pointing at the lack of cycling tracks in the city. From Oct. 1 to 4 As part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, which will be organised from October 1 to 4, one major area in each of the 100 wards in the city will be beautified. Conservation and celebration of traditional water bodies and heritage precincts is also part of the plan. The Integrated Command and Control Centre will be inaugurated. Drawing competitions themed around Gandhi Jayanthi and the freedom struggle, as well as selfie and vlogging competitions and group plantation drives will be organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7-km-cycle-track-in-capital/article36688416.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB’s specialised unit for innovative ideas||Recognising the value of innovation, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has established a unit for fashioning devices useful for the State's power sector. Christened ‘MIDEA’, short for Manufacturing unit for Innovative Devices, Equipment and Accessories, the specialised unit has been tasked with driving innovation within the KSEB, manufacturing useful devices, picking suitable technologies and also assessing whether concepts from outside the KSEB hold potential for the utility. Developing innovative solutions in-house will also save money for the power utility, which operates in a technology-intensive atmosphere, the KSEB has observed. A meeting of the full-time directors of the KSEB, which met on September 9, had given the approval for forming the unit. ''MIDEA will be based in Cherthala and we hope to operationalise it at the earliest. Initially, it will run with a skeleton staff,'' said Mini George, Director (Planning and Safety, Supply Chain Management), KSEB. Workplace safety In a nutshell, MIDEA is expected to develop devices that not only simplify tasks but also enhance workplace safety. The KSEB treats workplace safety as of paramount importance, given the number of electrical mishaps reported in the State every year. Some of the technologies MIDEA will be working on in the initial phase include the ‘ACSR detector,’ an instrument that helps field staff to easily differentiate between aluminium conductor steel reinforced (ACSR) and all aluminium alloy conductor (AAAC) power cables. Designing a simpler, safer method for the staff to climb up electricity poles forms another project. Baiju K. C., an assistant engineer at the office of the KSEB chief safety commissioner known for coming up with innovative solutions, had submitted the preliminary report on MIDEA. The full-time directors cleared the proposal based on a recommendation made by the director (distribution and HRM) in July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksebs-specialised-unit-for-innovative-ideas/article36688554.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Music waiting to flow through Swathi corridors||Sreelakshmi Hariharan, a final-year Bachelor of Performing Arts (Vocal) student at Sri Swathi Thirunal College of Music, Thycaud, cannot wait for the college to reopen. The Kozhikode resident was very keen on coming to the State capital and studying here, and so moved into a hostel near her college. Then COVID-19 changed life. Sreelakshmi was back at home and attending online classes. Eighteen month later, she is excited at the prospect of going back to college. “Nothing comes close to the college ambience. All of us, singing and learning together, is very different from us attending the class sitting alone at home. The phone that was earlier used to stay in touch is now about Zoom and Google Meets. But the final two semesters are very critical, and direct learning will help.” Vishnu K.A., a final-year postgraduate Mridangam student, cannot agree more. While online classes were a completely new experience for him, as a music student, the classroom experience is invaluable, he believes. His teachers took a lot of pain to make sure that the three students in his batch got the maximum they could out of online classes. There was no compromise on individual practice. They even helped keep rhythm (thalam) without sound so that students could follow it smoothly. However, the online mode has its limitations, particularly for those learning to play instruments, says Vishnu. The flow of communication in a classroom is missing in the online mode. Peering at the small screen for long too can be a pain, he says. Communication Sreelakshmi too feels constraints in communication. In college, after learning three different kritis (compositions), students could still ask teachers to go back and run through them again. It was possible to meet them after classes till evening. However, with online classes it is not possible to call them up anytime. It helps that teachers ask students to send video recordings and correct them. But not every student does that. Some students also encounter connectivity issues, she says. Sreelakshmi’s subsidiary subject is Veena, and it was hard picking it up initially without in-person instruction, she says. Vishnu too feels that physical learning will enhance students’ abilities. Sreedev Rajagopal, Head of the Vocal Department in the college, says the biggest impact of online classes has been on students’ ability to keep rhythm (thalam). Owing to lag between audio and video during online classes, students are lagging on the thalam front. Group singing too is not possible. While classes are going on uninterrupted in online mode by externals factors such as hartals, Mr. Rajagopal has reservations if these are being fully absorbed by the students. They also tend to tune in to YouTube for clearing doubts, thus picking up different versions, not always authoritative, and lose the style taught to them. The classes are also a strain on teachers who have to listen to video recordings of entire batches and correct them, he admits. The reopening will help particularly those who may not be at top of the class, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/music-waiting-to-flow-through-swathi-corridors/article36688558.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for SCTIMST researcher||The prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology (2021), awarded to scientists annually for outstanding research work, applied or fundamental, has been won by Jeemon Panniyammakal, of Achutha Menon Centre for Health Science Studies (AMCHSS), Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), in the discipline of medical sciences. The award, instituted by the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) India, in the name of its late founder-director Dr (Sir) Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar, carries a cash award of Rs. five lakh. Dr. Jeemon, Associate Professor of Epidemiology at AMCHSS, won the award for his outstanding contributions to research in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases in India, an area he was working on for the past two years. Dr. Jeemon had recently published a landmark study on how low-cost interventions involving entire families can help patients in adhering to lifestyle changes and drug regimen and effectively reducing their cardiovascular risk, irrespective of their age, sex, and level of baseline risk. Regular screenings The PROgramme of Lifestyle Intervention in Families for Cardiovascular risk reduction (PROLIFIC) study, published in the journal Lancet Global Health, had demonstrated that regular screenings for cardiovascular risk factors, structured lifestyle interventions, and active follow-up of patients at the primary care level, had the potential to prevent at least 20% of cardiovascular events in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shanti-swarup-bhatnagar-prize-for-sctimst-researcher/article36688415.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bank customers lose money in suspected phishing attack||Multiple customers of the State Bank of India in the city have lost money from their accounts in suspected phishing attacks over the past two days. While one customer has filed a complaint with the city cyber cell of having lost Rs. 65,000, another customer complained that he lost Rs. 40,000. In Thalassery, Rs. 38,000 was withdrawn from a customer’s bank account, with the method used in all of them bearing striking similarities. R. Pradeep Kumar, one of the complainants, who works as a system administrator in an eye hospital, said that he lost the money despite never sharing any OTP number or using an ATM to withdraw money in recent times. “I have been unable to access the SBI Yono online application for the past two days. Since part of a loan amount for house construction got transferred to my account two days ago, I have been trying to check the balance. At around 2 p.m. on Saturday, I received several OTP messages in my phone, which was followed by a message showing that Rs. 20,000 was withdrawn. I soon called up the customer care to block the card, but by that time, the person had withdrawn a total of Rs. 65,000. From checks I conducted, I came to know that the money was withdrawn somewhere from Jharkand,” says Mr. Kumar. Withdrawal limits He says it is mysterious that someone was able to withdraw that much amount of money from an account when there are daily withdrawal limits. K. Jibin, the second complainant, who works at the Secretariat, says he was also unable to access the online application and had received a message asking him to update the KYC details immediately if he did not want his account to be blocked. “I logged in to the link provided, which looked exactly like the SBI website, and provided my PAN number as asked. Within minutes, I got a message that Rs. 20,000 was withdrawn. By the time I called up and blocked the card, Rs. 20,000 more was withdrawn,” said Mr. Jibin. A customer from Thalassery, who lost Rs. 38,000, also faced a phishing attack similar to Mr. Jibin’s, in which she received a link and provided her PAN number. Mr. Kumar says that more people, who may not be tracking the messages related to their accounts regularly, could have lost money in a similar manner. SBI officials were not available for comment. The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), the federal technology arm to combat cyber attacks, had recently warned that scammers were targeting banking customers in India using a novel phishing attack to collect sensitive information such as internet banking credentials, mobile number, and OTP, to carry out fraudulent transactions. The malicious actors have abused a cross platform application to host phishing websites impersonating internet banking portals of Indian banks, according to the advisory issued by CERT-In last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-lose-money-in-suspected-phishing/article36688417.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree’s Onam fete clocks huge sales||The Kudumbashree’s Onam Utsav online shopping festival has recorded sales of Rs. 65.28 lakh. The month-long fete was organised through the Kudumbashree’s e-commerce portalwww.kudumbashreebazaar. com. It began on August 18 and was to go on till August 31, but after receiving some 3,500 orders on that day, it was extended for two more weeks. On September 15, the last day of the online fete, more than 9,600 orders were received. The day before, 6,197 orders were received. The online fete was intended to support Kudumbashree micro entrepreneurs and farming groups who have been struggling hard amid the pandemic by helping them register good sales during the Onam festive season. A total of 2,017 products, including snacks, spices, handicrafts, personal care products, and apparel, produced by Kudumbashree entrepreneurs were available on the portal, and 45,730 orders were received during this period. The maximum orders placed were for food products (37,655 orders), with grocery on top, followed by pickles and snacks. As many as 325 orders, with a value of over Rs. 1 lakh, were received from outside the State. After food products, customers picked up personal care products (17,961 orders) and household equipment (3,377) the most. Kannur district listed the maximum products online –2,273. It was followed closely by Thrissur and Ernakulam. Kudumbashree officials say some units even received 500 to 1,000 orders a day, making it tough for the small units to process them quickly despite having stocks. While the units had been processing orders till now, these will be linked to the Kudumbashree’s district-level bazaars for speedy processing of orders. The festival is also expected to revive the online portal, especially after it is hosted on the State Data Centre’s server, thus allowing an in-house Kudumbashree team to handle orders.  On September 15, the last day of the online fete, more than 9,600 orders were received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashrees-online-shopping-fete-a-success/article36688355.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CTCRI plans seed villages||The ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (ICAR-CTCRI) is setting up ‘seed villages’ in the State to address the acute shortage of quality planting material of popular tuber crops. Seed villages will be established in select grama panchayats and promising tuber crop farmers in these panchayats will be identified as ‘Decentralised Multipliers’(DM). The CTCRI has launched the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) programme in Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki and Kottayam districts where the focus is on cassava (tapioca) and sweet potato. It will soon be extended to other parts of the State, CTCRI officials said. If found successful, the concept will be expanded to the national level. Planting material Farmers in the ‘seed villages’ are provided nucleus planting materials of improved tuber varieties and financial assistance for the establishment of seed multiplication plots on 50 cents of land. In stages, they will be able to increase the area under production up to one hectare. They can sell the planting material to the CTCRI for its farming programmes and others at approved rates. Surplus produce in the seed villages will be procured by the Agriculture Department, as per a decision taken in March this year, the CTCRI said. Use in industry too Apart from being popular food-security and climate-resilient crops, tubers are rich in starch and find use in industry as well. The State government has been encouraging farmers to grow tubers as part of the ‘Subhiksha Keralam’ food security programme launched to fend off food shortages during the COVID-19 pandemic. Quality material However, getting hold of quality planting material of improved varieties is still fraught with hurdles: One, the land area required for seed production is high. Two, the public sector lacks the capacity and reach, and three, lack of interest by big private sector companies. Again, seed quality standards are inadequately developed. Over the years, the CTCRI has developed several high-yielding varieties of tropical tuber crops, especially cassava and sweet potato.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ctcri-setting-up-seed-villages-in-state/article36688401.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State finds place in Global Startup Ecosystem Report||In affirmation of Kerala’s thriving start-up ecosystem even in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State has found a place in the 2021 Global Startup Ecosystem Report (GSER) with a ranking in the Top 20 Global Ecosystem. The report, which was prepared by Startup Genome and the Global Entrepreneurship Network and globally launched earlier this week coinciding with London Tech Week, ranks Kerala as the fifth Asian Ecosystem in Affordable Talent. The 2021 Report, which ranks the leading 140 ecosystems across the globe, analyses and evaluates the start-up markets based on the seven parameters of performance, funding, connectedness, market reach, resource attraction, experience and talent. Kerala’s standing in the GSER 2021 was based on four criteria. It found a place in Top 20 Global Ecosystem in Affordable Talent which measures the ability to hire tech talent. Secondly, it created $43 million in ecosystem value with $4.6 million in total early-stage funding over the past two and a half years. Thirdly, start-up support and government as an early adopter were cited as the reason a start-up should move to Kerala. Lastly, the Advanced Manufacturing & Robotics, AI, Big Data and Analytics sectors were highlighted for their density of talent, support resources, and start-up activity. Strong network “Kerala has a strong network connecting all the stakeholders in the start-up ecosystem,” said John M Thomas, Chief Executive Officer, Kerala Startup Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-finds-place-in-global-startup-ecosystem-report/article36688428.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||375 pre-primary schools get activity corners||As many as 375 pre-primary schools in the district that receive government honorarium have been made child-friendly using the funds of Samagra Shiksha, Kerala. The schools have been equipped with corners for reading, painting, music, mathematics, science, acting, and building to enhance students’ creative and cognitive skills. Activities Activities such as playing, reading, and acting will help students learn through touching, seeing, and experiencing and ease their journey into the school environment. The activity corners are also intended to attract more children to government pre-primary schools in the wake of efforts to strengthen the pre-primary sector as part of the Thalolam project. Inauguration tomorrow Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will inaugurate the completion of such arrangements in the pre-primary schools in the district at a function at HS LPS, Karamana, at 10 a.m. on Tuesday. Mayor Arya Rajendran will preside. Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, Project Director A.P. Kuttykrishnan will deliver the keynote address. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar will distribute tablets purchased using Samagra Shiksha funds for children from backward sections on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/375-pre-primary-schools-get-activity-corners/article36688560.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KANIV 108 clocks 4.23 lakh trips||KANIV 108, Kerala’s ambulance service that has been rendering a yeoman service in trauma care, has registered over four lakh trips, two years after its launch in the State. Second anniversary The ambulance service clocked 4,23,790 trips until September 25 when it observed its second anniversary of operations. The service operator GVK-EMRI has been operating 316 ambulances across the State with a 1500-strong staff. Launched some months before the first COVID-19 wave struck the State, KANIV 108 has plied a majority of its trips—3,17,780—for pandemic-related purposes including ferrying infected persons to hospitals and COVID-19-first-line treatment centres under stringent precautions. Notably, the delivery of 36 women, including three who were COVID-19-positive, had taken place in the ambulances that were en route to hospitals. The ambulances also attended 18,837 cardiac emergencies and 16,513 trips to rush medical aid to accident victims. The higher number of trips was conducted in Thiruvananthapuram (56,115), while services in Palakkad (46,837), Malappuram (40,230), and Thrissur (33,118), also recorded high rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kaniv-108-clocks-423-lakh-trips/article36688408.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||15,951 test positive in State, 17,658 recover||Kerala logged 15,951 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, when 1, 03,484 samples were tested in the past 24 hours The State’s active case pool had 1,63,280 patients on Sunday, with 17,658 people reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. The Health Department states that only 12.1 % of the active cases are admitted in hospitals. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 24,603 with the State adding 165 deaths, most of which occurred in the past few days, to the official list of COVID deaths on Sunday. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State has declined to 2,035 on Sunday. The number of patients requiring ventilator support has also come down to 845. The number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID dropped significantly to 1,312 while the total number of COVID hospitalisations across the State has come further down to 21,782. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 2,572 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 1,861, Thrissur 1,855, Kottayam 1,486, Kozhikode 1,379, Malappuram 1,211, Palakkad 1,008, Alappuzha 985, Kollam 954, Idukki 669, Kannur 646, Pathanamthitta 623, Wayanad 502 and Kasaragod 200 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15951-test-positive-in-state-17658-recover/article36688424.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NIIST wins award||The CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here won laurels on Sunday at the 80th Foundation Day celebrations of the CSIR held in New Delhi. NIIST bagged the coveted CSIR Award for Science and Technology Innovations for Rural Development (CAIRD) for developing bio-degradable plates and cutlery from agro-residues such as rice husk and wheat bran. CAIRD carries a purse of Rs. 10 lakh, a citation and plaque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/niist-wins-award/article36688427.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tech varsity declares first NSS awards||The A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University announced its first National Service Scheme (NSS) awards on Saturday. Ten NSS units and programme officers were selected for the award. The best units will get Rs. 10,000 and a certificate of appreciation. Sijo George (Adi Shankara Institute of Engineering and Technology), Suneesh P.U. (MES College of Engineering, Kuttippuram), Neethi S. Pillai (NSS College of Engineering, Palakkad), Subha V. (Sree Chitra Thirunal College of Engineering), Anas M.M. (Government Engineering College, Wayanad), Prakash N. (College of Engineering Chengannur), Sreerag V. (Amal Jyothi College of Engineering), Ajasudheen A. (MES College of Engineering and Technology), Anwar Shahir (M. Dasan Institute of Technology) and Ramesh Kumar P. (Government Engineering College, Thrissur) are the programme officers to bag the award. Special mention Nidhish B.N. of Mohandas College of Engineering and Technology and Vaishakh Ravindra Kurup of TKM Institute of Technology received special mention. Five boys and five girls were selected as the best NSS volunteers. They will be given a cash prize of Rs. 3,000 and a certificate of appreciation. Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajashree announced the winners at an online event. Syndicate members Sajeev, Vinod Kumar, NSS coordinators Joy Varghese and Jai M. Paul were present.  Five boys and five girls selected as best volunteers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/technological-university-declares-first-nss-awards/article36688356.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two arrested with ganja||The Medical College police have arrested two alleged drug peddlers with alleged possession of 200 grams of ganja. The accused, Arun S. Kumar, 31, of Pattoor and Nijo 25, of Pettah, were apprehended with the assistance of the City Narcotics Cell. They were purportedly caught red-handed while attempting to hand over a certain quantity of the contraband to another person in Kannammoola. They are suspected to have been supplying narcotic substances to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-arrested-with-ganja/article36688553.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District reports 1,861 new cases||The district recorded 1,861 COVID-19 cases and 2,096 recoveries on Sunday. The number of active cases dropped to 14,754. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 15.4%. As many as 42,055 people are in quarantine including 8,727 observing self-isolation at home. New containment zones have been declared in Kuruthamkode and Kombadikkal wards of Kattakada. The existing ones in Vattappankode ward of Nanniyode grama panchayat, Ponnara and Killi wards of Kattakada grama panchayat have been lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-reports-1861-new-cases/article36688564.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Anniversary observed||The 111th anniversary of the banishment of K. Ramakrishnan Pillai, editor of ‘Swadeshabhimani’, from erstwhile Travancore State was observed in the State capital on Sunday. Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, Transport Minister Antony Raju, former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, former Speaker M. Vijayakumar, and BJP State secretary C. Sivankutty, participated in an observance organised by the Thiruvananthapuram Press Club. In another observance organised by the Kerala Union of Working Journalist (KUWJ), Mr. Chennithala delivered the commemoration address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anniversary-observed/article36688409.ece
27 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rainfall likely in State||Heavy rainfall is likely in a few places in the State on Monday and Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. By Sunday evening, the cyclonic storm Gulab in the Bay of Bengal had commenced landfall process over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha. The IMD has put Idukki and the northern districts of Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod on yellow alert on Monday. Kannur and Kasaragod are on yellow alert on Tuesday, as per a Sunday evening weather update. Fishermen have been advised that squally weather is likely along the Kerala-Lakshadweep coasts and southeast Arabian Sea on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rainfall-likely-in-state/article36688426.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Former DGP Rajagopalan Nair passes away||Former Kerala DGP K.V. Rajagopalan Nair died on September 26 at his residence due to age-related ailments, family sources said. He was 83. Nair is survived by his wife and daughter. A 1962 batch IPS officer, Nair was the DGP from April 30, 1995 to June 30, 1996. He had also served as Chief of the Vigilance and Jail departments. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressed condolences over the demise of the former DGP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-dgp-rajagopalan-nair-passes-away/article36688431.ece
27 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CSB staff on strike from Sept. 29||The employees of Thrissur-based Catholic Syrian Bank will go on a three-day national strike from September 29. The agitation, called by the United Forum of the bank, umbrella organization of various unions, is for pressing their charter of demands including implementation of bilateral contact on wages and services; withdrawal of punishment steps against agitating workers and protecting the people-friendly banking culture of the CSB. The pact signed between the IBA and the unions in November 2020 for the revision of salary has not been implemented in the CSB yet, said the unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csb-staff-on-strike-from-sept-29/article36688423.ece
27 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SIT probe||The special investigation team (SIT) looking into the Kodakara black money robbery case has started the second phase of interrogation. The SIT has asked all the accused in the case to appear for another round of interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sit-probe/article36688524.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Making a splash||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/making-a-splash/article36688362.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||It’s fine to dine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-fine-to-dine/article36688556.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Still in vogue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/still-in-vogue/article36688411.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ahead of festivities||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ahead-of-festivities/article36688373.ece
27 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prabhakar Reddy begins tour of constituencies||TDP leader and Tadipatri Municipal Chairman J.C. Prabhakar Reddy on Sunday began his tour of various constituencies in Anantapur district “to strengthen the party base.” Mr. Prabhakar Reddy toured Bukkapatnam and Kochuruvu mandals in Puttaparthi Assembly constituency and met party workers. Later, addressing the media in Puttaparthi, Mr. Prabhakar said he would continue to tour various places to strengthen the party and boost confidence in the party workers. “I have no enemies in the party and my aim is to see N. Chandrababu Naidu as Chief Minister again, and that is possible only by activating the party workers,” he said. Calling for an united effort to strengthen the party in the district, Mr. Prabhakar said he was ready to do anything to ensure the party regained its glory and prestige. “I do not have the capacity to make leaders win or lose, but can enthuse the party workers to work more dedicatedly in the elections, and that can change the party’s fate,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prabhakar-reddy-begins-tour-of-constituencies/article36688021.ece
27 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tahsildar booked for ‘cheating’||The Atmakur police have registered cheating cases against Atmakur Tahsildar M.S. Thaj Baba, the Revenue Inspector and the Village Revenue Officer-2 (who have not been named) for allegedly transferring 52.35 acres in the village belonging to a relative of the complainant Jogi Sankaraiah (a police officer) from Pulivendula. According to FIR, sub-inspector P. Venkateswarlu registered the complaint on Saturday evening under section 420 r/w 34 of IPC and is investigating. The land in Survey No.546 was allegedly transferred to the sons of late Jogi Kondappa without the consent of the real owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tahsildar-booked-for-cheating/article36688016.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||JD(S) to hold workshop from today||The Janata Dal (Secular), which is in the process of restructuring its organisation ahead of the elections to the Legislative Assembly in 2023, is set to hold a four-day workshop to train its leaders for effectively fighting the polls. The four-day workshop, starting from Monday, will focus on training current legislators and ticket hopefuls for the Assembly elections during the first two days, while women, including those at the booth level, will be trained during the third day. The workshop is being organised to ensure that the party will come to power on its own and there will be no election tie-up with any other party, JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has said. Besides party leaders, subject experts have been invited to discuss pressing issues that the State is facing. A path to fight the elections would be charted out and interaction between leaders and workers would be part of the workshop. A specific agenda to strengthen the party at the booth level will be drawn up, a release said. Former Prime Minister and party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda will also take part in the workshop. Over the past seven or eight months, the JD(S) has been holding a series of consultations with party leaders and workers to improve its chances in the elections. The JD(S) plans to launch a programme asking workers to reach out to voters at their doorstep for interaction, hoping to resonate with the electorate. In a bid to distance his party from both the Congress and the BJP, Mr. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said, “Today, for every problem that the State faces, we are forced to look to Delhi for a solution. The State’s interests have been constantly sacrificed by both governments and that has to end. In 2023, there is a chance for Kannadigas to unite and find a solution.” He also said that the JD(S) was the only party that could protect the State’s interests, and that these issues would be discussed during the workshop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jds-to-hold-workshop-today-on-assembly-poll/article36687845.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive exceeds target in T.N.||Tamil Nadu used 9.85 lakh more doses than it had targetted at the third mega COVID-19 vaccination camp held on Sunday, with the number of doses delivered topping 24 lakh. Health Department officials said the State had set a target of 15 lakh doses for the camp. By the end of the 12-hour exercise that began at 7 a.m., 24,85,814 persons were inoculated. While 14,90,814 persons aged above 18 received their first dose, 9,95,000 persons were administered the second dose. The State administered 9,85,814 more doses than it had planned, an official release said. As per the data provided by the Health Department at 8.30 p.m., the most number of beneficiaries were in Chennai (2,13,763); followed by Cuddalore (1,15,590); Coimbatore (1,13,618); Tiruchi (1,06,156); Madurai (1,06,018); and Thanjavur (1,04,011). So far in September, 1,38,60,328 persons have been vaccinated. In the morning, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inspected the camps held at Central Railway Station; Dakshinamurthi wedding hall at Pattalam; Chennai High School, Strahans Road, Ayanavaram; and Nehru marriage hall and Bethel School also at Ayanavaram. The government said the first mega vaccination drive held on September 12 benefited 28,91,021 persons. In the second camp held on September 19, a total of 10,85,097 people were administered the first dose and 5,58,782 got their second dose. Full coverage After visiting camps at Mayiladuthurai, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said an estimated 60% of the target population would have been covered at the end of Sunday’s mega camp. He said 500 panchayats had achieved 100% coverage and all pregnant women had been vaccinated in Ariyalur and Pudukottai. Health officials said no vaccination would be done on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-exceeds-vaccination-target-at-mega-camp/article36688067.ece
27 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspend MPTC members for ‘ignoring’ party whip: Roja||Nagari MLA R.K. Roja on Sunday met Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy in Tirupati, and demanded the suspension of five MPTC members of Nindra mandal allegedly for “ignoring the party whip” in connection with the MPP president election. The election had to be stalled on Friday after heated arguments between Ms. Roja and local party leader R. Chakrapani Reddy, who was nominated as Chairman of the Srisailam Devasthanam Trust Board. Of the eight MPTCs in the mandal, seven belonged to the YSRCP and one to the TDP. When the stage was set to elect a woman MPTC member Deepa as MPP president in tune with the party’s whip, another ruling party MPTC member R. Bhaskar Reddy (younger brother of Mr. Chakrapani Reddy) had staked claim for the post with the support of four others. Mr. Chakrapani Reddy had allegedly dared Ms. Roja to resign as MLA and contest against him . The election of co-option member also went awry after the altercation. Senior party leaders observed that when the election of MPP presidents went smoothly elsewhere, trouble broke out in Nindra mandal, which indicated groupism in Ms. Roja’s bastion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/suspend-mptc-members-for-ignoring-party-whip-roja/article36688509.ece
27 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release scholarships: Chinta||Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Chinta Mohan on Sunday demanded that the State government immediately release pending scholarships to over 80 lakh students in the State. Addressing the media at Tirupati, he said the State government had stopped release of scholarships.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-scholarships-chinta/article36688017.ece
27 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man attacks wife, mom-in-law||A 32-year-old woman and her mother were critically injured when her husband attacked them with a knife at Arogyavaram, near Madanapalle, on Sunday. According to police, the accused, Ramaraju (35), an auto-rickshaw driver of Kadiri , got married to Vandana of Arogyavaram 10 years ago and the couple has a two-year-old son. Family disputes forced Vandana to leave home along with the child and live with her mother Prasanna Kumari (50) at Arogyavaram. On Sunday, Ramaraju went to the in-law’s house and picked up a quarrel with the duo, demanding that his wife come back to Kadiri along with child. Heated arguments resulted in the husband attacking the two women. The condition of Vandana was said to be critical and her mother was declared out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-attacks-wife-mom-in-law/article36688023.ece
27 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reports on leopard prowling create flutter||Reports on sighting of a leopard on the campuses of the S.V. Veterinary University and the S.V. University in Tirupati on Saturday night created a flutter, even as the forest officials maintained that they could not find any pugmarks on the wet ground or the image of the animal in the camera-traps installed in the area. Divisional Forest Officer (Tirupati wildlife management) Pawan Kumar told The Hindu that unconfirmed reports of a leopard on the prowl in the intersection areas of the two campuses surfaced in early September and special teams have been deployed to scare away the leopard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reports-on-leopard-prowling-in-tirupati-create-flutter/article36687846.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||TPCC wants Rahul Gandhi to lead the party||Telangana Congress has appealed to the party’s former national president and MP Rahul Gandhi to take the leadership reins once again to lead the fight against the Modi government and also to galvanise the party workers across the country. The request was made by several leaders for adopting a resolution on this at the first meeting of the newly constituted Political Affairs Committee (PAC) of the TPCC. The meeting was presided by All India Congress Committee (AICC) incharge for Telangana Manickam Tagore and all senior leaders except the Komatireddy brothers – Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, MP, and Komatireddy Rajgopal Reddy, MLA. After the success of the Dalita Girijana Dandora meetings that attracted large crowds, the party now wants to focus on the problems of unemployed, an issue that has been constantly raked by all political parties. A series of programmes will be taken up from October 2 to highlight how the government failures. The party also decided to take up seriously the installation of the Ambedkar statue at Panjagutta from where it had been removed by the government on the ground that permission was not obtained for it. The meeting also decided to request the government to install former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s statue at Dilsukhnagar and if the government did not respond positively the party would fund its installation. Several leaders stressed the need for continued fight on the podu lands as the State government had taken away the lands given by the Congress government, according to Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president A. Revanth Reddy, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka and Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee campaign committee chairman Madhu Yashki Goud, who briefed the media later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tpcc-wants-rahul-gandhi-to-lead-the-party/article36687848.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana govt. hospitals see rush for COVID death proof||Government hospitals in the State have been witnessing a steady flow of applications for death summary of those who succumbed to COVID. Now, rush for the document, which mentions the ‘cause of death’, is expected to intensify with the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) recommending ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 to the kin of COVID victims. The Ministry of Home Affairs apprised the Supreme Court of the recommendation recently. Financial aid would be extended, provided the death is certified as having been caused by COVID. Following a person’s death, the hospital concerned issues a slip containing details such as name, duration of treatment, as well as time and date of death. This helps in clearing paper work during funeral rites. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation issues a death certificate, also containing the same details along with the place of death. However, cause of death is mentioned in the ‘Death Summary’ which is issued by a government hospital administration only upon application. Currently, administrative officials at Gandhi Hospital, District Hospital at King Koti, Government General and Chest Hospital, and other health facilities that have been treating COVID patients are receiving a good number of applications. “We receive 10-15 applications a day. It is issued based on availability of the doctor who treated the patient,” said T. Prabhakar Reddy, COVID nodal officer at Gandhi Hospital. The request for such applications at Gandhi Hospital is high since it received the highest number of patients when it was turned into an exclusive COVID-care facility during the first and second waves of the pandemic. Other government hospitals were also dedicated for COVID treatment, but their patient burden was comparatively lower.  “People read various things on WhatsApp and ask us about ex gratia in case of COVID-19 deaths. But we have not received guidelines regarding any form of ex gratia yet,” an administrative official of another government hospital said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-govt-hospitals-see-rush-for-covid-death-proof/article36687843.ece
27 September 2021||KALABURAGI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka police file FIR after man fined for entering temple||Before the Miyapur incident in Kushtagi taluk of Koppal district in which a Dalit family was fined Rs. 25,000 after its three-year-old child entered a local temple could fade away from public memory, a similar incident has been reported from Karatagi in the that district. As per information provided by the administration and villagers, Mareppa, a 24-year-old man belonging to Sindolli community of the Scheduled Castes from Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in Karatagi, entered Mahalakshmi Temple in Naganakal village situated on the outskirts of Karatagi and offered puja on September 16. When he was coming out of the temple, the priest and other villagers took objection to it. They subsequently held a meeting and demanded Rs. 5 lakh fine for conducting special pujas and abhisheka for purifying the temple which they claimed was polluted by the entry of a Scheduled Castes man. Later, Rs. 11,000 was collected from the man. As the news reached the administration, Karatagi Police rushed the village and filed a suo motu First Information Report on Saturday evening against eight people, temple priest Basavaraj Badiger and villagers Revanayyaswamy, Shekarappa, Sharanappa, Prashanth, Basavaraj, Kadappa Nayak and Durugesh, under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act 2015 and Sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code. According to the police, they have registered a suo motu case since none from the victim’s side came forward to lodge a complaint despite repeated appeals and persuasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-police-file-fir-after-man-fined-for-entering-temple/article36688001.ece
27 September 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fake antique’ racket busted in Kerala||The Crime Branch (CB) in Kerala has arrested a self-styled antique collector and amateur archaeologist on the charges of palming off recently handcrafted cheap knock-offs as authentic relics to uninformed, over-enthusiastic and well-heeled persons with a zeal for acquiring rare artefacts. Officials identified the suspect as Monson Mavunkal, an alleged confidence trickster who moved about in celebrity circles in Kochi posing as a Germany-trained cosmetologist and member of the World Peace Council. He is also a vlogger with a sizeable social media following. An investigator claimed Mavunkal was “a fabulist who wilfully blurred the line between fact and fiction for personal gain”. For one, Mavunkal had allegedly claimed to own the “staff of Moses”, silver pieces received by Judas Iscariot for betraying Jesus Christ to Roman soldiers, and other imaginary rarities from the mythical world. The accused allegedly claimed to own the throne of Tipu Sultan, a copy of the first edition of the Holy Bible, and books and parchments from the libraries of Mughal Emperor Aurangazeb and iconic Maratha King Chhatrapati Shivaji. Mavunkal also allegedly claimed to have original and hitherto unknown works of Raja Ravi Varma and Pablo Picasso. The suspect has denied the charges. He reportedly told investigators that he had clarified to his customers that the items he sold to them were replicas of historical artefacts and not the original antiques. Nevertheless, the police said the alleged racket came to light when they started investigating a set of complaints accusing Mavunkal of financial fraud. Some of the petitioners claimed that Mavunkal owed them sizeable amounts of money. The CB used the services of law enforcers proficient in tracking down looted antiquities to verify the authenticity and provenance of Mavunkal’s collection, much of it displayed at his private residence in Kaloor. Investigators claimed they traced many of the artefacts to a set of handicraft makers in Cherthala. They suspect that actors and other celebrities were also victims of the racket. The police are scheduled to produce the suspect in a court in Kochi on Monday on the charges of conspiracy, cheating and forgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-antique-racket-busted-in-kerala/article36687853.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hotels and bars reopen in Kerala||Hotels, bars and restaurants are witness to a new lease of life with the government allowing them to reopen from Sunday. Though most of the establishments saw poor patronage on the first day, the owners are happy that there is now a chance to revive them. Hotels and restaurants saw about 25-30% of their capacities being utilised on Sunday, the first day after the government announced the reopening. Laid off Many workers have been laid off in different categories of the hotel and restaurant business, from the cleaning staff to chefs, said Biju Ramesh of Kerala Chamber of Commerce and Industry. He said that over the last nine months, there had been absolutely no activities in restaurants and bars that make up the backbone of the hospitality industry in the State. This was now a great opportunity to rebuild an area of commercial activity, which has great employment potential, said Sunesh Bhasi, who runs a popular restaurant in Kochi. However, Mr. Ramesh expressed apprehensions about the government permission to keep bars open only up to 9 p.m. He said that in normal times, the bars used to be open till 11 p.m., which was a factor that added to the business growth. He said that normally working people used bars till late in the evening and the restriction to close them by 9 p.m. was a dampener. It is estimated that there are around 786 bars that serve drinks and nearly 350 beer and wine parlours across the State. Each of them employ dozens of people with different skills. These service outlets provide support to a vast population of employees and their families, he said. While the smaller units employ about 30 to 50 people, the larger ones employ up to 150 or 200, he added. Azeez Moosa of Kerala Hotels and Restaurants' Association, while welcoming the move by the State government, said the step would be a great relief to the industry, especially those in the middle and lower groups, which had absolutely no business during the COVID 19 lockdown. 50,000 restaurants There are around 50,000 restaurants across the State and about 30% of them closed during the lockdown. He expressed the hope that the business would revive now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hotels-and-bars-reopen-in-kerala/article36687856.ece
27 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT seeks report on Maradu||The South Zone Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has sought a report from the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) on the alleged environmental damage caused by the demolition of the Maradu apartments. It was on a petition filed by the Environmental Protection and Research Council, Thiruvananthapuram, that the Bench issued the order. Damage to mangroves The coram of the Tribunal consisting of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and K. Satyagopal asked the Board to file the report before October 4. The Board shall also ascertain whether any damage was caused to the mangrove vegetation in the area following the demolition. If caused, the Board should mention the nature of the damage caused by the demolition, the Tribunal directed. The apartment complexes of Alfa Serene, Golden Kayaloram, H2O Holy Faith, and Jain Coral Cove were brought down last year. The petitioner submitted that the pollution control mechanisms as mandated by the Demolition Waste Management Rules 2016 were not followed during the demolition and removal of debris of the Maradu apartments, which caused huge environmental damage. Court order The Supreme Court, which ordered the demolition of the apartments that came up in violation of the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) rules, did not go into the question of the environmental damage caused by the construction of the apartments. Instead, it considered the CRZ violations alone and directed the demolition under the rules, the complainant submitted. The petitioner approached the Tribunal with the prayer that the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change or any other agency under it should restore the environment in the areas as specified by law and the cost of ecological restoration recovered from the builders of the apartment complexes. It also sought directions from the Tribunal to make the builders pay environmental compensation as assessed by a committee of experts or a percentage of the project cost so that it would act as a deterrent against environmental destruction. The Tribunal has posted the cases for October 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-seeks-report-on-maradu/article36687850.ece
27 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discount at Haritha hotels||The Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) has announced 20% discount on their services to tourists at Haritha hotels and guest houses across the State on the occasion of World Tourism Day on September 27. The discount offer is available on three days--September 27, 28 and 29. Tourism Divisional Manager B. Eswaraiah said the visitors can avail discount on food and other services provided by the Tourism Department. About 4,000-to-5,000 guests use the corporation services every day across Kurnool division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discount-at-haritha-hotels/article36688022.ece
27 September 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infant kidnapped from hospital rescued within 20 hours||The International Daughters’ Day on Sunday could not have been merrier for Songa Sindhuja and her husband Yesobu, as the Krishna District Police rescued their five-day-old daughter who was kidnapped from the maternity ward of the Machilipatnam Government Hospital on Saturday within 20 hours. The police arrested a woman, identified as Mandapati Mary, in connection with the case. The joy of the parents knew no bounds when Superintendent of Police (SP) Siddharth Kaushal handed over the baby to them at the District Police Officer here on Sunday. The SP offered them sweets on the occasion as Ms. Sindhuja broke into tears. The SP said 12 teams were formed for searching the baby. “Investigation revealed that Mary went to hospital on the pretext of medical check-up. She befriended Ms. Sindhuja, claiming that she was a distant relative. Mary abducted the baby when Ms. Sindhuja went out of the maternity ward. The accused has been booked under Section 363 of the IPC (kidnap) and she is being questioned,” the SP said. Mahila police officer P. Sirisha and ward volunteer Y. Sirisha noticed the updates by the Chilakalapudi police on the kidnap case on a social media platform. They found Mary with the infant at Tummidi village in Bantumilli mandal and alerted the police at around 8 a.m. on Sunday, said Machilipatnam DSP SK. Masum Basha. A team led by Central Crime Station (CCS) DSP) Murali and Chilakalapudi CI R. Anka Babu rescued the baby and took the accused into custody. “The motive for the kidnap could not be ascertained immediately. Mary, mother of two children, told the police that her third pregnancy got terminated a few days ago, and she came to hospital for treatment,” said Avanigadda DSP Md. Mahaboob Basha, who monitored the investigation. The baby was handed over to Ms. Sindhuja after a medical check-up. The infant’s health condition is good, said police medical officer M. Jayasri. Ms. Sindhuja thanked the police for tracing her daughter. “Today is a memorable day for me as my daughter was reunited with us on the International Daughters’ Day. We are indebted to the police and Kruthivennu Sachivalayam staff who have put in a lot of efforts to trace my daughter,” Ms. Sindhuja told The Hindu . The SP felicitated mahila police officer P. Sirisha and ward volunteer Y. Sirisha. “We are glad after seeing a smile on the mother’s face ,” said Special Branch DSP Dharmendra, who was the part of the investigation team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infant-kidnapped-from-hospital-rescued-in-ap/article36687844.ece
27 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||242 new COVID cases||One more person succumbed to coronavirus in Prakasam district in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday taking the toll in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh to 2,125. SPSR Nellore recorded zero deaths during the period. The region logged 242 new COVID-19 infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/242-new-covid-cases/article36688501.ece
27 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam police come to rescue of woman in distress||Prakasam police on Saturday came to the rescue of a woman in distress after she sent a Whatsapp message to Superintendent of Police Malika Garg. Ch. Amulya, with a child suffering autism and twins aged three, sought the intervention of the police when she was thrown out of the house by her husband at Vijayanagar colony late on Saturday night. Counselling On a direction from the SP, a team of police personnel immediately responded to the woman’s message and got them back into their house after explaining to the in-laws about the legal consequences. After registering a case against the woman’s husband and in-laws, Disha police personnel summoned them to the police station on Sunday and held a counselling session. The woman thanked the SP for coming to her rescue. The SP patted the police personnel concerned for the swift action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-thanked-for-responding-swiftly-to-woman-in-distress/article36688502.ece
27 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balineni hints at Cabinet rejig||Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has hinted at Cabinet reshuffle sooner than later. As the two-and-a-half period set by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the present set of Ministers to step down neared, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said that he was ready to quit the post if the Chief Minister chose to go for replacement of the Cabinet. “Party is more important for me,” he said and asked the party leaders to sink their differences and work for strengthening the party well . Mr. Reddy’s observations assumed significance in the wake of several Ministers reportedly urging the Chief Minister to defer the Cabinet rejig by six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balineni-hints-at-cabinet-rejig/article36688513.ece
27 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm laws will be BJP’s political Waterloo: CPI||Opposition to the “anti-people” policies of the BJP-led government at the Centre is gaining strength across the nation, according to CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna. Welcoming the support extended by both YSRCP and TDP to the Bharat bandh called by the farmer organisations and trade unions in the country on September 27, Mr. Ramakrishna said the political isolation of the BJP in the State was now total. There was a need for a sustained campaign to stop privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) and other Public Sector Enterprises (PSEs) as the BJP was bent upon going ahead with privatisation spree to benefit a select big corporate firms, the CPI leader said at the valedictory of the workshop held for the activists of the All-India Youth Federation (AIYF) and the All-India Students’ Federation (AISF) on Sunday. “The nation-wide protest on Monday will turn out to be a historic one. It will hasten the downfall of the Narendra Modi Government at the Centre,” he said, while exhorting the youth to participate in a big way in the ongoing struggle. As many as 19 opposition parties at the national level backed the bandh against the three farm laws and the new labour code, which would eventually turn out to be the BJP’s “political Waterloo,” he opined. “Those still sailing with the BJP, like the Janata Dal (United), for various reasons, including political arm-twisting by misusing the Central agencies such as the CBI, the ED and Income-Tax Department, are waiting for the right time to part ways,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farm-laws-new-labour-code-will-be-bjps-political-waterloo-cpi/article36688512.ece
27 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone Gulab: 26,000 people evacuated in Srikakulam district||The authorities evacuated nearly 26,000 people to safe places including cyclone shelters located along the 110 km coastline of Srikakulam district as a forecast issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday evening said that cyclonic storm Gulab was likely to cross the Andhra Pradesh coast between Vajrapukotturu and Santabommali mandals in the district between 9 p.m. and the midnight. Heavy rain under the impact of the cyclonic storm lashed the district. Vehicular movement on the National Highway-16 came down significantly. Even as no damage to public and private properties was reported by the evening, the officials shifted people from the low-lying areas to safety. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das and Minister for Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Sidiri Appalaraju reviewed the situation and asked the officials to take measures to meet any possible eventualities. Two teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and four teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed in the district. Farmers worried Even as the wind speed remained under 40 km per hour throughout the day, farmers had their fingers crossed fearing damage to paddy crops and coconut groves in Uddanam region, which had witnessed a devastation under the impact of Cyclone Titli in 2018. Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar told The Hindu that the district administration was all geared up to minimise the impact of the cyclone. “As per the weather forecast, the cyclonic storm may have a serious impact on Santabommali and Vajrapukotturu mandals and other areas that are closer to the coast. Heavy downpour is anticipated after the landfall. Wind speed is expected to be around 70 km to 80 km per hour,” Mr. Shrikesh told The Hindu . He said both the NDRF and the SDRF teams have been deployed in the vulnerable areas. “All facilities including food, electricity and safe drinking water have been provided to the people shifted to cyclone shelters. Special teams have been formed to restore power and repair roads in case of damage under the impact of the cyclone,” he said. District Fire Officer Ch. Krupavaram said that the department was on alert with the equipment to provide quick relief to the people living in the low-lying areas. Indian Red Cross Society chairman P. Jaganmohana Rao said teams would extend help to the district administration in vaulnerable areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-gulab-26000-people-evacuated-in-srikakulam-district/article36688504.ece
27 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three fishermen go missing||Three fishermen who ventured into the sea went missing even as cyclonic storm Gulab approached the Andhra Pradesh coast on Sunday. Six fishermen, who went to Odisha to buy a new boat, were returning on it to Manchinella Peta of Palasa mandal on Saturday. With the rough sea owing to cyclonic storm Gulab, the boat capsized. However, three fishermen— Vanka Chiranjeevi, Y.Paparao and Konda Bhimarao—managed to swim to the coast while the other members of the group—Vanka Nayakanna, Pitta Hemarao and Bunga Mohana Rao— went missing. Minister for Animal Husbandry Sidiri Appala Raju urged the Navy and Coast Guard officials to launch a search to trace and rescue the fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-fishermen-go-missing/article36688522.ece
27 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 claims 11 more lives in State||Coronavirus claimed 11 more lives in the State in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. During the same period, 1,184 more infections were reported taking the cumulative tally to 20,46,841. The number of deaths increased to 14,136. During the past day, 1,333 patients recovered, bringing down the active cases to 13,048. The daily test positivity rate of the 58,545 tests conducted in the past day was 2.02% and that of the 2.80 crore tests conducted so far was 7.29%. Chittoor reported three more deaths in the past day while Guntur and Krishna reported two each. Prakasam, Srikakulam, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each. All districts reported fewer than 200 cases except East Godavari (218 infections). It was followed by Chittoor (165), Guntur (150), Nellore (138), West Godavari (126), Krishna (116), Prakasam (114), Kadapa (59), Visakhapatnam (35), Srikakulam (27), Vizianagaram (20), Anantapur (13) and Kurnool (3). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,90,700), Chittoor (2,43,286), West Godavari (1,77,456), Guntur (1,75,597), Anantapur (1,57,563), Visakhapatnam (1,56,479), Nellore (1,44,569), Prakasam (1,36,879), Kurnool (1,24,010), Srikakulam (1,22,664), Krishna (1,17,173), Kadapa (1,14,823) and Vizianagaram (82,747).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-claims-11-more-lives-in-state/article36688506.ece
27 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP tells Jagan to restore help from CMRF to poor patients||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Repalle MLA Anagani Satya Prasad has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to restore the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) to provide financial assistance to the poor in need of costly treatment for chronic and fatal diseases. In an open letter to the Chief Minister on Sunday, Mr. Satya Prasad said that the CMRF used to be a boon for the poor patients who could get timely treatment for severe illnesses in the past. “Hundreds of patients had availed of these funds to save their lives. More than Rs. 1,600 crore worth payments were made under the CMRF towards the treatment of about 2.5 lakh patients during the TDP’s trenure. Treatment was provided to the poor patients for more than 1,500 diseases through the NTR Vaidya Seva,” he said. He said it was not correct on the part of the government not to pay the pending medical bills to the hospitals from the CMRF. “The payments are not being made in time for the new applicants. Because of the negligence of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO), more than 40,000 applications and hundreds of crores of bills are pending,” he said, adding that the government must withdraw the move to wind up the CMRF on the ground that it would not be needed as all diseases had been included under the Aarogyasri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-tells-jagan-to-restore-help-from-cmrf-to-poor-patients/article36688603.ece
27 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chief Minister to launch ‘Clean A.P.’ on October 2||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will formally launch the ‘Clean Andhra Pradesh’ initiative by flagging off 2,600 garbage collection vehicles on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanthi at Benz Circle here on October 2. The ‘Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP) - Jagananna Swachha Sankalpam’ programme is aimed at ensuring clean and healthy surroundings in every neighbourhood with a slogan ‘Clean Villages, Clean Cities, Swachh Andhra Pradesh, Swachh Bharat’, according to a release. Steps to make the State free from littering, open defecation and urination and distributing three dustbins (blue, green, and red) to every household so that segregated garbage is collected, were taken up under CLAP. Besides ensuring effective solid waste management, CLAP also focuses on encouraging people to compost garbage in households. Other initiatives under CLAP include construction of 4,171 solid waste processing centres in addition to the existing ones, distribution of 14,000 tricycles to gram panchayats for garbage transportation, distribution of 1,000 auto-rickshaws to villages with more than 10,000 population and distribution of 6,417 incinerator devices to dispose of wastes such as masks and sanitary pads. Also, 10,731 high-pressure toilet cleaners have been allocated for community toilets and 10,628 thermal fogging machines are being distributed to control mosquito menace. Auto tippers distributed The government has been distributing 3,097 auto tippers and 1,800 electric autorickshaws to further improve garbage collection and transportation in addition to setting up 231 garbage transfer stations in 124 municipalities. Tenders will be called for setting up 6,000 compactor bins, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chief-minister-to-launch-clean-ap-on-october-2/article36688019.ece
27 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth missing at Manginapudi beach||A youth, Hineeth Kumar (21), went missing in the Bay of Bengal at Manginapudi beach in Machilipatnam on Sunday. According to police, five persons went for an outing to the beach and they were carried away by the tides. When they raised an alarm, police and the locals rescued four of them while Hineeth Kumar went missing in the waters. Betting gang held In the third incident, the Police Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) sleuths arrested a seven-member cricket betting gang, including a few bookies and seized Rs. 13,500 and some electronic material from their possession. The CTF, in association with the Patamata police, arrested them while receiving bets in an apartment at Gurunanak Nagar here on Sunday. A hunt is on to nab the main accused and others of the gang, said CTF Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao. Three killed in accident In a separate incident, three persons were killed in a road accident near Nunna. The deceased were identified as A. Krishna, N. Raju and S. Simhachalam, natives of Vambay Colony here. They suffered critical injuries after the bike they were riding skidded on the road and fell. 25 vehicles seized Meanwhile, police seized 25 vehicles which did not have documents in a cordon and search here on Sunday. They checked 1,565 houses in South, East, Central, North and West divisions and found two rowdy-sheeters, seven law and order suspects and four crime suspects, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-missing-at-manginapudi-beach/article36688597.ece
27 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP supports bandh||YSRC farmers’ wing president M.V.S. Nagi Reddy extended support to Monday’s nationwide bandh and said that the demands raised by farmers were being implemented in the State. Mr. Nagi Reddy said CM Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has given top priority to farmers’ welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-supports-bandh/article36688598.ece
27 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agriculture, allied sectors in deep crisis: Yanamala||The TDP has alleged that agriculture and allied sectors are suffering under the YSRCP rule in the State. “The average annual growth of farm and allied sectors during 2017-18 and 2018-19 was 10.5 %. The TDP was in power then. The average annual growth has slipped to 6.04 % during 2019-20 and 2020-21,” TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said on Sunday. Similarly, aquaculture growth fell from 27.4% during TDP term to 6.9% now. Horticulture growth rate, which was 17.7% during TDP term, fell to 4.4% now, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agriculture-allied-sectors-in-deep-crisis-yanamala/article36688602.ece
27 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Human rights assn. should work with dedication’||Former CBI Joint Director V.V. Lakshminarayana on Sunday said that human rights associations should respond to social evils and work with dedication to solve them. Addressing a meeting organised by the members of Global Human Rights Awareness Association, Mr. Lakshminarayana said violation of human rights was rampant and it was for the rights associations to reach out to the affected people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/human-rights-assn-should-work-with-dedication/article36688601.ece
27 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokayukta frees man from loan trap||The Lokayukta of Andhra Pradesh has directed the Registrar of Cooperative Societies (RoCS) to identify the employees of Kadiri House Building Society Limited (KHBSL) who did not account for the sums paid by the complainant, K. China Bavaiah, towards the loan he had obtained from the A.P. State Cooperative Housing Societies’ Federation (through KHBSL), and recover the amounts paid from them and credit the same to the complainant’s loan account as on March 31, 2006. It ordered that disciplinary action be taken against the said employees and the penal and overdraft interest on the loan should also be waived. It ordered that the loan account be cleared and the registered documents (property title deed etc.) of the aggrieved should be returned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokayukta-frees-man-from-loan-trap/article36688508.ece
27 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||70,131 students take RGUKT CET-21||Education Minister A. Suresh on Sunday said the Rajiv Gandi University of Knowledge Technologies Common Entrance Test (RGUKT CET-21) went off peacefully. In a statement, the Minister said though the cyclonic weather gave some tense moments, the organisers made sure that the exam was conducted in a hassle-free manner. Of the total 73,548 registered students, 70,131 (95.35 %) took the exam. The exams were conductedin 467 centres across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/70131-students-take-rgukt-cet-21/article36688599.ece
27 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain lashes city||Heavy rains accompanied by strong winds lashed many parts of the city and the district, under the influence of Cyclone Gulab on Sunday. Though the rain was moderate since morning, it picked up pace from the evening and so did the winds at night. The areas, which were located to the north of the city, Madhurawada, Bheemili, Arilova, Simhachalam, Anandapuram and MVP Colony, received heavy rain and winds at around 9 p.m. Branches of trees fell across the roads in these areas. Many parts of the city witnessed power cut due to strong winds. Drains were overflowing in many areas and roads were under a sheet of water due to continuous rain since Sunday afternoon. Tourist places which generally see a heavy rush on Sundays, wore a deserted look due to the rain. People were glued to television and social media platforms to know about the latest status of the cyclone, after the intensity of rain increased from the afternoon. People living on hillocks, especially in Arilova, Hanumanthuwaka and Venkojipalem, spent a sleepless night due to strong winds. According to a senior GVMC official, the losses could only be ascertained after the rain stopped. “We have been alerting people about dos and don’ts since Saturday,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-lashes-city/article36688609.ece
27 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalingapatnam records 58 cm of rain||The cyclonic storm ‘Gulab’lay centered over northwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal about 50 km east-northeast of Kalingapatnam(Andhra Pradesh) and 105 km south-southwest of Gopalpur (Odisha) at 5.30 p.m. on Sunday. The system may cross north A.P. and south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur, about 25 km to the north of Kalingapatnam, as a cyclonic storm with a maximum wind speed of 75-85 km/hr, gusting to 95 km/hr , according to a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam. As per the latest meteorological observation, the cloud bands have touched the coastal regions and thus the landfall process has commenced over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south coastal Odisha. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy falls at one or two places are likely in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at one or two places is very likely over East and West Godavari districts and Yanam. Heavy rainfall is very likely at one or two places over south coastal A.P. till Monday morning. Light to moderate rain has commenced over coastal A.P. and south coastal Odisha. Kalingapatnam received 58 cm of rain, since 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. A gradual and steady increase in wind speed is being recorded by the coastal stations. The sea condition will be very rough to high on Sunday and Monday and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea. Tidal waves of 0.5 m height, above the astronomical tide, is likely to inundate the low-lying areas of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Ganjam districts during the time of landfall. The cyclone is being monitored by the Doppler weather radar in coastal observatories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalingapatnam-records-58-cm-of-rain/article36688518.ece
27 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister slams Pawan over his remarks on CM||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Sunday criticised Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan for his remarks against Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the YSR Congress Party government. Mr. Pawan Kalyan had criticised the proposal of the State government to introduce online ticketing and other rules for the film industry at a pre-release function of the movie ‘Republic’ in Hyderabad on Saturday. The Minister visited Mangamaripeta, a fishing village, near Bheemunipatnam, on Sunday. “Mr. Pawan Kalyan seems to have lost his mental balance. Being the president of a political party, he shouldn’t use filthy language. Cinema industry does not mean a single individual,” the Minister said here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-slams-pawan-over-his-remarks-on-cm/article36688605.ece
27 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU exams rescheduled||Officials of Andhra University have announced that the examination schedule to be held on September 27 in respect of Under Graduate (professional)/ Post Graduate and professional courses are rescheduled between October 1 and 8. AU Registrar V. Krishna Mohan in a release on Sunday said that the decision was taken in the view of the proposed ‘Bharat Bandh’ and to avoid inconvenience to the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-exams-rescheduled/article36688607.ece
27 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone effect: some trains cancelled, others diverted||Some trains were cancelled and some others are diverted or rescheduled for the safety of passengers and train operations in view of Cyclone Gulab. The trains, which were cancelled at the origination station, on September 26 are 08445 Bhubaneswar – Jagdalpur special, 02097 Bhubaneswar – Junagadh Road special, 08217 Rourkela – Gunupur special. The trains cancelled at the originating station are 08446 Jagdalpur- Bhubaneswar special, 02098 Junagarh - Road Bhubaneswar special and 08128 Gunupur - Rourkela special. The trains, which will run in diverted routes via Kharagpur, Jharsguda and Balharshah on September 26, are 02703 Howrah Secunderabad special, 02245 Howrah-Yesvantpur special, 08645 Howrah-Secunderabad special, 02609 Santragachi-Tirupati special, 02543 Howrah-Chennai Central special, 02663 Howrah-Tirupati special and 08189 Tata-Ernakulam. Six other long distance trains will also run on diverted routes. Eight other trains have been rescheduled to leave the originating station between 2 and 11 hours late in view of the cyclone, said the railway officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-effect-some-trains-cancelled-others-diverted/article36688604.ece
27 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records one death, 33 new virus cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 33 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 1,56,987 on Sunday morning. The death toll also rose to 1,088 after one more person succumbed to the infection. This takes the total number of COVID-19 deaths, so far, in the month to 14. Fifty-one persons recovered from the coronavirus. The total number of recoveries has increased to 1,54,984.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-one-death-33-new-virus-cases/article36688606.ece
27 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain lashes Vizianagaram||Under the impact of Cyclone Gulab, the district witnessed heavy rain on Sunday. The average rainfall was 20.2 mm with Parvatipuram receiving the highest of 33.4 mm and Pachipenta mandal the lowest of 5 mm. Normal life was thrown out of gear and business activity was hit in the town which usually witnesses hectic trading on Sunday with Tuesday being a market holiday. Collector A. Suryakumari and other senior officials monitored the cyclone situation at Pusapatirega and Bhogapuram coastal mandals. Heavy rain is expected for the next couple of days in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-lashes-vizianagaram/article36688539.ece
27 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘DCMS will get better prices for farm produce’||Vizianagaram District Cooperative Marketing Society chairperson Avanapu Bhavana on Sunday urged farmers not to depend on middlemen for marketing their products since DCMS would help them to get a decent price in a hassle free manner. Speaking at the general body meeting of the DCMS here, she said the society gained the confidence of many farmers and its growth in business was an indication of their trust. “In the current financial year, the DCMS could do Rs. 6 crore business by selling fertilisers, seeds and others. It helped many farmers by buying paddy at a decent price. The services of the society will be extended to the farmers of many other mandals very soon,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dcms-will-get-better-prices-for-farm-produce/article36688537.ece
27 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pawan making false charges on online tickets’||Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday said the online ticketing system for film theatres was aimed at protecting the interests of the common man. “The government will not allow film actors and other personalities to enhance ticket rates abnormally,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. Advising actor and Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan not to make baseless allegations against the government, the Minister said, “Many producers and distributors have sought the online ticketing system to prevent evasion of taxes.” “Transparency is possible with the proposal of online ticketing system,” said Mr. Satyanarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-making-false-charges-on-online-tickets/article36688514.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naxal influence limited to Vizag and East Godavari, says Home Minister||The Naxals used to hold sway there previously but their influence had reduced in recent years. It was a known fact that Naxalism had gained ground due to the backwardness of tribal areas, she said. The erstwhile People’s War Group and CPI (Maoist) were flourishing at that time, which is no longer the case as governments focused on improving the lives of tribal folks. The A.P. government laid emphasis on infrastructure creation, health and education, which were crucial to wean away disgruntled elements from joining the banned organisation, she observed. Ms. Sucharitha said she requested Mr. Shah to give necessary approvals for laying roads through the tribal areas and for providing 4-G mobile connectivity. She also wanted sanction for a larger number of Eklavya residential schools to provide tribal youth access to education, the lack of which had been their bane. Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang also took part in the deliberations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naxal-influence-has-largely-come-down-says-home-minister/article36688520.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crop circles||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crop-circles/article36687858.ece
27 September 2021||bhadradri-kothagudem,TELANGANA||Exam held for SCCL posts||The written examination for recruitment of 51 electrician (Category-I) posts in the State-owned Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) with external candidates went off smoothly at four centres in Kothagudem on Sunday. According to SCCL sources, a total of 2603 candidates appeared for the written exam held at Singareni Women’s Degree College, Singareni Junior College, Abdul Kalam Engineering College, and Singareni School. The SCCL made arrangements to release the results of the exam on the official website www.scclmines.com and on notice board at the main entrance of the head office in Kothagudem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/exam-held-for-sccl-posts/article36688550.ece
27 September 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Probe into ‘beating’ of student||A Class IV student of the government primary school at Padamati Narasapuram village in the district suffered a head injury after she was allegedly beaten up by the headmaster over a week ago. The nine-year-old underwent treatment for the injury at a hospital in Khammam and returned to her village on Saturday. Her mother filed a police complaint against the headmaster, sources said. The headmaster “banged” the head of her daughter against a wall on the premises of the school, she said. However, the headmaster denied the charge. District Education Officer E Somasekhar Sarma said the Mandal Educational Officer was directed to conduct a detailed inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/probe-into-beating-of-student/article36688551.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After 208 days, no COVID fatality in Telangana||Telangana recorded no COVID-related deaths on Sunday, after a gap of 208 days. The last time the State had no fatality due to the virus was on March 2 this year. A few days thereafter, the second wave of the pandemic began unleashing unprecedented devastation. The death count from March 2 last year, when the first case was detected in the State, till February-end this year stood at 1,634. However, as the second wave started taking root in March 2021, the virus rapidly claimed several lives and till September 26 — a period of just seven months — the death toll rose by 2,278. Altogether, 3,912 persons have succumbed to the infectious disease in the State so far. Accuracy? However, the accuracy of the data on COVID deaths has been a hotly-debated subject. Medical professionals, common people and even judges of the Telangana High Court have questioned whether the number of deaths was being fudged. Health officials have, however, maintained that the information was credible. According to data provided in the daily media bulletin issued by the Health department, the first COVID death was on March 28 last year. The highest number of daily deaths was 14 during the first wave. Between November 2020 and February 2021, the fatality figures have been in single digit, as per official data. During the second wave, the daily COVID-19 deaths started rising from April. The highest of 59 people died on May 3. High number of fatalities continued throughout May, leaving hundreds of families devastated. The deaths started to decline gradually from July. In the month of August and till September 25, the maximum number of deaths in a day was four.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-208-days-no-covid-fatality-in-telangana/article36688321.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Inter students in no mood for I year exam||Government’s decision to conduct Intermediate first year examination in the midst of second year classes, and that too when students are getting used to offline classes has drawn criticism from the student community. However, the government argues that the conduct of examination from October 25 was in the interest of students and the pattern would be student-friendly with not much burden on them. A burden: NSUI The National Students Union of India (NSUI), student wing of the Congress, opposed the examination, saying it was a burden on the students who had not attended any physical classes in the last 18 months while the online classes were confined to urban areas, that too with little positive impact. NSUI State president Venkat Balmoor demanded that the government let the students concentrate on their second year and promote all of them with a minimum of 60 per cent marks. Some students have also started an online petition on Change.Org demanding cancellation of examination and it received support from thousands of students who voted in favour of cancellation. Several students argued that they would be stressed out with the exam schedule as the entire October month would have to be dedicated to first year exam preparation. This comes when they are just getting acclimatized to classroom environment after 18 months of completing their 10th class. The government’s argument seems to be justified for the reason that it has to fall back on some exam in case the second year exam is not held next year if the third wave of COVID 19 hits. “It is a precautionary exam more than pressuring the students,” says Madhusudhan Reddy, president of the Government Junior Lectures Association (GJLA). He says the exam is likely to be liberal in terms of questions and choices, giving great flexibility to students and there is little to worry about it. “Yes, there will be some pressure but it is also an opportunity for students to take a peek into the Intermediate exam that they will be writing next year,” he says. Officials say only 70% of the syllabus will be considered for the exam and more choices would be given for easing pressure in the exam hall. A section of the officials also argues that no student will be failed as the government has already promoted them to second year. “Students need not worry about failing in the exam,” an official said. However, the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) is yet to give a clarification on this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-students-in-no-mood-for-i-year-exam/article36688340.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||District Collectors put on alert following forecast of rain||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the District Collectors to be on high alert in view of heavy rains forecast in the next 48 hours. The Chief Secretary, who is in Delhi for attending the conference of the Chief Ministers convened by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, conducted a teleconference with the Collectors following the alert issued by the India Meteorological Department. He wanted the Collectors to open control rooms in the collectorates in view of the likely impact of Gulab cyclone on the State. The India Meteorological Department had issued red alert to the north Telangana districts and yellow alert to southern parts of the State. The police department should coordinate with other departments to ensure that relief measures were taken on a timely basis. Special focus should be on low-lying areas and the tanks which were likely to suffer breaches on account of heavy rain. Services of the NDRF teams should be utilised wherever necessary while vigil should be maintained to ensure that people did not cross rivulets and canals that were expected to receive high inflows. Special officers should be nominated to all mandals to ensure that there was no loss of life or property while the help of citizens should be taken in conducting relief works. There should be constant monitoring of water levels in different tanks and reservoirs so that precautionary measures were taken in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collectors-put-on-alert-following-forecast-of-rain/article36688336.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Make Bharat Bandh a success’||Congress has sought the support of people in making Bharat Bandh a success to send a strong message to the State and Central governments. In a statement here, TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, working president Mahesh Kumar Goud and senior vice president Mallu Ravi said the bandh called by the Congress and opposition parties at the national level was to move the governments that had become immune to people’s issues. Mr. Revanth Reddy would participate in the bandh at Uppal bus depot and working presidents, DCC presidents, constituency incharges and other functionaries of the party were asked to participate in the bandh at their designated places. As part of the protest programmes against both governments, memoranda would be presented to District Collectors while there would be a rasta roko covering 400 km from Adilabad to Aswaraopet on the podu lands issue. Rally taken out In Khammam, various unions representing employees, teachers, pensioners and contract staff joined hands to make “Bharat Bandh” called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws on September 27, a success. Members owing allegiance to the Joint Forum of employees, teachers and pensioners took out a rally from Pavilion Grounds to the ZP Centre here on Sunday to mobilise the support of all sections of the society for Monday’s Bharat Bandh. The demonstrators displayed placards en route the rally, demanding repeal of the three farm laws, withdrawal of move to “sell” public assets to private entities and review of the National Education Policy and abolition of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). TSUTF district president G V Nagamalleswara Rao, TPTF State secretary M Nagi Reddy, Pensioners Association district president Gopichand, and others took part in the rally. Rallies and meetings were organised by various farmers’ and agricultural workers’ unions. Several unions representing industrial workers and contract labourers organised a series of meetings in the industrial belt of Kothagudem-Palvancha in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district in support of Bharat Bandh called by SKM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/make-bharat-bandh-a-success/article36688338.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tank Bund shines bright||The Tank Bund was bursting at its seams on Sunday evening as the road was jam-packed with crowd for the weekly fun and frolic sponsored by the government. There was hardly any space for movement as people milled the road until the police started asking them to leave around 9 p.m. Cars and two-wheelers of early entrants on the road were parked on either side of the road with crowds enjoying their favourite cuisine at specially-erected stalls while going up and down. The cultural troupes performed various forms of folk art. There was also a team carrying Bonalu. The SHE teams of police created awareness on women’s safety. The band companies of police and RPF were a special attraction. On the adjoining Telugu Talli flyover, Lower Tank Bund and Necklace roads, traffic came to a standstill. The evening came to an end with fireworks from the enclosure of Buddha statue in Hussainsagar. A laser show was also organised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tank-bund-shines-bright/article36688330.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills wife, tries to end life||A techie allegedly killed his 22-year-old wife and later attempted to end his life at Pragathi Nagar under Bachupally police station here on Saturday. The victim, Sudha Rani, a homemaker, got married to Kiran Kumar, 28 days ago and the couple recently moved to Hyderabad from their native place Kamareddy, ACP (Kukatpally) A. Chandra Shekar said. Since their marriage, Kumar had ill-treated Sudha Rani and suspected her fidelity. He suspected that his wife had an illicit relationship with his father. On Saturday afternoon, the couple had a heated argument, following which Kumar slit her throat with a vegetable knife. Later, he attempted to end his life in the similar manner. The incident came to light when the woman’s parents came to their house. “When the couple did not respond to repeated knocks and phone calls, her parents with the help of neighbours broke open the door and found their daughter lying dead and son-in-law in an unconscious state in the bathroom,” police said. He was rushed to a nearby hospital. Sudha Rani’s body was shifted to Gandhi Hospital. (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-kills-wife-tries-to-end-life/article36688324.ece
27 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Auction of land postponed||The proposed e-auction of land at Khanamet and Puppalaguda in Rangareddy district has been postponed. The government said, in a statement on Sunday, that the notification for sale of land parcels — nine plots on an extent of 22.79 acres in Khanamet village of Serilingampally mandal and 26 plots to the extent of 94.56 acres — had been postponed. The government’s intention had also been to auction land after ensuring clear titles. Some unscrupulous elements filed frivolous cases in courts regarding land identified for auction even though the title matter had been well settled by the Supreme Court in favour of the government. The government would ensure speedy disposal of all pending cases before the auction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/auction-of-land-postponed/article36688552.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Giant mass removed from a woman||Doctors at SLG Hospitals, Nizampet, successfully removed a ‘giant mass’ from the body of a 44-year-old woman, a few days ago. The ‘giant broad ligament fibroid mass’, close to the uterus, was 25 cm in size and weighed like an eight-month fetus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/giant-mass-removed-from-a-woman/article36688322.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Training programme||A two-week mid training programme ‘Parivarthan’ for officers was conducted by the training and development wing of MIDHANI between September 13-25 with CMD S.K. Jha, CVO V. Upender, GM Supratha Sen and additional GM S. Narsinga Rao participating on the concluding day function. Exposure to a village and a field trip were part of the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/training-programme/article36688546.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man found dead on railway tracks||A man was found dead on the railway tracks at Chatanpally near Shadnagar here on Sunday. The victim, whose identity is yet to be ascertained, was suspected to have ended his life by jumping in front of a train. His mangled mortal remains were shifted to a government hospital for preservation. A case has been registered by the police on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-found-dead-on-railway-tracks/article36688329.ece
27 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Exhibit permissions for buildings: Collector||District Collector M. Hanumantha Rao suggested those constructing houses in the municipalities’ limits to exhibit permissions at the sites to avoid any dispute. He said that exhibition of permission from municipal authorities should be displayed on or before September 28. He warned to take action against those who violate the instructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/exhibit-permissions-for-buildings-collector/article36688548.ece
27 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘CM in Dehli to fight for paddy procurement’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao went to Delhi to to fight for procurement of paddy and for the rights on Kaleshwaram which the Centre wanted to take control of. Participating in a programme held at the district headquarters on Sunday, Mr. Harish Rao said, “Ours is a farmer-friendly government and did several benefits to them. TRS is the only government which has been extending Rytu Bandhu for farmers. In the past the governments had not offered ex gratia on farmers’ suicide.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-in-dehli-to-fight-for-paddy-procurement/article36688342.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Fight for Huzurabad peaks||The campaigning for election to Huzurabad Assembly constituency has peaked though there is no word when the polls are likely. The ruling TRS was fully engrossed in the campaign with Finance Minister T. Harish Rao at the centre. The election was a challenge to Mr. Rao personally because he will not want a repeat of the performance by Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) at Dubbak where the party tasted defeat after he shouldered responsibility of the campaign. True to his style, Mr. Rao had been addressing meetings of different sections of people divided on caste, occupation and geographical lines. Some other senior leaders of Telangana Rashtra Samithi had also been dropping in whenever the meetings of their respective caste groups took place. On Sunday, it was the turn of Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy to attend the meeting of the Reddy community. He minced no words in appealing to the members of the community not to shun ‘Reddy’ as their second name.     In these days of high-budget irrigation projects, here is the story of Koilsagar project near Devarakadra in Mahabubnagar district. Constructed with a budget of Rs. 85 lakh by the Nizam, the project has entered its 67th anniversary. The construction commenced in 1947 and completed in 1955 without using cement and steel. The material used was cement slurry and stone. The project underwent modifications in 1981 when the Congress government constructed crest gates and increased its height for a higher storage capacity.     The State Government has indicated its intentions to hike bus fares and power tariff but there is no clarity when they will come into effect. The government took pains to explain how Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) was suffering for reasons including the impact of the COVID-19 and hike in diesel and tyre prices. The power utilities too were facing the same situation as the charges had not been increased for quite some time. But politicians believe it could have a debilitating effect on the upcoming bypoll to the Huzurabad Assembly constituency. At a time when the government is doling out largesse on the constituency in one form or the other, hiking charges of two primary utilities could have its impact on the ruling party, they say.  (N. Rahul and M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fight-for-huzurabad-peaks/article36688337.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail - Hyderabad||It is really unfortunate that customer service in some bank branches has gone to the lowest ebb with minor issues like pass book printing not being available. Insurance renewal is also inefficient. Multi-tasking is totally absent in some bank branches. K. Durga Prasad Rao, Srinagar Colony   Though this is not peak summer, we have been facing severe power cuts for up to one hour or more twice a day. The power distribution firm says there is a ‘power trip’ of some feeder whenever a complaint is filed. This is causing problems for internet users for online classes and work from home. I request the power authorities to resolve the issue in Warasiguda area which comes under Seethaphalmandi ERO circle. V. G. Deshpande, Indiranagar Colony   The Hyderabad Metro Water Supply Sewerage Board has introduced a scheme to avail benefit of 20,000 free water supply with customers asked to link Aadhaar using their CAN number. It has become cumbersome for those in apartments as every flat owner is supposed to link it to their Aadhaar. When they have customer CAN numbers, what is the need for this link? Why can’t the difference amount be billed beyond 20,000 litres instead of making one go through this cumbersome process? N. Nagarajan, Netajinagar  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at- thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail-hyderabad/article36688323.ece
27 September 2021||Agartala,||Cong. dissidents to form new party in Tripura||Infighting in the Tripura Congress, which has been hit by the recent exodus of leaders and workers to the Trinamool Congress, was further exposed with senior party leaders not attending the reception accorded to the newly appointed PCC president, Birajit Sinha, on Sunday. Meanwhile, Pujan Biswas, who had earlier resigned as the interim president of the State youth Congress and also from the primary membership of the party, said they would soon make an announcement on the formation of a new political ‘platform’. To ally with TIPRA Speaking at a press conference, Mr. Pujan said they will ally with the Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA) floated by the State’s royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarman. Mr. Pujan’s father, Pijush Biswas, who has been replaced by Mr. Sinha as the PCC chief, is likely to head the new political party. Sources said some dissatisfied Congress leaders met TIPRA leadership at the Ujjayanta Palace over the past two days to discuss alliance plans. Party veteran and former MLA Tapas Dey, reportedly very close to the royal family and who a few weeks ago resigned as the PCC vice-president, is expected to join the new party which would essentially focus on areas under non-tribal general assembly constituencies. Meanwhile, senior Congress leaders gave a slip to an event to accord reception to newly appointed PCC president Mr. Sinha. He was a Minister during the Congress led coalition government between 1988-1993. Former Chief Minister Samir Ranjan Barman, former PCC president Gopal Roy and several other senior leaders were absent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-dissidents-to-form-new-party-in-tripura/article36688200.ece
27 September 2021||Agra,||Five teachers suspended in U.P. for dancing in empty classroom||Five teachers of a government primary school in the Agra district have been suspended for “unethical behaviour” after a video purportedly showing them dancing to film songs in a classroom surfaced online, an official said on Sunday. The teachers, employed in the Basic Education Department, were suspended on Saturday. The video of the teachers dancing in the classroom, which did not have students, surfaced online on Thursday. Following this, the Basic Education Department, Agra, set up an investigation. “All five assistant teachers and the head teacher of the primary school at Sadhan in Achhnera block were asked to submit their clarifications. Four teachers replied, but one did not,” Basic Shiksha Adhikari in-charge Brajraj Singh said. He said all the five teachers were suspended after their clarifications were found wanting. Mr. Singh said according to Dinesh Chandra Parihar, the headteacher of the school, the video was shot on March 17 and he was not present on the day as he had gone to attend an educational workshop at the Block Resource Centre. ‘Image harmed’ “The clarification submitted by the four teachers was not satisfactory. They were suspended for harming the image of the Basic Education Department. Their behaviour was unethical. They should not have acted like this during school time in the classroom,” Mr. Singh added.  The clarification submitted by the teachers was not satisfactory. Their behaviour was unethical Brajraj SinghBasic Shiksha Adhikari in-charge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/five-teachers-suspended-in-up-for-dancing-in-empty-classroom/article36688385.ece
27 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Carcass of tusker found in Odisha river||Odisha forest department on Sunday recovered the carcass of an elephant which appears to be the tusker that went missing from Mundali barrage near Cuttack two days ago, an official said. Two persons including a popular television journalist who was covering the rescue operation of an elephant near the barrage died after their boat capsized due to the strong current in the Mahanadi river on Friday. The rescue operation was halted for several hours following the accident. The pachyderm was seen standing in the water till that night but it was not found later. The carcass of a pachyderm was recovered at Jagatpur area in the outskirts of Cuttack city in the downstream of the river and its autopsy would be conducted on Monday, the official said. The carcass, which was initially stuck at a sluice gate, swept away to Satabatia in Jagatpur when the gate was opened by the irrigation department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/carcass-of-tusker-found-in-odisha-river/article36688178.ece
27 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||FRA implementation moving at sluggish pace in Himachal||Even though close to two-third of the State’s geographical area is under forest land cover, the implementation of the Forest Rights Act (FRA) in Himachal Pradesh has been moving at a sluggish pace and the process of recognition of rights of forest dwellers is far from completion. Union Ministry of Tribal Affairs data on status of implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, which is commonly known as Forest Rights Act (FRA) for the period ending February 2021, shows that in Himachal Pradesh 2,903 claims, which include 2,642 individual claims and 261 community claims, were received. Of the total received claims only 164 claims have been distributed titles. Some activists working on forest rights believe that key reason behind the sluggishness in recognition and vesting of Community Forest Rights (CFR) and Community Forest Resource Rights (CFRR) under section 3(1) of the Act is the non-committal attitude of State agencies and lack of coordination among the Tribal, Panchayati Raj, Forest and Revenue departments. ‘Unaware of rights’ “People on the ground are hardly aware about their rights, especially the community rights. It is true that individual claims are to be filed by individuals and in case of non-receipt of the individual claims there can be no claim. However, claims with regard to community rights and CFRR are to be prepared and submitted by Forest Rights Committee (FRC) on behalf of ‘Gram Sabha’. Fear of eviction among people is one reason that they don’t come forward to stake claims, but it’s the duty of government agencies to aware them about their rights, unfortunately this commitment is hardly seen, resulting in sluggish implementation of the FRA ,” said Amit Singh Chandel, a lawyer cum activist, who has been working on environmental related issues for over a decade now. Notably, Union Ministries of Tribal Affairs and Environment and Forest and Climate Change had in July this year, issued a joint declaration to the Chief Secretaries of States to review the implementation of the FRA, urging them for expeditious implementation of the Act, pointing out that “..Despite considerable lapse of time since the Act came into force, the process of recognition of rights is yet to be completed...” High Court moved Recently residents of Dhamchayan panchyat, which includes villages Panjond, Terang-Rajvan, Graman, Kharyan, Badi Bajgain, Tholtu Khod in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh have approached the Himachal Pradesh High Court with a submission that their forest rights, especially community rights and community forest resource rights, in terms of Section 3(1) of FRA, 2006, have been violated. The State government, however, maintains that necessary process was followed as per provisions of Acts and rules while settling the rights of Dhamchayan panchayat. Himachal Pradesh Tribal Development Principal Secretary Onkar Chand Sharma said: “We have already trained the staff surrounding the FRA implementation and wherever claims are being received they are being decided Besides, in Himachal Pradesh, the local and forest rights have been clearly defined in the revenue record and in the forest settlement rules long back, and hence applications are lower in the State.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fra-implementation-moving-at-sluggish-pace-in-himachal/article36688381.ece
27 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||Awareness campaign on legal services||Over a month-long legal awareness campaign will be run by the District Legal Services Authority, Gurugram, from October 2-November 14 as part of “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” — an initiative of the government to celebrate 75 years of progressive India. Lalita Patwardhan, Chief Judicial Magistrate and Secretary, DLSA, Gurugram, said the main objective of the programme was to reach out to all the people to ensure that every person in the district gets the benefits of all legislations and beneficial schemes made for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/awareness-campaign-on-legal-services/article36688189.ece
27 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||Amid eviction unrest, Assam starts farm project||Less than 48 hours after an eviction drive led to the death of two persons, including a minor, in police firing, the Assam government has begun its ambitious farm project in the areas freed from the settlers. BJP MLA Padma Hazarika, who heads the committee set up for implementing the government’s Gorukhuti farming project, said seeds of various crops have been sown in 4,000 bighas made encroachment-free. “We have begun with black gram, coriander and spinach. We intend to extend the cultivated area to 10,000 bighas soon,” he told The Hindu from Darrang district’s Gorukhuti. He said the project will not be restricted to Dhalpur No 1, Dhalpur No 3 and Dhalpur No 3 areas only. Dhalpur 3 was where the two Bengali-speaking Muslims were shot dead by the police on September 23. The Gorukhuti project, carried out under police protection, entails farming for the indigenous youths on 77,000 bighas of land that the government claims had been taken over by “illegal migrants”. The settlers said the BJP-led government has been legitimising the eviction drive by portraying them as Bangladeshis despite documents showing they are Indians who have been living in the area for decades. Locals say the encroached land used to be government-notified grazing land for their cattle. Meanwhile, the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has decided to send a team to Dhalpur where the “BJP government killed poor, landless farmers”. The delegation is expected to visit the place on October 4. ‘CM must go’ “We protest the State-sponsored violence aimed at communal polarisation and demand the resignation of Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma,” AIKS president Ashok Dhawale said. “If the State government was actually promoting a policy of community farming, it could have involved the 800 families who were cultivating the area for decades instead of evicting them and destroying their religious structures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amid-eviction-unrest-assam-starts-farm-project/article36688197.ece
27 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||3 schoolboys drown in Brahmaputra, 4th missing||Three schoolboys drowned and a fourth went missing soon after one of them posted their ‘fun time’ in the Brahmaputra on social media. The incident happened at Guwahati’s Pandughat after the four friends were returning from their tuition classes on Sunday morning. Four teams of the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force fished out the bodies of Abhinash Das, Jeet Das and Doyal Sheikh from a depth of 40 ft of the river. The rescue teams were searching for the fourth student, Deep Sarkar, feared to have been washed away. Their families said none of them knew swimming. In a video posted by one of the boys on his social media account showed the other three diving into the river. Mobile phones found in their schoolbags showed all of them had clicked selfies and groupies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-schoolboys-drown-in-brahmaputra-4th-missing/article36688198.ece
27 September 2021||Jaipur/Bikaner,||REET exam held amid tight security, five arrested||The Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers was held across the State on Sunday amid tight security measures that included suspension of mobile Internet services in some districts to prevent cheating. Five persons were arrested in Bikaner with slippers fitted with Bluetooth devices for allegedly attempting to cheat in the exam for the selection of teachers. Conducted by the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education, the exam was held in two shifts at 3,993 centres set up across 33 districts. As many as 16.51 lakh candidates had enrolled themselves for it. Internet suspended Elaborate security arrangements were made for the examination. Strict steps were taken to check any attempts of cheating and mobile Internet services were suspended in many districts, including Jaipur. In Dausa and Jaipur rural, police arrested four and eight dummy candidates respectively and busted a gang involved in cheating in Bikaner, Ajmer, Pratapgarh and Sikar. Seven others were arrested from different places in connection with fraud in the REET exam. Superintendent of Police of Bikaner Priti Chandra said five people were arrested in the Gangshahar police station area for trying to cheat in the examination. Among them, three were REET aspirants who were found wearing slippers fitted with a small calling device connected with a SIM card. A tiny Bluetooth-enabled device was fitted in the ear of the candidates which was not easily visible, she said. Two of those arrested were gang members who provided the candidates with the slippers each costing Rs. 6 lakh. “They were caught at a bus stand before the exam. During checking, the slippers and other devices were recovered. The main accused and the gang leader identified as Tulsaram Kaler is absconding while two members of his gang were arrested,” she said. Ms. Chandra said police in other districts were alerted after the arrests were made. Also, one person was held in the Jainarayan Vyas Colony police station area of Bikaner. Acting on the information of Bikaner police, two candidates were arrested in Pratapgarh and one each in Sikar and Ajmer. Delay in exam At an examination centre in the Alwar district, candidates were angered by the delay in starting the examination in the first shift. Superintendent of Police, Bhiwadi, Ram Moorty Joshi said the exam was delayed because the papers were not made available to the centre on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/reet-exam-held-amid-tight-security-five-arrested/article36688386.ece
27 September 2021||Kolkata,||‘BJP is jumla party, will defeat it across India’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday termed the BJP as a “ jumla (rhetoric) party” and asserted that she would defeat it across the country in the days to come. Addressing a public meeting, Ms. Banerjee, who is the Trinamool Congress candidate for the September 30 Bhabanipur bypoll, criticised the Centre for not allowing her to attend a global peace meet in Rome and claimed that such attempts by the BJP will not succeed in stopping her. “The BJP is the biggest jumla party in the country. It is the party that has only lies and hatred to offer. If you speak against them, they will unleash Central agencies against you. They (BJP) are the party of a dancing dragon, who will remove your name from the list of citizenship in the name of CAA, NRC and NPR,” she said. Ms. Banerjee also accused the BJP of bringing in outsiders to create disturbances during the by-eleaction. ‘Rights violation’ “The BJP thinks it can do whatever it wants just because it is in power. It doesn’t follow human rights and democratic rights in the States where it is in power — Uttar Pradesh, Assam, or Tripura. So many people died due to Covid in Uttar Pradesh. They did not allow cremation of those bodies and threw them in the Ganga. Human rights are violated in these States regularly, but Human Rights Commission won’t visit these States,” she said. The TMC chief also alleged that the Congress, the BJP and the CPI(M) have join hands to defeat her in the Bhabanipur by-election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-is-jumla-party-will-defeat-it-across-india/article36688378.ece
27 September 2021||Lucknow,||Mayawati extends support to ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday said that her party will support a peaceful ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers against the Centre’s three farm laws. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has given a Bharat Bandh call for September 27. In a tweet in Hindi, Ms. Mayawati said, “The farmers of the country do not endorse the three farm laws brought in a hurry by the Centre, and are sad about it. They have been protesting for the past 10 months in the country and aggressively, especially around Delhi. They have given the call of 'Bharat Bandh', and BSP supports its peaceful organising.” The Centre, she said, should hold proper consultations with farmers and bring a new law with their agreement. In another tweet, the BSP chief said, “The Centre is once again requested to withdraw the three farm laws while showing appropriate sympathy and sensitivity to farmers. The Centre should hold proper consultation with the farmers, and bring a new law with their agreement, so that this problem could be solved. If the farmer is happy and prosperous, then the country will also become happy and prosperous.” 11 rounds of talks The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers’ protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26. The three laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — were passed by Parliament in September last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mayawati-extends-support-to-bharat-bandh-called-by-farmers/article36688380.ece
27 September 2021||Mainpuri (U.P.),||Scheduled Caste students made to wash utensils, keep them separate||A school principal here was suspended and two cooks terminated over complaints that Scheduled Caste (SC) students were asked to wash their mid-day meal utensils themselves and keep them separate, a senior official said Sunday. Complaint filed Chief Development Officer Vinod Kumar said the action was taken after village pradhan Manju Devi’s husband Saheb Singh filed a complaint on Saturday, alleging that SC students were being discriminated against at the government primary school in Dodapur in Bewar block. Mr. Singh said in the complaint that the SC students, around 80 in all, unlike others were made to clean their utensils after eating the meal and asked to keep them separate. Upon receiving the complaint, the CDO, along with Basic Shiksha Adhikari Kamal Singh and project director K.K. Singh, inspected the school and its kitchen, and found the allegations to be true, the officer said. ‘Dereliction of duty’ Taking cognisance of the matter, the CDO terminated the services of the cooks on the spot and suspended principal Garima Singh Rajput on the charges of dereliction of duty, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/scheduled-caste-students-made-to-wash-utensils-keep-them-separate/article36688389.ece
27 September 2021||Navi Mumbai,||2 more held in Dombivli gang-rape case||The Manpada police has arrested three more accused in the Dombivli gang-rape case, taking the total number of arrests to 32. Meanwhile, the victim, who was in a hospital since Wednesday, was discharged on Saturday and was under police protection. One more accused is yet to be arrested. The police said that a WhatsApp group named ‘friends’, of which the accused were members and a video of the victim was circulated, is also under the scanner. “We are verifying the number of people who circulated and are also part of the WhatsApp group. The mobile phones have been sent for forensic examination,” a police officer said. The police have visited all the spots where the incidents took place. Of the 32 arrested, two are minors. All the accused are aged between 16 and 23 and are either students or daily wagers. A Special Investigation Team has been formed, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (Administration) Sonali Dhole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-more-held-in-dombivli-gang-rape-case/article36688199.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Towards smart policing||When senior IPS officer Rakesh Asthana joined as Delhi’s Commissioner of Police, one of his first initiatives was to integrate the Police Control Room (PCR) unit with the district police and to separate law and order and investigation teams, to ensure prompt response and increase operational efficiency. On the ground, the move has been appreciated by officers across ranks, but they believe that for the plan to be successfully implemented, more personnel need to be deployed at police stations that do not have adequate staff. What does it mean to integrate the PCR unit with the district police? In the earlier set-up, whenever a call was received, a PCR van would reach the spot first but not take necessary legal action till the police station staff arrived. Now, an officer from the police station is attached with the PCR staff at all times. This, in turn, ensures swift action right at the spot without the PCR staff having to wait for personnel from the police station to arrive to take over legal proceedings, if required. “While this looks like a good move, it will only be successful at police stations that have adequate staff. For instance, at our police station there are only three sub-inspectors, so this scheme, in many ways, cannot be successful,” said an SI-rank woman officer on condition of anonymity. She said attaching the PCR staff with police stations — at least three PCR vehicles with one police station — has its own benefits but at the moment, on the ground, it was not helping much. “A constable-rank officer from the police station goes with the PCR staff to attend to calls. But the officer can handle only non-heinous crimes, like a brawl. If a robbery or murder is reported, the constable has to call the emergency officer (assistant sub-inspector and above-rank officers) from the police station,” she said. There are three sub-inspectors at a police station, the officer said, which means that if one is on leave and the other has to attend to court matters, the third will have to be present at the police station.  Two sections formed   “Under the new scheme, two sections have been formed at police stations – investigation and law and order. Police stations, which have more senior staff, can make up to six-seven teams for investigation and law and order each and work in shifts. But at a police station, like ours with less staff, this shift system does not work. If I am on emergency duty today, it’s possible that I get the same duty tomorrow again,” the officer said. One of the solutions the SI suggested was to fast-track departmental inquiries against officers who are good at investigation. There are officers, she said, who were being wasted in other non-performing units because the departmental inquiries against them have not been completed. Talking about the benefits, another SI said with PCR vans being attached with police stations, they now have more vehicles at their disposal. “This increases visibility and the vans also reach the spot faster,” he said. Another advantage, he said, was that those in the investigation team will not have to do picket duty, which they earlier had to do for three hours irrespective of the work load. “Investigation teams do not have to get involved with law and order unless the situation is dire. For instance, if I have a murder case to work on and am ordered to perform arrangement duty the next day, there is a possibility of missing crucial evidence immediately after a crime is committed. That situation may be prevented now,” he said. A head constable posted on law-and-order duty in South West District said the initiative has ensured that he gets time with his family and it has also improved his mental health. “The work load has been reduced. Seven teams have been formed for law and order and they work in 12-hour shifts. Now, we hand over duty after our shifts. Earlier, we would come to the police station every morning and there was no specific time for returning home. Now, that’s not the case. After our 12-hour shift, we are only called 24 hours later,” he said. The head constable said he was able to see his family regularly and take care of their needs. “People in the police force are sometimes depressed because of work pressure and lack of time with family. This has helped us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/towards-smart-policing/article36688194.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Food servers turn food providers||Left unemployed as restaurants were one of the first sectors to close due to the COVID-19 pandemic, several waiters who had migrated to the city went from serving food to growing food to earn a living as they headed back home in March 2020. Looking back, they say it was a blessing in disguise that the restaurant industry shut before others as the week-long window before the nationwide lockdown allowed them to head home comfortably and not get stranded in the Capital. Others, who stayed back in the city, say they spent their time picking up skills that could help them with alternative career choices like becoming a DJ or harness the home-delivery boom by becoming a food valet. Radhe Shyam, from Siddharth Nagar district in Uttar Pradesh, who works at an eatery in Patel Nagar says that almost every body who comes to the city looking for a job has family and some agricultural land in the village and there was a rush to head home as it was the safest place to be. “Since the 1980s, I have sent all the money I make back home every month. Apart from by bad habit of chewing tobacco, I don’t really have any needs as my employer provides me food and accommodation. My family was happy to have me home and work in the fields when I was out of job. It was time for them to repay me,” says Mr. Radhe. He adds that returning to rural life was a welcome change and with limited expenses, it was easy to get by as the country shut down. Back to the farm With schools also closing early, Gajendra Negi who works at a restaurant in Connaught Place, says that he moved back with his family to his village in Tehri and started helping out in the fields. “With school declaring holidays, we left immediately for home and did not get stuck in the city as the atmosphere was better back home. We were not stuck within four walls. I did not think it will be for this long but thankfully, I was not unemployed during the lockdown as I earned an income from farming and my children attended classes online. As soon as restaurants opened, I got a call from my employer and was back. If restaurants had not closed early, we would have been in a different situation,” says Mr. Gajendra. Some waiters like Vishal Kumar, who works at a club, took the opportunity to learn a skill so that they could seek better opportunities once things opened. “I am back to being a waiter now but I used the lockdown wisely. I would see people paying so much money to hire DJs. I am always in touch with the latest songs, as my friend who used to rent out sound equipment taught me. I have a mixing app on my phone and keep practising. I am waiting for the wedding season to start so that I can launch my new career,” Mr. Vishal said. He added that the going was tough during the lockdown but the time spent out of work gave him hope and the opportunity to better his life. Delivering food Within the hospitality sector, the push towards getting food, groceries and medicines home delivered, gave the opportunity to many to become valets with food delivery apps. Soham Rawat said that while life was initially tough, he applied and became a delivery rider. “I had to care for my family and find employment. It was tough as there were few openings. It worked well for me that many of my colleagues went home so when restaurants started with home delivery, I jumped at the opportunity. What difference did it make? Earlier, I used to serve people at the table, now I started serving people at their home,” says Mr. Soham. With the restaurant business back in full swing, and the city witnessing a trend of “revenge dining” as COVID-19 cases remain low, HarendraYadav from Aligarh, who works at a restaurant in Connaught Place, says he is happy to be back to work as sitting at home was very boring. “I like doing my job as I interact with different people every day. COVID-19 made this difficult as I felt lonely trying to run my family’s readymade garment business at home. I am happy to be back and thankful that I worked in a sector that shut early and did not have its employees trying to walk home when the lockdown was announced.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/food-servers-turn-food-providers/article36688185.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Explain why illegal construction was allowed at graveyard, HC asks SDMC||The Delhi High Court has told the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to explain why unauthorised construction and encroachment were allowed to come up in and around a graveyard at Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg here. Justice Najmi Waziri also issued notices to the Delhi government, SDMC and Delhi Waqf Board on a petition seeking contempt action against the authorities for allegedly not complying with the court’s order to look into the grievances ventilated by petitioner Yuva Sangharsh Samiti. “Let the Deputy Commissioner of the SDMC file an affidavit explaining why the unauthorised construction and encroachment were allowed to come up in the first place and fix responsibility upon the officers, who may be found derelict in their duties. The affidavit shall also explain as to why the above-mentioned order [of Division Bench] has not been complied with,” the court said. It was of the view that the photographs placed on record showed encroachment upon Delhi Waqf Board land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/explain-why-illegal-construction-was-allowed-at-graveyard-hc-asks-sdmc/article36688182.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||IIT-D launches centre on quantum technologies||The Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi on Sunday said it has established a Centre of Excellence (CoE) on quantum technologies to bring research activities occurring in various domains of Quantum Technologies at IIT-Delhi under a single umbrella. The CoE will bring synergy and coherence in the activities being carried out at the institute and will support the Principal Investigators to pitch in for more significant projects from the DST and other funding agencies, the institute said. It added that the field of quantum technology holds immense promise for significant breakthroughs in the coming years and that the Centre has also announced a commitment worth Rs. 8,000 crores in the area of Quantum Technology. Rajendra Singh, Head, School of Interdisciplinary Research (SIRe), IIT Delhi said in the past 100 years or so, Quantum Physics has impacted society in an unprecedented way and the second quantum revolution is now round the corner. “The CoE on Quantum Technologies at IIT-D will focus on select thrust areas,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iit-d-launches-centre-on-quantum-technologies/article36688190.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi: Over 2,000 trees proposed to be felled for construction of highway||Over 14 hectares of forest land in east and north-east Delhi having 5,104 trees is proposed to be diverted for the construction of a stretch of a six-lane highway. The NHAI has sought permission from the Delhi forest department for the development of a 14.75-km stretch of the six-lane access controlled Delhi-Saharanpur highway, according to official documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-over-2000-trees-proposed-to-be-felled-for-construction-of-highway/article36688188.ece
27 September 2021||Pune,||Civic polls: Raut hints at Sena going it alone||In a strong signal to his coalition allies, the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Sunday said his party would go it alone in the crucial 2022 civic body polls in Maharashtra unless a “respectable seat sharing arrangement” was reached among the three parties of the ruling ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ (MVA) government. Mr. Raut, who was addressing a Sena workers’ meet in Pimpri-Chinchwad as part of preparations for the civic body poll expected to be held in February next year, stressed that the Sena was used to fighting alone. “Now, people will be thinking whether we will have an alliance [before the polls]...there will be the inevitable bargaining and bickering before seat-sharing. Why to get into all that? We [the Sena] are used to fighting alone and must be prepared to fight on all seats. If there is an alliance [with the Congress and NCP] then fine, else we will go it alone…we will not compromise on our self-respect,” said the Sena leader. Mr. Raut, addressing the grievances of Sena workers in Pimpri-Chinchwad, drolly ‘warned’ Deputy Chief Minister and Pune Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar to pay heed to their needs as Chief Minister Thackeray had visited Delhi today, mischievously hinting at the possibility of the Sena moving towards the BJP. ‘Chief Minister in Delhi’ “Pune’s Guardian Minister is not from the Sena. Some complaining that he [Mr. Pawar] does not listen to Sena workers in Pimpri-Chinchwad despite the Sena holding the Chief Minister’s post…This is not done. Ajit Pawar too listens to the CM Thackeray. We must tell him that it will be better if he starts paying attention to the grievances of Sena workers given that the Chief Minister has gone to Delhi,” quipped Mr. Raut. However, the Sena MP immediately prefaced his wry comments by urging the press not to misconstrue his statements. stating that Mr. Thackeray had gone to “size up Delhi” with the objective of making the Sena a national party. “Tomorrow, we [the Sena] must extend our footprint to Delhi. Hence, the Chief Minister’s visit today to see where the South Block is, where the Prime Minister sits, where is the Home Minister’s office…gradually, we have to get there,” said Mr. Raut, in a bid to enthuse party workers. Mr. Raut’s ‘show of strength’ remarks are the latest in a line of similar statements made by top MVA leadership (including Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray) reflecting both the unease within the ideologically opposed Sena-NCP-Congress alliance as well as the individual party building drive ahead of the polls. ‘Future colleague’ Earlier this month, Mr. Thackeray had raised political eyebrows after he alluded to senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Union Minister Raosaheb Danve as a probable “future colleague” during a public function at Aurangabad, triggering frenzied speculation of the Sena and the BJP coming closer in the near future. Before that, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Chief (MPCC) Nana Patole’s refrain of the Congress contesting alone in future polls gave headaches not only to his coalition allies but sections within the State Congress as well. Mr. Raut also urged workers to acknowledge the fact that the Sena was routed in the 2017 civic polls owing to weaknesses within the party’s organization in Pune and exhorted them to introspect as to why the party’s outreach is so poor in the district. ‘Pune Mayor from Sena’ “Despite [late Sena founder] Bal Thackeray being born in Pune and having a strong connect with the city and the district, it is regrettable that the Sena’s saffron flag has not fluttered over the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies… The next Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation results must be such that whatever be the seat tally of the other parties, the Mayor must be from the Shiv Sena. I’m not saying we should win 100 seats, but I expect 40-45 seats at least,” the Sena spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civic-polls-raut-hints-at-sena-going-it-alone/article36688383.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Weekend rush||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/weekend-rush/article36688388.ece
27 September 2021||Berlin,||After polls, German parties on tenterhooks||Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives and the centre-left Social Democrats were running neck-and-neck in Sunday’s vote to decide her successor, exit polls showed, in one of the most unpredictable elections in Europe’s biggest economy in recent decades. Surveys published on public television after polling stations closed at 6 p.m. (1600 GMT) found Ms. Merkel’s Christian Democrats and their candidate Armin Laschet with around 24-25% of the vote, nearly tied with the Social Democratic Party, known by the German acronym SPD, on 25-26%. Still room for surprises Given the high proportion of voters who mailed in their ballot, the final results could still turn up surprises in the course of the night. Sunday’s epochal election ushers in the end of 16 years in power for Ms. Merkel and thrusts Germany, a byword for stability, into a new period of political uncertainty. If there is little to set the two leading parties apart, both the CDU-CSU and the SPD could separately seek to form governing coalitions in a scramble for power — a lengthy process that could blunt Germany on the international stage for some time. Two men are jostling for Ms. Merkel’s job — Finance Minister and Vice-Chancellor Olaf Scholz, 63, of the SPD, and Mr. Laschet, 60, of the CDU-CSU. Voting earlier in their respective constituencies, Mr. Laschet stressed that “every vote counts” in an election that would determine “the direction of Germany in the next years”, while Mr. Scholz said he hoped summery weather was “a good sign” for his party. The SPD, Germany’s oldest party, were polling so badly just a few months back that many had written off the possibility that it may even be in the next government. But Mr. Scholz, a colourless but competent former Mayor of Hamburg, now stands a chance of becoming the first SPD Chancellor since Gerhard Schroeder, who lost to Ms. Merkel in a close contest in 2005. Rather, it would be the conservatives who are headed for their worst score post-war even though their candidate Mr. Laschet had gone into the race in the summer as the clear favourite to grab the top job in Europe’s biggest economy. But his popularity began to wane after a series of blunders over the summer, including being caught on camera laughing in the background during a tribute to the victims of devastating floods in Germany. In the meantime, Mr. Scholz, who at the start of the year had looked down and out in the race, saw his ratings begin to rise as he avoided making such embarrassing mistakes. With polls predicting a devastating defeat for Mr. Laschet, the conservatives trotted out their biggest asset — Ms. Merkel. Although she had originally planned to keep a low profile in the campaign, she found herself dragged into Mr. Laschet’s frantic tour across the country to canvas for last votes — something that has helped the CDU-CSU to stem a drop in popularity in the last days of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/germany-votes-in-post-merkel-election/article36687788.ece
27 September 2021||Bangkok,||Myanmar military blames rebels for Internet blackouts||Myanmar’s junta has denied suspending the Internet in conflict-wracked regions, blaming a recent spate of data blackouts on anti-coup protesters who had destroyed military-owned communications towers. The Southeast Asian country has been in chaos since the military toppled Aung San Suu Kyi’s government in February, triggering huge democracy protests. Some in the anti-coup movement formed local “people’s defence forces” in their townships to fight back, and in recent weeks destroyed several communications towers belonging to military-owned Mytel in western Chin state. Reports of an Internet and data blackout — particularly in regions where local defence forces and the military are locked in conflict — emerged soon after. The junta’s Foreign Ministry on Saturday denied that the State was responsible. “In fact, the recent Internet connections were disrupted due to the terrorist acts, such as destroying of communication towers by terrorist groups,” the Ministry said. “The Ministry urged some foreign missions in Yangon to thoroughly verify information before making statements.” Post-coup Myanmar is no stranger to Internet blackouts, with the junta imposing one in the early hours of February 1 as soldiers arrested Ms. Suu Kyi and other top politicians from her National League for Democracy party. A nationwide mobile data blackout was also imposed during the nighttime hours in the weeks following the powergrab. On Sunday, anti-coup fighters told AFP that telecommunications services in Pinlebu, Kawlin and Wuntho townships in northern Sagaing region — where clashes with the military have been fierce — were down since the early hours of the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-military-blames-rebels-for-internet-blackouts/article36687787.ece
27 September 2021||Taipei,||In letter to Taiwan Opposition, Xi warns of ‘grim’ situation||Chinese President Xi Jinping warned that relations between Beijing and Taipei were “grim” on Sunday, urging the island’s main Opposition party to help seek “unification of the country.” China views self-ruled democratic Taiwan as part of its territory and vows to retake it one day, by force if necessary. Mr. Xi has become the most bellicose leader since Mao Zedong, describing the seizure of the island as “inevitable.” New leader In a congratulatory letter to Eric Chu — the newly elected leader of the Beijing-friendly Kuomintang (KMT) party — Mr. Xi said the Chinese Communist Party and the KMT should collaborate under a “shared political basis.” “In the past our two parties insisted on ‘1992 consensus’ and opposing ‘Taiwan independence’... to promote peaceful developments in cross-strait relations,” Mr. Xi said in the letter released by the KMT. “At present the situation in the Taiwan Strait is complex and grim,” he said, urging the parties to jointly seek peace and “the unification of the country.” Ties between Taiwan and China improved markedly under former president Ma Ying-jeou of the KMT between 2008 and 2016, culminating with a landmark meeting between Mr. Xi and him in Singapore in 2015. The KMT has side-stepped frictions with China by accepting the so-called 1992 consensus — a tacit agreement that there is only “one China” without specifying whether Beijing or Taipei is its rightful representative. In response, Mr. Chu said in a letter to Mr. Xi that the two sides should “seek common ground and respect their differences” to promote peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-letter-to-taiwan-opposition-xi-warns-of-grim-situation/article36687783.ece
27 September 2021||Reykjavik,||Iceland elects Europe’s first women-majority Parliament||Iceland on Sunday became the first country in Europe to have more women than men in Parliament, a day after a general election that saw the left-right coalition win a clear majority. Of the 63 seats in the Althing parliament, 33 were won by women, or 52%, projections based on the final results showed on Sunday. No other European country has had more than 50% women lawmakers, with Sweden coming closest at 47%, according to data compiled by the World Bank. Around the world, five other countries currently have Parliaments where women hold at least half the seats, according to the Inter-Parliamentary Union: Rwanda (61%), Cuba (53%), Nicaragua (51%) and Mexico and the United Arab Emirates (50%). No quota Unlike some other countries, Iceland does not have legal quotas on female representation in Parliament, though some parties do require a minimum number of candidates be women. The Nordic country has long been a pioneer in gender equality and women’s rights, and has topped the World Economic Forum’s ranking of most egalitarian countries for the past 12 years. Iceland was the first country to elect a woman as President in 1980.  While Prime Minister Katrin Jakobsdottir’s left-right coalition won a majority in Saturday’s vote, it remained to be seen whether the three parties would continue to govern together. The coalition has brought Iceland four years of stability after a decade of political crises, but Ms. Jakobsdottir’s Left-Green Movement emerged weakened after losing ground to its right-wing partners, which both posted strong showings. The Left-Green Movement, the conservative Independence Party and the centre-right Progressive Party together won 37 of 63 seats in Parliament, up from the 33 they held before the vote. But the Left-Green Movement itself won only eight seats, three fewer than in 2017, raising questions about Ms. Jakobsdottir’s future as prime minister. Eyeing the top job The largest party remained the Independence Party, whose leader Bjarni Benediktsson — the current Finance Minister and a former PM — has been eyeing Ms. Jakobsdottir’s job. It won almost a quarter of votes and hung on to its 16 seats. However, the election’s big winner was the centre-right Progressive Party, which gained five seats to 13. After four years of concessions on all sides to keep the peace within the coalition, it is conceivable that the two right-wing parties may want to try to form a government without the Left Greens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iceland-elects-europes-first-women-majority-parliament/article36687785.ece
27 September 2021||Jerusalem,||Israeli troops kill five Palestinians in gun battle||Israeli troops conducted a series of arrest raids against suspected Hamas militants across the occupied West Bank early on Sunday, sparking a pair of gun battles, in which five Palestinians were killed and two Israeli soldiers were seriously wounded. It was the deadliest violence between Israeli forces and Palestinian militants in the West Bank in several weeks. The region has seen an increase in fighting in recent months, with tensions fuelled by Israeli settlement construction, heightened militant activity in the northern West Bank and the aftermath of a bloody war between Israel and Hamas militants in the Gaza Strip last May. ‘Immediate threats’ Israeli officials said they had been tracking the Hamas militants for several weeks and that the raids were launched in response to immediate threats. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said the militants were about to carry out attacks “in real time.” He praised the Israeli forces, saying they acted “as expected. They engaged the enemy and we back them completely.” Lt. Col. Amnon Shefler, an Israeli army spokesperson, said Israeli forces came under fire while carrying out the arrest raids. He said at least four Hamas operatives were killed and several others were arrested in the overnight operation. The Palestinian Health Ministry said two Palestinians were shot dead near the northern West Bank city of Jenin and three others were killed in Biddu, north of Jerusalem. The Israeli military said an officer and soldier suffered serious injuries during the arrest in Burqin, near Jenin, and were airlifted to a hospital for medical treatment. Hamas confirmed that four of the dead were members of the Islamic militant group. Palestinian officials said a 16-year-old boy was also among the dead, though it was not immediately known if he was a militant. The Palestinian Authority, which administers semi-autonomous areas in the West Bank, condemned the killings and said the Israeli government was “fully and directly responsible for this bloody morning and the crimes committed by the occupation forces.” But Hamas also criticized the Palestinian Authority, which maintains security coordination with Israel in a shared struggle against the Islamic group. Hamas spokesman Abdulatif al-Qanou said that recent meetings between Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas and Israeli officials “encouraged the occupation again to pursue the resistance.” Lawmaker released Hamas, which rules the Gaza Strip after seizing it from the Palestinian Authority in 2007, praised those killed as “heroic martyrs.” Also on Sunday, Israel released Khalida Jarrar, a prominent Palestinian lawmaker, after nearly two years in prison. Mr. Jarrar, a senior figure in the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, has been in and out of Israeli prisons for years — often without being charged. The PFLP has an armed wing and is considered a terrorist group by Israel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israeli-troops-kill-five-palestinians-in-gun-battle/article36687786.ece
27 September 2021||Geneva,||Swiss voters say big ‘yes’ to same-sex marriage||Nearly two-thirds of Swiss voters backed the government’s plan to introduce same-sex marriage in a referendum held on Sunday, with campaigners calling it a historic day for gay rights in Switzerland. With results in from 20 of the wealthy Alpine nation’s 23 cantons, 64% of voters backed the move, on a 52% turnout. Switzerland was one of the last countries in western Europe where same-sex marriage remained illegal. The government’s “marriage for all” proposals were challenged by opponents, who successfully triggered a referendum. “The Swiss have dropped a massive ‘yes’ into the ballot box,” Olga Baranova, a spokeswoman for the “yes” committee, said. She was at a restaurant in the Swiss capital Bern hosting the “yes” campaign’s celebrations — decked out in balloons in the rainbow colours — where drag artist Mona Gamie sang Edith Piaf’s “Hymn to Love” to rapturous applause. “Today does not change my country,” Ms. Baranova said. “Today reflects the change of mentality over the last 20 years. It is really the reflection of a very broad and very important acceptance of LGBT people in society.” Switzerland decriminalised homosexuality in 1942, but numerous local and regional police forces continued to keep “gay registers”, some into the early 1990s. Same-sex couples can already register a civil partnership, with around 700 established each year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/swiss-voters-say-big-yes-to-same-sex-marriage/article36687789.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Fuel rush||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fuel-rush/article36687780.ece
27 September 2021||Dubai,||Over 50 dead in Yemen fighting||At least 50 Houthi rebels and Yemeni pro-government troops have been killed as fighting intensifies for the city of Marib, a key battleground of the seven-year conflict, military sources said on Sunday. Hundreds of fighters have died this month alone after the Iran-backed rebels renewed their campaign for Marib, the government’s last stronghold in the oil-rich north. “In the past 48 hours, 43 Houthi fighters were killed, mostly in coalition airstrikes”, a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/over-50-dead-in-yemen-fighting/article36687781.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||These investigations are a face without a heart||Gasping for breath — that is how our investigating agencies leave our citizens and now the press. Two recent cases clearly demonstrate that our investigating agencies are a face without a heart. On September 10, 2021, officers of the Income-Tax Department visited the premises of NewsClick and Newslaundry. According to the Editors Guild of India, NewsClick and Newslaundry are news websites. The visit by the officers was styled as a survey and this was confirmed by the Department to a private news channel. A survey by officers of the IT-Department is governed by Section 133A of the Income-Tax Act. Entry that is limited, specific Section 133A authorises an income-tax authority to enter premises where a business or profession is carried on. The purpose of entry is limited and specific — to inspect books of account or documents, check or verify the cash, stock or other valuable article or thing which may be found in the premises and furnish such information that the authority may require. A survey is not a fishing expedition. A survey can be carried out only during the time the premises are open for conduct of business or profession. A statement released by Newslaundry indicates that the officers came to its premises at about 12:15 p.m. and left the next day at 12:40 a.m. Similarly, a statement released by NewsClick suggests that the officers came at about noon and left around midnight. The first question: are the premises of these news websites usually open for business at midnight with the same staff? If not, the officers violated the law in continuing the survey till the witching hour, without any compunction. Some side issues also arise. For example, what do the officers do for lunch, dinner and snacks when a survey takes place for 12 hours? Do they carry their tiffin boxes and water bottles? What about the people in the premises — can they go out for a bite or are they expected to remain hungry? Can they even inform their family that they have been locked up for several hours and cannot come home? Section 133A authorises the officers to inspect the books of account, place identification marks on them, and on other documents, and even make copies. They may impound the books of account or other documents inspected by them, for reasons to be recorded in writing. They are also entitled to make an inventory of the cash, stock or other valuable articles verified by the officers. Finally, they are authorised to record the statement of any person in the surveyed premises, though not on oath. Court’s view The Orissa High Court has taken the view that the primary objective of a survey is to inspect and if impounding is necessary, specific reasons (not general reasons) must be recorded; the reasons must be recorded at the time of impounding and not even a day later, otherwise the impounding would be bad in law. Section 133A contains a specific prohibition that the officers “shall, on no account, remove or cause to be removed from the place... any cash, stock or other valuable article or thing”. How much more prohibitory can it get? The legal Lakshman rekha having been delineated, what is it that transpired during the survey on September 10, 2021? The version of the I-T Department is not in the public domain, so it is not known, and perhaps might never be known. The two cases In its statement, Newslaundry informs us that its CEO was not allowed to use his phone to contact his lawyer. In fact, he was asked to hand over his phone to the officers. He was asked to comply with on-the-spot directions without taking legal advice. Even a criminal is entitled to contact his or her lawyer and family. Second question: Under what authority of law was the CEO asked to hand over his phone and refrain from contacting his lawyer? Books of account may be impounded, but prohibiting use of a mobile phone, even temporarily? The personal mobile phone, laptop and office machines (presumably desktops) were taken control of and the data on them or in them was downloaded. Ordinarily, a search warrant is required for this. Apart from anything else, this is a classic case of invasion of the fundamental right of privacy. The CEO was not given a copy of the downloaded data, which is his property and he is entitled to it as of right. On the contrary, he was asked to delete his personal data from his mobile phone within one hour so that they could take it away (which they did). Third question: Why should he delete his personal data? The I-T Department has accepted before the Delhi High Court that it has “seized” material (including perhaps his mobile phone and laptop) and it is in safe custody. Under which law is not explained. Fourth question: Are officers of the I-T Department entitled to violate the law with impunity and without any accountability? The sequence of events clearly suggests that the staff of Newslaundry was subjected to some sort of a house arrest or office arrest, cut off from the world for 12 hours and denied their constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights. Is this permissible? The fate suffered by NewsClick is no better. NewsClick issued a statement to the effect that 30 employees and support staff were ‘locked up’ (so to speak) for the duration of the survey, that is for 12 hours and their phones seized. If any family member had faced an emergency during those 12 hours, bad luck. To make matters worse, they were prevented from accessing their computers and indeed from working. Why? And under which law? It seems quite clear that the employees and staff underwent office arrest, something akin to house arrest. Fifth question: are the fundamental rights of speech, freedom of the press and privacy suspended during a survey of books of account by the I-T Department? Surely, our fundamental rights are not that meaningless. The phone of the Editor-in-Chief was also impounded containing private, personal and confidential data. It appears that the fundamental right to privacy is stillborn in respect of some people, particularly journalists. He may have received information from a source that he does not desire to disclose. In law, he cannot be compelled to disclose the source, being privileged information, but a well-planned survey can achieve that purpose. Journalists beware or don’t care - the choice is yours. Loose papers were taken away from the surveyed premises. It appears that no list was prepared of these papers and no copy of the loose papers supplied to the employees concerned. E-mail dumps were taken of the Editor-in-Chief and the Editor. Sixth question: was the survey a façade for some other purpose? Nobody will know until the next ‘raid’. More the norm now So many questions arise from these two surveys and they provide obvious answers, but nobody cares. The issue is not what Newslaundry and NewsClick have done or not done, in terms of adhering to and complying with the law. The issue is whether there is a rule of law prevailing and how easy it is for the authorities to harass citizens if they want to. The other issue is that government officers can get away with just about any abuse of their powers, including unlawful house or office arrest, and this is becoming the norm rather than the exception. There is no longer any respect for the citizen’s rights, including journalists; only a single-minded assertion of unaccountable authority. One last question. Are the authorities accountable for their actions at any point, or should journalists resign themselves to defenselessly watch the erosion of their rights? Harassed journalists and vulnerable targets may seek the path of least resistance. After all, they have families to feed. They did not set out to be test cases for democratic resilience. Constitutional offices, on the other hand, have a duty to not look away. Have officers forgotten that citizens of India, journalists included, deserve humane treatment under the law or is it that they do not have a heart? Madan B. Lokur is a retired judge of the Supreme Court of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/these-investigations-are-a-face-without-a-heart/article36687768.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Stopping short of social justice||The one unequivocal finding in the 165-page Justice Rajan Committee report is that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) has adversely impacted the chances of less privileged students in gaining admission to government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu. Several parameters have been used by the Committee to assess privilege (or the lack of it), such as studying in a Tamil medium school, studying in a government school, being a first-generation graduate, and belonging to a household with an income of less than Rs. 2.5 lakh. Every one of these criteria demonstrate that the already abysmal share of the less privileged in medical education became even more abysmal after NEET was introduced. One needs no other reason to accept that admission based on higher secondary marks serves the cause of equity better. School education is inequitable But a caveat is necessary here: admission based on higher secondary marks is by no means equitable. The number of government school students who were able to gain admission to government medical colleges in the pre-NEET era was around 38 per year. This came down to three or four post-NEET till the 7.5% quota for government school students was introduced. The number then rose to 336 in 2020-21 (page 55). The repeated assertion by the Committee that NEET coaching skews the results of the medical exam is true, but the Committee ignores the fact that the results of the State Board examinations can also be skewed through coaching. The domination of medical admissions from coaching schools in Rasipuram in the pre-NEET area clearly demonstrated this. The blunt truth is that school education in India, including in Tamil Nadu, is grossly inequitable. There is a spectrum of inequity in education with the government schools catering to the most underprivileged and a range of private schools catering to various strata of the privileged. Unless this inequity is addressed, all talk of coaching is empty. Logical fallacies If one were to delve into the report for answers to questions that the Committee engages with, such as what type of student should be selected for medical education, what mode of selection will ensure that such students are selected, and how we can best reconcile the perceived social needs of medical education with the aspirations of individual students, one will be deeply disappointed. Furthermore, one can appreciate the descriptive statistics, but the inferential statistics are terribly flawed. The entire document is peppered with logical fallacies. For example, on page 26, the report says: “The analytical section of this report, in the later pages, also vindicates that the ever present socio economic disadvantages and other educational, geographical and linguistic backwardness facing the students of the Tamil Nadu state do not favour the practice of a common entrance exam as it causes injustice to the disadvantaged majority people of the state.” Do these disadvantages not cause “injustice” in the result of the 12th Standard exam? Further, on pages 83 and 84, the Committee compares the Higher Secondary School marks with the marks obtained in NEET and says, “Now, the question remains before us is who is meritorious (in terms of percentage marks) - those who secured ‘98.16 % (HSc)’ or those who secured ‘89.05% (HSc)’ and simultaneously 49.65% (NEET)’? Surely, it is 98.16% is the answer.” Recognising that this argument sounds rather silly, the Committee then says, “Comparison between the HSc and the NEET scores is like comparing orange with apple, but it is not in the wisdom of this Committee to compare this way, however, the Committee has to do so in response to the arguments of the critics of HSc who argue that NEET is the best assessor of students’ standard and abilities, because of its assessment and syllabus superiority.” To refute one logical fallacy with another is hardly good policy. The greatest disappointment with the report comes from its failure to engage with the most inequitable of all factors in medical education: the insurmountable barrier placed by the very high financial commitment required in private medical education, said to be in the order of Rs. 1 crore and more. The opaque admission methods and extremely high charges incurred in private medical education was the cause for repeated challenges in the courts, which finally resulted in the NEET. Abolishing NEET without addressing this problem will be a farce, with little real benefit. The statistical prowess of the Committee does not extend to revealing the fees and other charges being collected by these institutions, the background of the students in these institutions, how many of them serve in rural areas, and so on — all of which are criteria that the Committee uses to say that NEET will be detrimental to social justice. Private medical education now accounts for around 50% of seats. The remarkable silence of a Committee, whose terms of reference included “advancing the principles of social justice”, is deeply disappointing. The way forward The experience of the NEET has highlighted the grossly inequitable school system in Tamil Nadu. The number of government schools has greatly increased but learning outcomes are very poor. An article in this paper by Kalaiyarasan A. (“Dravidam 2.0 as a time to reflect, for action”) pointed out that Tamil Nadu scored the lowest among the southern States in the Performance Grading Index in 2019-20. Using the higher secondary marks for admission to medical colleges will help a few of the most disadvantaged students get admission to government medical colleges. But it will do nothing to advance the cause of social justice which requires, in the short term, access to the 50% of medical seats in the private sector which are now reserved for the extremely wealthy, by virtue of the high financial commitments required, and in the long term, a vast improvement in the quality of education imparted in government schools. Anything short of this is mere window-dressing. Dr. George Thomas is an Orthopaedic Surgeon in Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/stopping-short-of-social-justice/article36687778.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Flood management that cannot be watered down||Over the years, many of Bihar’s districts have been facing serious challenges with recurrent and massive flooding. This year too, it has been a double whammy — of flooding and the novel coronavirus pandemic. It is the right time to look at some of the key aspects of India-Nepal flood management under the existing arrangements of India’s federal system that offers enough room for better coordination between the Centre and State governments. The background: some of Nepal’s biggest river systems originate in the Himalayan glaciers which then flow into India through Bihar. During the monsoons, these river systems flood causing many problems for Bihar. It is a necessity that there is process-driven coordination between the Centre and the Government of Bihar to handle the flooding in Nepal’s Terai and North Bihar (largely the Mithilanchal region). Still pending As part of the long-term measures to address the problem of massive and recurrent floods in Bihar, the Joint Project Office (JPO), Biratnagar, was established in Nepal in August 2004 to prepare a detailed project report to construct a high dam on the Nepal side (on the Kosi, Kamla and Bagmati rivers). The Government of Bihar has raised the matter at regular intervals. The Central Water Commission (CWC), Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS), Government of India, convened a special meeting of the joint team of experts (India side) on February 10, 2020 at New Delhi to ascertain the status of the detailed project report. A group of officers formed by the CWC has to work on various aspects of the detailed project report and propose an action plan for its early completion. The Water Resources Department, Bihar has repeatedly requested the MoJS (most recently, through Letter no. 295, dated August 2, 2021) to expedite the progress of the detailed project report. Despite the best efforts made by the Government of Bihar, the task remains unaccomplished even after 17 years. The Minister of Water Resources Department, Bihar, Sanjay Kumar Jha, met the Minister of External Affairs, S. Jaishankar, in September 2020 to highlight long-standing water sharing issues with Nepal. The crucial matter of water sharing with Nepal has been flagged by India officially as well. What is evident is Nepal’s lack of prompt reciprocation. It is essential that Nepal shows the required will to find a long-term solution with India in ending a perennial disaster. Flood protection work As in the existing India-Nepal Agreement on water resources, the State government is authorised to execute flood protection works up to critical stretches inside Nepal territory along the India-Nepal border. In recent years, all such flood protection works have had to be carried out in the face of increasing local resistance. Even during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Water Resources Department, Government of Bihar, was intensively engaged at two levels: with local Nepalese authorities and through appeals to the Central government for carrying out flood protection works in 2020. After sustained coordination between the Centre and the State (Bihar) and expedited interventions by India with Nepal, Kathmandu gave its conditional permission for manpower and machinery operation in the Nepal area of Kosi basin. Accordingly, 21 out of the 22 works could be completed. Also, some progress was made to facilitate the smooth movement of manpower, machinery and flood control materials across the Gandak and Kamla rivers situated on the Nepal side to carry out flood protection work during the flood period of 2020. But despite the requisite permission for movement on the Kosi barrage and associated embankments, the movement of departmental vehicles and work activities did not draw the attention of the Kosi Project Authority, Biratnagar, for various reasons. Since bilateral cooperation remains the fulcrum of water sharing and water management between the two countries, Nepal must play its part in ensuring a sustainable way forward. As in the figures shared by the Water Resources Department, Government of Bihar, a total of four new flood protection works in the Gandak basin area were proposed before the floods of 2020. A request was made on June 22, 2020 by the Water Resources Department, Government of Bihar, to the Government of India for entry into the Nepal region for execution of these flood protection works and for maintenance works of the Gandak Barrage Structure located in Valmikinagar. After receiving conditional permission from Nepal, maintenance work of the structure and components of the Gandak barrage (Valmikinagar), top regulator gates, Right Afflux Bund, and three of the proposed works in the Gandak basin were completed. During the strengthening work proposed on the right marginal bund on the Lalbekia river, the local Nepali administration claimed that the said bund area fell in no man’s land. This is notwithstanding the fact that the embankment was built by India 30 years ago and there has not been any dispute regarding its maintenance all these years. Breach closure/protective work of right guide bund of the Kamla weir remains incomplete due to the lack of permission. However, resolution of the impasse is awaited. This is another important matter to be looked at. Aware of the operational impasse during the flood season in 2020, Bihar’s Chief Minister Nitish Kumar visited the Jainagar weir site in Madhubani, and upon sensing the seriousness of the situation, instructed the Water Resources Department to explore converting the weir on the India-Nepal border into an efficiently operated barrage. It is evident that Nepal’s attitude towards mutual issues (water sharing, flood control, etc.) has been short of collaboration, unlike in the past. An alternative paradigm In the best spirit of friendship, Nepal and India should restart the water dialogue and come up with policies to safeguard the interests of all those who have been affected on both sides of the border. It is time the two friendly countries come together and assess the factors that are causing unimaginable losses through flooding every year. Optimisation of the infrastructure will be decisive in finding an alternative paradigm of flood management. Moreover, it is also linked to how the Himalayan glaciers and the green cover are managed. Water cooperation should drive the next big India-Nepal dialogue, and despite the challenges, wisdom should prevail to turn the crisis into an opportunity, for the sake of development and environmental protection. Water resources are priceless assets. By controlling the flooding and using the water resources for common developmental uses such as hydroelectricity, irrigation and waterways, India-Nepal relations can be strengthened even further. Atul K. Thakur is a policy analyst and columnist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/flood-management-that-cannot-be-watered-down/article36687771.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Public reason leads to progress||Since the Catholic Bishop of Pala in Kerala, Mar Joseph Kallarangatt, raised the issue of ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’, various groups have sprung into action taking sides. Since this concern has been voiced since 2018 on a few occasions, a well-meaning government has the responsibility to clear the air by establishing whether it is a bogey or part of an organised crime by groups within or outside the country. The government must also prevent preconceived anti-Muslim prejudices from surfacing and spoiling the secular fabric of the State. That vote-bank politics is in full play is evident from the visits of different political parties to the Bishop’s house. This article tries to bring home the need to build a reasoned public sphere in Kerala and elsewhere in India. Democracy based on public reason Development scholars generally acknowledge that Kerala’s social achievements in education, health, land reforms, public distribution system, social security and so on are the outcome of its renaissance tradition and public action. Even so, you cannot sustain this progressively unless you build a genuine democracy based on public reason. From the second half of the 20th century, the idea of democracy as the public use of reason gained great significance. Jürgen Habermas and several outstanding thinkers on democracy consider the public sphere as the result of a process in which individual citizens are made capable of demanding from the ruling class not only public accountability but also moral justification for their actions. In a genuine democracy, not only the government, but the Opposition, social leaders and the media too will have to morally and scientifically justify their statements. The moot question that many may ask at this point is why people enthusiastically work up or support apparently irrational issues while several burning problems such as growing inequality, poverty, unemployment, marginalisation of women, alcoholism, the declining quality of higher education and research, endemic rent-seeking, an alarming suicide rate, ecological overkill, and the blatant disregard for the rule of law stare us in the face. Why is ‘narcotic jihad’ more important than the COVID-19 pandemic which has claimed so many lives and destroyed livelihoods? Development is not only freedom, as Amartya Sen famously conceptualised, but also democracy at its practical best. But this can be realised only through reasoned public debates, or what Habermas calls communicative rationality. When Ayyankali, a ‘low caste’ social reformer of Kerala, said in the early 1930s that his dream was to see at least 10 members of his community acquire a BA degree, it was public reasoning par excellence, although for many upper castes, it was irreverence and irrationality. If the youth of Kerala do not have the capability and freedom to choose their life partner, food, clothes and question injustices, the public sphere is in decay. The communicative rationality of several religious groups is also suspect. Are Christian girls as vulnerable to drug trafficking as is widely alleged? We seem to be in deep unfreedom. Showing compassion I would like to place here two universal issues that the Bible has famously thrown at us. First, am I my brother’s keeper? This is a counter question posed by Cain, the first son of Adam and Eve, who killed his brother Abel, to God (the supreme wisdom) who asked him where his brother was. Indeed, the message is loud and clear that human beings have a moral responsibility towards one another. When Athens of 5th century BC, hailed as the cradle of democracy, declared that its goal was for people to live in freedom together, in a way the city was taking forward this vision. Second, who is your neighbour? This was asked by a rich lawyer who apparently obeyed the Ten Commandments and wanted to enjoy eternal life. The young man asked the question because Jesus wanted him to love his neighbour. The famous parable of the Good Samaritan was Jesus’s reply to the question. A priest simply walked past a wounded man on the road. A Levite also quietly avoided him. But a Samaritan, a low-caste person, took care of the wounded man and showed abundant mercy. Today, your neighbour is a Hindu, a Muslim or a Christian or a heathen. What makes the difference in the parable is compassion and not upholding caste hierarchy. The world is missing this great value and continues preaching hatred on the strength of religious texts. On many grounds, Kerala is at a crossroads. Its democracy is on trial and faces deep crises. Kerala’s soul cannot survive via vote-bank politics or identity politics, but only by building a substantive rational public sphere. M.A. Oommen is Honorary Fellow at CDS and Distinguished Fellow at GIFT, Thiruvananthapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/public-reason-leads-to-progress/article36687774.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Identity and public policy||Some political parties have demanded that caste be enumerated in the Census. Actually, the demand amounts to one of counting the Other Backward Classes, for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes are already counted. The demand has been accompanied by the argument that the efficacy of public policy for enhancing well-being across the population is tied to the enumeration of Indians by their caste. One approach to assessing this argument would be to compare development outcomes in States where political parties have adopted caste-based mobilisation with those in States where political programmes for ending deprivation have taken the social democratic route, without resorting to identity politics. Tamil Nadu would be an example of the former, while Kerala would be an example of the latter. A comparison of the developmental experience of these States would therefore be instructive. Findings along three variables As the availability of data across social groups is limited, we focused on three variables. These were adult literacy, infant mortality and consumption. Each of these indicators is related to one of the three components of the United Nations Development Progamme’s Human Development Index. Having chosen the development indicators of interest, there are two ways in which we may assess the difference made to the condition of the least well-off in a population, in this case the SCs, by differently driven social programmes. For any indicator, we may focus on either the impact made in terms of its distribution among groups or the absolute level achieved by a cohort. In a comparison of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, for consumption — a proxy for income — the gap between the general population and the SCs is greater in Kerala than it is in Tamil Nadu but smaller when it comes to the other two indicators. However, when it comes to the absolute level achieved, the SCs of Kerala are better-off than the SCs of Tamil Nadu on all the three indicators. Interestingly, they are also better off than the general population of India, i.e., they have superior consumption, literacy and infant mortality outcomes. This is striking. At the same time, the exercise also revealed a hazard when focusing on relative standing alone. We found that for more than one indicator, the distance between the SCs and the general population is far lower for the country as a whole than it is in at least one of the two States considered, even though the State concerned registered a superior level for the same indicator. This leaves us veering towards the maximin principle in evaluation, according to which that policy is preferred which maximises the position of the worst off in a society. Now, Kerala will be chosen as better performing, for the most disadvantaged have higher indicators there. Though we could do with more analysis and the use of controls to arrive at a definite conclusion, this evidence at least suggests that identity-based public policy may not be as effective as one based on an identity-less or universalist approach that is the hallmark of a social democracy. Women’s empowerment Though we are already in a position to say something about the potential of information on the caste status of individuals in the elimination of deprivation, we take our investigation to another field before concluding. It has been known for decades that gender inequality exists in India. Knowledge of low literacy and high infant mortality among females has, however, done little to spur counteracting public policy that will ensure women’s empowerment. Returning to the two States of our study, Kerala greatly disappoints when it comes to women’s empowerment, and lags behind Tamil Nadu on labour force participation, the proportion of female legislators and judges, and crimes against women. Counting the number of women through a census has proved insufficient to eliminate the deprivation and inequality they face. Politics and not the availability of information drives public policy. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat and Rohith Unnikrishnan works at IIM Kozhikode||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/identity-and-public-policy/article36687775.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Needless row||The controversy over the recent amendment to the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act is unnecessary, as it clearly does not amount to validating or legitimising child marriage. However, the issue made by the Opposition and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights may occasion a reconsideration of the legal framework dealing with child marriages that continue to take place despite a statutory prohibition. The Rajasthan law enacted in 2009 provided for compulsory registration of all marriages. It is largely similar to the enactments in other States, and is based on the Supreme Court’s verdict in Seema vs Ashwani Kumar (2007), which directed that all marriages in India should be registered. The original law itself did not exclude registration of child marriages, and all that the amendment does is to change the age at which the obligation to register shifts from the parents or guardians to the parties to the marriage. Earlier, it was the duty of the parties to the marriage to submit a memorandum on their marriage to the registrar if they were both above 21 years; and if younger, it was the duty of the parents or guardians. The amendment changes this age limit to 21 for men and 18 for women. It is difficult to see this change authorising the bride herself to participate in the marriage registration after the age of 18, as one that permits child marriage. Under the law, child marriages are not void, but only voidable at the instance of one of the parties, who may approach the court for nullifying the marriage within two years of attaining majority. Registering such a marriage may help establish the legal rights of the underage party and those of any children born and deter any attempt to deny the marriage later. It may even help prosecution of those solemnising child marriages and implement provisions relating to maintenance and residence of the girl whose marriage is invalidated later. Nothing prevents the marriage registrar from alerting the child marriage prohibition officer after registering the marriage. One must note that there was never any specific prohibition on registering child marriages. Even the Supreme Court observed that even though registration itself could not be proof of a valid marriage as such, it would have “great evidentiary value in the matters of custody of children, right of children born from the wedlock of the two persons whose marriage is registered and the age of parties to the marriage”. As a fallout of this controversy, Parliament ought to consider the Law Commission’s recommendation to amend the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, to make child marriages below 16 years void, and those solemnised when either party was between 16 and 18, voidable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needless-row/article36687764.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Back in the game||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s summit meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden, and his first in-person meet of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue mark an important step forward in India’s engagement with major global powers as it seeks to revive its economy and strategic role in the aftermath of the COVID-19 crisis. At the heart of the two leaders’ meeting was the issue of vaccine availability — and a critical victory for the Biden administration as it received Mr. Modi’s assurance that as the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, India would resume supplies to the global COVAX pool under its ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme. The breakthrough comes after turmoil in this space earlier this year, when India halted exports after facing criticism for domestic supply bottlenecks as it contended with a devastating second wave of COVID-19. Around the same time the U.S. also invoked its Defense Production Act, effectively preventing the export of raw materials for vaccine manufacture in a bid to prioritise domestic production. With both countries now moving forward on their domestic vaccination programmes, albeit with the U.S. still struggling to overcome vaccine hesitancy in certain States, the summit provided them a timely opportunity to take up long-pending conversations on trade, defence ties and more. At the confluence of those two areas was the reaffirmation by Mr. Biden that India remained a ‘Major Defence Partner’, making it a key nation with which Washington could share information and strengthen cooperation in advanced military technologies, including, for example, a recent project to co-develop air-launched unmanned aerial vehicles. Issues of global concern, including the ongoing pandemic, climate change, technology cooperation, supply chains and security, and preserving a free and open Indo-Pacific were themes that came up at the Quad gathering. Following on the heels of the first virtual summit of the four leaders in March 2021, this meeting builds upon the intention of the Quad member nations — India, the U.S., Australia, and Japan — to ensure an Indo-Pacific region “free from coercion and disputes... solved in accordance with international law”. While India has sought to disassociate its role as a member of the Quad from the recently announced Australia-U.K.-U.S. (AUKUS) partnership, there is little doubt that the creation of a fleet of nuclear-powered submarines for Australia under the AUKUS framework will have significant and positive implications on India’s strategic calculus regarding the Indo-Pacific region. From New Delhi’s perspective, health concerns and economic revival remain at the very apex of the policy agenda. This is a time for India to rapidly deepen cooperative initiatives with the U.S. regarding vaccines and trade and continue engaging vigorously with the Quad for regional stability. That is the optimal strategy to navigate the uncertain global ecosystem that it now finds itself in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/back-in-the-game/article36687763.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Put pressure on Pak. for a solution’||Mujibnagar, Sept. 26: The acting President of the People’s Republic of Bangla Desh, Syed Nazrul Islam, yesterday appealed to different countries of the world to put pressure on the Islamabad regime for a solution of the Bangla Desh issue. The basis for such a solution should be (1) unconditional release of Sheikh Mujibur Rehman, (2) recognition of the Bangla Desh Government, (3) withdrawal of the “occupation forces” from Bangla Desh and (4) adequate compensation for the war damage caused by the Pakistani army. In the absence of such a solution, the liberation movement of the 75 million people of Bangla Desh would continue in a more intensive form, Syed Nazrul Islam told a people in a broadcast from the Swadhin Bangla Betar Kendra on the completion of six months’ fight against the Yahya Khan regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/put-pressure-on-pak-for-a-solution/article36687772.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.A relative of mine, a senior citizen and a family pensioner, has interest income from post office small savings schemes such as Post Office MIS, FD, NSC and Senior Citizens Savings Scheme. I am told she is not eligible for standard deduction but that she can deduct 33% from her pension. I am also informed that exemption of interest up to Rs. 50,000 is applicable only to bank deposits and not to investments made by my relative. Please clarify. T. K. Kannan A.In case of family pension, standard deduction is not available. However, 1/3rd portion of the family pension received or Rs. 15,000, whichever is less, will be treated as exempt. The remaining portion of the family pension will be taxed under the head ‘Income from Other Sources.’ TDS is not required to be deducted by banks, co-operative societies and post office if the interest payable to such senior citizen is less than Rs. 50,000 in one assessment year. Further, in the case of banks and co-operative societies, the limit of Rs. 50,000 will be available for each branch in cases where deposits are maintained in different branches. Q.I purchased a plot of residential land during the FY 2004-05 for Rs. 8 lakh. I sold the same plot in October 2020 for Rs. 1.57 crore. The purchaser deducted TDS of 0.75% on the sale value. How much will be the capital gains on this transaction? If I invest the capital gains amount in a bank’s capital gains account, can I claim refund of the TDS amount deducted on the sale proceeds? I purchased a flat for Rs. 20 lakh in 2007 and I do not have any other property in my name. N.R.B. Patnaik A.Sale of immovable property in the form of land will be termed a ‘Capital Asset’ and the ensuing gain/loss from the sale transaction is termed as ‘Long Term Capital Gain/Loss’ as the period of holding is above 24 months. The capital gains is computed in the following manner — the first limb will consist of selling price less brokerage. Also, if the selling price is lesser than the guideline value, then the guideline value is to be replaced with the selling price. Kindly check with the registrar’s office in order to ascertain the guideline value of the property for the corresponding address/survey number. The second limb will consist of purchase cost plus registration costs which is to be adjusted with inflation (indexation). This is to be done with the aid of Cost Inflation Index (CII) released by the I-T department every assessment year. If you have incurred any cost of improvement, then the same can also be added along with the purchase cost (adjusted with CII, if applicable). If the difference between the first and second limbs is positive, it is Capital Gains and if not, it is Capital Loss. Long Term Capital Gains attract 20% tax plus applicable surcharge and cess. In case of loss, the same can be carried forward for 8 assessment years and be adjusted with any future Long Term Capital Gains. The TDS so deducted by the buyer can be adjusted with the corresponding tax payable. You may choose to avail exemption under Section 54F (reinvestment in house property) or 54EC (investment in capital gains bond scheme); in case the value of the investment under the aforementioned exemptions are higher than the Capital Gains, you may claim the refund of the TDS, if you do not have any other source of income. You may also choose to deposit the proceeds into a Capital Gains Deposit Scheme and invest the proceeds within the time limits prescribed under the respective exemption provisions and claim the refund of the TDS deducted for this assessment year in case you do not have any other source of income. Q.My wife and I are aged 70 and 72 respectively. We are both individual income tax assessees and have a single medical insurance policy having an equal sum insured. Since mine happens to be the first name in the policy, the policy and Section 80D certificates are issued in my name. Suppose my wife, whose name is second in the policy, pays the insurance premium, is she eligible to claim the deduction under Section 80D, even if the 80D certificate is issued in my name? As both are senior citizens, can she deduct up to Rs. 1,00,000 under Section 80D or is it restricted to Rs. 50,000 even if the premium in this case is say, Rs. 65,000? Please clarify. L. Paramahamsan AUnder Section 80D of the Income Tax Act, 1961, senior citizens are allowed a deduction of up to Rs. 50,000 towards the medical insurance premium paid by them for themselves and their family (spouse and dependent children). Deduction with respect to medical insurance paid by your wife can be claimed by her at the time of filing her ITR. You may also request your insurer to provide an 80D certificate in your wife’s name. A maximum amount of Rs. 50,000 can only be claimed as deduction as the limit prescribed is for self, spouse and dependent children in case of senior citizens. You may from the next financial year take individual policies for each other and make payments individually in order to claim a maximum deduction of Rs. 50,000 in each case.    (N. Sree Kanth is partner, GSS & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article36687760.ece
27 September 2021||Mackay,||India stops the all-conquering Australian juggernaut||Young batters Yastika Bhatia and Shafali Verma dazzled at the top with contrasting half-centuries to power India to a consolation two-wicket victory over Australia in the third women’s One-Day International here on Sunday. India’s win ended the home team’s 26-match unbeaten streak. Tricky target The visitors completed a tricky chase of 265 — their highest-ever — in the last over, gaining some lost ground ahead of the upcoming day/night Test, after conceding the three-match series in their previous outing. Chasing a challenging target, India got the start it needed, thanks to a 59-run stand between Shafali (56) and Smriti Mandhana (22) in just under 11 overs. Ashleigh Gardner broke the partnership when she had Smriti, who was coming off a fine half-century in the previous ODI, caught by Annabel Sutherland. Yastika (64) joined Shafali and the two carried on the good work. After 25 overs, India was 131 for one. Shafali seemed to be battling back pain and exhaustion, but reached her maiden ODI half-century off 86 balls. Playing only her third ODI, Yastika was the aggressor and brought up her first half-century off 56 balls. She had got a reprieve just before reaching her fifty. Richa Ghosh fell for a duck to Sutherland, who also accounted for Pooja Vastrakar. Skipper Mithali Raj broke the shackles with a welcome maximum off Stella Campbell after only six runs came off 20 balls, but the veteran too succumbed to the pressure created by the climbing asking rate. However, Sneh Rana (30) and Deepti Sharma (31) quickly added 33 crucial runs. Earlier, the Indian bowlers once again let Australia off the hook. Struggling at 87 for four in the 25th over, the hosts recovered through a 98-run stand between Ashleigh Gardner (67) and Beth Mooney (52). Tahlia McGrath chipped in with a brisk 47 off 32 balls. For India, medium-pacer Pooja finished with three for 46, while Jhulan Goswami picked up three for 37 runs.  Australia’s record victory streak began with a win against India at Vadodara in the year 2018 and ended with a defeat to the same opponent at Mackay in 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-stops-the-australian-juggernaut/article36688032.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Super Kings pull off a thrilling last-ball victory||In a thrilling last-ball finish, Ravindra Jadeja’s eight-ball 22 (2x4, 2x6) helped Chennai Super Kings beat Kolkata Knight Riders by two wickets in the Indian Premier League match at Abu Dhabi on Sunday. Chasing 172 for victory, openers Ruturaj Gaikwad and Faf du Plessis set the platform for CSK with a 74-run stand before the chase lost momentum. Twist in the tale The Chennai side was cruising at 101/1 after 11 overs when Prasidh Krishna removed du Plessis. The wicket brought KKR back into the game strongly thanks to a few tight overs from Varun Chakaravarthy (1/22), leaving CSK needing 26 off the last two overs. Prasidh, who had given just 19 runs from his first three overs, started the 19th over well with two yorkers to left-handers Jadeja and Sam Curran that went for a single each. But inexplicably, he changed plans with a short ball on leg-stump that was hit over square-leg by Jadeja. The bowler then crumbled under pressure as Jadeja found another six and two more boundaries to leave CSK needing just four runs off the last over. Despite Sunil Narine scalping Curran and Jadeja in the final over, CSK managed to limp across the line off the last ball to go on top of the points table. Tripathi clicks again Earlier, electing to bat, Rahul Tripathi’s 45 at the top, followed by cameos from Nitish Rana (37) and Dinesh Karthik (26) helped KKR post a strong total of 171/6. Tripathi came out with a clear plan as he stepped out regularly to the medium-pacers and helped KKR get to 50 in five overs. However, CSK pulled back things during the middle overs with some brilliant bowling from Shardul Thakur (2/20) and Jadeja (1/21). Just when CSK felt it had a chance to restrict KKR to a modest total, Rana and Karthik came good as 44 runs came off the last three overs. Curran’s nightmare CSK made one change for this match with Sam Curran replacing Dwayne Bravo, but it proved costly as the English all-rounder went for 56 runs in his four overs. After Andre Russell took 14 runs off Curran, Karthik too went after the young left-arm medium-pacer, picking up 17 runs in the 19th over, as the Kolkata side finished strongly. However, it was Super Kings who had the final say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-super-kings-pulls-off-a-thrilling-last-ball-victory/article36687989.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Harshal performs the ’trick as Royal Challengers trump Mumbai Indians||Harshal Patel scalped a hat-trick to power Royal Challengers Bangalore to a 54-run victory over Mumbai Indians in an IPL clash at Dubai on Sunday. Pacer Harshal struck big in the 17th over of the chase, taking out Hardik Pandya, Kieron Pollard and Rahul Chahar. The dream over ended MI’s hopes of chasing the 166-run target. Harshal started the over with MI needing 61 runs from 24 balls. The procession Hardik skied a slower ball to Virat Kohli at cover, while Pollard lost his stumps after walking too far across. The hat-trick was sealed with a third slower ball, which trapped Chahar on the pads. For MI, only openers Rohit Sharma (43, 28b, 5x4, 1x6) and Quinton de Kock (24, 23b, 4x4) contributed, while none of the other batters even reached double figures. Harshal finished with four wickets, while leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal picked up three. Earlier, after being put in, RCB rode on crisp knocks from skipper Virat Kohli (51, 42b, 3x4, 3x6) and Glenn Maxwell (56, 37b, 6x4, 3x6). Kohli took centrestage after fellow opener Devdutt Padikkal was dismissed for a duck by Jasprit Bumrah. One-drop K.S. Bharat (32, 24b, 2x4, 2x6) was not particularly fluent, save for a couple of clean slog-sweep sixes. Kohli’s 10,000 in T20s Kohli chugged along quietly, and recorded his second consecutive fifty. He received a life on 37, when Hardik put down a regulation catch at point. During the course of his essay, Kohli completed 10,000 runs in T20 cricket. Maxwell came to the party with typical flair. He got going with a switch hit to left-arm spinner Krunal Pandya, which sailed well beyond the deep point fence. Milne met the same fate later, when Maxwell used a reverse scoop to hit a six over third-man. Bumrah took the vital wickets of Maxwell and de Villiers in the 19th over, finishing as the most successful MI bowler with three for 36.  Harshal’s hat-trick is the 20th recorded in the IPL||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/maxwell-and-kohli-power-royal-challengers-to-165/article36687860.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajeshwar-Keyzad duo triumphs||Rajeshwar Tewari and Keyzad Anklesaria won the Match Point pairs gold event with 876.94 MPs in the 18th HCL International bridge championship played virtually on the Real Bridge platform on Sunday. Subhash Gupta and Sapan Desai (813.9) and Anant Vikram Somani and Rahul Khambete (769.25) won the second and third positions respectively. The champion pair won Rs. 80,000, while the second and third-placed teams won Rs. 60,000 and Rs. 50,000 respectively. In the Match Point pairs silver event, Swapan Some and Swapan Kumar De won the title with 856.46 MPs. They were followed by Sekhar Bandopadhyay and J.B. Sengupta (831.31) in the second second place and the pair of Sandeep Karmarkar and Marianne Karmarkar (791.15) in the third spot. The top three teams won Rs. 15,000, Rs. 12,000 and Rs. 8,000 respectively. In the IMP pairs event, Swetadri Sinha and Krishna Das Chakrborty triumphed with 94.51 IMPs to pocket a prize purse of Rs. 40,000. Paresh Gupta and Anukul Mandal placed second with 87.39 IMPs to bag Rs. 30,000, while Hasibul Hasan and S.M. Moin took the third place with 76.78 IMPs and 20,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rajeshwar-keyzad-duo-triumphs/article36688172.ece
27 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Tvm native Edson in Kuwait team||Edson D. Silva, a native of Thiruvananthapuram, has been selected to the Kuwait national cricket team for the ICC T20 World Cup to be held in the UAE next month. A nursing graduate, Edson started playing cricket quite late but he quickly caught the eye of SAI coach Biju George. “I was impressed by his natural ability to play big shots. He could clear long boundaries with ease. His game was suited for T20 cricket,” said Biju George. After playing club cricket in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam for a few seasons, Edson moved to Kuwait in 2015 in search of a job. Biju George, who was the chief coach of Kuwait national team in 2015, helped him secure a club contract with Safety Plus Dashers. Since then Edson has been a prolific scorer for his club and was chosen best batter in three consecutive T20 tournaments this season. “I am thankful to Biju sir who helped me get a job here. He told me if I played consistently well, I might be able to represent Kuwait. I am happy I could live up to his expectations. “I have been playing well in domestic tournaments for the past six years and knew I had a chance. It is a great feeling to be able to play in the World Cup, a dream come true for me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tvm-native-edson-in-kuwait-team/article36688391.ece
27 September 2021||YANKTON (USA),||Jyothi Surekha bags an unprecedented third silver medal||V. Jyothi Surekha collected an unprecedented third silver medal at the World archery championships here on Saturday. Jyothi, who earlier helped India bag silver medals in compound women’s team and mixed team events, took another silver going down fighting in the women’s individual final to top-ranked Colombian Sara Lopez 146-144. This was the Indian’s sixth medal from the event.  The sixth-ranked Jyothi shot a perfect score to beat Amanda Mlinaric of Croatia 150-144 in the quarterfinals and Andrea Becerra of Mexico 148-146 in the semifinals to make it to her third final. The Colombian gained a one-point lead in the first end and doubled it in the third. She had a three-point lead after the penultimate end. Jyothi fought back to score a perfect 30 and take the fifth end and reduce the margin by one point. Jyothi’s latest medal was India’s second individual silver at the World championships. Another compound archer Rajat Chauhan was the first from the country to claim an individual silver at the 2015 World championships in Denmark. Jyothi had won bronze medals in individual and women’s team events in 2019 and a team silver in 2017.  According to World Archery, India “has collected the most medals by any country to have never won a world title, appearing in nine title matches and leaving with the silver each time, as well as winning two bronze medals.” Abhishek Verma’s quest for a compound men’s individual medal ended in the quarterfinals as he was edged out by Dutchman Mike Schloesser 148-147. In a recurve women’s individual quarterfinal, Ankita Bhakat lost to American Casey Kaufhold 6-2 to get out of the medal race on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jyothi-surekha-bags-third-silver/article36688028.ece
27 September 2021||Kohler (USA),||USA takes a commanding lead||The United States seized a commanding 11-5 lead over Europe at the Ryder Cup on Saturday. The US squad, boasting nine of the world’s 11 top-ranked players, needs only 3.5 points in the final day’s singles matches to reclaim the Ryder Cup. Tall order No team has rallied from more than a 10-6 last-day deficit to capture the Ryder Cup, that coming for Europe in the 2012. The Americans won a third consecutive session 3-1 in Saturday’s foursomes and split four four-ball matches to grab their largest two-day lead in the team golf showdown since 1975. Second-ranked Dustin Johnson rose to 4-0 with US wins in foursomes and four-balls alongside fellow two-time Major winner Collin Morikawa.   The scores: United States 11 leads Europe 5.   Foursomes: Brooks Koepka & Daniel Berger lost to Sergio Garcia & Jon Rahm 3&1; Dustin Johnson & Collin Morikawa bt Paul Casey & Tyrrell Hatton 2&1; Jordan Spieth & Justin Thomas bt Viktor Hovland & Bernd Wiesberger 2-up; Patrick Cantlay & Xander Schauffele bt Lee Westwood & Matthew Fitzparick 2&1.   Four-balls: Tony Finau & Harris English lost to Shane Lowry & Tyrrell Hatton 1-up; Koepka & Spieth lost to Rahm & Garcia 2&1; Scottie Scheffler & Bryson DeChambeau bt Tommy Fleetwood & Hovland 3&1; Johnson & Morikawa bt Ian Poulter & Rory McIlroy 4&3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/usa-takes-the-lead/article36688033.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Wanted to stand up as a senior: Jhulan||Jhulan Goswami could not quite finish the job for India with the ball in the previous match. But on Sunday, she did, with the bat. When she danced down the track and lofted Sophie Molineux’s third ball in the final over for a boundary at Mackay, it marked the end of Australia’s streak of 26 ODI wins as well as India’s biggest ever chase. Not aware Jhulan, who was named Player-of-the-Match (she took three for 37 earlier in the day), said she wasn’t aware of either record. She said she wanted to stand up as a senior member of the team. “We were hurt by the loss in the last match, in which a lot of drama happened in the last over, and it was important for me, as the senior member of the team, to come back and deliver when it required most,” she told reporters. “I tried to hold my nerve and give my best.” The 38-year-old seamer said she was looking forward to the Day/Night Test against Australia, starting on September 30 at Carrara. “I want to know what happens with the pink ball when we play cricket at night,” she said. “Before I quit, I want to have some experience of playing with the pink ball.”  I want to know what happens with the pink ball when we play cricket at night||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wanted-to-stand-up-as-a-senior-jhulan/article36688174.ece
27 September 2021||Bengaluru:,||Siva and Ridhima break records||Ridhima Veerendrakumar rewrote two State junior records while winning the Group II 50m freestyle and 50m backstroke titles on day four of the State Aquatic Championships here on Sunday. In freestyle, Ridhima bettered Shikha Tandon’s long-standing mark of 28.20s set in 2000 by coming home in 28.14s, while in backstroke she went 0.92 seconds faster than her own record timing of 30.98s set earlier in the meet. Also on the day, S. Siva set a new 200m medley record by clocking 2:07.61s to better Rehan Poncha’s 2:08.21s set in 2009. In all, nine new meet records were set.  The results (winners all): Men: 50m freestyle: M. Prithvi, 24.51; 800m freestyle: Kaustubh Agarwal, 8:57.10; 50m backstroke: Srihari Nataraj, 25.91; 200m medley: S. Siva, 2:07.61 (NMR)[OR: Rehan Poncha, 2:08.21, 2009].   Group I: 50m freestyle: R. Sambhavv, 23.73 (NMR)[OR: R. Sambhavv, 24.14, 2021]; 800m freestyle: Aneesh S. Gowda, 8:34.79; 50m backstroke: Utkarsh Santosh Patil, 27.45; 200m medley: Shaon Ganguly, 2:09.30 (NMR)[OR: Shaon Ganguly, 2:10.02, 2021].   Group II: 50m freestyle: Chinthan Shetty, 26.90; 800m freestyle: Pavan Dhananjaya, 9:03.26; 50m backstroke: Anantajit Mukherjee, 31.96; 200m medley: Navaneeth R.Gowda, 2:19.66 (NMR)[OR: P. Kushal, 2:21.13, 2016]; 4x100m freestyle: Dolphins Team A, 3:59.31.   Women: 50m freestyle: B.G. Madhura, 28.91; 800m freestyle: S.V. Nikitha, 10:26.79; 50m backstroke: Damini K.Gowda, 32.91; 200m medley: V. Preetha, 2:44.60.   Group I: 50m freestyle: Latiesha Mandanna, 28.57; 800m freestyle: Ashmitha Chandra, 9:57.14; 50m backstroke: Nina Venkatesh, 30.75; 200m medley: A. Jedidah, 2:33.70.   Group II: 50m freestyle: Ridhima Veerendrakumar, 28.14 (NMR)[OR: Shikha Tandon, 28.20, 2000]; 800m freestyle: Shirin, 9:46.40 (NMR)[OR: Khushi Dinesh, 9:48.95, 2017]; 50m backstroke: Ridhima Veerendrakumar, 30.06 (NMR)[OR: Ridhima, 30.98, 2021]; 200m medley: Manavi Varma, 2:32.61 (NMR) [OR: Damini K.Gowda, 2:33.41, 2013]; 4x100m freestyle: Dolphin Aquatics, 4:13.96 (NMR) [OR: BAC, 4:21.00, 2017].   Diving: 1m Springboard: Men: T. Johnson Meitei (252.35); Boys: Group I: Rohan Aradhya (237.65); Group II: Mayuresh A.Jadhav (209.20); Group III: Renukacharya Hodmani (166.75 pts). Girls: Group I: Shakynah J.Rao (266.20); Group II: Sanjana R.Katagennavar (177.55); Group III: Chaithra S.Prasad (198.05). D iving individual championship : Senior & Age Group boys : Open : T. Johnson Meitei (14 pts.); Group I : Rohan Aradhya (21); Group II : Aaryn Moses Vyas (19); Group III : S. Sohan Suri (19); Age Group girls : Group I : Shakynah J.Rao (14); Group II : Sanjana Katagennavar (14); Group III : Chaithra S.Pra sad (21).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/siva-and-ridhima-break-records/article36688030.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Shahan and Deepak notch up a double||Seventeen-year-old Shahan Ali Mohsin of Agra notched up a fine double in the MRF Formula1600 category that headlined the first round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI National Car Racing Championships, which concluded here on Sunday. Also achieving a double was Chennai’s seasoned campaigner 34-year old Deepak Ravikumar (Performance Racing) in the Super Stock class of the Saloon Cars category while defending champion Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) from Coimbatore and Hyderabad’s Anindith Reddy (Rayo Racing) split the honours in the Indian Touring Cars class.   The results (provisional):   MRF F1600 (Race-1): 1. K. Suriya Varathan (Coimbatore) 14m, 25.983s; 2. Deepak Ravikumar (Chennai) 14:33.571; 3. Dillon Zachariah (Chennai) 14:37.196. Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Shahan Ali Mohsin (Agra) 17:03.129; 2. Chirag Ghorpade (Bengaluru) 17:08.117; 3. Rishon Rajiv (Bengaluru) 17:10.117.   Race-3: 1. Shahan Ali Mohsin (13:40.878); 2. Ashwin Dutta (Chennai) 13:47.046; 3. Chirag Ghorpade (13:47.567).   Formula LGB 1300 (Race-2, 9 laps): 1. Mohit Aryan (Quest Motorsport, Chennai) 17:36.308; 2. Arya Singh (DTS Racing, Kolkata) 17:36.822; 3. Tijil Rao (Momentum Motorsport, Bengaluru) 17:42.901. Best rookie: Ruhaan Alva (MSport, Bengaluru).   Saloon Cars: Indian Touring Cars (Race-1): 1. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts, Coimbatore) 15:10.042; 2. Anindith Reddy (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) 15:14.040; 3. Jeet Jhabakh (Rayo Racing, Hyderabad) 15:18.511. Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Anindith Reddy (22:46.971); 2. Jeet Jhabakh (22:47.931); 3. Arjun Balu (22:56.702).   Super Stock: Race-1: 1. Deepak Ravikumar (Performance Racing, Chennai) 16:06.931; 2. R.P. Raja Rajan (Performance Racing, Chennai) 16:07.189; 3. Rithvik Thomas (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) 16:12.150. Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Deepak Ravikumar (23:43.580); 2. Divy Nandan (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) 24:01.372; 3. Alisha Abdullah (Race Concepts, Chennai) 24:04.515.   Indian Junior Touring Cars: Race-1: 1. Charan Chandran (Pvt., Coimbatore) 16:53.207; 2. Hatim Shabbir Jamnagarwala (Performance Racing, Chennai).   Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Varun Anekar (Race Concepts, Bengaluru) 23:30.019; 2. K. Srinivas Teja (Performance Racing, Chennai) 23:59.409; 3. Charan Chandran (23:59.737).   Volkswagen Polo: Race-1: 1. Aditya Swaminathan (Bengaluru) 14:00.605; 2. Anmol Singh Sahil (Ghaziabad) 14:01.650; 3. Saurav Bandyopadhyay (Thane) 14:03.285. Race-2 (10 laps): 1. Pratik Sonawane (Pune) 19:46.949; 2. Ritesh Rai (Chennai) 19:48.035; 3. Sidharth Mehdiratta (Lucknow) 19:48.806 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shahan-deepak-notch-up-a-double/article36688026.ece
27 September 2021||Vantaa (Finland),||Thailand dominates India||The men’s pairing of M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila was the only bright spot as India suffered a 1-4 loss to Thailand in its group-A opener, jeopardising the chances of qualifying for knockout stage of Sudirman Cup badminton championship here on Sunday.  India will play defending champion China on Monday, before taking on hosts Finland in the world mixed team championships on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thailand-dominates-india/article36688029.ece
27 September 2021||Hyderabad:,||Francis Bacon wins feature event||Trainer L.V.R. Deshmukh’s Francis Bacon (P. Trevor up) claimed the Major Mir Mujtaba Hussain Memorial Cup, the main event of Sunday’s (Sept. 26) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey & Mr. M. Satyanarayana.  1. CHAITANYA CHAKRAM PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): ICICLE (Ashad Asbar) 1, Dream Station (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Quality Warrior (N.B. Kuldeep) 3 and Blue Origin (S. Zervan) 4. 1-1/2, 1/2 and 2. 1m 28.06s. Rs. 29 (w), 10, 14 and 32 (p). SHP: 31, THP: 61, SHW: 19 and 37, FP: 157, Q: 93, Tanala: 1,079. Favourite: Blue Origin. Owner: Mr. B. E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  2. GREEN HAVEN PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): ART IN MOTION (Afroz Khan)1, Story Teller (R.S. Jodha) 2, Classy Dame (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Turf Monarch (Surya Prakash) 4. Not run: Jo Malone. 2-1/4, 2 and 2. 1m 14. 88s. Rs. 114 (w), 23, 11 and 13 (p). SHP: 35, THP: 48, SHW: 23 and 18, FP: 821, Q: 278, Tanala: 3,797. Favourite: Sea Wolf. Owners: Mr. Syed Nawaz Hussain, Mr. G.B.R. Prasad & Mr. L D’ Silva. Trainer: L D’ Silva.  3. CHAITANYA CHAKRAM PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): N R I SPORT (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Mireya (Akshay Kumar) 2, Aryaman (A.A. Vikrant) 3 and Reining Queen (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 3-1/4, 1/2 and 4. 1m 28. 20s. Rs. 37 (w), 14, 12 and 16 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 50, SHW: 24 and 16 (p). FP: 83, Q: 33, Tanala: 449. Favourite: Mireya. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  4. MAKALU PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): LIMONCELLO (Akshay Kumar) 1, Due Diligence (P. Trevor) 2, Advance Guard (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Royal Pal (Aneel) 4. 1-1/4, 3-1/4 and 2. 1m 41. 01s. Rs. 15 (w), 10, 14 and 20 (p). SHP: 21, THP: 57, SHW: 13 and 10, FP: 32, Q: 26, Tanala: 167. Favourite: Limoncello. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy, Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  5. TETRARCH PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): JEAN LAFETTE (R. Ajinkya) 1, Kingston (Nakhat Singh) 2, Ashwa Jauhar (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Flying Jet (Afroz Khan) 4. Not run: Sandown Park. 1-1/4, Nk and 3. 1m 14. 46s. Rs. 40 (w), 14, 12 and 17 (p). SHP: 35, THP: 45, SHW: 24 and 13 (p). FP: 76, Q: 58, Tanala: 518. Favourite: Kingston. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  6. CHAITANYA CHAKRAM PLATE (Div. III) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only (Cat. II): ABLE LOVE (Gaurav Singh) 1, Costello (Akshay Kumar) 2, Over Joy (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Sea Of Class (Mukesh Kumar) 4. Not run: Royal Support and Stalwart. 2, 2-1/2 and 8. 1m 27. 56s. Rs. 14 (w), 10, 11 and 21 (p). SHP: 34, THP: 40, SHW: 10 and 22 (p). FP: 33, Q: 27, Tanala: 184. Favourite: Able Love. Owners: Mr. Maddali Sai Kumar & Mr. Kunwar Digivijay Singh Shekhawat. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  7. MAJOR MIR MUJTABA HUSSAIN MEMORIAL CUP (1,800m), 5-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): FRANCIS BACON (P. Trevor) 1, Dandy Man (Ashad Asbar) 2, Mark My Word (Nakhat Singh) 3 and The Special One (Akshay Kumar) 4. 3-1/2, 1-1/4 and 1/2. 1m 54.49s. Rs. 18 (w), 11, 13 and 47 (p). SHP: 25, THP: 87, SHW: 11 and 28 (p). FP: 67, Q: 37, Tanala: 1,054. Favourite: Francis Bacon. Owners: Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey & Mr. M. Satyanarayana. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  8. GREEN HAVEN PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): GOLDEN FORZA (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Hashtag (Gaurav Singh) 2, Winning Player (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Berkeley (Abhay Singh) 4. 2, 3/4 and 1-1/2. 1m 15. 13s. Rs. 334 (w), 52, 28 and 19 (p). SHP: 94, THP: 55, SHW: 86 and 68, FP: 6,198, Q: 2,884, Tanala: 1,16,528. Favourite: Big Day. Owners: Mr. C.S. Suresh, Mr. Manish Jaiswal & Mr. Sudhir Paramanand Bajaj. Trainer: S. Sreekant. Jackpot: 70% Rs. 13,082 (131 tkts.), 30% 84 (2,049 tkts.). Treble: (i) 2,284 (22 tkts.), (ii) 406 (95 tkts.), (iii) 1,247 (64 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) 8,069 (6 tkts.), (ii) 4,777 (64 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/francis-bacon-wins-feature-event/article36688034.ece
27 September 2021||Hungary,||Nethra bags bronze||India’s Nethra Kumanan (27 points) bagged the bronze medal in the laser radial category of the Europa Cup Hungary in Lake Balaton on Sunday. In the six races, Nethra finished eighth in first race, sixth in races second and fifth in third and fourth and 19th in Race five and third in the sixth and the final race. Australia’s Zoe Thomson (5 points) finished first and Rosine Baudet of Switzerland (20) came second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nethra-bags-bronze/article36688087.ece
27 September 2021||Ostrava (Czech Republic),||Sania & Shuai triumph||Sania Mirza won her first title of the season as she and her Chinese partner Shuai Zhang beat Kaitlyn Christian and Erin Routliffe 6-3, 6-2 in the women’s doubles final of the Ostrava Open here on Sunday.  It was Sania’s second final of the season, following a runner-up finish at the WTA 250 Cleveland event in the USA last month with Chirstina Mchale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-shuai-triumph/article36687991.ece
27 September 2021||Boston,||Team Europe in control||Team Europe took a stranglehold shooting up an 11-1 lead over Team World after Saturday’s matches in the Laver Cup here. The first side to reach 13 points wins the Laver Cup, so all Team Europe now needs is to win one of the remaining four matches. Each victory is worth one point on Friday, two points on Saturday and three on Sunday. Nick Kyrgios said the three-day exhibition would be his last event of 2021. He was beaten by French Open runner-up Stefanos Tsitsipas 6-3, 6-4 before Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Alexander Zverev beat John Isner 7-6(5), 6-7(6), [10-5].   The results: Team Europe leads Team World 11-1 {Stefanos Tsitsipas bt Nick Kyrgios 6-3, 6-4; Alexander Zverev bt John Isner 7-6(5), 6-7(6), [10-5]; Daniil Medvedev bt Denis Shapovalov 6-4, 6-0; Andrey Rublev & Tsitsipas bt Kyrgios & Isner 6-7(8), 6-3, [10-4]}.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-europe-in-control/article36687995.ece
27 September 2021||Zakopane,||Kiran triumphs||Kerala’s Kiran George, who won the Badminton Association of India’s recent trials to pick the Thomas Cup team, defeated Singapore’s Jia Heng Jason Teh 13-21, 21-14, 21-13 and won the men’s singles title in the Polish International here on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiran-triumphs/article36688025.ece
27 September 2021||Sochi,||Driving to the podium||India’s Jehan Daruvala capped off his weekend in Russia with a third place finish in the feature race of the Formula 2 Championship here on Sunday. Jehan, who was second fastest in the qualifying, dropped a place at the start and claimed the final podium position. It was also his fourth podium this season. Seventh overall The Red Bull junior driver remains seventh in the standings with 96 points. One of the two sprint races were scrapped this weekend due to wet weather. Jehan finished out of points in the sole sprint race held. Oscar Piastri took his second consecutive feature race win and extended his lead in the drivers’ standings with a commanding drive at the Sochi Autodrom. The Australian headed Théo Pourchaire across the line, with Jehan occupying the final spot on the podium for Carlin. Starting from pole position, Piastri retained his position at the head of the field at the start of the race, while Pourchaire moved ahead of Daruvala for second place at Turn 2. A fast-starting Ralph Boschung progressed into the top three, while championship-contending Guanyu Zhou slipped from fourth to eighth. Piastri and Pourchaire slowly pulled away from the rest of the pack throughout the 28 laps, with Pourchaire briefly moving ahead of Piastri when he pitted one lap later than the PREMA driver. However, with his hot tyres, Piastri regained the net lead, which he did not concede for the remainder of the event. Late drama for Boschung saw him retire, after being in contention for the podium for much of the race. With Daruvala third, local favourite Robert Shwartzman was fourth, ahead of Saturday’s Sprint Race victor Dan Ticktum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/driving-to-the-podium/article36687861.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Royals eye better show||It may be a clash between the basement dwellers at the IPL, but Rajasthan Royals can still afford to dream of a place in the playoffs, unlike its Monday rival Sunrisers Hyderabad. Royals, however, have to come up with an improved show, especially with the bat, at the Dubai International Stadium against a team that hasn’t much to play for, besides pride. In the team’s last match, against Delhi Capitals at Abu Dhabi, Royals batting had failed. Chasing 155, skipper Sanju Samson made an unbeaten 70, but nobody else managed 20. While the captain’s return to form must please the Royals team management, more runs are required at the top of the order from the likes of Liam Livingstone, David Miller and Yashasvi Jaiswal, to back what has looked a fine bowling attack. Pacers Chetan Sakariya, Mustafizur Rahman and Kartik Tyagi have impressed during this the second phase of the tournament. They should be hoping to continue their good work, against an SRH batting line-up that could not chase down 126 against Punjab Kings on Sunday at Sharjah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royals-eye-improved-show/article36687990.ece
27 September 2021||Sydney,||Smriti, Deepti to play for Sydney Thunder||India cricketers Smriti Mandhana and Deepti Sharma will play for defending champion Sydney Thunder in the upcoming Women’s Big Bash League (WBBL). The two are in Australia as part of the Indian team’s ongoing tour and will stay back for the seventh edition of the franchise league, starting on October 14. While Smriti has previously featured in the WBBL, for Hobart Hurricanes and Brisbane Heat, it will be all-rounder Deepti’s maiden outing in the tournament. Sydney Thunder coach Trevor Griffin said his team’s title defence had received an extra edge with the addition of the Indians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/smriti-deepti-to-play-for-sydney-thunder/article36688141.ece
27 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Akshay sets it up for Rovers||Akshay Wadkar starred with an unbeaten 108 to power Jolly Rovers to a thumping 162-run win over Globe Trotters in the final round of the V.A. Parthasarathy Memorial Trophy here on Sunday. The Young Stars-UFCC (T. Nagar) match at SSN College and Swaraj-Nelson game at Wahe Guru ground were abandoned due to wet ground conditions following overnight rain.  The scores: Group A: MCC 180 in 45 overs (Tushar Raheja 72, U. Mukilesh 52 n.o., Bhargav Bhatt 3/27) lost to Vijay 181/5 in 42.3 overs (S. Lokeshwar 58, K.B. Arun Karthick 80, R. Ganesh 3/ 29). Toss: Vijay. Points: Vijay 4(16), MCC 0(8).   Group B: India Pistons 129 in 34.3 overs (G.S. Samuvel Raj 3/31, S. Radhakrishnan 3/12) lost to Grand Slam 133/3 in 32 overs (L. Suryapprakash 31, R. Kavin 41). Toss: GS. GS 4(14), IP 0(6).   MRC-A 241/8 in 50 overs (M. Affan Khader 63, R. Sanjay Yadav 60) bt IOB 160 in 42.1 overs (R. Anirudh Seshadhri 41, S. Swaminathan 3/41). Toss: IOB. MRC-A 4(8), IOB 0(4).   Jolly Rovers 336/6 in 49 overs (M. Kaushik Gandhi 92, B. Indrajith 56, Akshay Wadkar 108 n.o., P. Saravana Kumar 35 n.o.) bt Globe Trotters 174 in 34.3 overs (Varun Aaron 30, D. Rahul 4/78). Toss: Trotters. Rovers 4(20), Trotters 0(8).   The semifinal line-up: Sept. 28: Vijay vs Grand Slam (TI–Murugappa); Jolly Rovers vs Nelson (MAC Stadium).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akshay-sets-it-up-for-rovers/article36688086.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Ankush shines for Maverick CC||Maverick Cricket Club scored a 24-run win over Best Sports Club in the Bezawada T20 invitation cricket tournament, organised by GoSports Cricket Academy. Ankush Jain was named man-of-the-match for taking three wickets.  The scores:   Maverick 122/7 in 20 overs (Devanand 34) bt Best SC 98/9 in 20 overs (Ankush Jain 3/14).   SS Interiors w/o Vijayawada Media.    Krishna District Cricket Association (KDCA) secretary M. Ravindra Chowdary named the district under-25 men’s team to take part in the ACA multi-day and one-day tournaments in the coming season.  The team:   A. Chandu Bhadra, M. Srinivas, V. Vardhan, Ch. Surya Kumar, T. Siva Kumar, Ch. Vamsi Krishna, SD. Dastagiri, B. Harsha Vardhan Rao, Ch.V.S. Koushik, A. Susamkeerth, M.S. Nikhil Naidu, Vimal Nayak, Rajesh Malik, P. Rukesh Babu, M. Pradeep, M. Shyam Prasad, T. Tagore, T. Bhagyaraj, P. Venkata Durga Rao, K.S.S. Manikanta, V. Vishal, M. Siddharth Naidu, P.K. Sri Chakri, Y. Pramod, A. Brahma Teja, Y. Sandeep, P. Anant Karthikeya, G. Chanti, M. Sushanth Naidu and M. Dinesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankush-shines-for-maverick-cc/article36688499.ece
27 September 2021||Chennai,||Team Pune wins||Team Pune emerged triumphant in the mixed relay event of the Tamil Nadu Triathlon Association (TTA)-Indian Triathlon Federation -CSS multi-sport competition, here on Sunday.  The results (winners): Para TS 4 (athletes with limitations in lower and/or upper limbs): Men: Afrid M Attar; Women: Shashruti Nakade.   PTVI 1: (athletes with vision impairment): Men: Niket Srinivas Dalal; Women: Shashruti Nakade.   Aquathlon: Junior Super Sprint: Men: Akash Perumalsamy (TTA) 0:15:40; Women: Sandhya Sudhakar (TTA) 0:18:54.   Elite Super Sprint: Male: Nitai Randeria (Guj) 0:15:34; Women: S. Aarthi (TTA) 0:18:27 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-pune-wins/article36688088.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 08:13 IST,||Sudoku — September 27, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-26-2021/article36688671.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Make a career||I completed my graduation in Civil Engineering recently but I don’t want a career in this. I wish to take the Civil Services Exam and also want to get a diploma in creative writing. What is the way to reach both these milestones? – Samyak  Dear Samyak, Set yourself a timeline. Enrol in a professional coaching class for the Civil Services exam. Also, identify and plan a second and a third option. There are many courses available online in Creative Writing that you can immediately sign up for and complete at your own time and pace. Check out Henry Harvin Education, The British Council India, Coursera, Udemy and IIM Skills, that have well-planned and not very expensive courses. I am a Class X student wishing to pursue humanities. I am particularly fascinated by history. What are my career options? – Pragya Dear Pragya, Becoming a historian, a story teller, an archaeologist, an educator, an academician, or joining the civil services are some options. You could also get into the travel trade and work on special in-bound/out-bound tours with some hand-picked locations that offer great history (stories), insights and learning to interested travellers. I am a second year student of B.Sc. Maths, which I am pursuing as a non-collegiate. My parents’ dream is that I should clear the UPSC in my first attempt just after graduation. But they ask me random questions from anywhere and then demotivate me. I feel like dying everyday. I cut off contact with my friends. I was once a very social person but now cannot talk to people. I cannot even change my track now and feel like I will spend my entire life in this loop of guilt and suffering and end up doing nothing. Please help. – Dikshita Dear Dikshita, I am so sorry. I can only imagine how you must feel without being in contact with your friends, becoming an introvert and living with all this stress. Please do not do anything extreme, as your life is precious. Get some help urgently and see a therapist to evaluate your mental health. Guilt and suffering are reactive feelings; become proactive, take charge of your life and become accountable for your actions. It’s time to be assertive and and have the difficult conversation with your parents. My son is a Class 12 student and his ambition is to become a computer software professional. Unfortunately, he is always engaged in games and chats with friends along with attending online classes. How can we convince him about preparing for the competitive exams? – Hashim Dear Hashim, Get him to meet a career counsellor who can motivate and encourage him to get his act together. He needs to get a reality check of what it takes and costs (beyond the fees) to get an entry and a foothold into a college of repute and understand the difficulty level of the entrance exam. Your advice and instructions will not work as much as speaking with a professional and hearing/reading the truth from a qualified stranger will.  Disclaimer: This column provides advice, and suggestions and is not a substitute for long-term therapy. Some issues may need medical intervention.  The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus. thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/make-a-career/article36687986.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Take a hard look at soft skills||The tidal shift to the online mode has made soft skills more important than ever. Crisp clear online verbal communication and presenting oneself appropriately in the virtual visual medium matters immensely. Soft skills are relevant not only for working professionals but also for students in online classes. So, how do we ensure our children acquire skills such as teamwork, empathy, good communication, problem-solving, and mental agility? By ensuring that our education system actively teaches them. First, what’s the right time to introduce soft skills? Contrary to popular belief, soft skills should not be regarded as a finite set of skills to be learned only in young adulthood to increase employability quotient. Soft skills are life skills that form the foundation of children’s personality and their attitudes towards learning and co-existing successfully in society and in the world. Given the criticality, they should ideally be inculcated from the foundation years of education to achieve holistic growth. Early childhood programmes and preschools that base their pedagogy on appropriate child-development foundations and developmentally-appropriate practice inculcate these through turn-taking, sharing, active listening, and assigning children responsibilities in the classroom. All this builds critical soft skills such as empathy, flexibility, teamwork, problem solving and ethics. Here are five ways to inculcate soft skills: Modelling With so much power to influence young minds, teachers need to be the primary role model of soft skills. If teachers model these skills and also explain their benefits, students are far more likely to make these behaviours a way of life. Role-playing Successfully working with others depends more on abstract aspects such as non-verbal cues and body language. Role-playing helps elucidate and put these into practice. It can be built into the teaching-and-learning cycle by using it during debates and discussions and as a tool for students to demonstrate their learning. Role-playing must always be followed by an active debrief and discussion time during which students are asked specific questions to guide their analysis of body language and communication. Group projects These are ideal to build teamwork, leadership, collaboration, problem solving, and time management. They motivate introverted students to find their voice, and others with varying skills and abilities to find their niche, and reinforce self-regulation, discipline and time-on-task. They broaden horizons of thinking as one’s perspectives evolve through engaging with others. Plus, students learn to negotiate and manage various personalities. Active listening The ability to focus on the speaker to understand not just their words but also their non-verbal cues and body language, comprehend the information, and respond thoughtfully is rudimentary to being an excellent communicator. Teachers can foster active listening by using literature to develop empathy and different perspectives among students. Using model videos where actors demonstrate how to and how not to communicate and giving students activities based on these videos will foster active listening and thoughtful responding. Video diaries As online meetings and remote working become the norm, it’s important to know how to present oneself very well on a digital platform. Video diaries are recordings of individuals sharing their thoughts, opinions, ideas and feelings. This promotes self-reflection, critical thinking, awareness of body language, and communication. Students can be asked to record themselves explaining a topic or a project, teaching a concept, or simply sharing their opinions. The term ‘soft skills’ is a misnomer. For these are the skills that truly strengthen and complete one’s personality. The writer is the co-founder of Learning Matters  They should ideally be inculcated from the foundation years of education to achieve holistic growth||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/take-a-hard-look-at-soft-skills/article36687973.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Eyes on the future||Climate change is an ongoing topic of discussion, with many countries coming together to review and change policies before it’s too late. While many are concerned and aware of the issue, they are unaware of how they can contribute. This is where Terra.do hopes to make a difference and arm individuals with various skillsets required to contribute to the cause. “Terra.do is an online school and community for people who want to solve climate change,” says Anshuman Bapna, founder of Terra.do. While governments and organisations are trying to implement new rules, regulations and turning to more sustainable methods to aid in climate change matters, will that be enough? Bapna and the team at Terra.do believe that, over the next 10 years, we will need at least 100 million highly skilled, climate-conscious professionals. Forward-looking Bapna says that it could be someone who has no prior knowledge of the climate scene but is willing to learn about what is happening and use their existing skillset to address a specific problem caused by climate change. “It could be, for example, someone working in the automotive sector, finance, or in media who has realised that his/her work is also going to be impacted by climate change. We aim to rescale and upskill these individuals into understanding the landscape, the opportunities and grow the climate economy across the world.” Bapna, a tech entrepreneur by profession, wasn’t interested in getting another academic degree in the subject, which is how the idea of a bootcamp came to be — quick, intensive courses that help build a network and develop a community to rely on when getting started in the real world. While Terra.do offers multiple courses in various fields such as agriculture, sustainable business, transportation among others, their core foundational course, ‘Learning for action’, is a 12-week online bootcamp designed to give an overview of the climate scene. This covers climate science and impact and focuses on climate communication, psychology and advocacy. “It’s easy to get sucked into a very narrow niche of what climate is all about. For the work you’re doing, it’s important to zoom out and tell the story of why it connects to everyone on the planet,” Bapna added. Right from the start, Terra.do has been 100% remote, ensuring that anyone from across the world has access to the programmes. The course works on a cohort-based method in which each batch begins once every three months, where as many as 150+ people sign on and are divided into smaller groups of 20 or so. These smaller groups are then assigned a climate coach who is an expert in the environmental sciences to facilitate the learning. There are also opportunities for peer-to-peer learning and experienced mentors assigned to discuss career options. “All the programmes are an entry point for those who want to deepen their climate work, but they also end up in a single global online community looking to work on climate,” says Bapna, adding that it allows interaction and collaboration opportunities, whether to start a company or organisation or work together for projects and research in various aspects of climate in their area of expertise. There are also frequently conducted online climate job fairs by Terra.do, which provide an opportunity to discover a career path in climate and showcase the vast opportunities in various sectors that can tackle climate change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/eyes-on-the-future/article36687981.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Let’s have a tête-a-tete||Is there a word for someone who never smiles or laughs? (P. Jyothi, Madurai) Yes, there is! The word that you are looking for is ‘agelast’. It consists of three syllables, and not two as the spelling suggests. The ‘a’ in the first and third, sounds like the ‘a’ in ‘ant’, ‘pant’ and ‘chant’, while the ‘g’ is pronounced like the ‘j’ in ‘jam’, ‘juice’, and ‘jump’. The ‘e’ is like the ‘i’ in ‘bit’, ‘hit’ and ‘kit’. This rather formal word is pronounced ‘A-ji-last’ with the stress on the first syllable. It comes the Greek ‘agelostos’ meaning ‘not laughing, gloomy’. When you refer to a person as being an ‘agelast’, what you are suggesting is that he is someone who doesn’t smile; he has absolutely no sense of humour. He tried telling jokes to my boss — a confirmed agelast. Not many people will be familiar with this rather formal word. ‘Joyless’, ‘unsmiling’, ‘gloomy’, ‘glum’, are more common than ‘agelast’. What is the opposite of Eve-teasing? (S.V. Sandeep, Chennai) When men harass women in public places by making comments about them, we refer to it as Eve-teasing. So, common sense suggests that when the roles are reversed — when women harass a man — it should be called ‘Adam-teasing’. It makes sense, for Adam and Eve always go together! Unfortunately, if you look up ‘Adam-teasing’ in any standard dictionary, you are unlikely to find the term listed. You may have better luck with ‘Eve-teasing’, for many dictionaries do include it. What is of interest, however, is that those that do make it very clear that it is an example of Indian English — that the term is used only in India. It is not found in native varieties of English. ‘Eve teasing’, like the word ‘prepone’, is one of the many words that we Indians have contributed to the English language. What we in India call ‘Eve-teasing’ and ‘Adam-teasing’, native speakers of English usually refer to it as sexual harassment. Some people believe that the term ‘Eve-teasing’ trivialises the seriousness of the problem. How is the word ‘tete-a-tete’ pronounced? (R. Gayathri, Pune) Dictionaries list two ways of pronouncing this French expression. Some people make the word ‘tete’ rhyme with ‘late’, ‘hate’ and ‘mate’, while others choose to rhyme it with ‘met’, ‘let’ and ‘set’. The ‘a’ can be pronounced like the ‘a’ in ‘act’ and ‘ant’ or like the ‘a’ in ‘path’ and ‘bath’. The main stress is always on the second ‘tete’— the word is pronounced tete-a-TETE. The expression literally means ‘head-to-head’. When you have a tête-a-tete with someone, you have a face-to-face meeting with the individual. Only two people are involved in this conversation. It’s about time you had a tête-a-tete with your friend. He’s out of control. I thought it would be a romantic tête-a-tete. But she had invited her parents. **************  “Wear a smile and have friends; wear a scowl and have wrinkles.” George Eliot  The writer taught at the English and Foreign Languages University, Hyderabad. upendrankye@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/lets-have-a-tte-a-tete/article36687975.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Powering global trade and supply chains||An industry that fuels a truly global economy by connecting markets, businesses and people, Shipping and Logistics facilitates our ability to purchase products from the local supermarket that have been sourced globally. Liner shipping transports goods worth approximately $ 4 trillion annually, facilitated by a network of over 200 ports. To put things in perspective, one large container ship on a single voyage will carry over 15,000 containers. It would require hundreds of freight aircraft, many miles of rail cars, and fleets of trucks to carry the goods that can fit on one large container ship. So, what does shipping and logistics entail? It primarily entails moving of cargo from the manufacturer to the consumer, and comprises segments such as inland haulage (trucking and rail), ocean, air, forwarding, customs, warehousing and supply chain management. The industry needs professionals with various competencies such as Finance, Marketing, Marine Management, Operations, Supply Chain, Logistics, HR, Legal to manage onshore operations. It also offers opportunities onboard ships for seafarers, engineers, medical practitioners, cooks, and so on. “With the influx of digitisation, integrated logistics is the buzzword. Anyone involved in this industry must unlearn and learn each day. Platforms like Cargowise take logistics solutions into the customers place and fingertips. Anyone wanting a real exposure to ‘business and customers’ with a willingness to learn should opt for Logistics/Shipping as a career,” says Rajkumar M. from Agility Logistics. Diversity and inclusion No longer is shipping and logistics a male-dominated industry. Many organisations now consider diversity and inclusion (D and I) a top priority while hiring. “Diversity is about strength through difference. We aim to have a diverse and inclusive workforce to achieve the best in the workplace, where all are treated fairly, provided work-life balance, and an opportunity to excel,” says Raghu Shanker, D and I lead at Maersk, Chennai. Emerging trends and the forecast Shipping is here to stay, until 3D printing fundamentally disrupts the need to move cargo from one place to another. Until then, technologies such as Blockchain, IOT, Big data, Cloud, and more will give customers the seamless experience they already enjoy as consumers — ease of access, price transparency and near real-time integrated service. “Blockchain for example, will secure data distribution and validation between parties resulting in instantaneous financing, invoicing, payments, document transfers, and so on, which currently takes a few days to complete. Digital platforms on the other hand, will not only enable virtual product offerings but also provide customers with insights along the supply chain to enable businesses to optimise just-in-time delivery,”says Shahzad Jokhi, a corporate leader from the industry. Identifying your interests and pursuing a skill-based diploma/degree will surely fetch ample opportunities in the industry. There is a good chance that plenty of new opportunities (tech-based) will develop in the industry in the coming years.  Liner shipping transports goods worth approximately $ 4 trillion annually, facilitated by a network of over 200 ports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/powering-global-trade-and-supply-chains/article36687983.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Make a career||I completed my graduation in Civil Engineering recently but I don’t want a career in this. I wish to take the Civil Services Exam and also want to get a diploma in creative writing. What is the way to reach both these milestones? – Samyak Dear Samyak, Set yourself a timeline. Enrol in a professional coaching class for the Civil Services exam. Also, identify and plan a second and a third option. There are many courses available online in Creative Writing that you can immediately sign up for and complete at your own time and pace. Check out Henry Harvin Education, The British Council India, Coursera, Udemy and IIM Skills, that have well-planned and not very expensive courses. I am a Class X student wishing to pursue humanities. I am particularly fascinated by history. What are my career options? – Pragya Dear Pragya, Becoming a historian, a story teller, an archaeologist, an educator, an academician, or joining the civil services are some options. You could also get into the travel trade and work on special in-bound/out-bound tours with some hand-picked locations that offer great history (stories), insights and learning to interested travellers. I am a second year student of B.Sc. Maths, which I am pursuing as a non-collegiate. My parents’ dream is that I should clear the UPSC in my first attempt just after graduation. But they ask me random questions from anywhere and then demotivate me. I feel like dying everyday. I cut off contact with my friends. I was once a very social person but now cannot talk to people. I cannot even change my track now and feel like I will spend my entire life in this loop of guilt and suffering and end up doing nothing. Please help. – Dikshita Dear Dikshita, I am so sorry. I can only imagine how you must feel without being in contact with your friends, becoming an introvert and living with all this stress. Please do not do anything extreme, as your life is precious. Get some help urgently and see a therapist to evaluate your mental health. Guilt and suffering are reactive feelings; become proactive, take charge of your life and become accountable for your actions. It’s time to be assertive and and have the difficult conversation with your parents. My son is a Class 12 student and his ambition is to become a computer software professional. Unfortunately, he is always engaged in games and chats with friends along with attending online classes. How can we convince him about preparing for the competitive exams? – Hashim Dear Hashim, Get him to meet a career counsellor who can motivate and encourage him to get his act together. He needs to get a reality check of what it takes and costs (beyond the fees) to get an entry and a foothold into a college of repute and understand the difficulty level of the entrance exam. Your advice and instructions will not work as much as speaking with a professional and hearing/reading the truth from a qualified stranger will.  Disclaimer: This column provides advice, and suggestions and is not a substitute for long-term therapy. Some issues may need medical intervention.  The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus. thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/make-a-career/article36687977.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Gateway to overseas opportunities||An international education is widely considered to add a greater value to one’s life. Post pandemic, this trend seems to have gained traction. Independence, a high standard of living, new cultures, and customs usually attract students to pursue studies abroad. There is a perception that this lays the foundation for a bright career. But does it truly guarantee a prosperous life? Pros and cons Studying abroad requires money; from tuition fees to other expenses, it can be unaffordable for many. However this where education loans come to the rescue. For students from middle income families, studying in a foreign university gives them a chance to break the cycle of mediocrity. Another aspect is the pay. Once a student is placed after studying abroad, the pay in foreign countries is more. Even if they return and work in the home country, the global exposure the student has received makes him/her more ready to face challenges and gives them a better standing in terms of their package earned. With foreign universities focusing on practice-based learning, students who have studied abroad are more ready to face the workplace as they have a deeper understanding of the environment and are better prepared to deal with the real world. Apart from these, there are also other benefits such as self-growth, a better understanding of cultures, and developing linguistic skills. These do not directly influence career growth but help overall personality development. In short, studying abroad makes one a capable, responsible, and knowledgeable independent individual. But, post-education success entirely depends upon the person and how he/she manoeuvres challenges and reaps opportunities. Studying abroad is a platform to experience diversity and different methodologies, but not a stamp to a bright future. One needs to work hard and build networks after the completion of education. Studying abroad may add a mix of flavour to your recipe, but making it right depends on you. The writer is Co-Founder and CEO, AdmitKard||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/gateway-to-overseas-opportunities/article36687979.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||U nited K ingdom||Creating new routines: “In my daughter’s school, they staggered start times for different year groups [instead of the 8.20 a.m. start, they began from 7.30 a.m. all the way until 9.15 a.m., which also meant a staggered finish]. They also staggered the lunch hour so everybody would not be in the cafeteria at the same time,” says London-based Smriti Jha, executive director, Morgan Stanley, and mother to a 15-year-old. “All the children have been given rapid antigen test kits that they are required to take at home every Sunday and Wednesday,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/u-nited-k-ingdom/article36688374.ece
27 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea of ex-IAF pilot seeking disability pension along with arrears||The Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of a former Indian Air Force (IAF) pilot, who was invalidated out of service in 1981 following a motorcycle accident that rendered him permanently unfit to fly aircraft, seeking grant of disability pension along with arrears. A Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Navin Chawla rejected the petition filed by Ex-Flight Lieutenant Sanjiv Dewan, noting that he has decided to bring up the issue only in 2016, that is, after delay of more than 35 years. The High Court said that the finding of the Court of Inquiry (CoI) into the accident, held way back in 1977, found the injury suffered by Mr. Dewan to be not attributable or aggravated by service. He was invalidated out of service in 1981 and disability pension was denied to him in 1981. Even prior to the rejection of the claim for disability pension, the Invaliding Medical Board (IMB) had opined that the disability suffered by Mr. Dewan was ‘neither attributable to nor aggravated’ by the Air Force Service, the High Court said. Motorcycle accident Mr. Dewan, had in his plea, stated that after successfully completing pre-commission training, he was granted commission in the IAF in the rank of Pilot Officer. After about five years and eight months of service in Air Force, on September 22, 1977, while on duty with the 15th Squadron in Bagdogra, Mr. Dewan, while riding to an official briefing on a motorcycle driven by his colleague met with a serious accident and suffered severe head injuries, resulting in his hospitalisation. Despite sustained treatment of about three years, Mr. Dewan could not recover completely and kept reporting of frontal headache. He was finally declared unfit for air crew duties in 1980 and was advised to opt for change of branch from flying to a non-flying branch. However, as Mr. Dewan had refused to opt for change of his branch, he was invalided out of service in 1981. Over three and half decades later in 2016, Mr. Dewan moved the Armed Forces Tribunal against the order of the Air Force denying him disability pension. The tribunal, in its last year’s verdict, rejected Mr. Dewan’s plea noting that the primary evidence related to the circumstances of his injury in a motorcycle accident as available in CoI have already been destroyed. “Hence the mere contention of the applicant [Mr. Dewan] is not conclusive to record a finding that his disability was either attributable to or aggravated by military service,” the tribunal held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-rejects-plea-of-ex-iaf-pilot-seeking-disability-pension-along-with-arrears/article36688181.ece
27 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Metro earned Rs. 19.5 crore from carbon credit sales||The Delhi Metro on Sunday said it has earned Rs. 19.5 crore from sale of 3.55 million carbon credits collected over a period of six years from 2012 to 2018, in its bid towards gaining greater energy efficiency. In 2007, Delhi Metro became the first Metro or Railway project in the world to be registered by the United Nations under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM), which enabled it to claim carbon credits for its Regenerative Braking Project. The CDM is a project-based Green House Gas (GHG) offset mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol allowing the public and private sector in high-income nations the opportunity to purchase carbon credits from greenhouse gas emissions-reducing projects in low or middle-income nations as part of their efforts to meet international emissions targets under the Kyoto protocol, the DMRC said. Emission reduced CDM projects generate emissions credits called Certified Emission Reductions (CERs), which are then bought and traded. One CER is equal to one ton of CO2(eq) emission reduced. The CDM helps to deliver sustainable development benefits to the host country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-metro-earned-rs-195-crore-from-the-sale-of-carbon-credits/article36688192.ece
27 September 2021||September 27 2021 00:00 IST,||Shimla at night||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shimla-at-night/article36688479.ece
