29 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu quits Cong. post, Punjab crisis deepens||The crisis in the Congress in Punjab spiralled further on Tuesday with Navjot Singh Sidhu resigning as State Congress president, Razia Sultana quitting as Minister in support of him and a few other leaders coming out in his support. Former Chief Minister and Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh (retd) reached Delhi on a two-day visit, triggering speculation of a possible meeting between him and senior BJP leaders. He, however, said he was on a personal visit. Mr. Sidhu resigned, saying he could not compromise on Punjab’s future and its welfare agenda. He, however, did not give a reason in his resignation letter. ‘Will serve the Congress’ In his resignation letter addressed to party president Sonia Gandhi and posted on Twitter, he said, “The collapse of man’s character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab’s future and agenda of welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. Will continue to serve the Congress.” In New Delhi, Capt. Amarinder said Mr. Sidhu’s resignation proved beyond doubt that the cricketer-turned-politician was an “unstable” man, who could not be relied upon to lead the party, especially in a border State like Punjab. He termed Mr. Sidhu’s resignation “sheer drama”. The move suggested that he was preparing the ground to quit the Congress and join hands with some other party, he alleged. “By resigning within two months of taking over as the PPCC chief, Navjot had once again exhibited his shifty character,” he said. To a question if Mr. Sidhu was apparently upset with the inclusion of certain Ministers in the Charanjit Singh Channi Cabinet, Capt. Amarinder said the PPCC chief apparently wanted to run the government by remote control. The party’s central leadership should immediately accept his resignation, he said. Allocation of portfolios Mr. Sidhu made his resignation announcement hours after portfolios were allocated by Mr. Channi. His suggestions on ‘choices of bureaucrats and Ministers’ were allegedly overruled by the party leadership. A close aide of Mr. Sidhu told The Hindu that he was miffed at the reinduction of Rana Gurjit Singh in the Cabinet. Rana Gurjit, Kapurthala MLA, faced allegations of involvement in a sand mining scam and quit from the Cabinet in 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-quits-cong-post-punjab-crisis-deepens/article36727095.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bengal post-poll violence: SC issues notice to Centre||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said West Bengal had “made out a case on the face of it” in its appeal against the Calcutta High Court decision to hand over the post-poll violence cases, involving murder and rape, to the CBI. “On the face of it, you have made a case for issuance of notice. Let us see. We will give a short time for respondents to file a counter,” Justice Vineet Saran, heading a Bench also comprising Justice Aniruddha Bose, addressed senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for West Bengal. The court issued notice to the Union of India and other respondents in the case. It fixed the hearing on October 7 and directed the State to serve the petition on the respondents. Mr. Sibal went on to urge the court to stay future filing of FIRs by the CBI. Justices Saran and Bose replied, “We don’t have to do it. Mr. Sibal, you know better than that... Anyway, it is only a week, nothing is going to happen”. Mr. Sibal said the CBI was already issuing notice to police officers in the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-post-poll-violence-sc-issues-notice-to-centre/article36727091.ece
29 September 2021||Patna,||Rocky road for RTI activists in Bihar, 20 killed in past 11 years||Bihar has proved to be hostile terrain for Right to Information (RTI) activists, with as many as 20 having been killed since 2010. Six activists were killed in 2018 alone. The RTI Act came into force in June 2005. Sashidhar Mishra from Begusarai district was the first RTI activist killed in 2010 and just last week, Bipin Agrawal, 46, was killed, allegedly for exposing encroachment on government lands in East Champaran district. Agrawal had filed at least 900 RTI applications seeking details on government land encroachment in the district. His home was attacked by assailants in 2020 as well. Following the incident he had sought protection from local police but that was not provided to him. “Bihar has always been unfriendly for RTI activists with as many as 20 of them having been killed in different districts for raising their voice against corruption in government system,” veteran RTI activist Shiv Prakash Rai told The Hindu . Mr. Rai, in fact, had to face a jail term for 29 days in 2008 for exposing malfeasance in providing solar lights. A case of extortion was lodged against him by a top district official and he was sent to jail. He was later released as the case proved false. “District officials get annoyed with RTI activists as mostly we expose misappropriation of funds through our applications,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rocky-road-for-rti-activists-in-bihar-20-killed-in-past-11-years/article36727308.ece
29 September 2021||Patna,||Rocky road for RTI activists in Bihar, 20 killed in past 11 years||Bihar has proved to be hostile terrain for Right to Information (RTI) activists, with as many as 20 having been killed since 2010. Six activists were killed in 2018 alone. The RTI Act came into force in June 2005. Sashidhar Mishra from Begusarai district was the first RTI activist killed in 2010 and just last week, Bipin Agrawal was killed, allegedly for exposing encroachment on government lands in East Champaran district.  “Bihar has always been unfriendly for RTI activists with as many as 20 of them having been killed in different districts for raising their voice against corruption in government system,” veteran RTI activist Shiv Prakash Rai told The Hindu . Mr. Rai in fact had to face a jail term for 29 days in 2008 for exposing malfeasance in providing solar lights. A case of extortion was lodged against him by a top district official and he was sent to jail. He was later released as the case proved false. “District officials first get annoyed with RTI activists as mostly we expose misappropriation of government funds through our applications,” Mr. Rai said. A coordinator of the Nagrik Adhikar Manch (Citizens Rights Forum), Mr. Rai has been travelling 200 km every day from Buxar to Patna by local train to follow up on his RTI petitions for the past 15 years. Losing teeth “Earlier the government officials used to reply to RTI applications on time. But these days things have changed for worse. The officials do not take RTI applications seriously and sometime it takes months and sometimes years to get replies from their departments,” said the sexagenarian RTI activist. Any fear of being implicated in wrongdoing seems to have vanished from the mind of officials nowadays, he added. Just last week on September 23, an RTI activist of East Champaran district Bipin Agrawal, 46, was shot dead by bike-borne criminals in broad daylight outside the Harsiddhi block office. Agrawal had filed at least 900 RTI applications seeking details on government land encroachment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rocky-road-for-rti-activists-in-bihar-20-killed-in-past-11-years/article36727486.ece
29 September 2021||Belagavi,||FRP for sugarcane fixed at Rs. 2,900||The Union government has declared fair and remunerative price (FRP) of Rs. 2,900 per tonne of sugarcane crushed at a rate of 10% of yield of sugar, Minister for Sugar and Textile Shankar Patil Munenakoppa said in Belagavi on Tuesday. This is an increase of Rs. 200 per tonne over the last FRP, he told journalists. “We are committed to ensuring that the factories pay FRP to all sugarcane supplying farmers. We will ask the Deputy Commissioners to see that the factories pay the arrears,” he said. “Our records say that 99.97% of sugar arrears have been paid to farmers. We will ensure that the rest is released soon,” he said. According to him, only some of the 64 functional factories in the State have pending arrears of around Rs. 42.17 crore payable to farmers. They are Sri Someshwar Cooperative Sugar Factory of Bailhongal, Jamkhandi Sugars of Hirepadasalagi, Nirani Sugars of Mudhol, Sri Saipriya Sugars of Hipparagi, Bidar Kisan Sugar Factory of Bagadal, Sri Basaveshwar Sugars of Karjol and Core Greens and Fuels of Shahapur. Of these, Sri Basaveshwar Sugars alone has a pending bill of Rs. 22.11 crore. The Minister said that the State-run S. Nijalingappa Sugar Institute in Belagavi will start an M.Sc course in Alcohol Technology from this year. “All the necessary preparations are being made,’’ the Minister said. He inspected the microbiology laboratory in the institute and spoke to scientists. He saw the experimental fields where new high yielding varieties of sugarcane are grown. Earlier, he visited a mega silk sari-making unit in the industrial area. Also, the Minister participated in a meeting with Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar to fix wages for sugar factory workers. He said that the government will work with all stakeholders to decide on the tripartite agreement between the government, the factories and the workers of sugar factories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/frp-for-sugarcane-fixed-at-rs-2900/article36727385.ece
29 September 2021||Chennai,||In-person learning to resume for Class I-VIII from November 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday allowed physical classes for students of Class I-VIII from November 1. The standard operating procedure issued in this regard must be strictly followed, it said. Inputs from experts In a statement, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said the decision was based on the inputs from medical experts, educationalists and parents. Students of Classes IX to XII have already been attending physical classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-person-learning-to-resume-for-class-i-viii-from-november-1/article36727364.ece
29 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,||Heavy inflows cause floods in Srikakulam||With heavy inflows from catchment areas following incessant rains, many rivers, including Vamsadhara, Suvarnamukhi, Nagavali and others have been in spate since Tuesday. It has led to heavy flooding in many mandals, including Palakonda, Burja, Amadalavalasa, Srikakulam and others. Around 48,500 cusecs of water has been released from Narayanpur Anicut built across Nagavali river in Burja mandal. Road communication to several villages was cut off as rivers, rivulets and streams overflowed leaving over 53,000 people stranded. The situation was worst in Palakonda division with people facing shortage of food, water and electricity. The heavy rain and flash floods have damaged standing crops including paddy, groundnut, banana, custard apple, lemon trees in more than 1 lakh acres in Vizianagaram and Srikakualm districts. The government has asked the officials to take up the enumeration exercise to assess the damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-inflows-cause-floods-in-srikakulam/article36727706.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Malayalam gets its own sign language alphabet||Malayalam has finally got its own sign language alphabet. The National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH) has come up with uniform sign language characters in the Malayalam alphabet using fingerspelling. The lack of a sign language alphabet in Malayalam has been a challenge for teachers in schools for the hearing impaired. English and Hindi have their own sign language. At present, schools mostly rely on lip movement to get the message across. Teachers and students at NISH, under the supervision of sign language experts there, have come up with the fingerspelling, which covers vowels and consonants too. NISH intends to incorporate the uniform fingerspelling into the curriculum for the hearing impaired with the support of the State Council of Educational Research and Training. Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu will release the alphabet on Wednesday to mark International Week of the Deaf that is observed in the last week of September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/malayalam-gets-its-own-sign-language-alphabet/article36727456.ece
29 September 2021||Kolkata,||Bhabanipur bypoll on schedule||A Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with Bhabanipur Assembly byelection, scheduled for Thursday. But it recorded its “strong reservation” over the Chief Secretary writing to the poll panel stating that there would be ‘constitutional crisis’ in case byelection was not held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhabanipur-bypoll-on-schedule/article36727087.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Another building partially collapses||A three-storey building partially collapsed at the KMF quarters near Dairy Circle on Tuesday. Fortunately, residents had evacuated the building before the collapse. The fire and emergency services personnel, who, along with police, cordoned off the area and managed to rescue two pet dogs trapped inside the collapsed building. With two buildings having collapsed in the city in as many days, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to take up a fresh survey of weak and dilapidated buildings across the city for a structural audit in the interest of public safety. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said a month’s time has been given to the eight zonal joint commissioners to undertake the survey. The civic body had identified 194 dilapidated buildings in five zones in a survey in 2019, but no action had been taken due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/another-building-partially-collapses/article36727139.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Alert sounded for Musi river||A large quantity of surplus water arriving into Osmansagar reservoir Himayatsagar reservoir is being let downstream into River Musi following heavy downpour in the catchment areas. HMWSSB has alerted the Revenue administrations of Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts, GHMC and Police about the possibility of floods in Musi river, so that residents of the surrounding areas could be shifted to safer locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/alert-sounded-for-musi-river/article36727403.ece
29 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Petrol pump manager robbed of Rs. 4.2 lakh||Two men on a two-wheeler robbed a petrol pump manager of Rs. 4.2 lakh in the Urva Police limits here on Tuesday. Bojappa, manager of Ashirvad Petrol Pump in Gandhinagar, was on his way on a two-wheeler to deposit the amount at the Saraswat Cooperative Bank in Chilimbi. As he was taking a U-turn on the Kulur Ferry Road, two motorcycle-borne men wearing T-Shirts of an online food delivery major assaulted him and snatched the money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/petrol-pump-manager-robbed-of-rs-42-lakh/article36727551.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Kanhaiya walks into Congress||Ending months of speculation, Communist Party of India (CPI) leader and former JNU Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress on Tuesday. He was accompanied by Independent MLA from Gujarat Jignesh Mevani, who also spoke strongly in support of the Congress ideology but did not join the party formally. Explaining his reasons for joining the Congress, Mr. Kumar said, “I am joining the country’s oldest and the most democratic party, because I feel, and so do many other young people, that if the Congress does not survive then the country will not survive.” The Congress is the only alternative to the BJP in at least 200 Lok Sabha seats, Mr. Kumar said at the Congress headquarters addressing a hall packed with his supporters and media personnel. “Congress is the biggest opposition party, if we do not save it.. if we do not save the big ship, then the smaller boats too won’t survive,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kanhaiya-walks-into-congress/article36727093.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bypolls to LS, Assembly seats on October 30||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday announced by-elections in the Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Khandwa and Mandi Lok Sabha and 30 Assembly constituencies across the country to be held on October 30. The votes will be counted on November 2. “The Commission has reviewed the situation related to pandemic, flood and festivals,” the ECI said. “Feedback from States and Union Territories was reviewed and taken into consideration and it was decided to hold by-elections to fill vacancies in three Parliamentary Constituencies of UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh and 30 vacancies in Assembly Constituencies of various States,” the ECI said. The Assembly seats that will go to the polls are one each from Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Nagaland and Telangana; two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan; three each from Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Meghalaya; four in West Bengal; and five from Assam. The ECI reiterated its orders regarding COVID-19 safety norms, including restricting poll meetings to 30% of the allowed capacity of an indoor venue and a ban on roadshows and bike rallies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/byelections-to-three-lok-sabha-30-assembly-seats-on-oct-30/article36727089.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Double digit growth likely till 2023’||India’s economy is likely to grow in double digits this year as well as next year with the higher revenue collections giving the Centre more room to push capital spending, Principal Economic Advisor Sanjeev Sanyal said on Tuesday, before making a strong pitch to fix India’s cities. “Some of our cities in peace time don’t have roads like Kabul had in war time,” Mr. Sanyal lamented, contrasting this with the ‘shockingly poor’ roads and municipal services in some of India’s tier-three cities. While infrastructure in Mumbai and Delhi is ‘relatively better’, Mr. Sanyal said the next generation of reforms must focus on intra-city infrastructure and better municipal services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/double-digit-growth-likely-till-2023/article36727085.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rush returns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rush-returns/article36727349.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||2020 Delhi riots result of a pre-planned conspiracy: HC||The Delhi High Court has rejected the bail petition of a man arrested in connection with the death of a head constable during the north-east Delhi riots last year, noting that the incident was a result of a “pre-planned and premeditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city”. Justice Subramonium Prasad, while dismissing the bail plea of Mohammad Ibrahim, who was seen on numerous CCTV footage wearing a skullcap, a black jacket and salwar-kurta and with a sword in his hand at multiple locations around the Chand Bagh area. Justice Prasad said even though Mr. Ibrahim could not be seen at the “scene of crime”, he clearly was part of the mob for the sole reason that he had consciously travelled 1.6 km from his neighbourhood with a sword. “The riots which shook the national capital in February 2020 evidently did not take place on the spur of the moment, and the conduct of the protesters who are present in the video footage visibly portrays that it was a calculated attempt to dislocate the functioning of the government as well as to disrupt the normal life of the people in the city,” the court remarked. The systematic disconnection and destruction of CCTV cameras also confirmed the existence of a pre-planned and premeditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city, Justice Prasad said. “This is also evident from the fact that innumerable rioters ruthlessly descended with sticks, bats etc. upon a hopelessly outnumbered cohort of police officials.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2020-delhi-riots-result-of-a-pre-planned-conspiracy-hc/article36727309.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Suhasini to head film awards jury||Actor-director Suhasini will lead the jury to decide the Kerala State Film Awards for 2020. The government has issued an order appointing the jury. These will be the first awards after amending the rules to introduce a two-level mechanism for the jury in the wake of an increase in entries for the awards. Eight-time national award winner and Kannada director P. Seshadri and director Bhadran will be the chairpersons of the two committees of the preliminary adjudication committee. They will also be the members of the final committee. Suresh Pai, editor; lyricist Madhu Vasudevan; critic E.P. Rajagopalan; cinematographer Shehnad Jalal; writer Rekha Raj; scenarist and lyricist Shibu Chakravarthy are the other members of the preliminary committee. Besides Ms. Suhasini, Mr. Seshadri, and Mr. Bhadran, cinematographer C.K. Muralidharan, music director Mohan Sithara, sound designer Harikumar Madhavan Nair, critic and scenarist N. Sasidharan are the other members of the main jury. Chalachitra Academy secretary C. Ajoy will be membe secretary of both the committees. The preliminary jury will have eight members, and the final jury seven. Critic and State film award winner P.K. Rajasekharan will chair the jury that gives the award for best book and article on cinema. Film critics Muralidharan Tharayil, Bindu Menon, and C. Ajoy are the other members. Eighty movies have been submitted for the awards. Of these, four are for children. The screening has got under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suhasini-to-head-state-film-awards-jury/article36727473.ece
29 September 2021||KALABURAGI,||Incessant rain lashes Bidar, Kalaburagi||Incessant rain lashed Bidar and Kalaburagi throughout Monday night throwing life out of gear in many places in the two districts. The overflowing Kagina submerged the Malkhed Bridge cutting off road connectivity between Kalaburagi and Sedam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/incessant-rain-lashes-bidar-kalaburagi/article36727386.ece
29 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Vigil against leopard continues in Hubballi||Although one leopard has been captured near Dharwad and let into the forest already, the forest authorities continue to keep vigil in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi as it is not clear yet whether it is the same animal that was sighted in Dharwad or a different one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vigil-against-leopard-continues-in-hubballi/article36727387.ece
29 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Smart City works to be dedicated soon||The former Chief Minister and MLA Jagadish Shettar said on Tuesday that several of the works taken up in the twin cities under the Smart City Scheme have already been completed and they will be dedicated to the public soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/smart-city-works-to-be-dedicated-soon/article36727389.ece
29 September 2021||Mumbai,||Chargesheet filed in Sakinaka rape case||Eighteen days after a 32-year-old woman was raped and tortured with iron rods at Sakinaka, the Mumbai police have filed a chargesheet in the case. “The chargesheet of 346 pages was filed after examining 77 witnesses,” said the press note released by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chargesheet-filed-in-sakinaka-rape-case/article36727487.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi CM launches ‘Deshbhakti Curriculum’||Every child in Delhi will be a patriot in the true sense, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said as he launched the Aam Aadmi Party government’s ambitious ‘Deshbhakti Curriculum’ at an event held at the Chhatrasal Stadium on the birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-cm-launches-deshbhakti-curriculum/article36727312.ece
29 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Probe into ‘custodial death’ in Odisha sought||The controversy around the death of a Dalit youth, allegedly due to custodial torture in western Odisha district of Bargarh has thickened, with Opposition leaders and rights activists demanding immediate sacking of police personnel involved in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-into-custodial-death-in-odisha-sought/article36727488.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,||City leading in cybercrime cases for over five years||Bengaluru city has been leading in the number of cybercrime cases registered in the country for over five years now. However, investigation and prosecution in cybercrimes have been abysmally poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/city-leading-in-cybercrime-cases-for-over-five-years/article36727141.ece
29 September 2021||Dindagur,||Dalit families of Dindagur gain entry into temples||Thimmaiah, 75, of Dindagur in Channarayapatna taluk, was elated on Tuesday. For the first time in his life, he could enter the temples in his native place. Mr. Thimmaiah and more than 100 members from the Dalit colony of the village entered the temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dalit-families-of-dindagur-gain-entry-into-temples/article36727142.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks police about security at city courts||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the city police to submit a status report on the steps taken to ensure adequate security in district courts in the wake of the recent shoot-out at a crowded Rohini courtroom, which left three men dead. “We don’t want to lose lives. Lawyers could also become victims of incidents like the recent one. We don’t want that,” Justice Rekha Palli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-asks-police-about-security-at-city-courts/article36727310.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Lockdowns slowed green energy push’||The lockdowns slowed renewable energy installations in the country and the pace of such installation is lagging India’s 2022 target, according to a report by the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA), a research think tank. As part of its commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, India has said that it would install 175 gigawatts (GW) of green energy by 2022 and 450 GW by 2030 but only 7 GW of such capacity was added in the financial year 2020-21, Vibhuti Garg, report author and energy economist, said. A gigawatt is 1,000 megawatts. 100-GW target Data from the Central Electricity Authority independently shows that India was to have installed 100 GW of solar energy capacity by March 2023 — 40-GW rooftop solar and 60-GW ground-mounted utility scale. The country has managed to install only 43.94 GW till July 31, 2021. In its analysis of monthly volumes and prices at the largest power exchange in India, Indian Energy Exchange (IEX), the IEEFA study found that the amount of power traded increased by 20% over 2020, by 37% from the 2019 figure and by 30% over 2018. This led to prices on average increasing by 38% from the 2020 rates, by 8% from the 2019 figure and by 11% over 2018. “Clearly as economic growth revives, electricity demand grows and average prices at the exchange increase,” Ms. Garg says. Had there been more access to renewable energy, particularly wind and hydropower, it could have contributed to lower energy prices, the report says. Coal stocks The IEEFA’s analysis shows coal stocks hit a new record high of 1,320 lakh tonnes at the end of 2020-21 and exceeded the monthly averages of the previous five years. Having reduced its reliance on imported coal and replaced it with domestic coal, Coal India Ltd., India’s largest coal producer, had about two months’ supply. However, an analysis of the daily coal stock position exhibited a “deterioration” as more plants reported supplies were critical. On August 1, 23 plants with an installed capacity of 33 GW had critical coal supplies. By September 9, this increased to 92 with an installed capacity of 112 GW and by September 22, 102 with installed capacity of 123 GW. “Most plants had coal stockpiles for one to five days. However, the requirement for thermal power plants is to maintain coal supplies for 21 days or at least 15,” Ms. Garg says. “In most cases, the issue of supply was at the thermal power producer end, rather than the issue of coal stock shortage at CIL end.” Imported coal prices have been rising in the past few months because of resurgent demand after the pandemic — especially in emerging Asian markets such as China and India, but also in Japan, South Korea, Europe and the U.S. “Greater reliance on coal imports will increase thermal power prices in India, leading to higher prices for the ultimate consumers,” Ms. Garg says. Flexible solutions The IEEFA notes that the challenge of India’s growing daily peak demand does not require investment in excess baseload thermal capacity. Instead, the electricity system needed “flexible and dynamic generation solutions” such as battery storage, pumped hydro storage, peaking gas-fired capacity and flexible operation of its existing coal fleet. “Government should accelerate deployment of such sources to help meet peak demand and also balance the grid at a lower cost,” says Ms. Garg. Their prices were falling and so would be cost effective and a buffer against very high prices at the power exchange during peak demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdowns-slowed-green-energy-push/article36727002.ece
29 September 2021||Kolkata,||HC says it won’t stop Bhabanipur bypoll||A Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court on Tuesday refused to interfere with the schedule of the Bhabanipur Assembly byelection to be held on Thursday. The Bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj, however, took exception to a letter by West Bengal Chief Secretary to the Election Commission of India (ECI). Chief Secretary’s bias “As the process of election was initiated with the issuance of press note dated September 04, 2021 and the polling has to be held on September 30, 2021, we do not find it appropriate to interfere with the decision of the Commission to hold byelection to the Bhabanipur Assembly Constituency at this stage,” the order by the Bench said. The court recorded its “strong reservation about the conduct of the Chief Secretary in writing a letter to the Election Commission stating that there would be “constitutional crisis” in case byelection to the Bhabanipur constituency is not held”. It stated, “He is a public servant, who is to discharge his duties in terms of provisions of law, whosoever may be in power. He is not to ensure that any particular person should come in power and in the absence there would be ‘constitutional crisis’.” CM in fight Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee is contesting from the seat and is pitted against the BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal and the Left Front’s Srijib Biswas. A writ petition was filed before the court to quash the notification issued by the ECI on September 4 for holding the byelection. The court observed that it did not “record any finding on the issue that an election petition may or may not be maintainable after the result of the Assembly election is declared.” “Any of the losing party shall have the right to avail of his/her appropriate remedy to challenge the election on the grounds available in law,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-says-it-wont-stop-bhabanipur-bypoll/article36727019.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Schools can reopen in phases: ICMR||Available evidence suggests that children aged 12 and above are at a high risk of contracting COVID-19 infection and must be prioritised for vaccination compared with younger children, say experts at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). They say schools should be reopened in a phased manner (beginning with primary schools) and allowed to function safely with appropriate implementation of multi-layered mitigation measures where children’s participation was essential. An opinion piece titled “Reopening of schools during COVID-19 pandemic: a persistent dilemma” published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research stated that there was ample evidence to suggest that children aged between one and 17 had similar susceptibility to a mild form of SARS-CoV-2 infection as in adults. However, the risk of severe disease and mortality in children was less. Sero-positivity The fourth round of the National Serosurvey for COVID-19 done in June 2021 revealed that more than half of the children aged between six and 17 were seropositive, which indicated that a considerable proportion of them had been infected with SARS-CoV-2. “However, treatment centres did not experience attending to severely ill SARS-CoV-2-infected children with any greater frequency during the second wave of COVID-19 in May & June 2021 compared to the previous year, while adults were being treated in inpatient facilities in considerable numbers throughout the country coinciding with the rapid spread of the Delta variant in 2021,” noted the ICMR in its paper. It pointed out that the Union Health Ministry had issued guidance on wearing masks by children belonging to different age groups. While masks were not recommended for children under five, those between six and 11 may wear a mask depending on their ability to use them safely and children aged 12 and above must wear masks under the same conditions as adults. The ICMR stressed that adequate ventilation was critical to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Therefore, schools should ensure that indoor spaces were well ventilated and wherever possible, limit the time spent by students in closed settings. Air-conditioners should be avoided, while exhaust fans should be installed in classrooms to curtail a potential spread of the virus, it suggested. Testing strategies in school settings could serve as key interventions to check the potential spread of the virus, the paper emphasised. “It must also be acknowledged that the testing strategies for SARS-CoV-2 infection in schools should act as adjunct and not substitute to other organisational and behavioural interventions,” the ICMR said. Frequent testing of school staff and students for early detection of cases was essential to prevent outbreaks. “Routine temperature or symptom checking in schools should be avoided due to limited evidence on their utility. It is also recommended that schools should have access to on-site testing facilities as per existing country-specific guidelines. Temporary or localised closures of a class or school may occur depending upon the local community transmission levels or if COVID-19 indicators worsen,” added the paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/schools-can-reopen-in-phases-icmr/article36727027.ece
29 September 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot loyalists claim support of over 100 MLAs||Amid speculation over an early Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s loyalists have affirmed that the political situation would not witness any major upheaval because of “unstinted support” of over 100 MLAs to the present leadership. The latest developments in Punjab are also likely to make an impact on Rajasthan. While the rival camps in the ruling Congress have been trying to get a share in the political appointments, former Pradesh Congress president Sachin Pilot’s meetings with party leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi last week have visibly led to disquiet in the Gehlot camp. Mr. Pilot’s meeting with Speaker C.P. Joshi has also caught the attention of political observers. Thin majority The party high command’s focus on settling the feud may get diluted after Tuesday’s developments in Punjab, where party unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu has resigned. Both the Gehlot and Pilot camps are aware of the Congress government’s thin majority in Rajasthan, which has prevented them from entering into a direct clash. Senior Congress leader and Revenue Minister Harish Chaudhary, considered close to the Chief Minister, told reporters that the MLAs in Punjab had deserted Captain Amarinder Singh, while more than 100 MLAs were supporting Mr. Gehlot. The Pilot camp has also demanded appointments to various boards and other political positions. The leadership is reportedly mulling over the options of making Mr. Pilot the Pradesh Congress president again and giving him a role in the government. He could also be appointed general secretary in the All India Congress Committee. Sikar-based political analyst Ashfaq Kayamkhani said the high command would find it difficult to put pressure on Mr. Gehlot to act in a certain way after thedevelopments in Punjab. “Mr. Gehlot has had a track record of waiting for the right time to appoint the people of his choice to important positions. He cannot be compelled,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gehlot-loyalists-claim-support-of-over-100-mlas/article36727011.ece
29 September 2021||Patna,||20 RTI activists killed in Bihar in past 11 years||Bihar has proved to be hostile terrain for Right to Information (RTI) activists, with as many as 20 having been killed since 2010. Six activists were killed in 2018 alone. The RTI Act came into force in June 2005. Sashidhar Mishra from Begusarai district was the first RTI activist killed in 2010 and just last week, Bipin Agrawal was killed, allegedly for exposing encroachment on government lands in East Champaran district. At risk “Bihar has always been unfriendly for RTI activists with as many as 20 of them having been killed in different districts for raising their voice against corruption in government system,” veteran RTI activist Shiv Prakash Rai told The Hindu . Mr. Rai in fact had to face a jail term for 29 days in 2008 for exposing malfeasance in providing solar lights. A case of extortion was lodged against him by a top district official and he was sent to jail. He was later released as the case proved false. “District officials first get annoyed with RTI activists as mostly we expose misappropriation of government funds through our applications,” Mr. Rai said. A coordinator of the Nagrik Adhikar Manch (Citizens Rights Forum), Mr. Rai has been travelling 200 km every day from Buxar to Patna by local train to follow up on his RTI petitions for the past 15 years. Losing teeth “Earlier the government officials used to reply to RTI applications on time. But these days things have changed for worse. The officials do not take RTI applications seriously and sometime it takes months and sometimes years to get replies from their departments,” said the sexagenarian RTI activist. Any fear of being implicated in wrongdoing seems to have vanished from the mind of officials nowadays, he added. Just last week on September 23, an RTI activist of East Champaran district Bipin Agrawal, 46, was shot dead by bike-borne criminals in broad day light outside the Harsiddhi block office. Mr Agrawal had filed at least 900 RTI applications seeking details on government land encroachment in the district. His home was attacked by assailants in 2020 as well. Following the incident he had sought protection from local police but that was not provided to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-rti-activists-killed-in-bihar-in-past-11-years/article36726996.ece
29 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM Channi allocates portfolios to new Ministers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday allocated portfolios to the recently inducted Ministers in the State Cabinet. The Chief Minister retained Vigilance, General Administration, Environment, Mining-Geology, Power and Tourism, while the Home Department has been allotted to Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. The other Deputy Chief Minister, Om Parkash Soni, has been given Health and other departments. Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra will look after Local Government and Parliamentary Affairs, while Manpreet Singh Badal retains Finance. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa will be in charge of Rural Development. Aruna Chaudhary has been assigned the portfolios of Revenue, Rehabilitation and Disaster Management. Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria has been allotted the portfolios of Water Resources and Housing-Urban Development. Rana Gurjeet Singh has been given the departments of Technical Education-Industrial Training. Bharat Bhushan Ashu has been allotted the Food And Civil Supplies Ministry. Randeep Singh Nabha has been given the charge of Agriculture Ministry, and Raj Kumar Verka will look after Social Justice. Sangat Singh Gilzian will be the new Forest Minister and Pargat Singh the new School & Higher Education and Sports Minister. Amarinder Singh Raja Warring has been given charge of Transport and Gurkirat Singh Kotli has been assigned the Department of Industries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cm-channi-allocates-portfolios-to-new-ministers/article36727021.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Double digit growth likely this year and next: Sanjeev Sanyal||India’s economy is likely to grow in double digits this year as well as next year with the higher revenue collections giving the Centre more room to push capital spending, Principal Economic Advisor Sanjeev Sanyal said on Tuesday, before making a strong pitch to fix India’s cities. Cities in distress “Some of our cities in peace time don’t have roads like Kabul had in war time. Vietnam has the same per capita income as India’s but Ho Chi Minh and Hanoi are radically better-run cities than ours,” Mr. Sanyal lamented, contrasting this with the ‘shockingly poor’ roads and municipal services in some of India’s tier-three cities. “When I was younger, I used to think we are a poor country so our cities are in this mess. Thirty years later, we are much richer as a country, but our cities are still in a mess, the occasional airport notwithstanding… We are not at all clear on what we want from our cities,” he noted. While infrastructure in Mumbai and Delhi is ‘relatively better’, Mr. Sanyal said the next generation of reforms must focus on intra-city infrastructure and better municipal services like garbage collection. “Many of these old masterplans, Le Corbusier-inspired planning and ideas that we still teach by the way in the SPA (School of Planning and Architecture) and other institutions, first of all, we need to throw them in the dustbin. We need to have modern planning principles, teach them, ensure our municipalities understand and build modern cities,” he asserted. Mr. Sanyal suggested the focus of urban reforms should shift from what is the appropriate governance structure to putting someone in charge and getting them to deliver what needs to be done. “It’s not as if poor people do not know what to do with world class infrastructure. The reason the rich are rich because they have access to good infrastructure. If you give the poor access to world class infrastructure, they will also become rich,” Mr. Sanyal said, while speaking to industry leaders at the CII East India Summit. “The best solution to poverty is to create access to good infrastructure in parts of the country that don’t have it,” he said, referring to the need to build world-class infrastructure in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and the North-eastern States. Arguing that the government’s focus on supply-side reforms and capital expenditure amid the pandemic will hold it in good stead, he said it is important for the economy to be flexible to adjust to the post-COVID world. “I think you will find that this year, we will hit double digit growth rates and it is quite likely that we will hit double digit growth rates in the next financial year as well,” the former golbal strategist for Deutsche Bank said. “We have even done politically difficult reforms like farm laws that may be in abeyance but let me say that broadly, we remain committed to reforming agriculture even if some changes may have to be done on the edges,” he said, stressing that the judicial system also needs to be cleaned up to enable timely enforcement of contracts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/double-digit-growth-likely-this-year-and-next-sanjeev-sanyal/article36727080.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Kanhaiya expelled himself from CPI’||Minutes after Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress, CPI general secretary D. Raja said the former JNU leader had expelled himself from the party and was not “truthful” with the CPI and not “straightforward” with the demands of the party. “Kumar expelled himself from the party. He was not truthful to the party. The CPI existed long before Kanhaiya came into the party fold and will continue to exist after his exit,” Mr. Raja said. He also questioned Mr. Kumar’s faith in the Left ideology. “He must be having personal as well as political ambitions and aspirations. It shows he has no faith in the Left ideology,” he said. Mr. Kumar reportedly kept denying speculation about joining the Congress to the CPI leadership. At the same time he refused to attend a press conference to refute the rumours. “I have been speaking to him and we discussed various issues regarding the party, but he never mentioned anything about his unhappiness or his decision to leave. In fact, after the talks of him joining Congress surfaced, I even told him to hold a media conference to deny the news,” Mr. Raja said. Mr. Raja said that he was officially informed of Mr. Kumar’s departure through his resignation letter on Monday, a day before he joined the Congress. On October 2, the CPI’s national council is scheduled to meet where Kumar’s exit and related issues will be discussed.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kanhaiya-expelled-himself-from-cpi/article36727017.ece
29 September 2021||SONMARG,||Gadkari reviews Zojila tunnel work||Road works totalling Rs. 1.5 lakh crore are being undertaken in the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari said here. He arrived at Sonmarg on Tuesday to review the construction work at the Zojila tunnel, likely to be ready by September 2026. The 13.5-km tunnel will be Asia’s longest bi-directional tunnel and will allow all-weather connectivity between Ladakh and Srinagar, which is disrupted during the winter months. It is located at 11,578 feet above sea level. “It takes 3.5 hours to travel between Srinagar and Ladakh. The tunnel will reduce the travel time to 15 minutes. I urge the concessionaires to complete the construction work by 2023, before the general elections in 2024,” Mr. Gadkari said at a press briefing. Approach road The project also includes a 17-km approach road. The tunnel and the approach road together cost Rs. 4,500 crore. The project has seen long delays after multiple failed bids since 2013. The Z-Morh tunnel — being developed at Sonmarg — will provide it all-weather connectivity with Srinagar allowing it to remain open to tourists all year round. It is likely to be ready by December 2023 and is being developed at a cost of Rs. 2,378 crore. The Minister also said Jammu and Kashmir will get 20 tunnels of 32 km in length and Ladakh 11 tunnels of 20 km.  It takes 3.5 hours to travel between Srinagar and Ladakh. The tunnel will reduce the travel time to 15 minutes Nitin Gadkari Road Transport Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gadkari-reviews-zojila-tunnel-work/article36727031.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC lashes out at firecracker firms||The Supreme Court on Tuesday lashed out at firecracker manufacturers for violating the spirit of its 2018 judgment banning toxic ingredients such as barium in fireworks, saying the prime focus of the court is the “right to life of innocent people”.  Prima facie brushing aside the manufacturers’ contention that thousands of employees earn their livelihood in the industry, Justice M.R. Shah, for the Bench, retorted that “we have to balance between employment, unemployment and the right to life and health of citizens”. “We cannot sacrifice the lives of many for a few. Our prime focus is the right to life of innocent people,” Justice Shah observed. The case gains significance with the onset of the wedding season and festivals such as Dasara and Deepavali. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, for petitioner student Arjun Gopal, said “joined crackers” continue to be burst with impunity across the country despite the ban imposed on them by the top court in a judgment on October 23, 2018. “The manufacture, sale and use of joined firecrackers [series crackers or laris] is hereby banned as the same causes huge air, noise and solid waste problems,” the Supreme Court had directed the Centre in 2018. Justice Shah seemed to agree with Mr. Sankaranarayanan. He observed that the court has to fix liability on the authorities in charge. “Sometimes we have to fix liability. If the Police Commissioner is sedate about liability, only then all this will happen,” Justice Shah noted. Senior advocate Atmaram Nadkarni, for the manufacturers, said they were following the directions of the court but individuals buy crackers separately and join them. “If you buy 100 crackers and join them then it still is called manufacturing them. Why do you produce them in the first place?” the Bench asked. Banned chemicals Mr. Sankaranarayanan said many manufacturers continued to use toxic ingredients fully knowing that the court had banned them. He said children “whose nimble fingers are used to tie the knots on the firecrackers” are employed in these factories and exposed to the poison. “There is poison to start with and it ends in poisoning the air for innocents.” He said the 2018 judgment had balanced employment concerns in the industry and the right to life of citizens by approving the government’s suggestions for “green crackers” and those with reduced emission. However, the authorities have turned a blind eye as toxic crackers flooded the market even without the approval of the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO). The 2018 judgment had charged PESO with the task of reviewing the composition of crackers and check them for the presence of banned chemicals like lithium, arsenic, antimony, lead or mercury. The hearing will continue on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-lashes-out-at-firecracker-manufacturers/article36727033.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Defence Ministry to finish acquisitions in two years||The Defence Ministry will try and complete acquisition of any defence equipment in two years, from the current average of 3.5 years, as long as there is no research and development involved, Additional Secretary and Director General, Acquisition, in the Ministry V.L. Kantha Rao said on Tuesday. “Our average is about 3.5 years and to bring it to two years takes a lot of changes in the procedures,” Mr. Rao noted at the Annual Session of the Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers. For this, timelines for various steps like Acceptance of Necessity (AoN), trial methodology and benchmarking of price of equipment were being advanced. On the AoN, he said if the process did not move forward within 12 months after an in-principle approval, it would be withdrawn. “We will also work on Request For Proposal even before the in-principle approval.” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh outlined the reforms undertaken to promote domestic manufacturing and reduce imports that include earmarking 64.09% of the total Capital Acquisition Budget for 2021-22 for domestic capital procurement and 15% of capital procurement budget for direct procurement from the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defence-ministry-to-finish-acquisitions-in-two-years/article36726998.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Defence Ministry issues order for OFB dissolution||The Defence Ministry has issued an order for the dissolution of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) with effect from October 1 upon which its assets, employees and management would be transferred to seven newly constituted defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs). This would mean the end of the OFB, the establishment of which was accepted by the British in 1775. “Accordingly, on and with effect from the appointed date, OFB, which has been set up vide Ministry of Defence letter no. 1(82)/78/D(Fy.I) dated 09.01.1979, shall cease to exist as a body. Further, the Board position of Member (Finance), OFB shall also cease to exist on and with effect from the appointed date,” the official memorandum issued by the Department of Defence Production (DDP) dated September 24 said. These orders will come into effect from October 1, 2021 (appointed date), it stated. On June 16, the Union Cabinet had approved a long-awaited reform plan to corporatise the OFB, which has 41 factories, into seven fully government-owned corporate entities on the lines of DPSUs. Accordingly, with effect from October 1, the management, control, operations and maintenance of these 41 production units and identified non-production units would be transferred to seven government companies — Munitions India Ltd., Armoured Vehicles Nigam Ltd., Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Ltd., Troop Comforts Ltd., Yantra India Ltd., India Optel Ltd., and Gliders India Ltd. On the over 70,000 employees, the order said it had been decided that all the employees of OFB (Group A, B and C) belonging to the production units and also the identified non-production units shall be transferred en masse to the new DPSUs on terms of foreign service without any deputation allowance initially for a period of two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defence-ministry-issues-order-for-ofb-dissolution/article36726999.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Bypolls to three LS, 30 Assembly seats on Oct. 30||“Feedback from concerned States and Union Territories was reviewed and taken into consideration [by the Commission] and it was decided to hold byelections to fill vacancies in three Parliamentary Constituencies of UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh and 30 vacancies in Assembly Constituencies of various States,” the ECI said. The Assembly seats that will go to the polls are one each from Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Nagaland and Telangana; two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan; three each from Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Meghalaya; four in West Bengal; and five from Assam. The ECI reiterated its orders regarding COVID-19 safety norms, including restricting election meetings to 30% of the allowed capacity of an indoor venue or 200 people and a complete ban on roadshows and bike rallies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bypolls-to-three-ls-30-assembly-seats-on-oct-30/article36727000.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Post-poll violence: SC issues notice to Centre||Justice Saran responded, “You have argued about natural justice, we should not pass any order without hearing the other side”. During the nearly two-hour-long hearing, Mr. Sibal made a case for issuance of notice by arguing that the High Court Bench led by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal violated the natural principles of justice by “castigating the State, passing strictures against the State” without giving it “adequate time” to present the results of its investigation into the post-poll violence cases. The High Court had shifted the cases of rape and murder to the Central Bureau of Investigation. Other cases, including arson and looting, would remain with the Special Investigation Team led by a judge. Mr. Sibal contended that the High Court Bench did not even properly hear the State and whatever was presented before the Bench on affidavit was not “considered”. The allegations made by the petitioners were treated as “facts” by the High Court, he said. “There can be no ascertainment of facts without an investigation. There should be prima facie ascertainment of the crime either by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) or under the Code of Criminal Procedure,” he remarked. The High Court’s judgment of August 19, transferring the cases, was based on the findings of an National Human Rights Commission committee on July 12. West Bengal had argued that the panel members were either “members of the Bharatiya Janata Party or were closely associated” with it. West Bengal has accused the committee of “apparent bias”. The State’s petition had named two committee members, Atif Rasheed and Rajulben L. Desai, in this regard. Justice Saran asked, “Are you saying there should have been a proper investigation and not just an enquiry?” Mr. Sibal contended, “Yes, this is a process unknown to law”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/post-poll-violence-sc-issues-notice-to-centre/article36727004.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Kanhaiya Kumar walks into Congress||“Congress is the biggest opposition party of the country, if we do not save it.. if we do not save the big ship, then the smaller boats too won’t survive,” he added. The former student activist said questions will be asked about his past and present, but in spite of the questions, he cannot turn away from the “historic responsibility” that lies before him. He did not detail the reasons for quitting the CPI, but he expressed gratitude towards his former organisation. “I was born and brought up, trained there and also gave me the passion to struggle,” he said. In September 2015, Mr. Kumar became president of the JNU students’ union. In February 2016, he was arrested by the Delhi police over charges of sedition for allegedly shouting anti-national slogans. His arrest had led to widespread outrage both within and outside the country. Earlier in the day, Mr. Kumar, Mr. Mevani and Congress working president of Gujarat unit Hardik Patel paid tributes to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh on his birth anniversary at the Shaheed Bhagat Singh park in Delhi. Mr. Mevani, said he was not formally joining the party because of technical reasons since he would have to resign as an Independent Gujarat legislator. However, he announced that he would fight the next Assembly poll under the Congress symbol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kanhaiya-kumar-walks-into-congress/article36727005.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Sidhu quits Cong. post, Punjab crisis deepens||He was given a clean chit by an inquiry commission headed by a former High Court judge. Also, the appointment of senior advocate A.P.S. Deol as Advocate-General was another reason for Mr. Sidhu’s decision, the close aide stated. Mr. Deol was counsel for former Director-General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini, an accused in the Behbal Kalan police firing case of 2015. It is related to the Bargari sacrilege issue, which has been a political flashpoint in the State politics. Mr. Sidhu’s resignation is being seen as a major “embarrassment” for the party’s central leadership, including its former president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. Amid a power tussle between Capt. Amarinder and Mr. Sidhu, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) on July 18 appointed the latter as PCC chief and later the ‘high command’ cornered Capt. Amarinder into resigning from his post and making it amply clear that the coming election would be contested under Mr. Sidhu. However, Mr. Channi, as a surprise pick, was later chosen to lead the government. MLA Sukhpal Khaira has urged Mr. Sidhu to reconsider his resignation. He said, “As Punjab is heading for elections in the next 4-5 months, it is highly imperative to find an amicable solution to the crisis.” AAP Punjab president and Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann said the Congress had crossed all limits in the battle for chair and pride. “Punjab has never been so disgraced. I pray to God to rid Punjab and Punjabis of these chair-hungry Congressmen,” he said. Senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader S. Bikram Singh Majithia described Mr. Sidhu’s resignation as “the ultimate expression of frustrations of an egoist seeing his path to the post of Chief Minister blocked by a leader from the Scheduled Castes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-quits-cong-post-punjab-crisis-deepens/article36727007.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deadline for promotion quotas for the disabled||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to issue instructions “at the earliest and not later than four months” for giving reservation in promotions to persons with disabilities (PwDs). A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao dismissed an application filed by the Centre seeking “clarifications” in a January 14, 2020 judgment of the apex court confirming that PwDs have a right to reservation in promotions. The court said there were no ambiguities in the January 2020 judgment in Siddaraju v. State of Karnataka . It said instructions should be issued in accordance with Section 34 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, which provides that “every appropriate government shall appoint in every government establishment not less than 4% of the total number of vacancies in the cadre strength in each group of posts meant to be filled with persons with benchmark disabilities ...” The government’s applications wanted the court to clarify whether vacancies for promotion for PwDs would be computed only on the basis of the vacancies against the identified posts or against the vacancies in both identified and non-identified posts. The government contended that there was a conflict between two judgments of the apex court — Union of India v. National Federation of the Blind and Rajeev Kumar Gupta v. Union of India — rendered three years apart in 2013 and 2016, respectively. “The applicant is unable to reconcile the rule position resulting in difficulties in implementation of the decision,” the government said in its application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deadline-for-promotion-quotas-for-the-disabled/article36727009.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India has created jobs during pandemic: FM||India is successfully carrying out the world’s largest free vaccination programme against COVID-19 and has taken strategic steps towards jobs and social protection during the pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said at a high-level United Nations meet. Stressing the need for collaboration and learning from the experiences of other countries, the Minister shared ideas with the panel on jobs and social protection for poverty eradication, based on India’s experience. “India unveiled a financial package of $366 billion amounting to more than 13% of GDP to create employment opportunities for workers in the unorganised sector, strengthening the MSME sector and for promoting the rural economy,” Ms. Sitharaman said “To improve social protection, in the place of archaic labour laws, our government brought in the new Social Security and Wage Code. This will ensure wider coverage, faster settlement of dues and clarity about benefits,” the Minister said, adding that a new portal has now been launched to ensure 'last mile delivery' for millions of unorganised sector workers. “A comprehensive social protection system should have digitalisation of public financial management systems at the core of the design,” she pointed out, citing India’s direct benefit transfer system that uses Jan Dhan accounts, Aadhaar and mobile phones. Referring to the government’s programme for paying Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contributions for three months for employees and employers during the first and the second COVID-19 wave, Ms Sitharaman said this enabled the inclusion of 7.81 million workers in the formal social security framework. “Insights from behavioural economics can be leveraged in onboarding those workers who are currently not covered under social protection schemes or to formal social security nets,” she noted, adding that mental well-being of the vulnerable also needs attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-has-created-jobs-during-pandemic-fm/article36727082.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||SC not to hear plea on non-COVID patient rights||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to intervene, for the present, in a plea seeking to ensure that the fundamental rights to life and health of non-COVID patients are protected like that of COVID patients. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said the prayer made by petitioner-advocate G.S. Mani was too general and without any “factual context”. Mr. Mani’s plea, filed in May, had said that major surgeries had been postponed and many hospitals had stopped their emergency ward treatment then. “No direction is necessary at this stage,” the court observed in its order on Tuesday. It found another request made by Mr. Mani to ensure “adequate, frequent” medical care was provided to non-COVID patients during the lockdown as infructuous. The Bench disposed of another petition filed by Bibhuti Bhushan Mishra on the CoWIN registration system for vaccination. “But you do not have to get CoWIN registration online, the government is allowing walk-in registrations after our orders in June... Your petition has been rendered infructuous after the government has permitted walk-in registrations as a matter of policy,” Justice Chandrachud noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-not-to-hear-plea-on-non-covid-patient-rights/article36727035.ece
29 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Probe into ‘custodial death’ in Odisha sought||The controversy around the death of a Dalit youth, allegedly due to custodial torture in western Odisha district of Bargarh has thickened, with Opposition leaders and rights activists demanding the immediate sacking of police personnel involved in the case. Gobinda Kumbhar (35) of Tora under the Bargarh town police station limit was picked up by police on the night of September 24 (Friday). However, he was later taken to the Bargarh District Headquarters Hospital. He was declared “brought dead” at the hospital on Saturday morning. “My husband was healthy and did not have record of any previous disease. He was beaten to death in the hospital,” alleged Rubi Kumbhar, wife of the diseased. BJP State president Sameer Mohanty said on Tuesday, “The man was murdered by police personnel in the police station. They must produce all CCTV footage right from bringing the accused to rushing him to hospital. An independent doctors team should be constituted to probe the circumstances leading to death”. Rastriya Dalit Mahasabha president Ashok Mallick said, “The probe by Human Rights Protection Cell of the State police and judicial magistrate should be time-bound.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-into-custodial-death-in-odisha-sought/article36727028.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘2020 Delhi riots result of pre-planned conspiracy’||The case relates to an FIR filed in connection with a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 that had been taking place for 1.5 months prior to the incident at Khajuri Square to Loni Circle at Wazirabad Road, Chand Bagh, by the Muslim community. On February 24, 2020, around 1.00 p.m. the protesters mobilised near the Chand Bagh area and 25 Futa Road, and moved towards the Main Wazirabad Road. When police attempted to convince them to not move forward, the protesters carrying sticks, baseball sticks, iron rods and stones turned violent. Some people in the crowd started pelting stones at the police officers, and beat them as well as other passers-by. The FIR stated that ACP Gokalpuri, head constable Ratan Lal and DCP Shahdara Amit Kumar were beaten with sticks and stones, and as a result, they fell down and suffered grievous head injuries. Later, the head constable died of a bullet injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2020-delhi-riots-result-of-pre-planned-conspiracy/article36727314.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Double digit growth likely till 2023’||“Vietnam has the same per capita income as India’s but Ho Chi Minh and Hanoi are radically better-run cities than ours, contrasting this with the ‘shockingly poor’ roads and municipal services in some of India’s tier-three cities. “When I was younger, I used to think we are a poor country so our cities are in this mess. Thirty years later, we are much richer as a country, but our cities are still in a mess, the occasional airport notwithstanding… We are not at all clear on what we want from our cities,” he noted. While infrastructure in Mumbai and Delhi is ‘relatively better’, Mr. Sanyal said the next generation of reforms must focus on intra-city infrastructure and better municipal services like garbage collection. Mr. Sanyal suggested the focus of urban reforms should shift from what is the appropriate governance structure to putting someone in charge and getting them to deliver what needs to be done. “Many of these old masterplans, Le Corbusier-inspired planning and ideas that we still teach by the way in the SPA [School of Planning and Architecture] and other institutions, first of all, we need to throw them in the dustbin. We need to have modern planning principles, teach them, ensure our municipalities understand and build modern cities,” he asserted. “The reason the rich are rich because they have access to good infrastructure,” Mr. Sanyal said, while speaking at CII East India Summit. “The best solution to poverty is to create access to good infrastructure in parts of the country that don’t have it,” he said, referring to the need to build world-class infrastructure in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and the north-east.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/double-digit-growth-likely-till-2023/article36727006.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Standpoint is important||The Kshetra Kshetrajna jnana explained in the thirteenth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita affirms that the jivatma and the Paramatma are one and the same. Though books on the sastras such as the Gita, and the teachings of the acharyas may repeatedly reinforce the Jiva Brahma Aikya, many are not ready to accept it wholeheartedly. How can the devotee of the Supreme God see oneself as non-different from Him? In a discourse, Swamini Satyavratananda pointed out that sastras insist that one has to train the mind to break the division or the ‘Beda bhavana’ that is deep rooted in our ignorance. In Vedanta study there are two concepts ‘atma’ and ‘anatma’. Atma alone is satya. All else is only appearance, and is called mithya. It is also known as Vyavaharika satya. To understand this concept, scriptures often quote the example of the wave and the ocean. Both are essentially water. The waves keep appearing endlessly and are of different sizes, colours, etc. They come from the ocean and cannot exist independently. But actually we know that they are two names and two forms of the same water. Just as water alone is satya and the ocean and wave mithya, mere appearances, Atma Chaitanya alone is satya and Paramatma and the jivatma are to be seen as ocean and wave. The entire universe is Ishwara sarira as is revealed to Arjuna in Visvaroopa Darsana. ‘Parama’ and ‘jiva’ are bound by upadhi. Parama is ‘Ishwara upadhi’ and jiva is ‘sarira upadhi’ and this makes the one atma appear as separate. Gold is basis or content of all types of ornaments. So the issue has to be viewed not from the jiva’s standpoint since as a devotee when I worship Ishwara, difference exists between the two. It has to be viewed from the atma standpoint. Then Paramatma is non-different from the atma the worshipper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/standpoint-is-important/article36727030.ece
29 September 2021||Mumbai,||10 die in floods in Marathwada||At least 10 people died in the Marathwada region of Maharashtra in heavy rain and floods as the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall for the next two days in Mumbai, Konkan and parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha. “The depression over Telangana and adjoining areas of Marathwada and Vidarbha moved west-northwestwards and weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over the western parts of Vidarbha and neighbourhood. It is likely to move northwestwards and weaken further during the next 24 hours,” the IMD said on Twitter. The IMD predicted very heavy rainfall in central Maharashtra, north Konkan and heavy rainfall at isolated places over Marathwada on Wednesday. On Tuesday, large parts of the State, including Mumbai and adjoining parts, received incessant rains leading to flood like situation in many districts. The Marathwada region, comprising Aurangabad, Latur, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Nanded, Beed, Jalna and Hingoli districts, received heavy showers destroying crops. Gates of various dams had to be opened leading to flooding in villages on the banks of the Manjra river in Beed and Latur districts. According to the Divisional Commissioner’s office, three people died in Beed, two in Osmanabad and Parbhani and one each in Latur, Jalna and Nanded. Beed’s Guardian Minister Dhananjay Munde said he had discussed the flood situation in Beed on Monday night with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. “There have been repeated instances of heavy rain in the last fortnight. At many places, crops are destroyed while at a few places even the soil is eroded. I will be personally following the issue of complete compensation for farmers,” he said. Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Vadettiwar said a war room has been set up at the divisional commissionerate and a nodal officer for each district has been appointed. “We are keeping a watch on the situation to ensure minimum damage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/10-die-in-floods-in-marathwada/article36726994.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four bids for Secretariat project: CPWD||Four bids, including one from Tata Projects which is constructing the new Parliament building, were received in response to the tender for construction and maintenance of three buildings of the proposed Common Central Secretariat, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD) officials on Tuesday. The technical bids for the Rs. 3,254-crore project were opened on Tuesday, revealing bids from Tata Projects, L&T Construction, NCC Ltd. and Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, a U.P. government undertaking, an official said. The bids would be assessed to see if they qualify and a date for opening of financial bids would be announced once the documents are evaluated, the official said. As part of the Central Vista redevelopment, the CPWD has proposed construction of 10 Secretariat buildings to house all Central Ministries. It had floated the modified tender for the construction of the first three buildings to be made at the site of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts campus in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-bids-for-secretariat-project-cpwd/article36726997.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Students in Afghanistan seek visas||A group of Afghan students have written to Ambassador for Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon asking for the speedy processing of visas that has been delayed for months. The letter written by 43 students of the South Asia University (SAU) said they were unable to continue with online education because of the “frequent disruption” of Internet connectivity in Kabul after the takeover by the Taliban. “With periodic disruption of virtual connectivity, we are now unable to attend classes online from Afghanistan, and that is seriously jeopardising our studies,” said the students in the letter. Mr. Tandon was evacuated along with other members of the Embassy, but India has designated a travel agency in Kabul to facilitate Indian visas. New Delhi has not recognised the Taliban administration, but the visas are expected to be granted through the travel agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/students-in-afghanistan-seek-visas/article36727003.ece
29 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||SIT probe against IAS officer in U.P.||The Uttar Pradesh government ordered a probe by a Special Investigation Team against a senior bureaucrat after a video of him allegedly preaching about a religion to a group of dozen-odd persons surfaced on social media. A 1985 batch IAS officer, Mohammad Iftikharuddin is currently posted as the chairman of the U.P. State Road Transport Corporation. The video is said to be from the period he was posted in Kanpur and was shot in the official residence of the Commissioner, a post he had occupied then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sit-probe-against-ias-officer-in-up/article36727012.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||HC says Delhi riots were pre-planned||The Delhi High Court has rejected the bail petition of a man arrested in connection with the death of a head constable during the northeast Delhi riots last year, noting that the incident was a result of a “pre-planned and pre-meditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city”. Justice Subramonium Prasad, while dismissing the bail plea of Mohammad Ibrahim, who was seen on numerous CCTV footage wearing a skull cap, a black jacket and salwar-kurta and with a sword in his hand on multiple locations around Chand Bagh area. Justice Prasad said even though Mr. Ibrahim could not be seen at the ‘scene of crime’, he clearly was part of the mob for the sole reason that he had consciously travelled 1.6 km from his neighbourhood with a sword. “The riots which shook the National Capital of the country in February 2020 evidently did not take place in a spur of the moment, and the conduct of the protesters who are present in the video footage visibly portrays that it was a calculated attempt to dislocate the functioning of the government as well as to disrupt the normal life of the people in the city,” the court remarked. CCTV disconnected The systematic disconnection and destruction of CCTV cameras also confirmed the existence of a pre-planned and pre-meditated conspiracy to disturb law and order in the city, Justice Prasad said. “This is also evident from the fact that innumerable rioters ruthlessly descended with sticks, ‘dandas’, bats etc. upon a hopelessly outnumbered cohort of police officials”. The case relates to an FIR filed in connection with a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), 2019 that had been taking place for 1.5 months prior to the incident at Khajuri Square to Loni Circle at Wazirabad Road, Chand Bagh, by the Muslim community. On February 24, 2020, around 1.00 p.m. the protesters mobilised near the Chand Bagh area and 25 Futa Road, and moved towards the Main Wazirabad Road. When police attempted to convince them to not move forward, the protesters carrying sticks, baseball sticks, iron rods and stones turned violent. Some people in the crowd started pelting stones at the police officials. The FIR stated that ACP Gokalpuri, head constable Ratan Lal and DCP Shahdara Amit Kumar were beaten with sticks and stones, and they fell down and suffered grievous head injuries. Later, the head constable died of a bullet injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2020-delhi-riots-result-of-a-pre-planned-conspiracy-hc/article36727014.ece
29 September 2021||Kolkata,||Take a call on Roy, HC tells Speaker||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday ordered Speaker Biman Banerjee to take a decision on the disqualification petition filed against Mukul Roy by October 7. “In case of failure, this court will decide further course of action,” an order by the Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj said. Mr. Roy, who won on the BJP ticket in the Assembly polls, had on June 11 joined the Trinamool Congress. Later he was elected the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee. BJP MLA Ambika Roy has approached the Court seeking disqualification of Mr. Roy. The court pointed out that the allegation of the petitioner is that Mr. Roy had defected from the BJP to the AITC. “A petition for disqualification was pending before the Speaker even before he was nominated as the Chairman of the Committee on Public Accounts. The disqualification is from the date when the act of defection took place. Failure on the part of the Speaker to adjudicate upon that petition is creating more trouble as a result of which the interference of this court has been called for,” the Court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-asks-speaker-to-take-a-call-on-roy/article36727015.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||India fought pandemic well: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said that despite limited resources and with a huge population of 130 crore, India fought the COVID-19 pandemic in the best possible manner among all countries in the world. Mr. Shah was addressing the 17th formation day of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). “If an analysis is done by any neutral agency, it will come to the conclusion that the country has done very well in fighting the pandemic and substantially reducing the death rate. The number of deaths per 10 lakh population was one of the lowest among the countries. Many countries had a tough time in dealing with the pandemic,” he stated. Referring to the cyclone that hit some parts of the country during the second wave of the pandemic, he said it was due to the excellent planning and preparations that not a single oxygen plant was damaged and that there were no power cuts to oxygen plants and hospitals in the cyclone-affected areas. Aapda Mitra project The Central government was planning to roll out an ‘Aapda Mitra’ (Friends in Disaster) project in 350 districts by imparting training to citizens as first responders to any disaster, Mr. Shah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-fought-pandemic-well-shah/article36727040.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Flight crew, air traffic controllers to be tested for drugs from Jan 31: DGCA||Flight crew members and air traffic controllers will be tested by their employers for psychoactive substances such as cannabis and cocaine from January 31 next year, according to rules issued by aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Airlines and air navigation service providers will have to carry out random drug-testing of at least 10% of the flight crew members and air traffic controllers employed by them every year, according to the rules issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flight-crew-air-traffic-controllers-to-be-tested-for-drugs-from-jan-31-dgca/article36727022.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Petrol, diesel prices hiked; more to come as crude nears $80/barrel||The price of petrol was hiked by 20 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise as international oil prices neared the $80 per barrel mark for the first time in three years. The cost of petrol was hiked to Rs. 101.39 a litre in Delhi from Rs. 101.19 and to Rs. 107.47 per litre in Mumbai, according to a notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel rates went to Rs. 89.57 a litre in Delhi and Rs. 97.21 in Mumbai.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-more-to-come-as-crude-nears-80barrel/article36727037.ece
29 September 2021||Mumbai,||HC rejects bail pleas of Rana Kapoor’s wife, daughters||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday rejected the bail pleas of Yes Bank’s founder Rana Kapoor’s wife and two daughters in the cheating and money-laundering case against them filed by the CBI. Justice Bharati Dangre was hearing the bail applications filed by wife Bindu Kapoor and daughters Radha and Roshni Kapoor. They are lodged at the Byculla jail while Mr. Kapoor is at the Taloja central jail. A case was registered by the CBI on March 7, 2020. There is an FIR against them under Sections 120 B (party to criminal conspiracy to commit an offence) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-bail-pleas-of-rana-kapoors-wife-daughters/article36727038.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Home Ministry extends COVID norms till Oct. 31||The Ministry of Home Affairs issued fresh guidelines on Tuesday asking States for prompt and effective containment measures and to accelerate the pace of vaccination to prevent the potential rise in number of COVID-19 cases during the coming festival season. The guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 have been extended till October 31. The Ministry told States to take relevant action under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act for strict implementation of containment measures. The earlier guidelines issued in August are applicable till September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/home-ministry-extends-covid-norms-till-oct-31/article36727042.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches Rs. 578-cr. assets in UPPCL-DHFL scam case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 578 crore of United Kingdom-based Wadhawan Global Capital Limited in connection with the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) employees’ provident fund scam involving the Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). The company is owned by Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, who are under investigation by multiple agencies in various cases of alleged cheating and fraud. The attached properties are in the form of investments made by the Wadhawans through the company in U.K.-based entities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-rs-578-cr-assets-in-uppcl-dhfl-scam-case/article36727029.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exhibits that tell a tale of valour on display at police museum||The Indo-Saracenic building that stands now as the Tamil Nadu Police Museum was the first building of the City Police Commissionerate. This 14-acre property with a bungalow originally belonged to Arunagiri Mudaliar. Lieutenant Colonel John Carne Boulderson became the first City Police Commissioner in 1856 and the once rented property now became the asset of police through Boulderson after the property was purchased for Rs. 21,000. This heritage structure underwent several changes, extensions and abuse in the late 1800s and 1900s. Finally, this building has gained a high heritage value in the city with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurating the Police Museum in the presence of Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu and other senior police officers. ADGP A. Amalraj said the conservation effort, taken up at a cost of Rs. 6.47 crore, began in October 2020 and had been completed in nine months with the help of Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation. A curator was engaged on an honorary basis. All additions and changes that did not gel with the heritage value of the building had been removed. “We brought old vehicles, arms and ammunition, souvenirs and material that were seized at different times from several places and put them on display,” he said. The display includes different types of daggers and other sharp weapons used during last century. There are also swords used by police officers on duty, for self-defence, and on ceremonious occasions during the 19th and 20th centuries. The sub machine guns and rifles used in anti-terrorist operations and special operations and bullets which were used for firing with different weapons; the wheels that moved the police through ages; communication equipment at different periods of time and vests used by police during operation are all on display. A mortar seized by Tamil Nadu police from Sri Lankan militants in 1992, a record relating to the hanging of the legendary chieftain Veerapandia Kattabomman who resisted the British and a photograph of the assassination of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi are the other items that are on display. Steve Borgia, honorary curator of this project, said, “The primary aspect of this project is the building which was built in 1842 by Arunagiri Mudaliar for Rs. 36,000. From him, Boulderson bought it for Rs. 21,000 and converted it as commissionerate.” Since then it had been functioning from here and in course of time, it got destroyed and dilapidated. In 2013, the Commissionerate moved to a new building and in 2020 they decided to conserve this place, Mr. Borgia recalled. Rich collection “Due to the lack of a museum, things remained in police stations in rural areas. For instance, weapons used by sandalwood smuggler Veerappan might be lying in a bag at a police station in Dharmapuri, revolvers seized from LTTE chief V. Prabhakaran might be lying in T. Nagar and a 75-year-old police vehicle rusting somewhere. Likewise, so many precious things have been brought here and repaired,” he said. “Bicycles used by policemen at the time of World War I and II, photocopying machines and a shredder were restored and displayed here. A few idols which were retrieved from the Idol wing police are also on display," he said. The entry will be free until Wednesday evening. From October 1, only students from government schools need not pay the entry fee. Police department has deployed 10 personnel for guiding the visitors and for managing the museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibits-that-tell-a-tale-of-valour-on-display-at-police-museum/article36727255.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM reviews status of flood prevention schemes||Ahead of the onset of northeast monsoon in the State, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday visited a few areas in north Chennai to review the work undertaken by various government departments to clean up waterbodies and desilt stormwater drains. Mr. Stalin visited a stretch of Poonamallee High Road in Royapuram Zone of the Greater Chennai Corporation and inspected the ongoing works of the Highways Department. He reviewed the desilting work taken up by the Water Resources Department in Otteri Nullah canal in Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar Zone, where Strhans Road and Konnur High Road meet. Work is on to remove debris from the Otteri Nullah that runs from Padi flyover to the Buckingham Canal at Basin Bridge. It is estimated to cost Rs. 44 lakh. An integrated urban flood management project is being implemented in the Kosasthalaiyar basin for the benefit of about 30 lakh people in Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Kolathur and Ambattur areas. As part of the project, work has been taken up in Anna Nagar Zone at a cost of Rs. 102.18 crore. The Chief Minister checked the progress of the scheme being implemented with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank. Among them is a Rs. 122.85-crore project taken up in Madhavaram Zone. Mr. Stalin instructed the officials to complete the work at the earliest. In Manali Zone, the Chief Minister took stock of the progress of the Rs. 87.50-lakh scheme implemented by the Water Resources Department to remove hyacinth and other plants from the canal in Amullaivoyal area. The canal feeds the Puzhal lake. Mr. Stalin visited Tondiarpet Zone where robotic multipurpose excavators were removing hyacinth and plants from Kodungaiyur canal. He witnessed the amphibian vehicles removing hyacinth in the link canal between Captain Cotton canal and Kodungaiyur canal. The Chief Minister instructed the officials to speed up the work ahead of northeast monsoon. He stressed on the need for efficient coordination among various departments. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, Secretary to Public Works Department Sandeep Saxena, Highways Secretary Dheeraj Kumar, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and senior officials accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-reviews-status-of-flood-prevention-schemes/article36727234.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poor amenities, unsafe parking lots irk commuters||With the Southern Railway restoring 95% of the suburban services and easing travel restrictions, the occupancy rate in trains is returning to pre-COVID-19 level. For commuters travelling between the city and far-flung suburbs, parking yards are a crucial link in the last-mile connectivity. These facilities have been shut in many stations and the ones functioning are in poor condition. At several stations such as Egmore, St. Thomas Mount, Palavanthangal, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram, only one of the two parking lots on either side of the station has contractors. Similarly, the Tambaram, Velachery and Guindy railway stations have developed into transport hubs. But commuters have to take a detour to reach the parking stand. There are no parking contractors on the side where a large section of commuters board the trains. Railway users complain about absence of manned parking stands at Thiruninravur, Pattabhiram, Hindu College, Meenambakkam and St. Thomas Mount stations despite adequate space being available. A. Roy Rozario, president, Pattabiram Railway Passengers’ Association, said commuters at these stations have to park their vehicles at private ‘sheds’. J. Ranganathan, secretary, Kanchipuram-Chennai Rail Commuters' Association, pointed to a host of problems such as absence of roof, poor illumination, fuel theft and loss of accessories of the vehicles and contractors being rude to customers in parking lot. Mr. Ranganathan said the condition of most parking yards in the railway stations was pathetic with not even a tin roof being provided to protect the expensive vehicles. These yards did not have concrete floor. Office-bearers of the railway passengers associations and regular commuters blamed the railway administration for its failure to ensure that contractors adhered to safety norms such as CCTV cameras, display details of parking fees for various categories of vehicles and the parking contractor’s mobile number. Tenders floated A senior official of the Southern Railway Chennai Division said 43 stations had parking facilities. Of these, 27 had designated permanent contractors after the COVID-19 lockdown was lifted. While the Southern Railway has called for tenders for allotting 11 parking contracts, five were yet to have any contractor to man the space. The railway official said in Velachery, a contractor was available on the southern side. In Thiruvanmiyur, the contract ended in August and tender had been called. There has been poor response to the tender because of huge contract amount. The railway official said the CCTV cameras and shelters have to be installed by the licensee in the parking stand. A multi-level parking lot was ready at Katpadi junction. At Chengalpattu, a multistoreyed parking complex is under construction. Plans were on to build multistoreyed parking lots in all major stations of Chennai Division. There was a proposal to have smart car parking facilities at major railway stations, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-amenities-unsafe-parking-lots-irk-commuters/article36727252.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s nod for admission of 850 students to 7 new medical colleges||The Union government has given its approval for admission of 850 students to seven of the 11 new government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu this year, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. While the colleges at Virudhunagar, Kallakurichi and Udhagamandalam were permitted to admit 150 students each, those at Namakkal, Tiruppur, Ramanathapuram and Tiruvallur would admit 100 students each, he told reporters. The National Medical Commission had conducted inspections at all 11 colleges. “The inspection team pointed out minor deficiencies at the colleges at Dindigul, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam and Ariyalur. By small deficiencies, they stressed the need for additional buildings. The work will be completed in 10 days; thereafter, we will seek a re-inspection,” he said. With all the works completed at the colleges at Virudhunagar, Kallakurichi and Udhagamandalam, an intake of 150 students each was approved, he said. The inspection team had laid down conditions to take up some minor works at the colleges at Namakkal, Tiruppur, Ramanathapuram and Tiruvallur. These works would be completed soon. Accordingly, admission of 100 students each had been approved for these colleges. Once the deficiencies were rectified, the government would seek a re-inspection of these four colleges to get the approval for admission to the remaining seats. “The Union government has approved admission of a total of 850 students. The total number of 1,650 seats should be approved at these colleges [11 colleges]. We will rectify all minor deficiencies in 10-15 days. We expect to get approval for the remaining number of seats by October-end after the team conducts a re-inspection,” he said. Preventive care scheme The Health Department will re-launch a preventive care scheme, ‘Varumun Kappom’, at Vazhapadi in Salem on Wednesday. Under it, mega camps will be held at 1,000 places a year. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will launch the first camp. The Minister said the scheme was launched by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi in 2006. But the AIADMK government did not implement it after 2011. If three medical camps are conducted under the scheme a year in each of the 385 blocks in the State, a total of 1,155 camps will be held. There are 21 Corporations in the State. Four camps should be held in each of the 20 Corporations, excluding Chennai. A total of 15 camps will be organised in Chennai. In total, around 1,240 camps will be held in the State, he said. Doctors from 16 specialities — including general medicine, surgery, gastroenterology, paediatrics, obstetrics, ENT, nephrology and neurology — would take part in these camps. The fourth mega COVID-19 vaccination camp would be held on October 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centres-nod-for-admission-of-850-students-to-7-new-medical-colleges/article36727215.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||10 scholars to receive classical Tamil award||As many as 10 Tamil scholars and academicians will receive the Kalaignar M. Karunanidhi Classical Tamil Award from the Central Institute of Classical Tamil in Chennai for the years 2010 to 2019. Former professor of the Pennsylvania University Dr. V.S. Rajam would receive the award for 2010 and former vice-chancellor of the University of Madras Pon. Kothandaraman would receive it for 2011, an official release said on Tuesday. Former vice-chancellor of Tamil University Prof. E. Sundaramoorthy and former director of Puducherry Institute of Linguistics and Culture Prof P. Marudhanayagam would receive the award for 2012 and 2013 respectively. Former chairperson of the Department of Thirukkural Research Endowment in the University of Madras Prof. K. Mohanarasu would receive it for 2014 and former professor of Tamil at Presidency College in Chennai, Maraimalai Ilakkuvanar, for 2015. Prof K. Rajan, formerly with the Department of History in Pondicherry University, would be conferred with the award for 2016 and Prof. Ulrike Niklas, head of the Institute of Indology and Tamil Studies of Cologne University in Germany would receive the award for 2017. For 2018 and 2019, Prof. ‘Erode’ Thamizhanban, formerly with The New College in Chennai and Prof. K. Sivamani, formerly with Karanthai Pulavar College in Thanjavur and with Thiruvalluvar College in Tirunelveli, would receive the awards respectively. The award was instituted in 2009 with Prof. Asko Parpola from Finland being its first recipient at the World Classical Tamil Conference in Coimbatore in 2010. Then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi created this award out of his personal funds as an endowment in his name for classical Tamil research in the Central Institute of Classical Tamil. From the endowment, an award would be conferred on scholars and researchers of eminence every year. The award carries a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh, a citation plaque and a bronze replica of the donor. The award is given for the best contribution to classical Tamil studies by a researcher in archaeology, epigraphy, numismatics, ancient grammar and linguistic study, literary criticism, creative writing, translation, music, dance, drama, painting and sculpture.  The award was instituted in 2009   with Prof. Asko Parpola from Finland being its first recipient at the World Classical Tamil Conference in Coimbatore in 2010||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-scholars-to-receive-classical-tamil-award/article36727221.ece
29 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Criminal defamation case against Tamilisai quashed||The Madras High Court on Tuesday quashed a criminal defamation case pending against Tamilisai Soundararajan, now Governor of Telangana holding additional charge as Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, before a Judicial Magistrate court in Kancheepuram. The case was filed for having levelled certain allegations against Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) when she was Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Tamil Nadu president in 2017. Justice M. Dhandapani quashed the case on merits though there was no representation either on behalf of Ms. Soundararajan or the complainant Dhadi K. Karthikeyan of VCK despite adjourning the hearing on quash application on multiple occasions. Ms. Soundararajan had moved the High Court in 2018 with a plea to quash the defamation case. However, no one represented her when the matter was listed on at least four different days recently. The complainant too remained absent. Nevertheless, the judge perused the case papers and found that the defamation case had been filed for having accused VCK and its president Thol. Thirumavalavan of conducting kangaroo courts and indulging in land grab. No document Justice Dhandapani pointed out that the private complainant had not submitted any document before the Magistrate to prove that he had been authorised either by VCK or Mr. Thirumavalavan to file the complaint. “The respondent (Mr. Karthikeyan), on his own accord and for reasons best known to him, has thought it fit to file the private complaint. The respondent not being the person affected, the invocation of Section 500 (criminal defamation) of Indian Penal Code does not merit acceptance,” the judge said. He also wrote: “The complaint is nothing but an attempt on the part of the respondent to gain political publicity at the cost of judicial time.” Further, the case should be quashed on the short ground of non application of mind since the Magistrate had issued summons to Ms. Soundararajan asking her to appear in a cheque bounce case though what had been filed was actually a criminal defamation case, the judge said. Mentioning wrong provisions of law in the summons “is not only ridiculous but also clearly shows non application of mind on the part of the court below in taking cognisance of the issue by issuing summons,” he observed.  The complaint is nothing but an attempt on the part of the respondent to gain political publicity at the cost of judicial time Justice Dhandapani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/criminal-defamation-case-against-tamilisai-quashed/article36727305.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apollo launches AI-based risk score for cardiovascular diseases||Apollo Hospitals on Tuesday launched its artificial intelligence (AI)-based cardiovascular diseases risk score (AICVD) to help predict the risk of a person getting cardiovascular diseases over a period of 10 years. The tool will stratify the risk as minimal, moderate, and high based on about 21 parameters, including dietary habits, consumption of alcohol and tobacco, family history, respiratory rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure and many others. While other models like the Framingham Risk Score, QRISK3 and the World Health Organisation / International Society of Hypertension risk score already exist, Apollo Hospitals said the uniqueness of AICVD was that it was best suited to Indians because of the data sets used to develop the model and the parameters included for the assessment. Prathap C. Reddy, chairman, Apollo Hospitals, said on Tuesday that the group was dedicating the tool to all physicians of the country. Addressing the media virtually on the eve of World Heart Day on Wednesday, he said that while cardiovascular diseases were becoming a huge burden, affecting even the younger population, the healthcare providers struggled to diagnose it early to make a real difference. “While some predictive tools do exist, they are based on data sets from Western countries and do not take regional risk variations into account. This impacts their accuracy when applied in an Indian context. The AICVD tool will change that and put the knowledge and the means to predict and prevent heart disease in the physician’s hands,” he said. Sangita Reddy, joint managing director, Apollo Hospitals, said the tool not only provided a more accurate risk score but also gave insights on patient-specific modifiable risk factors that the physicians could use for providing advice to the patients. Access to all doctors While doctors within the Apollo group have already begun using AICVD, which is available as a web-based tool, the group said on Tuesday that it was allowing physicians across the country to use it free of cost for the next one year. While Apollo Hospitals will charge Rs. 200 a patient for the assessment, Ms. Sangita Reddy said that it was up to respective physicians outside the group to decide whether they want to charge a fee from their patients. J. Shiv Kumar of Apollo Hospitals, involved in the development of the AI-based tool with the support of Microsoft Azure platform, said it was developed using retrospective and anonymised data of 4 lakh patients spanning 10 years. He said that the tool was validated both nationally and internationally with a few institutions. Karen Priyadarshini of Microsoft said the tool was better suited for not only India but also other Asian markets because of the data sets used to develop the model and its adaptability to factor in locally relevant models. Dr. Prathap Reddy congratulated the staff of three hospitals of the group for finding a place in the Best Speciality Hospitals 2022 ranking done by the Newsweek magazine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apollo-launches-ai-based-risk-score-for-cardiovascular-diseases/article36727253.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation revises allocation of work to all its five chief engineers||The Greater Chennai Corporation has revised the allocation of work for all of its five chief engineers. N. Mahesan, who looks after solid waste management, has been given the additional charge of special projects, mechanical department and the Smart City project. S. Rajendran, who was looking after roads and bridges, has been allocated bus route roads and interior roads department, stormwater drains department, general engineering coordination, Singara Chennai 2.0 and all government announcements. S. Kalimuthu, who was looking after parks, has been allocated buildings and bridges, which includes buildings department, burial grounds, public toilets, quality control and bridges department. L. Nandakumar has been allocated parks department, CRRT, disaster management department, Namakku Namme Thittam and T.N. urban employment scheme. P. Duraisamy has been allocated electrical department, IT Cell, GIS, Integrated Command and Control Centre and Town Planning department, according to sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-revises-allocation-of-work-to-all-its-five-chief-engineers/article36727229.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders dump unsold stock of vegetables, flowers on the road||With slump in demand, about 10% of the vegetables and flowers at the Koyambedu wholesale market was wasted. While some traders dump the unsold stock on the roads inside the market, some sent the stock to the bio methanation plant. On an average, the market gets 400-500 truckloads of vegetables every day. Wholesalers said sales had dropped by 20%-30% as it was not a festival season and there were very few functions such as weddings organised now. Most vegetables sold between Rs. 20 and Rs. 30 a kg except for a few like carrot, which is priced Rs. 50 to Rs. 60 a kg at the wholesale market. S. Chandran, president, Koyambedu Market Licensed Merchants’ Association, said the demand from commercial establishments, hotels and catering services had dropped by 50% during the pandemic. “We receive the same quantity of produce daily. We cannot keep the stock for more than one day as there will be demand for fresh stock,” he said. Tomato, ladies finger, cabbage and brinjal are among those sold for Rs. 15 a kg. A few traders had dumped tomatoes in the market as there were no takers. The Federation of All Associations of Koyambedu Periyar Market has asked traders to collect vegetable waste in sacks so as to keep the market clean. It has made a representation to the Koyambedu Market Management Committee to clear encroachments as it was difficult to regulate them. Federation president G.D. Rajasekaran said: “We may be able to sell poor quality vegetables at a less rate during summer. But vegetables perish fast during this season and wastage increases. We have asked MMC authorities to extend working hours of semi-retailers till 5 p.m. to improve sales.” Similarly, heaps of roses and marigold are dumped at the rear of the market as the sales had dropped drastically. R. Raja, a flower trader, said one kg of rose that sold at Rs. 60-Rs. 80 in the past was now available for Rs. 10. The wastage can go up to 40% on some days. Residents and retailers sometimes collect these flowers dumped on the road in sacks in the evenings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-dump-unsold-stock-of-vegetables-flowers-on-the-road/article36727239.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Full-time chairman appointed to CWMA||More than three years after its establishment, the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) has got a full-time chairman. Saumitra Kumar Haldar, now the head of the Central Water Commission (CWC), has been made CWMA’s chairman. This has been approved by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet, according to a circular issued by the Department of Personnel and Training in the Union Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions on Monday. Since its constitution in June 2018, the Centre assigned additional charge as CWMA’s chief to those who held the post of CWC chairman — S. Masood Husain and R. K. Jain, apart from Mr. Haldar himself, who chaired a meeting in New Delhi on Monday. In December 2018, Tamil Nadu even approached the Supreme Court, challenging this arrangement of the Centre and seeking the appointment of a full time chairman. Mr. Haldar will hold the post of CWMA chairman for five years or until further orders, whichever is earlier. He will be on deputation to the Authority till November 30, when he reaches the age of retirement, after which he will be re-employed on contract basis for the remaining period of his tenure. A degree holder in engineering from the Government Engineering College, Jabalpur, Mr. Haldar held various positions in the CWC. Before becoming the chief of the Commission, he was Member - Water Planning & Projects (WP&P). He handled various inter-State matters such as the Bansagar Dam, coordination and management of resources of the Narmada river basin for ensuring compliance with the Narmada Water Disputes Tribunal’s award and regulation of water resources of Godavari and Krishna basins, in addition to the execution of Polavaram irrigation project. He was also associated with the overall supervision of operation and maintenance of the main Farakka Barrage as part of the implementation of the 1996 India-Bangladesh Treaty on the Ganga. In March 2014, he led the Indian team to Bangladesh for a meeting of the Joint River Commission in Dhaka. As the head of CWMA, Mr. Haldar will have a casting vote in the event of a tie. Two whole-time members — Water Resources and Agriculture — have been appointed to the Authority, which also has a dedicated Member Secretary, points out a senior official in Chennai.  A degree holder in engineering from the Government Engineering College, Jabalpur, Mr. Haldar held various positions in the CWC. Before becoming the chief of the Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/full-time-chair-appointed-to-cwma/article36727217.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Management guru Bala Balachandran no more||Bala V. Balachandran, management guru, educationist and founder of the Great Lakes Institute of Management, passed away in Chicago after a brief illness on Tuesday. He was 84. Fondly known as Professor Bala or Uncle Bala, he was born at Pudukottai and completed his college education at Annamalai University, Chidambaram. Then he served in the Army briefly before going to the U.S. to pursue doctoral studies. From there began an illustrious career as professor, consultant, mentor, author, entrepreneur and life coach. He helped to recruit the first set of faculty members to the Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore in the late 1960s, established the Management Department at the Management Development Institute at Gurgaon through a joint collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme, the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University. He was instrumental in designing MBA programmes at the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad. There, he had chaired the committee to select the Dean and the faculty and curriculum committees. Padma Shri award In 2004, he established the Great Lakes Institute of Management, which now has another campus at Gurgaon. He received India’s fourth highest civilian award — the Padma Shri — in 2001 for his contribution to education. A post on the LinkedIn page of the Great Lakes Institute of Management said, “With profound grief, we inform you of the passing of our beloved Founder & Chairman, Dr. Bala V. Balachandran. Uncle Bala, as he was fondly called, was an inspiration to many. An educator par excellence, he was the heart of our institute.” He is survived by his wife Vasantha Balachandran and sons Sudhakar Balachandran and Diwakar Balachandran. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin condoled the death of Balachandran and extended his condolences to the bereaved family members and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bala-v-balachandran-no-more/article36727219.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Product design centre for MSMEs to come up at Thirumudivakkam||A product design centre, catering to the MSME sector, will come up at the Sidco industrial estate Thirumudivakkam. To be implemented in Public-Private Partnership mode, the project will have Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation (Tansidco) as the nodal agency. Around 1.6 acres of land has been earmarked for this venture which would be housed inside the industrial estate as part of the mega cluster venture that was announced by the DMK government. While announcing the revised State budget for the year 2021-2022, Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, mentioned that five mega clusters in pharmaceutical, petro chemicals, precision manufacturing, defence and aerospace and smart mobility sectors would be established at a cost of Rs. 100 crore each. “There are many small and medium enterprises which develop new products but don’t have the right infrastructure to test and validate their products. The product incubation centre will support MSMEs from concept to realisation or from realised product to new concept. Support will be given to firms which have a concept design and are willing to develop their own product before they start their own facility,” said R.Selvam, secretary, Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association. He added, “The cluster will have a facility for new product development for e-vehicles, aerospace and automobile components. Help will also be extended to those who want to file product patents and trade registrations.” The main purpose of the centre would be to improve the competitiveness of MSMEs by supporting them to develop innovative products for the domestic and global market. MSME secretary V. Arun Roy said the idea was to enable our engineering industry to access next gen technology without spending individually on machinery and to help them reverse engineer products. “Apart from the product design centre, this cluster will have several other testing facilities catering to various sectors,” he added. It is learnt that a detailed project report is being prepared by Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organisation of Tamil Nadu Limited (ITCOT). A senior official off ITCOT said this mega cluster would be a hub and spoke model. “Even for basic testing, firms now come to Chennai which involves a lot of time and huge money. So the plan is to make Thirumudivakkam the hub and places including Sriperumbudur, Oragadam and Irungattukottai as the spoke,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/product-design-centre-for-msmes-to-come-up-at-thirumudivakkam/article36727242.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirumavalavan condemns ‘anti-Dalit mindset’ of police||VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan on Tuesday questioned the recent police action against the party’s women cadre in Salem’s Morur bus stand when they attempted to install a pole for the party flag. Leading a protest against the incident in front of the Chennai Collectorate, he, however, made it clear that the relations between his party and the ruling DMK were intact and he was opposing only the “anti-Dalit mindset” of the police and officials. (Chief Minister M.K. Stalin handles the Police Department.) “This is a protest against the bureaucracy and its functioning. People in the government create policies, but the bureaucrats implement it. Therefore, there is a need to flag the anti-Dalit mindset to the ruling dispensation. We will meet the Chief Minister regarding this,” he said. According to him, “There is a difference between the ruling dispensation and the government ( Aatchi and Arasu ). Certain officials don’t like our party, our flags…they don’t like our wall paintings…these are done by police officers. We will take permission from the police and go there to raise the flag.” Mr. Thirumavalavan told journalists: “No matter which party is in power, the police are bent on suppressing the VCK. The police have a casteist approach towards the VCK. This doesn’t happen in all districts – but certain officers in police and revenue departments are doing this, which has created a wrong impression about the party in the minds of the people...” “Members of other communities did not raise any issue when the VCK cadre approached the Salem police to hoist party flags in a public place. It was not near any community’s residing place. It is a place where other parties have installed their flags. The PMK and their caste association’s flags are placed in the public place,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan said police immediately claimed that the PMK was opposing the move to hoist the flags even when the VCK Salem district secretary spoke to a PMK MLA on the phone, who said they did not oppose it and police were using their party’s name inappropriately. “Police did not accept this and said the party cannot hoist the flag on the highway. Police then said they would remove all the flags in a fortnight. The VCK cadre argued that they could remove their flags too. This is the crux of the problem. When police were determined not to allow the VCK workers and lathi-charged them, the casteist forces came there and joined in,” he said. VCK will hold similar protests in Salem and Madurai on September 30 and October 1, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vck-leader-condemns-polices-anti-dalit-mindset/article36727220.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for Odhuvar course||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) department has called for applications from those interested in undertaking the three-year Odhuvar course. Those aged between 13 and 20, who have passed class VIII and are Hindus may apply. Classes will be held at the Odhuvar School attached to the Meenakshi-Sundareswarar Temple in Madurai and at the Arunachaleswarar Temple in Tiruvannamalai, according to a press release. Those with a good voice can apply.  Application forms can be downloaded fromwww.tnhrce.gov.in. During the duration of the course, every student will be provided uniforms, a monthly stipend of Rs. 3,000, accommodation and food. Filled in forms, along with the consent of one parent or guardian, can be sent to the Executive Officer, Arunachaleswarar Temple, Tiruvannamalai - 605501 before October 27. Property recovered Meanwhile, on Monday, property worth Rs. 22 crore belonging to the Margasagayeswarar Temple in Maduravoyal was retrieved by the department. Seven shops and another building had been constructed on 11,511 sq feet of land that had been sublet by those who had taken the land on rent originally. Temple authorities sealed the shops and put up a board saying the property belonged to the deity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-odhuvar-course/article36727241.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No transparency in award of contracts’||A need for reform in the award of parking contracts in railway stations has been voiced by many commuters. The practice of repeatedly awarding parking contract to the same person without fixing any responsibility for improvement of amenities showed lack of transparency and disregard to complaints, say commuters. Commuters rued that while the demand for parking space has been on the rise, the Southern Railway failed to exploit the revenue potential by adopting a good business model. Private facilities Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said several private parking stands were providing better amenities compared to the railway contractors who do not even provide basic facility of covering the place. Those using expensive two-wheelers and cars were forced to park in an open place resulting in damage to the vehicles. He criticised the Southern Railway for not making the award of contract a transparent process. The officials concerned failed to ensure that contractors provided covered parking and fixed CCTV cameras as per rules. The commuters pointed to the absence of boards showing details of the name of the contractor, grievance redress numbers, parking fees and the tenure of the contract. J. Ranganathan, Secretary, Kancheepuram-Chennai Rail Commuters’ Association, wanted the Southern Railway to explore the option of building multi-level parking yards with the computerised vending of train and parking tickets at major stations. In some stations, private yards did roaring business because of better amenities, amiable parking attenders and installation of CCTV cameras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-transparency-in-award-of-contracts/article36727240.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kauvery Hospital to organise free heart check-up today||Kauvery Hospital will organise a free heart check-up on World Heart Day to help identify cardiac risk in the younger population. The Kauvery Heart Care team at the site will screen the patients. It will be conducted on September 29 from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha at T. Nagar. For details, call 044-40006000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kauvery-hospital-to-do-free-heart-check-up-today/article36727236.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public holiday for civic polls||The State government has declared a public holiday in rural local bodies in 9 districts where ordinary elections are scheduled to be held on October 6 and 9. Ordinary elections are scheduled in Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tirupattur, Vellore and Villupuram districts. The government also declared a public holiday in local bodies in 28 districts where casual elections will be held on October 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-holiday-for-civic-polls/article36727223.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK leader flags rise in juvenile crimes||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday said that the rise in murders committed by juveniles in Tamil Nadu by 116.66% (104) in 2020 — though the total number of murders increased only by 3.61% (1661) — was a huge concern. He attributed the trend to “easy availability” of liquor, ganja and other narcotic substances to minors in Tamil Nadu. In a statement, he said that teenagers are being used by criminals as punishment is less severe for crimes involving juveniles. “Criminals entice juveniles giving them valuables such as cell phones and provide access to liquor and other narcotic substances such as ganja. This should be prevented,” he said. The State government must prevent the rise in juvenile crimes by providing free, quality compulsory education that is not stressful and which has an emphasis on ethics and sports. “The government must prevent sale of liquor and tobacco near educational institutions and parents should closely monitor their children,” the PMK leader added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-leader-flags-rise-in-juvenile-crimes/article36727256.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two women killed, seven hurt in accident||Two women were killed and seven others, including a 10-year-old boy, injured when a car rammed a stationary truck near Villivakkam early on Tuesday. The names of the victims were given as M. Kamatchi, 25, of Gingee and M. Sasikala, 27, of Tiruvannamalai district. The two women along with others were engaged to paint the median on the flyover on the 200 ft. road at Thadhankuppam. The police said around 3 a.m., while they were busy with their work, a car which came from Retteri towards Padi hit a stationary mini truck. In the impact, the truck hit the workers. Passersby and others rushed them to Government Kilpauk Hospital. Kamatchi and Sasikala were declared as brought dead. K. Sujith, 19, of Perambur, who drove the car, has been admitted to the hospital. Inquiries revealed that Sujith and his four friends were going to Mamallapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-killed-seven-hurt-in-accident/article36727232.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Architects, engineers two sides of a coin’||Ar. C.N. Raghavendran, acclaimed architect and Padma Shri awardee, has said architects and civil engineers are two sides of the same coin and have been so from time immemorial as reflected in Gangaikondacholapuram structures. He was speaking at a webinar held by KCG College of Technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/architects-engineers-two-sides-of-a-coin/article36727237.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Army destroys unexploded shells in Tiruvallur||The Army’s bomb disposal team conducted the second phase of its mammoth bomb disposal operation, destroying about five tonnes of unexploded ordnance along with iron and steel scrap seized from SIPCOT industrial complex, a Defence press release said on Tuesday. The first phase was conducted in March this year. About 10 tonnes of unexploded shells were destroyed then. The second phase was held in the third week of September, during which five tonnes of unexploded shells were destroyed. They were destroyed at the blasting sites in Gummidipoondi and Sholingur, the press release said. The task involved retrieving, transporting and disposing of the bombs in a controlled manner while ensuring the safety of the local population, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/army-destroys-unexploded-shells-in-tiruvallur/article36727619.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Renault Nissan donates two ambulances to Vandalur zoo||Renault Nissan Technological and Business Centre India (RNTBCI) on Tuesday donated two ambulances to the Arignar Anna Zoological Park (AAZP) at Vandalur in Chennai. A press release said that this was part of the company’s corporate social responsibility initiatives. The release added that the company had made Rs. 1.25 crore-worth contributions. Debashis Neogi, managing director, and Ramakrishnan Ramanathan, vice-president, RNTBCI, visited the park on Tuesday to donate the ambulances. Saplings planted Saplings were also planted to mark the event, the press release said. Those who are interested in donating to the park or adopting animals could emailsupport@aazp.inor call 044-29542301.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renault-nissan-donates-two-ambulances-to-vandalur-zoo/article36727248.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MRB nurses stage protest||Several nurses, who had passed the Medical Services Recruitment Board (MRB) exams and were recruited for COVID-19 work, staged a protest on the campus of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS) on Tuesday. The protest demanding job security and regularisation of services continued till late night. These nurses were recruited on a temporary basis and were engaged in COVID-19 work. Their services were being extended once in six months. G. R. Ravindranath, general secretary of Doctors Association for Social Equality who met the protesting nurses, said 3,000 nurses, who had cleared MRB exam, were recruited in April-May last year. “Now, they are being moved from the control of DMS to respective Deputy Directors of Health Services and Collectors. They are fearing this will have an impact on their jobs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mrb-nurses-stage-protest/article36727216.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter creates ruckus, arrested||A history-sheeter, who barged into Abhiramapuram police station and threatened the police, was arrested on Sunday. The accused was in a drunken state on Sunday evening and created a ruckus in the house of Ammu and damaged the property there. A patrol team reached the spot and the accused, who was identified as Karthik alias ‘Pichai’ Karthik, 27, took to his heels on seeing the police. Within an hour, he barged into the station and abused policemen on duty and dared them to arrest him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-creates-ruckus-arrested/article36727230.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested in Mylapore for possessing bombs||Five persons who were in possession of country-made bombs and dangerous weapons were arrested in Mylapore police station limits on Monday. The police said when a patrol team was on duty near Nochi Nagar, a gang of men was travelling by an autorickshaw and two motorcycles at high speed. When the police team attempted to stop them, the gang sped away. However, the police caught the gang after a chase. The accused threatened the police personnel who stopped them. On searching the vehicles, the police found country-made bombs. The names of the arrested were given as S. Murugesan, 62, his sons Murugan, 31, and Karthik, 23, their associates Pradeep Kumar, 23, of Nochi Nagar and Arun Mukeshkumar, 22. Meanwhile, the Marina police arrested five persons who robbed an autorickshaw driver of Rs. 480.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-arrested-in-mylapore-for-possessing-bombs/article36727231.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Medical Devices Park will attract Rs. 3,500 cr. in investments’||The Medical Devices Park that will come up at Oragadam will attract investments to the tune of Rs. 3,500 crore and is expected provide direct and indirect employment to about 10,000 people, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Tuesday. Rs. 450-crore project The park would be set up at an estimated cost of Rs. 450 crore. The Union government has granted its in-principle approval after accepting the State government’s request, and would grant up to Rs. 100 crore for the park in Kancheepuram district, he said in a statement. Spread over 350 acres in the SIPCOT Industrial Complex at Oragadam, the park would manufacture ventilators, blood pressure monitors, pacemakers, equipment for surgeons and other requirements of the medical fraternity, he said. The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (SIPCOT) would create world-class facilities in the park to make it one of the major manufacturing hubs of medical devices in the world, Mr. Stalin added. In the Budget for 2021-22, the State government announced the setting up of a Medical Devices Park. A proposal was made to the Department of Pharmaceuticals of the Union government on behalf of the State government, the Chief Minister recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-devices-park-will-attract-rs-3500-cr-in-investments/article36727222.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Indian Bank MD calls on CM||Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Indian Bank Shanti Lal Jain called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in the Secretariat in Chennai on Tuesday. Senior officials of the bank accompanied Mr. Jain during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-bank-md-calls-on-cm/article36727244.ece
29 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Maharani Avenue IV plot owners face the risk of layout turning unapproved||The possibility of approval for their layout getting cancelled stares at 108 plot owners of Maharani Avenue IV in Veerakeralam, following a Madras High Court order on a case filed by seven other plot owners, who sought to restrain the Coimbatore Corporation from “interfering in their owning and enjoying their properties”. The seven plot owners moved the court when the Corporation attempted to construct a compound wall around their properties, claiming these constituted a reserved site, as shown in the plan approved by the Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP). They contended that the DTCP’s approval for the layout showed 108 plots and two reserved sites – a 2,301 sq.m. plot for park and 2,225 sq.m. land for community hall. But consequent upon an order of the then Veerakeralam Town Panchayat executive officer, the layout promoter, Ramasamy Gounder, had divided the 2,225 sq.m. land earmarked for community hall into 12 plots and that they had bought some of those plots. Veerakeralam was merged with the Corporation in 2011. In 2017, the Corporation tried to put a fence around the community hall land, which included the litigants’ plots, saying it was going by the DTCP approval as reserved site. The seven plot owners argued before the court that the Corporation should not ignore the then Veerakeralam executive officer’s order. In its response, the Corporation contended that the executive officer’s proceedings were illegal; that the official did not have the powers to modify the DTCP approval. The Corporation also contended that it was in possession of the two reserved sites on which it planned to develop a park. After hearing both the sides, High Court Judge N. Anand Venkatesh ruled that the Corporation should stop the compound wall construction, issue notice to all the Maharani Avenue IV residents to ensure that a gift deed was executed in favour of the Corporation for the two reserved sites, issue notice to the layout promoter Ramasamy Gounder or his legal heirs to execute a gift deed in its favour and if he or they failed, initiate legal action as failure to execute the gift deed, amounting to cheating. The Judge further said that if the two reserved sites were not gifted to the Corporation, the original DTCP approval stood cancelled and the entire layout construed unapproved. Based on the court order the Corporation had on August 17, 2021 issued notices to all the 108 plot owners. Several of them whose plots did not form part of either the park or community hall lands had in their reply of September 5, 2021 told the Corporation that they had nothing to do with the then executive officer’s illegal conversion of community hall land to housing plots or the promoter selling those 12 plots. The executive officer and layout promoter had committed illegality for financial gain, they said and sought dropping of proceedings against them as they had done nothing illegal. On the judgment impacting the entire layout, consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon said the court could have focussed only on the illegal sale of 12 plots. It had now put the onus of executing the gift deed for the two reserved sites on the 108 legal plot owners also, while it should have been only on the layout promoter. Also, the judgment did not address the illegality committed by the Veerakeralam executive officer or the layout promoter or the illegal purchases of 12 plots. Corporation officials were unavailable for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maharani-avenue-iv-plot-owners-face-the-risk-of-layout-turning-unapproved/article36727303.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation hunts for land for hospital after returning fund||The Coimbatore Corporation Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) in Neelikonampalayam, Ward 58, functions out of a community hall. The Corporation runs the UPHC from the community hall since 2017. Prior to shifting the UPHC to the community hall, the Corporation had housed it in a rented building in Balasundaram Layout. At the time of shifting the UPHC, the Corporation had Rs. 40 lakh on hand to construct a new building, one with rooms for delivery, doctors, staff nurses, laboratories, etc. The Central government had given the money to the Corporation under the National Urban Health Mission for constructing or upgrading buildings for UPHCs. The Corporation sources said the civic body had to return the money to the government because it could not find in time a land suitable for the Neelikonampalayam UPHC. After having returned the money and housed the UPHC in the community hall, the Corporation is now trying to find a land for constructing a new building. The sources said the size of community hall and facilities available at there necessitated a new building. At the time of shifting the UPHC to the community hall, the Corporation had spent around Rs. 6 lakh on building temporary partitions to establish doctor’s room, staff nurses’ room, etc. But all the rooms were so small that they proved to be inadequate for day-to-day functioning, the sources said. There was no room to house the laboratory, no labour ward or a well-equipped medicine storage and distribution room. In the absence of the labour ward, the Corporation staff of the UPHC were diverting pregnant women for delivery to either Singanallur or Uppilipalayam UPHC. The proposed building that the Corporation had planned for the Neelikonampalayam UPHC should be well-equipped to house two doctors, staff nurses, a room for ante natal care, another for post natal care, an exclusive room for laboratory, etc, the sources averred. Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara who inspected the UPHC at the community hall had instructed the East Zone officials to scout for adequate land or explore the possibility of constructing a new building after demolishing the community hall. V. Sasikumar, Neelikonampalayam resident, said the Corporation would do well to demolish the community hall to house the UPHC at the very place because the current location was easily accessible. Shifting the UPHC would only inconvenience the 45,000-odd residents of Ward 58 and 59.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-hunts-for-land-for-hospital-after-returning-fund/article36727273.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Loco pilot stops train upon noticing man lying on track||A man, who was lying on a railway track near Coimbatore, was rescued without any injuries on Monday after the loco pilot of a Mettupalayam-bound train stopped it to avert an accident. Sources in the Government Railway Police said on Tuesday that the man was lying on the track allegedly in an inebriated state near Thudiyalur on Monday evening. The loco pilot of Train No. 06010 Coimbatore – Mettupalayam MEMU train saw the man from a distance and immediately applied the brakes. A few coaches passed over the man, who was lying in between the rails, before the train came to a complete halt. The man was moved out of the tracks by passengers and he walked away from the spot, the sources said. No case was registered, according to the police sources. A video of the incident recorded by a passenger was widely circulated on social media platforms on Tuesday. K.P. Rahman, a lawyer from Mettupalayam who was one of the passengers, said that he boarded the MEMU train in Coimbatore around 5.55 p.m. on Monday and that the train came to a halt around 6.10 p.m. near Thudiyalur. “As this is a special train, there is no stoppage at Thudiyalur railway station. So, I knew something had gone wrong when the train stopped,” he said. The man, believed to be around 30 years of age, was found without even a single injury after being rescued by passengers, Mr. Rahman claimed. The Government Railway Police has been conducting awareness programmes to ensure that the public stayed away from railway tracks, the police sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loco-pilot-stops-train-upon-noticing-man-lying-on-track/article36727277.ece
29 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Short film wins award at Toronto festival||Ramakaushalyan Ramakrishnan’s short film Sivanum Mohiniyum has won the Jury Award for Best LGBTQ themed short film at the Toronto Tamil Film Festival. The 20-minute movie is based on how one person’s pride affects another person’s life, says Mr. Ramakrishnan, a 19-year old photo journalism student. Pursuing Bachelor of Arts: Documentary Photography And Photojournalism at the London College Of Communication  in the U.K. , Mr. Ramakaushalyan says the award was not expected. “We actually made the film to put it on social media,” he said. The short movie team included Neeraj M. Selva - the music director, Pranav Venkatesh was the actor, and Kaushik the Editor. “I have currently made three art works after the film. Moonsoon Embryo is a short film. Oh Moon Let Me Tell You the Story of the Sun is a musical short film I made for Neeraj M. Selva. Blue Bird is a feature film that is stopped due to lack of funding,” he said. “I plan to keep making art, either through photography or films,” says Mr. Ramakaushalyan, who hails from Karur and was a resident of Coimbatore for two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/short-film-wins-award-at-toronto-festival/article36727301.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Baralikadu eco-tourism centre bookings open||After remaining closed for tourists for around five months due to the pandemic, Forest Department’s eco-tourism centre at Baralikadu near Karamadai started bookings from visitors on Tuesday ahead of its reopening on Saturday. A release from the Department said those interested in visiting the eco-tourism centre should log on towww.coimbatorewilderness .comfor registration. The fee would be Rs. 550 each for adults and Rs. 450 for children aged between five and 13 years. Activities available for the tourists at the centre are coracle rides on River Bhavani and bathing in the river in the evening. Lunch prepared by the tribal communities will be served to the visitors. The centre will be open for tourists on Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Visitors shall either use their own vehicles or public transport to reach the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/baralikadu-eco-tourism-centre-bookings-open/article36727299.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Houses demolised for flyover project||Coimbatore Corporation on Tuesday demolished 34 houses near Ramar Kovil Market in Ukkadam to pave way for flyover construction. According to sources, a team led by Assistant Town Planning Officer, Central Zone, A. Babu, after coordinating with officials from the Highways Department, Tangedco and Coimbatore City Police, demolished the houses. The sources said the Corporation with help from the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board had made arrangements for alternative accommodation for the occupants of those houses. In the next couple of months, they would get flats in the tenement that the Board was constructing in Pillukadu. Meanwhile, the Highways Department had built temporary structures for the 34 occupants, the sources said and added the Corporation had to demolish the houses because as per the Highways Department’s flyover project plan as a roundabout was to be built on the land that the houses stood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/houses-demolised-for-flyover-project/article36727275.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 183 cases||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 183 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to touch 2,42,131 cases. The Health Department reported two more deaths, taking the district's death toll to 2,337. The district had 2,042 active cases and 197 patients were reported to have recovered on Tuesday. The positivity rate of Coimbatore district as per Monday’s data was 1.7%. Tiruppur district reported 86 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 92,849 cases. The overall toll remained at 954 as no new deaths were reported. The district had 912 active cases and 103 patients from the district recovered. Nilgiris district reported 36 cases. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,674. The number of deaths increased from 199 to 200. The civic body on Tuesday imposed fines on owners of three wedding halls for violation of COVID-19 safety guideline. A release said officials imposed Rs. 5,000 each on two halls and Rs. 2,000 on another hall – all on Podanur Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-183-cases/article36727285.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU bags three awards||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has bagged three national awards, said a release. The institution bagged the ‘Green and Clean Campus Award’, ‘PG Fellowship award for Horticulture and Forestry’ and ‘PG Fellowship in Agricultural Engineering’, said the release. The Indian Council for Agricultural Research had instituted the ‘Green and Clean Campus Award’ for the first time for colleges under State Agricultural Universities and education institutions under its supervision. The ‘Green and Clean Campus Award’ was for a place where environment-friendly practices were followed and the same was taught to promote sustainable environment on campus. The Agricultural College and Research Institute, a University college, won the second prize of Rs. 8 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-bags-three-awards/article36727298.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textile units gear up to make fresh investments||Textile units in the State are keen to invest to create new capacities or expand the existing ones, according to a recent study conducted by the Indian Texpreneurs Federation. As many as 257 units with a combined annual turnover of Rs. 36,000 crore participated in the survey from across the value chain, including spinning, semi-integrated, integrated, weaving, apparel, processing and home textile units. A press release from the Federation said 76 % of the surveyed firms said they were looking at doubling the current business in three to five years with new capex cycle. “This shows a very positive and vibrant change in the business environment in the Tamil Nadu textile and apparel sector,” said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of the Federation. In the value chain, home textiles, weaving and apparel segments are showing better momentum in terms of growth. The appetite for investment is driven by demand, profitability, and reforms by the Union and State governments. In the developed economies, spending has shot up and hence there is a surge in demand. Several buyers are looking for alternatives to China. What India needs is more production capacities, he said. Several units are also looking at investing in renewable energy, especially solar energy, Mr. Dhamodharan added. Further, 16% of the companies that took part in the survey were also keen to explore the IPO option. The Indian capital market is growing at a rapid pace and textile sector is also getting lot of interest from investors with valuations rallying upwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-units-gear-up-to-make-fresh-investments/article36727276.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for assaulting doctor||The Singanallur police on Tuesday arrested a man on charges of assaulting a government doctor in public view. According to police sources, K. Ganesh Chandrakaladaran (47), a doctor at a primary health centre near Senjerimalai, allegedly spotted M. Baskar (41), who was riding a motorcycle with one hand and was holding his two-year-old child with another in Singanallur on Monday evening. He proceeded to stop the motorcycle and purportedly asked him to exercise caution regarding his child’s safety, to which Baskar allegedly began physically attacking the doctor. Another man and two women also allegedly assaulted the doctor, following which Dr. Chandrakaladaran suffered minor injuries. Based on his complaint, the Singanallur police registered a case. The accused was arrested using the CCTV footage and was remanded in judicial custody, the sources said. Seven arrested The Saravanampatti police on Monday arrested seven persons on charges of assaulting and threatening a businessman in Coimbatore. According to the police, Deepak Arora had purchased a land at Maniyakaranpalayam for his business venture. On Monday, a seven-member gang entered into a quarrel with Mr. Arora stating that the outlet’s godown was constructed on their land. Based on his complaint, the police arrested Jayaraj (52), Santhosh (52), Jagan (40), Deepan (36), Madhan (33), Kathiravan (49) and Karuppusamy (35) on charges of rioting, using obscenities, for causing hurt and for criminal intimidation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-assaulting-doctor/article36727282.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police honour woman for handing over smart phone she found on road||The K.G. Chavadi police on Monday honoured a 60-year-old woman for handing them over a smart phone that she found lying on the road. Kannammal, a daily wage labourer, handed over the phone belonging to Karuppusamy who misplaced it near a bakery on Palakkad Main Road on Sunday. The phone was worth Rs. 20,000. Mr. Karuppusamy was asked to come to the police station on Monday with the relevant documents, where Ms. Kannammal handed over the phone to him in person. Sub-Inspector J. Saravanan felicitated her with a shawl and commended her, the police said. “She was not even aware of the smartphone’s price,” Mr. Saravanan said on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-honour-woman-for-handing-over-smart-phone-she-found-on-road/article36727279.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete rail overbridge construction at Vadugapalayam’||Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram has appealed to the Southern Railway to expedite the construction of the rail overbridge at Vadugapalayam in Pollachi, saying that it had been pending for around two years. In a letter to John Thomas, General Manager of Southern Railway, he said the construction of the four-way rail overbridge began on the Pollachi-Palakkad inter-State highway at a cost of Rs. 60 crore. Consequently, the road traffic was diverted through a residential area, posing the risk of accidents to people. The diversion through a circuitous route led to traffic congestion and additional travel time, he said, and called for speedy completion of the work. ‘Restore rail link’ Meanwhile, consumer rights organisation Citizens’ Voice Coimbatore wrote to Mr. Thomas demanding the restoration of a rail link between Coimbatore and Podanur. The organisation’s president C.M. Jayaraman and secretary V.A. Shanmugham said in a letter to Mr. Thomas that the rail link connecting the Coimbatore – Podanur and Irugur – Podanur lines was established during the British rule. It was dismantled when Southern Railway laid the Coimbatore-Irugur line via Peelamedu. Its restoration would save nearly 20 minutes of running time for Erode-bound trains, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-rail-overbridge-construction-at-vadugapalayam/article36727297.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man loses Rs. 5 lakh in online fraud||A 38-year-old man lost Rs. 5 lakh from his bank account to online fraudsters. According to the Cyber Crime police, the man received an SMS that his account will be blocked and that he had to fill an online KYC form. He clicked on to a website and entered his login credentials and received an OTP. Later, he received a message from the bank that Rs. 10.25 lakh was transferred from his fixed deposit account to his savings account. He also received another message that Rs. 4,98,653 was debited from his savings account. The Thudiyalur resident froze his bank account. Efforts are on to trace the unidentified persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-loses-rs-5-lakh-in-online-fraud/article36727271.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for poaching wild boar||The Forest Department on Tuesday arrested two persons on charges of poaching a wild boar using crude explosives within Karamadai forest range in Coimbatore district. A release said that a team led by Karamadai Forest Range Officer E.N. Manoharan apprehended S. Manoharan and R. Senthilkumar off near Sellapanur village. The team seized the carcass of the male wild boar, estimated to be around seven years old, with its mouth being damaged due to the country-made bomb known as avuttukai along with sharp weapons and polythene covers from the accused. Meanwhile, efforts to arrest the remaining two accused – S. Senthilkumar and R. Selvaraj – are on. Mr. Manoharan said that details regarding when the boar was poached will be available only after arresting the remaining accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-poaching-wild-boar/article36727300.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Farmer with COVID-19 symptoms dies||A 70-year-old farmer, who tested positive for COVID-19, died during treatment at a hospital in Coimbatore district on Monday after an alleged suicide attempt. The police said that Nachimuthu was in self-isolation at his residence at Chettipalayam after testing positive. On September 21, he was found unconscious after an alleged attempt to die by suicide. He was subsequently admitted at a private hospital at Sundarapuram. While he showed signs of recovery, his health deteriorated a week later and was declared dead on Monday. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-with-covid-19-symptoms-dies/article36727286.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Vishal Krishnan, a Class XII student of National Model Senior Secondary School, recently entered the High Range Book of World Records for setting a record in the category ‘Fastest Mind Calculation of Two-Digit Multiplication of Whole Numbers’. A release said that he completed 60 tasks in seven minutes and five seconds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article36727281.ece
29 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Initiative for end-stage liver disease complications||VGM Hospital in association with Rotary International District 3201 launched on Tuesday a project to treat complications pertaining to end-stage liver disease. A press release said that Project BLEED (Benevolent League for Emergencies in End Stage Liver Disease) will primarily focus on bleeding emergencies associated with cirrhosis such as blood vomiting. Hospital’s chairman V.G. Mohan Prasad and governor of RI District 3201Rajasekhar Srinivasan were present at the inaugural event. Aakruthi Rotary Trust, an offshoot of Rotary Club of Coimbatore Aakruthi, contributed Rs. 1.2 lakh to VGM Foundation in support of this project, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-for-end-stage-liver-disease-complications/article36727280.ece
29 September 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Inter-departmental committee formed to check sago adulteration||An inter-departmental committee has been formed in Dharmapuri to check adulteration in sago manufacturing. District Collector S. Divyadarshini said in a press release that the committee with Designated Officer of Food Safety as member secretary would include officials from Sagoserve, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, Departments of Labour, Electricity, Commercial Tax, RDO and DSP of respective jurisdiction. The team would conduct joint inspections in sago industries to prevent adulteration and to ensure adherence to Food Safety Act, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inter-departmental-committee-formed-to-check-sago-adulteration/article36727370.ece
29 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Lending a helping hand||Police personnel belonging to the 2011 batch joined hands to donate Rs. 22.58 lakh to the family of a constable who died of COVID-19 in Dharmapuri. According to the sources , M.Vijayakumar worked as a constable at A.Pallapatti police station. Following Vijayakumar’s death due to COVID-19, personnel from the 2011 batch, who had trained along with him, decided to help his family and pooled the amount. Superintendent of Police C. Kalaiselvan handed over the amount to Vijayakumar’s family at the District Police Office recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lending-a-helping-hand/article36727378.ece
29 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Minister appears in court||Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy appeared in the Erode District Court on Tuesday in connection with a case registered against him for violating COVID-19 regulations. A case was registered by the previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam regime against Mr.Muthusamy and 10 other DMK cadre for violating COVID-19 safety protocols during an election campaign held in December last year. Mr.Muthusamy appeared for the hearing of the case before Judicial Magistrate S.Vadivel and the court scheduled the next hearing for October 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-appears-in-court/article36727377.ece
29 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Collector flags off Poshan Abhiyaan awareness vehicle||District Collector H. Krishnanunni flagged off a vehicle on the Collectorate premises to create awareness on Poshan Abhiyaan. A press release said that the vehicle was arranged by the Integrated Child Development, Poshan Abhiyaan and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to commemorate 75 years of Indian Independence under the theme ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’. Various programmes have been planned as part of the campaign till September 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-flags-off-poshan-abhiyaan-awareness-vehicle/article36727372.ece
29 September 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||20 kg gutkha seized in Erode||Erode district police seized 20 kg gutkha from a house near Sathyamangalam. Based on a tip-off, a team led by Sathyamangalam Police Inspector Nepolean inspected a house at M.G.R Nagar and found 20 kg banned gutkha products. Police seized the goods and registered a case against a man named Deivam. Two kg in Salem In Salem, the police seized two kg ganja from the house of Gunasekaran at Thatanchavadi near Karuppur. Further inquiry is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-kg-gutkha-seized-in-erode/article36727369.ece
29 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||School alumni representatives meet||A total of 40 alumni representing 18 batches took part in the first meeting of Carmel alumni representatives conducted recently at the Carmel Matriculation Higher Secondary School. Father Anson Panengadan, Principal, said that alumni from 1994 to 2020 batches and a team of senior teachers associated with alumni association took part in the meeting and discussed the programmes for the Ruby Jubilee year celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-alumni-representatives-meet/article36727366.ece
29 September 2021||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Houses damaged||Rain continued to lash parts of Kanniyakumari district for the second day on Tuesday. Five houses were damaged in Vilavancode and Killiyoor taluks. Petchiparai and Perunchani reservoirs got good inflow of 2,346 cusecs and 2,869 cusecs respectively in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. of Tuesday. The level in Petchiparai was 44.08 (48 feet) and it was 63 feet in Perunchai (77 feet). Tirupparappu Falls was in spate and normal life was partially hit with office-goers and students felt the inconvenience due to intermittent rain. Some of the roads around Asaripallam were flooded. Farm lands with standing paddy crops that were ready for harvest were submerged in Therur and Kannamangalam areas. Meanwhile, hundreds of fishing boats remained anchored in Thengaipattinam, Muttom and Colachel fishing harbors due to inclement weather. District administration was keeping a close watch on waterbodies as more rain is predicted for the coastal district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-damages-houses/article36727353.ece
29 September 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Bank donates Rs. 3.14 crore||Karur Vysya Bank has donated Rs. 3.14 crore to PM CARES Fund from its corporate social responsibility fund. A DD for the amount was handed over to Union Finanace Minister Nirmala Sitharaman by B. Ramesh Babu, Managing Director and CEO of the bank, in New Delhi on Monday. The bank had earlier donated over Rs. 3 crore from its CSR funds to contain the spread of COVID-19, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bank-donates-rs-314-crore/article36727698.ece
29 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC pensioners seek disbursal of DA arrear||Scores of pensioners from Madurai TNSTC staged a protest here pressing for a charter of demands, including immediate disbursal of dearness allowance arrear that has been pending for 70 months. The protest was held in front of TNSTC Madurai Regional office. It was led by Madurai district president of Madurai TNSTC Pensioners Welfare organisation, A. Murugesan. The agitators, including women, wanted the State Government to implement health insurance scheme and also to disburse pension benefits to the workers who had retired since May 2020. Similarly, they wanted payment for surrendered leave for those who had retired after 2009. The State Government should restructure the pension from the existing Rs. 3,050 to Rs. 7,850 a month and medical allowance to be raised to Rs. 30 from Rs. 100 a month. The Government should ensure that the pension was disbursed on first day of every month. Former member of pensioner’s trust V. Pitchai, general secretary R. Devaraj were among those who spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-pensioners-seek-disbursal-of-da-arrear/article36727541.ece
29 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||93 DPCs for paddy to be opened as harvest is on: Collector||Madurai district administration has planned to open 93 paddy direct purchase centres in the district as the kuruvai crop harvest has begun. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar announced this at the farmers grievances day meeting held at the Collectorate on Tuesday. The physical meeting was held for the first time after February 2020. It has been held online for the past few months. The Collector said that e-DPCs will be run by primary agricultural cooperative societies. Though initially permission has been granted for 23 e-DPCs, seven have already been opened, he added. The farmers thanked the district administration for starting the PACB-linked societies. However, they expressed their apprehension about the possible delay in payment for the paddy procured. The Collector said that an inter-department team would be set up to ensure smooth functioning of the DPCs without any malpractice. The new format of the DPC will ensure that middlemen are avoided. Farmers need to register their name, Aadhar number, land details and bank savings account details throughwww.tncsc.tn.gov.inandwww.tncsc-edpc.inalong with the date of handing over the produce to the DPC. Based on the villages of registered farmers, e-DPCs would be allocated and the consent of village administrative officers procured online. The details of the DPC allocated to each farmer would be sent as SMS to the mobile phone of the farmers. The SMS will also have the details like date and time of procurement. This will prevent unnecessary wait for the farmers at the DPC. When farmers sought water through 58-village canal scheme to irrigate farmlands in Usilampatti taluk, farmers from Melur objected to it. The Collector said that release of water for different areas of cultivation would be based on the compendium of rules and no out of turn water release was possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/93-dpcs-for-paddy-to-be-opened-as-harvest-is-on-collector/article36727545.ece
29 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man, woman get stuck inside lift at Collectorate, rescued||Fire and Rescue Services personnel rescued two persons who got stuck inside an elevator at Madurai Collectorate on Tuesday. The rescue operation lasted 45 minutes under the personal supervision of Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar. According to an official, a man and a woman, who tried to go to the first floor of the new annexure building at the Collectorate from the ground floor got stuck after it reached the first floor. After trying for a few seconds to open the door, they raised an alarm, following which onlookers alerted the firemen of Tallakulam station located on the Collectorate premises. Initially, the firemen tried to open the door with the key of the elevator. However, it did not work. Later, they used the door-opener and rescued both the persons. Only a few weeks back, in a similar incident, firemen rescued 13 persons who got stuck in a lift car at Government Rajaji Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-woman-get-stuck-inside-lift-at-collectorate-rescued/article36727547.ece
29 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Portion of hospital building sealed||The State on Tuesday told the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the portion of a hospital building in Palayamkottai, built in violation of an approved plan, had been sealed. Taking note of the submission, the court sought an affidavit in this regard. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M. Duraiswamy was told that except for the rooms treating COVID-19 patients, the other portions were sealed. Also, the permission granted to the private hospital to treat COVID-19 patients was cancelled, it was submitted. The petitioner, S. Ferdin Rayan of Palayamkottai complained that the building, V.J. Hospital was built in violation of the approved plan. The mandatory safety measures and requirements were not followed, he said. The owner of the building had put up an additional structure on the adjacent land extending the existing structure. It was ascertained through an RTI reply that the building plan approval was obtained for a commercial building, he said. A status report submitted by the district authorities also confirmed that the building was built in violation of the approved plan. Appropriate action has been initiated against the owner in this regard, it was submitted by the authorities. The petitioner sought a direction to the authorities concerned to take necessary action against the unauthorised construction and also take legal action against those involved in the violation. The case was adjourned for the filing of the affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/portion-of-hospital-building-sealed/article36727356.ece
29 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Heart specialists discuss ways to combat cardio vascular diseases||Cardiologists all over the world pause every September 29 to recognise the crisis Cardio Vascular Diseases (CVD) pose to people and what can be done about it. Heart specialists at Meenakshi Mission Hospital & Research Centre (MMHRC) joined the global campaign of the World Heart Day Foundation on Tuesday to discuss efforts to combat CVD. “The objective of the day is to spread awareness and more so during the pandemic year because COVID-19 and heart diseases are a dangerous combination,” said Dr. N. Ganesan, Head of Cardiology. He sounded the alarm because young adults account for 40 per cent of India’s heart patients. “The average age for onset of heart diseases among Indians is 10 to 20 years less than in other populations,” he said. “Lifestyle modifications and early assessment of the risks of heart diseases are a must,” he asserted. According to the WHO, an estimated 17.9 million people die of CVDs annually and India accounts for 31% of global deaths. Heart diseases account for 30% of all health-related diseases in the country, making it the number one killer. Healthy diet, active and stress-free life, adequate sleep and staying off air and noise pollution were the best ways to connect with one’s heart to keep it healthy, said senior consultant Dr. S. Selvamani. “There was a 35% decline in hospital admissions due to acute myocardial infection because people were forced into a lifestyle that proved beneficial for the heart,” he said. But those with a pre-disposed heart condition found themselves at a greater risk during COVID-19 as they did not seek timely medical care. “It resulted in 40% increase in out-of-hospital heart attacks,” said Dr. R. Sivakumar, senior consultant. Senior cardiologist Dr. M. Sampath Kumar said this year’s theme ‘Use heart to connect’ is significant because it focusses on harnessing the power of digital health to improve awareness, prevention and management of CVDs. During 2019-2020, the MMHRC admitted 5,000 heart patients and treated 25,000 heart patients with the help of its telemedicine facilities, said Dr. R. Krishnan, head of cardio-thoracic vascular surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heart-specialists-discuss-ways-to-combat-cardio-vascular-diseases/article36727542.ece
29 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Form check-posts to prevent illegal transportation of sugarcane’||Tamil Nadu Sugarcane Farmers’ Association State president N. Palaniswami sought check-posts on the district borders to prevent illegal transportation of sugarcane grown in the district. He said the sugarcane were being stealthily taken from the cane area under National Cooperative Sugar Mills, Alanganallur, to private sugar mills in other districts. “We are trying our efforts to start crushing season at Alanganallur and this diversion will sabotage our efforts,” he said. The Collector promised to look into the issue. Farmers also demanded that workers of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme be allowed to work in farmlands during peak farming season as done in Kerala. Joint Director (Agriculture) T. Vivekanandan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-check-posts-to-prevent-illegal-transportation-of-sugarcane/article36727548.ece
29 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman constable death case: CB-CID probe sought||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday sought response from the State in a petition that sought a CB-CID probe into the death of a woman Head Constable Banupriya of Virudhunagar district. Justice G. Ilangovan sought response in the petition filed by R. Chandrasekar, the father of Banupriya. He alleged that his daughter was murdered by her husband Vignesh. Despite the police registering an FIR against the accused based on a complaint lodged by a relative, the accused was neither remanded or taken into custody. Even the post mortem report indicated homicide, he said. He said Virudhunagar police were not conducting a fair investigation and sought the transfer of the investigation to CB-CID. Vignesh, a bus conductor, denied the allegations. The case was adjourned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-probe-sought-into-constables-death/article36727261.ece
29 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ph.D. Scholar selected for international fellowship||Alagappa University Ph.D. scholar Sayooj Aby Jose doing research at the Department of Mathematics has been selected for the international fellowship award by the International Mathematical Union (IMU) and the Friends of International Mathematical Union (FIMU), Germany. A press release said he is doing research in Mathematical Modelling under the guidance of Dr. R. Raja, Assistant Professor at the Ramanujan Centre for Higher Mathematics, Alagappa University. The Vice-Chancellor Officiating Committee members Dr. R. Swaminathan, Senior Professor T.R.Gurumoorthy and the Registrar (in-charge) Prof. C. Sekar congratulated Sayooj Aby Jose and his research supervisor Dr. Raja on the achievement. IMU and FIMU launched the fellowship programme in 2016 to support research studies in developing countries. The IMU Breakout Graduate Fellowships offer a limited number of grants for students from developing countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/selected-for-fellowship/article36727355.ece
29 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Endorsing online games: plea dismissed||Dismissing a petition that sought a direction to authorities concerned to take appropriate action against celebrities who endorsed online games in advertisements, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday observed that the petition was a waste of time and nothing but an attempt by the petitioner to gain publicity. The court was hearing the petition filed by I. Mohammed Razvi of Madurai. In his petition filed in 2020, he sought a direction to take action against cricketer Virat Kohli, former cricketer Sourav Ganguly and actors Prakash Raj, Tamannaah Bhatia, Rana Daggubati and Sudeep who had endorsed online games in advertisements. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M. Duraiswamy observed that the petition was fuelled by the petitioner’s ambition to propel himself to stardom by questioning the participation of prominent personalities in certain advertisements. As per the petitioner’s personal sense of morality, certain online activities, including games, should not be continued and the association of the celebrities with such advertisements was detrimental, the court observed. It would be open to the petitioner to approach the appropriate authorities to take steps to prohibit online games or such activities, the judges said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/endorsing-online-games-hc-dismisses-petition/article36727357.ece
29 September 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Bus hits car, bikes||A car and a few bikes were damaged when a speeding TNSTC bus hit them on Nagercoil-Tirunelveli highway under Aralvaimozhi police station limits on Tuesday afternoon. The police said that when the driver of the bus coming from Tirunelveli was trying to overtake a vehicle, he was shocked to find a car suddenly enter the road from a petrol bunk. The driver tried to avoid hitting the car but dashed against it. It hit five motorbikes parked in front of restaurant near the RTO office also. The bus stopped only after hitting the building. However, no one was injured. Aralvaimozhi police have registered a case and further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-hits-car-bikes/article36727354.ece
29 September 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Anti-rabies vaccination drive held in Namakkal||An anti-rabies vaccination drive was organised at the Veterinary College Hospital here on Tuesday. Principal of the Veterinary College and Research Institute M. Selvaraju launched the free vaccination drive and senior doctors, heads of various departments took part in the event. A booklet on the Institute was launched on the occasion.  As many as 122 pet dogs were administered the anti-rabies vaccination at the camp, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anti-rabies-vaccination-drive-held-in-namakkal/article36727367.ece
29 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports 88 COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 88 new cases on Tuesday. The death was reported in Mahe, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,839. The region-wise toll is 1,442 in Puducherry, 247 in Karaikal, 106 in Yanam and 44 in Mahe. Puducherry reported 55 new cases, which were detected from 4,856 tests, followed by Karaikal (25) and Mahe (8). No new cases were reported in Yanam for the third consecutive day. The test positivity rate was 1.81%, the case fatality rate 1.46% and the recovery rate 97.90%. With 142 patients recovering from COVID-19, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 811. Of them, 117 patients were in hospitals and 694 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,26,215 cases and 1,23,565 recoveries. Of an estimated 17.80 lakh tests done so far, over 15.12 lakh samples have returned negative. Meanwhile, 11,283 people took the vaccine shot against COVID-19 in 24 hours. The Union Territory has administered 9,87,684 doses till date. Cuddalore district reported 32 new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 63,336. A 62-year-old woman died of the infection, taking the toll to 858. The district saw 62,078 recoveries. In Villupuram district, 21 people tested positive for the infection, taking the tally to 45,414. Kallakurichi district reported 17 fresh cases, taking the total number of cases to 30,895.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-88-covid-19-cases/article36727363.ece
29 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Modi hails BJP’s first Rajya Sabha member from Puducherry||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed the election of the BJP’s first Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament from Puducherry, S. Selvaganabathy. “It is a matter of immense pride for every BJP Karyakarta that our party has got its first ever Rajya Sabha MP from Puducherry in S. Selvaganabathy. “The trust placed in us by the people of Puducherry is humbling. We will keep working for Puducherry’s progress,” Mr. Modi tweeted. Mr. Selvaganabathy was declared elected unopposed to the sole Rajya Sabha seat in the Union Territory, on Monday, after the filing of nominations closed. As the deadline for filing of nominations ended, Mr. Selvaganabathy’s nomination was the only one to be accepted with the submissions of five other Independent candidates rejected for lack of required number of proposers. It was after days of speculation, floating of other names and talks with the BJP’s Central leadership over the past few weeks that Mr. Selvaganabathy emerged as the final choice of the ruling NDA alliance led by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy to represent Puducherry in the Council of States. Nominated MLA Associated with the RSS for long, he was one of the three BJP nominated MLAs in the previous 14th Puducherry Legislative Assembly. BJP president J.P. Nadda was also among the leaders to hail the election of the party’s first Rajya Sabha member from Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modi-hails-bjps-first-rajya-sabha-member-from-puducherry/article36727626.ece
29 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||DMK, Congress, allies discuss seat-sharing for Puducherry local body elections||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Congress, Left parties, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and other alliance partners on Tuesday met to discuss seat-sharing arrangements for the local body polls. The meeting, held at the behest of the DMK at its office, was presided over by Opposition leader and convenor of DMK’s Puducherry unit R. Siva. According to political sources, the DMK, unlike in the past, wanted the major share of the five municipalities and 10 commune panchayats, which will go to polls in three phases. In fact, the party wanted to lead the alliance in Union Territory, sources said. The Congress contested 14 and the DMK contested 13 seats in the 2021 Assembly polls. The DMK expressed its desire to contest the Puducherry Municipality, which the party successfully contested in the last local body polls in 2006. According to the source, Congress wanted to go to the local body polls either as a major partner or alone considering the setback the party received in the 2021 Assembly polls. Congress leaders attributed the dismal showing in the Assembly polls to the poor handling of seat sharing talks with the DMK. The party could manage to win only two seats while the DMK emerged victorious in six seats. In a recent meeting held at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) office, which was attended by Congress in-charge for the Union Territory Dinesh Gundu Rao, majority of the functionaries expressed displeasure at the way Congress-held seats were given to the DMK in the Assembly polls. It was for the first time in the recent Assembly polls, the Congress was compelled to part with a good number of the seats to its Dravidian partner in Puducherry. In Tuesday’s meeting, convened by the DMK, Congress was represented by its legislator Vaidyanathan. Top leaders of the Left parties also attended the meeting. Meanwhile, four petitions were filed in the High Court seeking a direction to the government to ‘rectify’ complaints related to delimitation. CM meets L-G In a related development, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Tuesday called on Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at Raj Nivas. Though the Chief Minister did not talk to the media, Sources close to him said the local body polls came up for discussion. The National Democratic Alliance, which is headed by Mr. Rangasamy’s All India N.R. Congress, had its first round of meeting on Monday to arrive at a seat sharing agreement for the local body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-congress-allies-discuss-seat-sharing/article36727622.ece
29 September 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Pudukottai temple taps solar energy||The authorities of Santhanathaswamy temple in Pudukottai Town have begun to harness solar energy to meet the electricity needs of the shrine. Thanks to donations, solar panels have been installed on the roof of the ancient temple. The two-kilowatt solar panel has been set up at a cost of Rs. 2.5 lakh atop the temple which is controlled by the Hindu Religious Charitable and Endowments Department. A temple official said the solar panels were commissioned by Mnister for Law S. Regupathy at the shrine in the presence of department officials and devotees recently. The official said the system would tap green energy for LED lights installed inside the shrine besides helping in cutting down power bills to a certain extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudukottai-temple-taps-solar-energy/article36727341.ece
29 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Electrification of Salem-Vriddhachalam railway line nearing completion||The electrification work taken up on the Salem-Vriddhachalam railway line is nearing completion. According to the Railway sources, as part of the Union government’s initiative to make railways a green mode of transport, electrification work was taken up on Salem-Vriddhachalam line by the Southern Railway. The work was part of electrifying Salem-Vriddhachalam-Cuddalore broad gauge line, a distance of about 190 km. Long-standing demand The Salem-Vriddhachalam route is one of the major rail routes under the Salem Railway Division and various trains including those towards Egmore, Puducherry and DEMU trains are operated on the route. It was a long-standing demand of rail users here to electrify the section to improve rail connectivity from Salem to Southern districts. Sources said that the installation of overhead power lines and pole erection work were nearing completion. Electrification work was majorly done between Salem town and Goods Market station. Official sources said that over 90% of proposed works have been completed. Safety and speed tests were expected to be conducted on the line soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electrification-of-salem-vriddhachalam-railway-line-nearing-completion/article36727375.ece
29 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Adhere to safe practices’||The Department of Industrial Safety and Health has advised firecracker manufacturers here to adhere to safe practices to ensure incident-free Deepavali. According to a release, manufacturers must only produce firecrackers for which they have obtained licence and the chemical mixture prepared for the manufacturing should be fully utilised. Filling of chemical mixture should be done immediately after its preparation and production of firecrackers should be carried out only with permitted number of persons, a release said. Manufacturers were advised against using iron materials in production and the firecrackers should be dried only on the platform provided for the purpose. Manufacturing should not be done during night hours. Residual crackers should be disposed off on the same day and it should be burnt in burning pit under supervision, a release said. No mobile phones Workers were advised to wear cotton clothes to work and to avoid carrying mobile phones into the factory. Persons in inebriated conditions must not be allowed inside the factory, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adhere-to-safe-practices/article36727373.ece
29 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 121 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 121 new cases of COVID-19. According to the health bulletin, all cases were indigenous and the district has 1,206 active cases. Of the 65 cases reported in Salem, 45 were indigenous and 11 were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal reported 54 new cases, all indigenous. Krishnagiri saw 31 new cases and Dharmapuri 38.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-121-new-covid-19-cases/article36727371.ece
29 September 2021||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Gram Sabhas to be held on October 2||Gram Sabhas will be conducted on October 2 to commemorate the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. District Collector S. Karmegham said in a release that Grama Sabhas would be held in all villages except those were ordinary elections to local bodies were being conducted. The meetings would be held in adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols. Development schemes in the village, COVID-19 prevention measures, awareness on vaccination and various other development issues would be discussed in the meetings. Namakkal Collector Shreya P.Singh said that Grama Sabha meetings would be conducted in all panchayats where casual elections were not being held. Issues including COVID-19 prevention, awareness on vaccination, improving groundwater level and rainwater harvesting measures, assessing progress of development works in panchayats, precautionary measures for monsoon, solid waste management would be discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gram-sabhas-to-be-held-on-october-2/article36727376.ece
29 September 2021||SATTUR,TAMIL NADU||Bid made on panchayat chief’s life||K.V.K. Raju, 67, president of the Guganparai village panchayat in Virudhunagar district, was injured in an attack on Monday. He was admitted to the government hospital at Sivakasi. The police said P. Pushparaj, who had lost in the 2020 election to Mr. Raju, instigated his nephew N. Rajkumar to hit him with a pick-up vehicle. “When I came to the office on my two-wheeler, I saw Rajkumar going to his vehicle in a hurry and making an U-turn to follow me. After I parked my two-wheeler, the speeding vehicle hit me,” Mr. Raju said. A woman, who was waiting outside the panchayat office to hand over a petition, was also injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-made-on-panchayat-chiefs-life/article36727294.ece
29 September 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||New scheme to purchase paddy||Paddy farmers have been asked to register themselves through e-DPC website for selling their paddy for 2021-22 under the deccentralised paddy purchase scheme. In a statement, Sivaganga Collector P. Madusudhan Reddy said direct procurement centres had been opened in the district and farmers had to register their names, Aadhar numbers, land details and bank savings account details throughwww.tncsc.tn.gov.inandwww.tncsc-edpc.inalong with the date of handing over the produce to the DPC. Based on the villages of registered farmers, the DPCs would be allocated and the consent of village administrative officers would be procured through online mode. The details of the DPC allocated to each farmer would be sent as SMS to his or her mobile phone. The SMS would also have the details like date and time of procurement. This would prevent unnecessary wait for the farmers at the DPCs. Further details could be obtained from the Regional Manager of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-scheme-to-purchase-paddy/article36727351.ece
29 September 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Elect right persons, says Kanimozhi||People of Tenkasi district should elect the right candidates as their representatives in the upcoming rural local bodies so that all the benefits of the “people-oriented DMK government” reached them without fail, said party MP, Kanimozhi on Tuesday. Addressing an election rally at Kadayanallur seeking votes for the DMK and its allies for the Tenkasi District Panchayat and Kadayanallur and Sengottai panchayat unions, she alleged the previous AIADMK Government had failed to implement its poll promises in the last 10 years. In contract, she said, the DMK regime has “fulfilled most of its election promises” in the first four months after assuming office. “Earlier, the men refused to allow girl children to go to schools and women for shopping citing their travel expenditure. But, now after the DMK Government provided free bus travel for women [in ordinary fare buses], the women have got the freedom to travel. Men now encourage women to go to markets,” she said. Similarly, Chief Minister, M.K. Stalin, has implemented providing free power supply to one lakh farmers. “Mr. Stalin is following the foot steps of former Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi, who fulfilled all his poll promises,” she said. However, she said that the Chief Minister and Ministers cannot know the needs of each and every household and hence for the Government to know the local needs, the people should elect the right candidates in the rural local body elections and get the benefits of the State Government. Giving credit to the DMK Government for drastically bringing down the number of COVID cases, she said in the past people suffered to find beds and get oxygen supply. “But, now you are coming out (with confidence) without masks only because of the situation created by the DMK Government,” she said advising people to continue to wear masks as a precautionary measure. The DMK and its allies will win the rural local body elections in a big way as they would seek votes for the DMK Government’s four-month achievements, she felt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elect-right-persons-says-kanimozhi/article36727352.ece
29 September 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Dasara festival: restrictions imposed on devotees||The district administration has banned entry of devotees into the Mutharamman Temple at Kulasekarapattinam on important days in connection with Dasara festival that begins on October 6. Chairing a meeting on conduct of the festival along with officials of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department and festival committee representatives here on Monday, Collector K. Senthil Raj said the 11-day festival would be held on the temple premises and devotees would not be allowed on the day of flag hoisting (October 6), Soorasamharam (October 15) and the final day (October 16). The decision has been taken in view of COVID-19 situation. However, devotees would be allowed between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. on October 7, 11, 12, 13 and 14. They would be allowed in limited numbers by following standard operating procedures, including social distancing and wearing of masks. Devotees can make online registration for darshan, he said. Taking puja articles like flower, fruits and coconuts is not permitted. “We are allowing devotees from nearby districts on those days but people from other districts should avoid visiting Kulasekarapattinam considering the pandemic situation,” he said. Devotees can watch the daily pujas on the temple premises that would be broadcast through You Tube channels and local television channels. Soorasamharam, which is usually held on the seashore, would be held on the temple premises. No devotees would be allowed to stay on the seashore or to set up shops anywhere in the town. No programmes would be allowed on the seashore, a statement said. “The entry for devotees into the temple is only for offering their prayers and not to stay on the temple premises,” he said. One representative from each festival committee would be allowed into the temple to collect ‘kappu’. New committees can be registered with the temple administration by October 4 and identity cards would be issued for them. Processions of devotees towards the temple are not allowed and they should complete their fast in their respective villages. Though the sponsors of daily pujas would be allowed into the temple, they would not be permitted to sit on the temple premises to witness the entire proceedings of the puja. The district administration is not making any arrangement to operate special bus services from other districts. Devotees from other districts are not allowed to stay in Kulasekarapattinam. The Collector has appealed to those aged above 65 years, those with comorbidities like diabetes, breathing problem and hypertension, and pregnant women to avoid visiting the temple on the festival days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dasara-festival-restrictions-imposed-on-devotees/article36727296.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TNCSC seeks to streamline paddy procurement through e-DPCs||Seeking to leverage technology to avoid complaints of delay in procurement, Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) is all set to implement an e-DPC (Direct Purchase Centre) system for paddy procurement in the State for thekharifmarketing season, commencing October 1. Under the new system, farmers will be required to register details such as their name, details of their land, Aadhaar and bank account numbers on TNCSC websites (www.tncsc.tn.gov.inorwww.tncsc-edpc.in) before they sell their paddy at direct purchase centres. Once the registration is done after generating a one-time password, the village administrative officers of the respective villages, who are to be linked to the system, will verify the details and give their confirmation. Upon receiving the VAO’s confirmation, farmers will receive text messages to their mobile numbers providing details of the DPC name and date and time of procurement of their paddy. They can bring in their paddy at the appointed hour and date and sell their paddy without having to wait for a long time at the DPCs, the corporation has announced. The move comes in the wake of complaints of long delays, often running into several days, in procurement of paddy at the direct purchase centres at various places, especially in delta districts in recent months. Farmers have also complained that the grains get drenched in rain as they have to keep the paddy in the open. The new system is expected to overcome such problems, according to a TNCSC official here. Asked about any practical difficulties that farmers may encounter in registering their details online, the official says there may be some confusion initially in the first few days but they will be resolved. “If there are any issues, we will rectify them. But we expect most farmers to adapt to the system soon,” he adds. The procurement date will be allotted based on seniority of registration at the DPC level, he clarifies. Welcoming the move, Arupathy Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations of Delta Districts, says any initiative to harness technology for streamlining the system is welcome provided it is implemented in an effective and transparent manner. The registration details such as names of farmers, village and the extent of the land should be available on the TNCSC website for public viewing. This will help in preventing irregularities, he adds. Mr. Kalyanam also wants introduction of mobile DPCs for procuring paddy directly from the field as the main problem faced by small and marginal farmers is in transporting the harvested foodgrains to the DPC. “In order to overcome this, many farmers prefer to sell their harvest to middlemen or traders even if it means that they get a price lesser than what they will get at the DPC,” he points out. The middlemen normally offer about Rs. 150 lesser than the government rate per quintal and sell the paddy at the DPCs. But they spare the farmers of much trouble as they pick up the paddy right at the farmers’ doorstep and even bring in gunny bags, Mr. Kalyanam claims. He, however, does not foresee much problem in farmers getting accustomed to the online registration system. “They can do it through the common service centres and much will depend on how effectively the system is implemented” Mr. Kalyanam says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncsc-seeks-to-streamline-paddy-procurement-through-e-dpcs/article36727343.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Eight years on, SIPCOT industrial park near Manapparai shows little progress||Almost eight years have passed since the State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) made an announcement to establish an industrial park near Manapparai on Tiruchi-Dindigul Highway, but the State government is yet to invite entrepreneurs and investors to make use of the land at the park. Shortly after the announcement was made in 2013, when late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa represented Srirangam constituency in the State Assembly, SIPCOT swung into action and identified 1,077 acres of land at Kannudayanpatti, K. Periapatti (North) and Chathirapatti villages near Manapparai. It subsequently acquired the land for the park. SIPCOT had planned to make the land available at the park to interested entrepreneurs and industrialists so as to use it on a long short- and long-term lease basis. Since the industrial park was projected as a promising initiative, particularly on account of its prime location on the Tiruchi-Dindigul highway and easy access to many leading cities and ports in Tuticorin and Karaikal, many entrepreneurs in the State including from Tiruchi evinced interest to seek land allotment to set up ventures. Acknowledging the interest shown by the entrepreneurs to set up food processing units, the State Government intended to earmark 127.8 acres of land at the industrial park for food park and 93.5 acres for general engineering. Former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid foundation for the food park days before the announcement of dates for the election to the State Assembly. But it is said that the SIPCOT had not yet finalised its plan to invite investors to make use of the land at the industrial park. It had not finalised the layout too. “We eagerly await the SIPCOT to come out with a blueprint on the industrial park. No basic infrastructure has been made at the proposed site. We hope the new government will expedite the process,” says N. Kanagasabapathy, Chairman, Tiruchi Trade Centre. Enquires revealed that the SIPCOT had decided to promote 220 acres out of 1,077 acres in the first phase. Out of 220 acres, 127.8 acres would be earmarked for setting up of food park and 93.5 acres for general engineering industries. A sum of Rs. 48 crore had been earmarked for creating basic infrastructure including road, administrative office and overhead tank. The construction had begun. A senior official told The Hindu that a number of steps had to be made before uploading all inputs of the industrial park in the SIPCOT portal. Preparation of a final layout for the land to be promoted in the first phase was on. It would be placed before the competent officials for final approval. Once it received approval, the proposal would be sent to the Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) for layout approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-years-on-sipcot-industrial-park-near-manapparai-shows-little-progress/article36727336.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||One tonne of banned tobacco products seized||Around a tonne of banned tobacco products were seized by a special team of the city police here on Tuesday. The contraband was smuggled in a mini freight carrier transporting vegetables when the team on suspicion stopped the vehicle at Sanjeevi Nagar junction. While searching the vehicle, the team found 64 gunny bags containing the banned products and seized them. The value of the seized contraband was put at Rs. 30.5 lakh. The vehicle drivers, S. Somusekar, 22, and N. Manoj Kumar, 26, both belonging to Mysuru in Karnataka, were arrested and a case was booked against them in Fort Police station. The vehicle bearing the Karnataka registration number was also confiscated. The team also seized a couple of cell phones used by the two accused. A police press release said two more persons, V. Bhaskar, 50, of Kambarasampettai and his brother Muthu, 60, who were connected with the case, were also arrested. A sum of Rs. 3 lakh which was collected through sale of the tobacco products was seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-tonne-of-banned-tobacco-products-seized/article36727702.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||PG certificate programme inaugurated at IIM-Tiruchi||The Indian Institute of Management-Tiruchi has inaugurated the second batch of its post-graduate certificate programme in Business Analytics and Applications (PGCBAA), a 13-month programme offered on a device-to-device mode. Teaming up with Jaro Education, delivery partner, IIM-Tiruchi has designed PGCBAA to help working professionals learn the required skills and knowledge to formulate meaningful questions, address them with analysis of data, and arrive at decisions with insights gained from the analysis. The chief guest, Nalini Guhesh, managing director, Network Analytics Team, Ogilvy, emphasised that the best result of business analytics could be achieved by combining data, technology, strategy, and creativity. Pawan Kumar Singh, Director, IIM Tiruchi, said the programme gave equal weightage to maths and language, while explaining the role of management in business analytics. Diversity of the participants’ backgrounds and experience would add more value to them and the programme. The second batch comprises 158 participants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pg-certificate-programme-inaugurated-at-iim-tiruchi/article36727337.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||298 new cases, five more deaths in central region||The central region saw a slight dip in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases with 298 persons testing positive on Tuesday, against Monday’s tally of 321. Five more patients succumbed to complications arising out of the viral infection in the central region, as per the bulletin issued by the State Health Department. Thanjavur reported the most number of fresh cases in the region with 90 more persons testing positive. Tiruchi district reported 59 fresh cases and Tiruvarur 52. Twenty-seven persons tested positive in Nagapattinam, 20 in Pudukottai, 17 in Mayiladuthurai, 16 in Karur, nine in Perambalur and eight in Ariyalur. Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts reported one death each. Active cases As on Tuesday, Thanjavur also had the highest number of active cases with 846 persons under treatment, including those under home treatment, following by Tiruchi with 607 cases, Tiruvarur 498, Nagapattinam 354, Mayiladuthurai 211, Karur 179, Ariyalur 111 and Perambalur 76.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/298-fresh-cases-five-deaths-in-central-region/article36727346.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUCHI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Police collect details of work-sheds making sharp weapons||Days after the Director-General of Police rolled out ‘Operation Disarm’ to apprehend rowdy elements, the Tiruchi and Madurai police have collected information on the work-sheds that make sharp weapons. The aim is to find out those who buy these weapons. In Tiruchi district, there were 14 such work-sheds in the Jeeyapuram sub-division; seven in Lalgudi; six in Musiri; and 13 in Manapparai. The owners were advised to record the details of those asking the sheds to make sharp weapons or refurbish them and intimate the police every week. During ‘Operation Disarm’ that was conducted from September 23 to September 25, the police questioned 378 rowdy elements and arrested 19 of them. They also seized a couple of sharp weapons. As it emerged that rowdies engaged autorickshaws and other vehicles to commit offences, the police conducted meetings with autorickshaw drivers at 35 places on Monday and advised them to pass on information to the police about those who travelled in their vehicles with weapons. Similar meetings were held with autorickshaw drivers in Perambalur, Pudukottai and Karur districts. A press release said the police inspected a work-shed making sharp weapons at Agaramsigur in Perambalur district on Monday. The Madurai district police asked blacksmiths and shops selling sharp weapons to collect the details of buyers. The Station House Officers met blacksmiths and shop-owners on Monday. They were also asked to install closed circuit television cameras. The Madurai city police issued a similar advisory. Customers should cite a reason for buying such weapons. The police told autorickshaw-drivers to inform them of the movement of rowdy elements with weapons in their vehicles. The city police have arrested 54 rowdies since Thursday and seized 17 swords, 22 knives and five sickles, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-collect-details-of-work-sheds-making-sharp-weapons/article36727225.ece
29 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Additional ballot papers arrive||Additional ballot papers for the rural local body election in Tirunelveli district arrived here on Tuesday. In a press release, Collector V. Vishnu said that the district has got 6.73 lakh voters and over 8.25 lakh ballot papers for the election to the post of village panchayat presidents had been received from the State Election Commission. However, an additional 1.61 lakh ballot papers were received on Tuesday. Ballot papers for village panchayat ward members in white and blue colours were available in adequate numbers in the district. Rural local body elections would be held in two phases on October 6 and 9. The officials who would be involved in election work on the polling day would be given postal ballots by October 5 if they submit their applications seeking the postal ballots. They need to submit relevant forms with the respective panchayat unions within which they reside by October 2. Four types of ballots All the four types of postal ballots would be sent to them by post. After casting the votes, the officials need to drop the postal ballots at the ballot boxes kept in the respective panchayat union offices. Personal Assistant to Collectors, Ramlal (Local Body Election) and Sasikala (Development), were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-ballot-papers-arrive/article36727360.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Since 2016, about Rs. 1,000 crore disbursed as compensation’||About Rs. 1,000 crore appears to has been disbursed as crop insurance compensation to farmers in Tiruvarur district since 2016-17. According to official sources, a total of 1.78 lakh farmers opted for crop insurance in 2016-17. Out of this, 1.42 lakh farmers were found eligible to receive compensation for crop loss under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (crop insurance scheme) and Rs. 620.31 crore was disbursed to them as insurance claim. In the subsequent year, 1.72 lakh farmers insured their crop and 57,915 received compensation for the loss suffered by them though the crop year 2017-18 was considered a normal year. A sum of Rs. 84.60 crore was disbursed to farmers as compensation that year. In 2018-19, the number of farmers opting for crop insurance fell short marginally and 1.15 lakh farmers out of 1.67 lakh farmers, who insured their crop during that period, received Rs. 290 crore as compensation. In 2020-21, a total of 44,600 farmers have insured their kuruvai crop raised in about 49,796 acres in 383 villages in Tiruvarur district. After the crop cutting exercise to determine the crop loss, ‘kuruvai’ raised in about 31,033 acres of land in 297 hamlets were found to be affected. Subsequently, the disbursement of compensation has begun and till date Rs. 17.35 crore has been disbursed to 24,901 farmers as compensation. ‘Release contribution’ Meanwhile, Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam general secretary P.R. Pandian issued a statement on Tuesday urging the Central and State governments to release their contribution towards insurance premium for the crop insured and subsequently damaged due to inclement weather between December 2020 and January 2021. Though compensation was released from the Disaster Relief Fund to assist the affected farmers, the State government said that farmers who had insured the crop would get compensated under PMFBY also. Due to non-repayment of crop loan acquired during the last season, several farmers were denied fresh crop loan during the season, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/since-2016-about-rs-1000-crore-disbursed-as-compensation/article36727338.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea to include palm foods in nutritious meal scheme||A plea to include palm products in the nutritious meal scheme was made at a Panai Thiruvizha organised by Green Needa, an NGO engaged in promotion of greenery, at Thulasendrapuram near Mannargudi on Sunday. Its chief coordinator M. Rajavelu said around 1,000 palm seeds were sown along the bunds of Thulasendrapuram lake as part of a drive to plant 50,000 palm seeds. Participating in the exercise, Mannargudi MLA T.R.B. Raaja and general secretary of Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam P.R. Pandian highlighted the need to promote awareness of the advantages of growing palm trees. Resolutions seeking inclusion of food items made of palm and inclusion of study material about palm tree and its benefits in school curriculum were passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-include-palm-foods-in-nutritious-meal-scheme/article36727339.ece
29 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tiger eludes forest officials for second day||For the second consecutive day, the forest officials spotted the elusive tiger that has been killing cattle regularly. But they were unable to tranquilise and capture it. The tiger, believed to be a 10-year-old male, is said to have been responsible for the deaths of more than 12 head of cattle over the last few months in the villages surrounding Gudalur and the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). ‘Not established fact’ Although the tiger is believed to have been responsible for the deaths of three humans, senior officials said this was not an established fact that had been scientifically proved. There had been many instances where orders were issued for the capture of the animal, but it later turned out that the tiger was not the one that had caused the deaths. So, the forest headquarters was insisting on scientific evidence, processed images and the pugmark identification, an official said. Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, Deputy Director of MTR (Core Area) and District Forest Officer (Nilgiris division), said the tiger was spotted on Tuesday, but a combination of factors, including rain and lack of visibility due to thick undergrowth in the Mayfield Estate, had led to it evading the forest staff till Tuesday evening. Field Director of MTR D. Venkatesh and Mr. Thukkaram are leading teams in their efforts to capture the animal safely. Officials said the objective was to safely tranquilise and capture the tiger. Police teams are also assisting the Forest Department in ensuring crowd control around the area of operation. In this operation, a highly-trained wildlife disaster management team from Kerala [Wayanad Forest Division] had also joined the Tamil Nadu forest team that has nearly 70 people working for the capture of the tiger, said Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj. “The teams have been asked to use drones and sniffer dogs for locating the target tiger T23. Three doctors have been working continuously,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-eludes-forest-officials-for-second-day/article36727227.ece
29 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Govt. Arts College to remain shut till Thursday||Students of the Government Arts College here have been asked to stay at home till Thursday after one of the staff tested positive for COVID-19 recently. Principal of the college M. Easwaramurthy said the person had stopped coming to the college prior to testing positive for COVID-19. “We are not sure if he got infected after coming in contact with someone in the college or somewhere outside the campus,” said Mr. Easwaramurthy. A total of 153 staff working in the college, including the principal, have had throat and nasal swabs collected to test for COVID-19. All the staff members as well as people who could have come into contact with the person have been tested, added Mr. Easwaramurthy. Disinfected As the results of the samples collected from the staff have yet to be returned, the college has been closed down and is being completely disinfected. Online classes Students have been asked to attend classes online till Thursday, officials confirmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-arts-college-to-remain-shut-till-thursday/article36727288.ece
29 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Dive deep into subjects, says Bhaskar Ramamurthi||Students should dive deep into subjects and learn how to get to the core of the concepts, said Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT Madras, at the 36th annual convocation of Vellore Institute of Technology on Tuesday. “All of you who are graduating today are entering the workforce in an India that is poised at a very unique moment in its history. The next 30 years are going to be one of great transformation. This period is going to be like no other from the past, and therefore, you will need to be alert to the unbelievable opportunities that are going to come your way,” Mr. Ramamurthi said while delivering the convocation address. He said it would be challenging for the students to find a path that is aligned with the growth of the country. “The challenge will be in retaining that which is worthwhile from our poorer, but in some ways more fulfilling, past, such as our strong family bonds and cultural moorings, and our willingness to help and look after each other, even while we create materially wealthier lives for ourselves,” he added. Founder and chancellor of Vellore Institute of Technology, Dr. G. Viswanathan, said that of the eligible 14 crore youth in India, only around 4 crore people got the opportunity to pursue higher education. The shortage of teachers, low input for research, and inadequate industry linkages had made India lag behind countries like Japan, China and South Korea. Further, the chancellor said that last year, 844 national and international companies took part in VIT’s campus placement. Students should become employers rather than employees. “We have ample opportunity to manufacture and export to other countries. Our Prime Minister’s slogan Make in India can be fulfilled if there is cooperation among the Central government, State government, private sector and capable individuals. In the next 10 years, India should double its GDP and compete with other developed Asian countries,” he said. A total of 7,569 undergraduate, postgraduate students, and research scholars graduated this year. VIT vice-presidents Sankar Viswanathan, Sekar Viswanathan and G.V. Selvam, vice-chancellor Rambabu Kodali, pro-vice-chancellor S. Narayanan and registrar K. Sathiyanarayanan took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dive-deep-into-subjects-says-bhaskar-ramamurthi/article36727618.ece
29 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 24 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore reached 49,360 with 24 new cases reported on September 28. While a total of 47,997 patients have been discharged, the active cases stood at 242. The district’s death toll is 1,121. In Ranipet district, 15 cases were reported, and the total stood at 43,012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-24-new-cases/article36727623.ece
29 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram Collector reviews monsoon preparedness||Ahead of the northeast monsoon, Collector D. Mohan on Tuesday chaired a meeting at the Collectorate to review the arrangements being made to avoid loss of lives and property. Discussions were held on the preparations to be made by the various departments, mock drills and awareness initiatives. Mr. Mohan directed officials to follow the preventive measures suggested by the State Meteorological Department and the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA), and to set up adequate number of relief centres across the district. The Collector said encroachments on waterways should be removed, major dams should be desilted and repair works on check dams should be carried out if needed. He asked the executive engineers of the Water Resources Department to inspect the bunds of waterbodies and take steps to ensure there was no breach during flooding. Revenue officials were directed to take steps to alert people living in low-lying areas and along rivers. Fire and Rescue Services personnel were asked to have equipment ready for relief operations. The Public Works Department was asked to stock up on sandbags to be placed along the bunds to prevent flooding. The Food and Civil Supplies Department staff were directed to ascertain the quantity of food stock available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-collector-reviews-monsoon-preparedness/article36727621.ece
29 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Three accused held under Goondas Act||Villupuram Collector D. Mohan on Monday ordered the detention of three youth arrested in an attempt to murder case under the Goondas Act. The police said the trio — K. Dan alias Pennarasu, 21, K. Siva alias Vinodh, 22, of Muthialpet in Puducherry, and B. Hussein, 21 of Kottakuppam — were arrested for hurling a country-made bomb on one Murasoli Maran during a temple festival in Kandamangalam on August 31. The orders were served on them in the Cuddalore Central Prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-accused-held-under-goondas-act/article36727624.ece
29 September 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Govt. medical college gets 150 MBBS seats||National Medical Commission has approved 150 seats for MBBS course in the new Government Medical College Hospital here. This comes after inspection by its members the infrastructure available at the under-construction medical college premises and the facilities available at the medical college hospital. “It is a matter of pride for the district that we have got additional seats,” Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said. It is recognition for the well-established medical college hospital, he said. Dean of Virudhunagar Government Medical College J. Sangumani said the hospital had around 700 beds with all facilities to cater to around 1,000 inpatients. “The hospital takes care of eight deliveries a day. Our doctors perform around 10 to 12 surgeries every week,” he said. Stating that the college had 140 faculty members in 22 departments, he said the construction of college building was at an advanced state. “We have completed almost 95% of the works and furniture have arrived for the college,” he added. The college premises will have a six-storey faculty block, an auditorium, two-storey administrative block, cafeteria, bank and post office and a gymnasium. Separate hostels and residential quarters for the faculty are coming up on 25 acres of land on the Collectorate premises.  Recognition Almost 90% of work has been completed It will have a six-storey faculty block It has 140 faculty members in 22 departments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-medical-college-gets-150-mbbs-seats/article36727361.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Schools to reopen for classes 1 to 8 on Nov. 1||“The restriction on social, political and cultural events, festivals and consecrations, among others, would continue.” Religious places and places of worship would remain closed on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, Mr. Stalin said. The government allowed the weekly grievance redress day meeting to be held in the office of the Collector every Monday. This was in view of the huge crowd gathering at the Secretariat to submit petitions, he said. On Tuesday, Mr. Stalin chaired a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-to-reopen-for-classes-1-to-8-on-nov-1/article36727228.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Slogan Contest on ‘Healthy Heart for a Happy Life’, 10 a.m.; Webinar on ‘Zoonotic Infections: Need or Greed?’, 11 a.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: Virtual Faculty Development Programme on ‘Phonetics and Phonology’, 2.30 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Debate on ‘Personalisation vs. Privacy in Big Data Analytics’, 3.15 p.m.  Rathinam Institute of Technology: Signing of MoU with AGT Electronics, 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36727283.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Today||GENERAL  Bishop Heber College: Opening of third floor of UG Blocks, Ruby celebrations of Department of Social Work and Platinum jubilee celebration of Church of South India, Most Rev.A.Dharmaraj Rasalam, Moderator, CSI-Synod, chief guest, 10 a.m.  CARE College of Arts and Science: Inauguration of I year UG classes, Rajeev Roy, CEO, XCEED, chief guest, 11 a.m.  Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation: Exhibition-cum-sale of kolu dolls, Poompuhar Showroom, Singarathope, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-today/article36727699.ece
29 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ex-CM defends comment on RSS and Taliban||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has defended his statement that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) follows Taliban culture. “I made the statement and I stand by it. The RSS does not believe in democratic values. I strongly believe that those who don’t have faith in democratic values or in a parliamentary democracy or don’t treat other human beings as equals are Talibanis. That is why I described the RSS as like the Taliban,” the Congress leader told journalists at Badami in Bagalkot. “Do BJP leaders have any faith in democratic systems or in the Indian Constitution? Are they running the governments at the Centre or at the State as per the values enshrined in the Constitution? Dr. Ambedkar made promises such as liberty of thought and expression and upliftment of the deprived classes. Is the BJP trying to fulfil those promises? The answer to all these questions is ‘no’,” he said. To a query, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that BJP leaders tended to target him and attack him verbally as they knew that he was a threat to their ideology. He also sought to remind BJP leaders that it was people like Mahatma Gandhi, Gopal Krishna Gokhale, Lala Lajpat Rai, and Jawaharlal Nehru who had brought freedom to the country, not RSS ideologues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-cm-defends-comment-on-rss-and-taliban/article36727174.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bypolls a prestige battle ahead of 2023 Assembly elections||The bypolls to the two Assembly seats announced on Tuesday — Sindagi and Hangal — have turned out to be a prestige battle for all three major political parties in Karnataka, particularly the ruling BJP, as they are seen as a pointer to the 2023 Assembly elections. Polling will be held on October 30, according to the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) announcement, while the counting of votes will be on November 2. Though local factors would play a big role in the northern region where the bypolls are being held, the polls have attracted attention because they will be held even as the political parties are preparing the ground for the Assembly elections. All three of the BJP, Congress, and JD(S) believe that victory in these bypolls will be a morale booster for 2023. The bypolls have been necessitated by the death of MLAs C.M. Udasi and M.C. Manguli, both of whom were octogenarians. While Mr. Udasi was a veteran BJP leader, Mr. Manguli was with the JD(S).  Test for Bommai For Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is set to lead the BJP’s campaign in the 2023 Assembly elections, these bypolls will be the first ever poll test. He is keen to win both seats and send a message that the people of the State have accepted his leadership. Soon after the announcement of the bypolls, Mr. Bommai said BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel would send observers to the two constituencies to assess the situation on potential candidates. The BJP State core committee has already discussed who should be deployed as observers, he added. Saying that the party had a strong network powered by committed party workers, he expressed confidence that the BJP would be able to win both seats. Meanwhile, though veteran BJP leader B.S. Yediyurappa had earlier stated that his son B.Y. Vijayendra would not contest in these bypolls, political circles are still curious to know if he will get an opportunity to test the political waters. Candidate finalised Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar pointed out that the party high command had already finalised the candidate for one of the constituencies. He said the party’s State unit would soon recommend a candidate for the other constituency to the high command for its approval. Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah expressed confidence that the Congress would win both seats. Responding to the announcement of the bypoll dates, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy said his party, which held Sindagi constituency, would field candidates for both seats. “We have already announced that our party leader Nayaz will contest for the Hanagal seat. We will soon announce the candidate for the Sindagi seat,” he said. He said there were five aspirants for the Sindagi seat, and one of them would be chosen in consultation with the party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bypolls-a-prestige-battle-ahead-of-2023-assembly-elections/article36727180.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Programme to facilitate heart attack management stalled||A vital project to recognise and facilitate early treatment of heart attacks in semi-urban and rural areas has been stuck at the level of identifying a nodal agency to run the project. Officials said although the Centre has released Rs. 2.2 crore under National Health Mission (NHM) for the project, there has been a delay in the tender process for identifying the nodal agency. To avoid delay in providing diagnosis and treatment to heart attack patients in rural areas, the State-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences had conceptualised a heart attack (ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction-STEMI) management project at the taluk level. To be taken up under NHM-coordinated Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) programme, STEMI India project was designed to be initiated in 40 identified taluks of three Jayadeva divisions - Bengaluru, Mysuru, and Kalaburgi, which will be the hub hospitals. Institute director C.N. Manjunath told The Hindu on Tuesday that under the project, doctors in taluk hospitals and primary health centres, who are the first point of contact for patients in rural areas, will be trained to diagnose heart attack cases at the earliest and start initial treatment within the golden hour. “The project will run on a hub and spoke model,” he said. Nearly 25% of deaths in India are due to cardiovascular diseases, the most common of which are heart attacks. The project is all the more important now due to the marginal increase in the incidence of heart attacks post COVID, he said. Time-dependent “As heart attack treatment is time-dependent, the main objective is to diagnose at the earliest and initiate treatment. For every 30 minutes delay in initiating treatment for heart attack, the death rate is likely to increase by 7%. This project will significantly reduce mortality rate,” Dr. Manjunath said. Under the project, the nodal agency should provide each taluk (spoke) hospital with a heart attack management kit that includes an ECG machine, defibrillator, pulse oximeter, and a mobile phone. “The ECG should be immediately transferred to the divisional Jayadeva hospital for a confirmed diagnosis through the cloud system. This will also alert the hospital about the patient’s visit. If the designated taluk hospital is within 30-40 km of the divisional hub (Jayadeva) hospital, the patient will be transferred directly to the hospital in a 108 ambulance,” he said. “In distant taluks, where travel time takes over an hour, the patient will be provided thrombolytic therapy for dissolving clots. This will help the patient buy 24-hours’ time. Meanwhile, after a few hours, the patient will be transferred to the hub hospital for angioplasty. Otherwise, during a heart attack, angioplasty should be performed within the first six hours,” the doctor explained. The nodal agency will have to monitor all these activities, analyse the data of patients transferred, and study the impact of this programme. Tenders called twice Arundathi Chandrashekar, State NHM Mission director, said although tenders for the project had been called twice, the response was not good. “We did not get eligible bidders,” she said. Pointing out that a similar project has been taken up in Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh, the official said: “We are now studying the implementation of the project in those States. In the next one week, we will take a call on whether to re-tender or entrust the project to the agency that is running a similar project in those States with 4(g) exemption under the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/programme-to-facilitate-heart-attack-management-stalled/article36727161.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru leading in registration of cybercrime cases for over five years||Bengaluru city has been leading in the number of cybercrime cases registered in the country for over five years now. However, investigation and prosecution in cybercrimes have been abysmally poor. Data released by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for 2020 shows pendency at a whopping 87.4% of the 8,892 cases registered in the city during the year. As many as 26,107 cases are pending investigation, including the backlog from previous years. There was not a single conviction for a cyber offence in the city in 2020. “The city has taken the first step in successful registration of cases over cyber offences. Today, there is sufficient awareness and infrastructure for the same. Towards better detection and prosecution, we have established eight CEN - cyber, economic and narcotic offences police stations - one in each division of the city and started the Cybercrime Information Report (CIR). However, evidently it is not enough,” conceded a senior police official. Each CEN station has only eight personnel – a police inspector, a sub-inspector, and six constables – even as each of these stations register nearly a thousand or sometimes even more cybercrime cases a year. The stations are also tasked with probing narcotics and economic offences, clearly indicating they are inadequately staffed. “We need to upgrade the CEN stations to full-fledged stations with over 100 staff strength,” a senior official said. There are other structural impediments to successful investigations as well. “Most of the intermediaries - Google, Facebook, WhatsApp, and Twitter - do not cooperate with agencies sticking to the line that they are only bound by the U.S. law and sometimes even ask for the request to be routed through Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty, which makes the request a bipartisan one to be approved by the Ministry of External Affairs. In rare cases that they cooperate, they take over 30 days, which makes the information useless most times,” said a senior official. He hoped the new Information Technology Rules, 2021, will fix this gap in law. Golden hour The Cybercrime Information Report facility launched in 2020 has, meanwhile, helped prevent transfer of money from bank accounts of victims, if reported and acted upon within the golden hour of two hours. “While we are not able to coordinate our efforts with social media intermediaries, we are able to do that with our banks here, which is being leveraged in CIR system to prevent monetary losses as far as possible,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-leading-in-registration-of-cybercrime-cases-for-over-five-years/article36727159.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||15% growth expected in export, domestic sale of incense sticks||India’s incense sticks (agarbathi) industry, in which Karnataka plays the lead role, is witnessing a significant spike in exports, with yoga and ayurveda becoming increasingly popular overseas, especially on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. India exports incense sticks to over 150 countries. By the end of fiscal 2021, exports are expected to go up by 15%, as per the All India Agarbathi Manufacturers’ Association (AIAMA), which represents over 800 agarbathi manufacturers across the country. “We are seeing a surge in demand for agarbathis from all over the world. The United Stated, United Kingdom, Malaysia, and Nigeria are the top four importers of our products,” said Arjun Ranga, president of AIAMA. The industry has been traditionally growing at a compound annual growth rate of 3.6%, but is now witnessing double-digit growth. India’s agarbathi industry is pegged at Rs. 8,500 crore, of which exports account for Rs. 1,000 crore. Even amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the industry did not face a major demand contraction. However, production was impacted as factories were closed during the nationwide lockdown and during the second wave of infections. “We are yet to recover from the effects of the second wave and are hoping that the rest of the year will see renewed consumption. Hopefully, a 15% increase in domestic consumption,” Mr. Ranga said. Commenting on the new and diverse uses of incense sticks, he said, “The emerging trends in aroma and fragrances are inclined towards oriental, floral and cosmetic notes, such as aqua, lavender, oud, mogra, rose, champa, lavender, lemon, and citronella essential oils.” The agarbathi industry was predominantly — 90% — concentrated in Karnataka till 1990, while the remaining 10% contribution came from Tamil Nadu. Today, the industry is spread across the country, with 50% of the market share jointly held by Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The other contributors are Gujarat (20%), Bihar (15%), Maharashtra (10%), and Madhya Pradesh (5%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/15-growth-expected-in-export-domestic-sale-of-incense-sticks/article36727175.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Higher Education Dept. seeks funds to implement NEP||The Higher Education Department has sought additional funds for the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) from the current academic year. Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan brought up the issue during a review meeting with the Chief Minister on Tuesday. In addition, the department has sought Rs. 67 crore for training teachers under NEP. According to the department’s proposal, the training will be provided at the Higher Education Academy set up in Dharwad. The department has also said that additional funding — Rs. 98 crore — is necessary to convert 6,000 classrooms into smart classrooms. So far, around 2,500 classrooms have been upgraded as smart classrooms. Sources said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai responded positively to the requests and directed the officials of the department to take all the necessary measures for effective implementation of NEP. A source said they were estimating around two lakh students for whom tabs should be distributed this academic year. The authorities have requested Rs. 220 crore for first-year undergraduate students. In addition, Dr. Ashwath Narayan has sought financial aid of Rs. 2 crore each for the new universities, including Maharani Cluster University, Nrupatunga University, Bengaluru North University, and Bengaluru Central University. Meanwhile, the Primary and Secondary Education Department plans to implement the NEP in schools from the 2022-23 academic year. The core committee constituted for NEP implementation at the school level met Mr. Bommai. He directed the department officials and the committee members to ensure they form a child-centric curriculum. Anganwadi workers   As many anganwadi workers are worried about their job prospects with the implementation of NEP at the school level, the core committee, headed by retired IAS officer Madan Gopal, has sought details on anganwadis. According to sources, the plan is to train qualified anganwadi teachers under the NEP, instead of hiring new teachers for the purpose. “We have learnt that there are many anganwadi workers who are graduates and postgraduates. We need to make use of their potential by training them,” said a committee member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/higher-education-dept-seeks-funds-to-implement-nep/article36727185.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pothole filling is a continuous process: BBMP Commissioner||Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta termed the pothole-filling exercise in the city “a continuous process” and gave details of potholes filled over the last two months on Tuesday. This comes as the deadline to fill all potholes in the city (September 30) approaches. “Between July 27 and September 27, from the hot mix plant in the BBMP limits, 490 loads of asphalt have been used and a total of 157,913.35 sq m road potholes have been closed. Not just that, in the BBMP’s arterial, sub-arterial, and ward roads together, 101 loads of wet mix have been utilised and 10,010.36 sq m of potholes have been closed,” Mr. Gupta said. The commissioner said utilities like BESCOM and BWSSB have been asked to take up digging work only if absolutely necessary and deemed fit considering the rainy season. “We need to be informed of any digging. We request them not to take up any digging if there is no dire need,” Mr. Gupta said. He also conducted an inspection of bad road stretches in Gandhinagar ward and instructed officials to fill all potholes in the busy hub of the city at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pothole-filling-is-a-continuous-process-bbmp-commissioner/article36727146.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to take up fresh survey of weak, dilapidated buildings||In two days, two buildings have collapsed in the city. This has prompted the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to take up a fresh survey of weak and dilapidated buildings across the city for a structural audit in the interest of public safety. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that apart from reviewing the survey taken up in 2019, he has given a month’s time to the eight zonal joint commissioners to undertake a fresh survey. Notices issued Following building collapses in 2019, the civic body had taken up a survey and identified 194 dilapidated buildings in five zones. Notices were issued to 77 owners of such buildings. However, no action had been taken, since the pandemic broke out in the city. According to information available, most number of weak and dilapidated structures were found in Yelahanka zone (67), East (53), South (38), West (33), and Mahadevapura (3). There are no details of such buildings from the other zones (Bommanahalli, Dasarahalli, and Rajarajeshwarinagar). Mr. Gupta said that based on the old survey, he would review the action taken. “A report on the action taken will be submitted in two days, such as whether the residents of the weak and dilapidated buildings were evacuated, whether structures were repaired or if the building owners demolished the structures,” he said. Zonal-level teams For the new survey, the joint commissioners, along with officials of different departments, would constitute teams at the zonal level. “The instances of building collapse are not new. However, it is important to take up surveys to identify structurally weak buildings that pose a threat to public life to ensure such incidents do not recur,” he added.  Following building collapses in 2019, the civic body had taken up a survey and identified 194 dilapidated buildings in five zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-take-up-fresh-survey-of-weak-dilapidated-buildings/article36727147.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP leaders welcome court ruling||Kannada and Culture Minister V. Sunil Kumar and BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi, who were at the forefront of the BJP’s ‘Datta Peeta liberation movement’, have welcomed the Karnataka High Court’s judgment related to the Sree Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah in Chikkamagaluru as a “success for the pro-Hindu movement”. Mr. Kumar alleged that the earlier Siddaramaiah-led government had taken an “anti-Hindu stand” by allowing puja by the Mujawar. “We had challenged this before the court. The ruling by the court is a success for the struggle taken up for the liberation of the Peeta,” he said, expressing hope that the Muzrai Department’s committee would soon appoint Hindu priests at the Peeta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leaders-welcome-court-ruling/article36727181.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘First JD(S) candidate list on 2023 Sankranti day’||The Janata Dal (S) will release the first list of party candidates to contest in the 2023 Legislative Assembly elections on 2023 Sankranti day, said former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday. “We have given a 30-point agenda to probable candidates. As per the agenda, they have to show their work in the constituencies within months. If they successfully implement the agenda, those candidates will be given ticket,” he said after the second day of the four-day workshop organised by the JD(S) for party legislators, former legislators, and defeated candidates in the 2018 elections. He said the party’s agenda has to be implemented at the gram panchayat level and a special team would be set up to monitor the implementation. “In case the probable candidate fails to implement the agenda, the party will not hesitate to change the candidate.” Saying that the BJP government was not committed to the State’s irrigation interests, including Mekedatu, the former Chief Minister said the JD(S) would take up irrigation issues in a big way. “We will fight the Centre too. The JD(S) is committed to the State’s interests in language, land and water issues,” he said. Meanwhile, the party unveiled the “Pancharatna” projects ahead of the elections, promising housing, quality education, health, modern agriculture practises, and skill development for youth and empowerment of women. The JD(S) is holding the four-day workshop with the aim of securing 123 seats in the 2023 elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-jds-candidate-list-on-2023-sankranti-day/article36727183.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hamali caught for extorting money||CCB officials on Tuesday arrested a hamali of the Commercial Tax Department for allegedly posing as an officer conducting surprise checks and extorting money from truck drivers on highways. Based on a complaint filed by a truck driver, the police caught Chennappa red-handed near Rajajinagar. Inquiries revealed that he would stop trucks on highways to check for violations and extorted money on the pretext of slapping penalty. He had observed how officers conduct checks and had imitated them, the police said, adding that he was taken into custody to ascertain how long he was doing this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hamali-caught-for-extorting-money/article36727150.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ED attaches properties of Alliance University ex-chancellor, associates||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached assets worth Rs. 19.43 crore belonging to Madhukar G. Angur, former Chancellor, Alliance University, as well as Priyanka M. Angur, Ravi Kumar K., Shruthi, and Pavana Dibbur under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The attached assets are in the form of one bank account, six flats and two pieces of land. The Enforcement Directorate initiated money laundering investigation on the basis of a FIR registered by the Bengaluru police against Madhukar and his associates under various sections of the Indian Penal Code. Illegal bank accounts According to Enforcement Directorate officials, the money laundering investigations so far have revealed that Madhukar asked parents to deposit the fees of their children into bank accounts that were illegally opened in the name of Srivari Educational Services. Parents of about 4,500 students were persuaded to deposit the fees to the tune of Rs. 107 crore, which was siphoned off by Madhukar and others during 2016 and 2017 in the name of collecting tuition fees, hostel fees, and other fees illegally from the student community, the Enforcement Directorate officials said. Personal use Investigations further revealed that a huge amount of money was transferred from Srivari Educational Services bank account to the personal bank accounts of Madhukar, Priyanka, Ravi Kumar, and Shruthi and it was withdrawn by them in cash and utilised for personal benefits, the Enforcement Directorate alleged. The Enforcement Directorate officials are further investigating the case.  The parents of about 4,500 students were persuaded to deposit the fees to the tune of Rs. 107 crore, which was siphoned off by Madhukar and others during 2016 and 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ed-attaches-properties-of-alliance-university-ex-chancellor-associates/article36727152.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Law to prevent ‘forced conversions’?||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the government was seriously considering enacting legislation to prevent conversions under duress and through inducements. He made the statement while responding to allegations of an instance of forced conversion in Yadgir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/law-to-prevent-forced-conversions/article36727155.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||UKP phase III: Acquisition of land to restart||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday instructed the authorities to recommence the process of land acquisition for the third phase of Upper Krishna Project (UKP), which had been stopped. He issued the instructions at a meeting of officials in Bengaluru. Later, he told the media that he had also asked for shifting the office of Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Ltd., which looks into Krisnna basin projects, to Almatti. In a bid to expedite the land acquisition process, the Chief Minister has directed the authorities to deploy more staff, including surveyors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ukp-phase-iii-acquisition-of-land-to-restart/article36727182.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be intermittent power supply on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in areas serviced from F-2, F-3 and F-7 feeders of 66/11KV “Soladevanahalli” MUSS. The areas to be affected are: IIHR, Ivarakandapura, Kumbarahalli, Silvepura, Kasagattapura, Kalthammanahalli, Kempapura, Doddabyalakere, Mediagrahara, Tharabanahalli, Madugirihalli, Shivakote, Kondashettihalli, Kurubarahalli, Chikkabyalakere, Hurulichikkanahalli, Kodagethirumalapura, Mathakur, Linganahalli, Madappanahalli, Kalenahalli and surrounding areas. Power supply will also be affected from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. due to conversion of overhead line into UG/AB cable in the city. The areas to be affected are: R.R. Nagar: Doddabele Road, Good Earth Road. and surrounding areas. Byadarahalli: D. Group Layout, and surrounding areas. Srigandhakaval: Lakshmananagara, Sanjeevininagara, Vigneshwara nagar, Hegganahalli, Jegganahalli Cross, Sunkadakatte, Pipeline Road, Kottigepalya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article36727143.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA gives free sites to families of five soldiers||As per recommendations made by the Department of Sainik Welfare and Resettlement, BDA will allot free sites to the families of five soldiers who were martyred or sustained serious injuries. On Tuesday, BDA chairman S.R. Vishwanth handed over the sale deed to Sarojamma, mother of Lance Naik Nagendra Kumar K.M. A release said that former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had handed over sale deeds to two families. BDA Commissioner Rajesh Gowda said the remaining two families will receive sale deeds through post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-gives-free-sites-to-families-of-five-soldiers/article36727144.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ACB officials trap towing staff while taking bribe||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Tuesday trapped the towing vehicle staff of Jayanagar traffic station allegedly while accepting a bribe of Rs. 800 from the owner of a scooter to release his vehicle. The motorist, a resident of Malleswaram, had parked his scooter in a no parking zone on Saturday. The towing staff took away his vehicle for parking violations. Bribe sought When the motorist went to get his vehicle, the towing staff, identified as Siddegowda, demanded Rs. 800 as bribe to release the vehicle without the actual fine amount of Rs. 1,150, officials said. The scooter owner approached the ACB and filed a complaint based on which the ACB officials, on Tuesday, trapped Siddegowda red handed. The officials are investigating further to ascertain possible involvement of station staff members in the bribe case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/acb-officials-trap-towing-staff-while-taking-bribe/article36727148.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Convicted tractor driver arrested after 9 years||A 44-year-old tractor driver who was on the run since 2012 after being convicted for a fatal accident, was caught by the Byatarayanapura police on Monday. The accused, Anthony Raj, was arrested for running the tractor on an 8-year-old boy killing him on the spot in Bapujinagar in 2012. The accused was arrested and he came out on bail. After a long trial, the traffic court convicted him to undergo imprisonment of 10 months and 15 days. But Anthony managed to escape. Details from family The Byatarayanapura traffic police, who kept a watch for over 10 years, managed to elicit information from his family that he was being admitted to a rehab centre in Somanahalli. A team of undercover police went along with constable Puttamallappa to get him admitted for de-addiction to confirm the presence of Anthony, and arrested him. Anthony claimed that his advocate misguided him that he is acquitted and the case was closed. He was produced before the second traffic court and remanded to judicial custody to complete his sentence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/convicted-tractor-driver-arrested-after-9-years/article36727153.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Entrepreneurship workshop||In an effort to encourage budding entrepreneurs, the Large and Medium Industries Department is planning to hold an entrepreneurship workshop besides an industrial adalat for providing on-the-spot resolution for the grievances of industrialists. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will launch the workshop on October 11, while ‘Kaigarika Adalat’ will be held on October 12. Both events will be held on Palace Grounds in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/entrepreneurship-workshop/article36727156.ece
29 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Govt. employee missing||A government employee attached to the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Shivamogga has gone missing, leaving a note at his residence. Giriraj, 39, had been in the service for the last 18 years and he was in charge of documents related to local area development funds of people’s representatives in the district. In his letter, it is said, he had accused a few senior officers of harassing him. He had also requested the government to distribute his savings from his salary and other benefits among his wife, daughter, mother, sister and brother. The Jayanagar police have registered the case and efforts are on to trace him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-employee-missing/article36727569.ece
29 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Fire breaks out at Arsikere station||Tension prevailed at Arsikere Railway Station on Tuesday evening as a fire broke out in a parked train. There were no passengers onboard. The fire was noticed around 4.45 p.m. Thick smoke covered the area. The railway authorities informed the Fire Station, from where two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. After making efforts for more than an hour, the staff succeeded in extinguishing the fire. The reason for the fire is not known. The Railway police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fire-breaks-out-at-arsikere-station/article36727579.ece
29 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Work on Hassan airport to begin soon||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said the construction of Hassan airport at Boovanahalli will begin soon. The tender process for the construction in the first phase had been completed, he said at a press conference on Tuesday. The first phase includes the construction of the compound wall and the runaway at a cost of Rs. 99 crore. “The second phase includes the construction of other structures. Karnataka State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation is the implementing agency. The project will be completed in 20 months,” he said. The shifting of power lines that pass through the land acquired for the project had been completed partially. This alone incurred an expense of Rs. 17 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-on-hassan-airport-to-begin-soon/article36727577.ece
29 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Smart City works to be dedicated soon to the public in twin cities||The former Chief Minister and MLA Jagadish Shettar said on Tuesday that several of the works taken up in the twin cities under the Smart City Scheme have already been completed and they will be dedicated to the public soon. Speaking to presspersons after inspecting the progress of various works under Smart City Scheme in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Shettar said that in a month’s time from now, development works at Tolana Kere and Indira Glass House will be completed. And, after discussion with Urban Development Minister, the completed works will be dedicated for public use. He said that after the Unkal lake development works were taken up, sewage water entering the lake has been diverted. This has reduced the growth of water hyacinth in the lake. “A 200 KLD capacity water treatment is also being set up. Under the second phase of lake development, a 4.5 km walking path, lawns and mini bridges will be constructed. Fountains will also be installed,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that the Unkal Lake Park will be developed within a year as a tourist destination by resuming boating and other water sports. He said that there is a plan to replace the statue of Swami Vivekananda with a bigger one and also to set up a museum. To a query, he said that a meeting will be held to discuss issues related to the Bus Rapid Transit System. Parking lots will be constructed depending on the availability of land along the BRTS corridor. The meeting will also discuss various issues, including operational losses, he said. He said that various road works taken up under CRF and by Public Works Department are delayed due to non payment of bills to contractors because of COVID-19. “I spoke to the Public Works Minister following which 50% of the bills have been paid and the road works will be completed soon,” he said. To another query, he clarified that the municipal corporation will be acquiring private land for facilitating widening of roads, including those in Sainagar and Unkal. The acquisition will be taken up with the permission of the State government, he said. Mr. Shettar asked media persons not to treat his absence during the Chief Minister’s programme in Hubballi as a difference of opinion and listed out various programmes he had attended with Chief Minister Basvaraj Bommai. He said that he could not attend Monday’s programme as he was attending a Karnataka Development Programme review meeting. He said that he will be discussing development issues of Hubballi-Dharwad with the Chief Minister soon. After inspecting works at Unkal Lake Park, the former Chief Minister travelled with media persons on an Information Department bus and inspected works at Tolana Kere and Dollars Colony. He also assured those concerned of getting a new vehicle for the Information Department under CSR Funds or MLA’s Local Area Development Fund. Managing Director of Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Limited Shakeel Ahmed, newly elected municipal councillors Rajanna Koravi, Thippanna Majjagi, Satish Narendra and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-city-works-to-be-dedicated-soon-to-the-public-in-twin-cities/article36727390.ece
29 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Coordination must for implementing schemes effectively: Minister||Working in coordination is a prerequisite for effective implementation of development and welfare programmes initiated by both Union and State governments, Minister for Handloom, Textiles and Sugar Shankar Patil Munenkoppa has said. Chairing a progress review meeting of Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) in Dharwad on Monday, Mr. Patil said that as some officials had not moved out of their offices but had taken decisions sitting in office, several technical issues had cropped up resulting in delay in the completion of various works. The Minister asked the officials to compulsorily visit the construction sites and ensure that the projects are completed in time. The onus is also on them to ensure that no sanctioned fund lapsed due to delay, he said. The absence of officials of Minor Irrigation Department and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) irked the Minister so much so that he asked the Deputy Secretary of the Zilla Panchayat to issue show-cause notices to them. Officials skipping meetings will be dealt with strictly, he said. The former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar mentioned about the alleged harassment of businessmen and street vendors by police personnel on the pretext of implementing night curfew. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil assured him of taking up the issue with the Police Commissioner. Legislators Amrut Desai, Kusumavati Shivalli and C.M. Nimbannavar collectively raised an intriguing development of contractors making bids that were 30% less than the estimated rates and sought an answer. They said that such low quotations are likely to lead to poor quality works and asked the authorities to thoroughly look into the issue. In reply, Public Works Department officer S.B. Choudannavar said that blacklisting of such contractors is under way. He assured them of preventing such instances from recurring. Chief Executive Officer of Zilla Panchayat B. Susheela, district officials of the Health, Revenue and other departments were present.  The Minister asks officials to compulsorily visit construction sites and ensure that the projects are completed in time, as the onus is on them to see that no sanctioned fund lapsed due to delay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coordination-must-for-implementing-schemes-effectively-minister/article36727398.ece
29 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vigil against leopard continues in Hubballi||Although one leopard has been captured near Dharwad and let into the forest already, the forest authorities continue to keep vigil in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi as it is not clear yet whether it is the same animal that was sighted in Dharwad or a different one. A five-year-old male leopard which had strayed into the sugarcane field at Kavalgeri, seven kilometres from Dharwad six days ago, was finally captured on Sunday. And, it has been subsequently let into the forest. As the presence of the leopard at Kavalageri was confirmed, the forest authorities had intensified the search operation with the deployment of additional teams from neighbouring districts comprising experts, while also setting up several traps. Ultimately, the wild cat entered one such trap and was captured. However, it is not yet clear whether it was the same leopard that was first sighted in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills in Hubballi. Residents of the localities on the foothills of Nrupatunga Hills had sighted the leopard more than a week ago and the forest personnel later confirmed its presence after finding pug marks and droppings in the vicinity. The forest authorities subsequently sent the droppings of the leopard found in both Hubballi and Kavalageri to Hyderabad for test. Deputy Conservator of Forest Yashpal Ksheersagar on Tuesday said that they are yet to receive report from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology laboratory in Hyderabad. Meanwhile, search operations in the vicinity of Nrupatunga Hills continue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vigil-against-leopard-continues-in-hubballi/article36727399.ece
29 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Incessant rain in Kalaburagi, Bidar||Incessant rain lashed Bidar and Kalaburagi throughout Monday night throwing life out of gear in many places in the two districts. The overflowing Kagina submerged the Malkhed Bridge in Sedam taluk cutting off road connectivity between Kalaburagi and Sedam. The river has also submerged other bridges, including one near Dandoti in Chittapur taluk, disrupting road transportation between Kalaburagi and many villages and towns. The Kamalavathi was also overflowing on Tuesday morning. Alerted by the heavy inflow into the reservoirs caused by the continuous rain in the catchment areas of the Bhima and its tributaries, the authorities concerned released 49,614 cusecs of water from the Sonna Barrage, 10,000 cusecs from the Bennethora Reservoir and 4,500 cusecs of water from the Nagaral Reservoir. As per reports reaching the regional headquarters on Tuesday evening, as many as six houses in Chitaguppa of Bidar district collapsed in heavy rain. In Aurad taluk, two bridges, one near Borgi and the other near Babali, were damaged in rain. The Manjra was overflowing in Bidar district, submerging a bridge near Dadagi in Bhalki taluk. Rain has destroyed standing crops on large tracts of land in in Bidar and Kalaburagi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/incessant-rain-in-kalaburagi-bidar/article36727395.ece
29 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Five arrested on murder charge||The Kalaburagi Police on Tuesday arrested five persons in connection with the murder of Gururaj Kulkarni, a resident of Akkamahadevi Nagar, on Thursday last. The names of the arrested persons were given as Pavan Jagirdar (35), Prasanna Jagirdar (29), Santosh Janabi (28), residents of Brahmapur locality, Ajay Rathod (20) and Avinash Chavan (20), both residents of Balabatti Tanda in Jewargi taluk. During interrogation, it came to light that the accused Pavan Jagirdhar offered Ajay Rathod and Avinash Chavan a contract for Rs. 5 lakh to kill Gururaj Kulkarni. He paid Rs. 10,000 in advance to them. Gururaj Kulkarni and Pavan Jagirdhar had quarrelled several times when the accused beat up a pet dog that belonged to the former as it frequented his house causing nuisance. Gururaj Kulkarni had also lodged a complaint against Pavan Jagirdhar in the Rural Police Station. On Thursday last, Pavan Jagirdhar invited him for striking a compromise over the feud and to ask him to withdraw the case lodged against him. When Gururaj Kulkarni refused to withdraw the case, Pavan Jagirdhar and four of his friends bludgeoned him to death with a heavy stone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-arrested-on-murder-charge/article36727393.ece
29 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Areca growers worried over spread of Yellow Leaf Disease in new areas||Though arecanut is commanding a high price in the market now, growers are worried that Yellow Leaf Disease is spreading to non-traditional areas in Dakshina Kannada. The yield in the disease-hit palms declines over the years finally resulting in death. According to General Secretary, All India Areca Growers Association, Puttur, Mahesh Puchchappady, the disease has now spread to some plantations in Elimale, Guthigar, Kollamogra, Kadaba, Badanaje near Vitla and Savanur near Puttur. Earlier, the disease used to be concentrated in Aranthodu, Sampaje, Todikana and Markanja areas in the district. This was so for more than two decades. However, a scientist from Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Kasaragod, told The Hindu that many a time farmers confuse this disease with leaf spot, crown rot and root grub diseases. It is due to similarity in symptoms, predominantly leaves turning yellow, in the case of Yellow Leaf Disease and also in the other three diseases. Hence, a proper study is required before drawing any conclusion. The former Director of CPCRI and chairman of the technical committee of the State Task Force on Arecanut P. Chowdappa said that at times leaves turn yellow due to soil pH issues. This aspect will have to be verified, along with the other three diseases, as the Yellow Leaf Disease was first reported in the State in 1965 and it was being reported from around Koppa, Sringeri, Sampaje, Aranthodu belts since then. “If it has been noticed in Savanur, away from the traditional area, it calls for a study,” he said. Mr. Puchchappady said that the assessment by farmers is based on the preliminary Yellow Leaf Disease symptom, as told by scientists, under which the yellowing symptom of leaf disappear well before the start of the dry period (usually from December onwards) to turn green. Immediately after the dry period, green symptom disappears again to turn yellow (during August to November). These symptoms are recurring since some years now. In addition, the quality yield of the affected palm has come down gradually and the affected palm is producing more low quality “kari gotu” grade of arecanut. “If the yellowing symptom noticed in non-traditional areas is not related to the Yellow Leaf Disease, then farm scientists from the government-managed research institutes and departments should make it clear what exactly it is,” he said and added that farmers will be relieved if it is not Yellow Leaf Disease. Mr. Puchchappady said that in diseases such as crown rot, yellow symptom of leaves continues without any change. The association will meet on Wednesday to discuss this issue and chalk out the future course of action, he said.  CPCRI scientist says at times farmers confuse this disease with leaf spot, crown rot and root grub diseases due to similarity in symptoms, and so, a proper study is required before drawing any conclusion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/areca-growers-worried-over-spread-of-yellow-leaf-disease-in-new-areas/article36727556.ece
29 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kadaba Police arrest their own constable on rape charge||The Kadaba Police in Dakshina Kannada on Tuesday arrested police constable Shivaraj Nayak working in the same police station on the charge of rape. Action against Nayak came after a complaint by the girl’s father which stated that the accused not only raped his daughter when she was a minor but also had impregnated her. The constable also took his daughter and her mother to a hospital, got the foetus aborted and kept both of them in some unknown place, it said. The police have invoked Section 376 (2) (punishment for rape by a police officer committed in his jurisdiction or using official position) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 5 and 6 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The complainant, who is a daily wage worker, said that Nayak was visiting his house to deliver summons and other court papers as his elder daughter was a victim of sexual assault. Even after court proceedings had been completed, the accused continued to visit his house under some pretext. Upon noticing changes in his daughter’s physical appearance, when the girl was questioned, she told her father that Nayak developed physical relationship with her promising to marry her. When the complainant asked the accused to marry his daughter, he refused and offered to get the foetus aborted, the complainant said. His wife and daughter, who went to hospital on September 18, did not return home, the complainant said and added that his daughter told him that Nayak had given her Rs. 35,000 and that they were in some unknown place. The complainant said that Nayak issued a threat to him and his family and urged the police to take necessary action. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that besides arresting the accused, the police have traced the victim and her mother. Further investigation is on, the Superintendent of Police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kadaba-police-arrest-their-own-constable-on-rape-charge/article36727561.ece
29 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||More relaxations may come under CRZ notification 2019||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Tuesday said that more relaxations will be available for development activities in the coastal region with the implementation of the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification 2019. The administration will consider suggestions from the general public before finalising the draft, he said. Chairing a public hearing with regard to the draft notification at the District Office in Udupi, Mr. Rao said that the draft has proposed to reduce the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) limit from 100 metres to 50 metres for land on the high tide-line of water bodies in the CRZ. The limit for Kudrus (river islands) has been proposed to be reduced to 20 metres from 100 metres, he said. The Deputy Commissioner further noted that villages brought under town and city municipal councils and local urban development authorities are proposed to be brought under Zone 3. Villages with more than 2,161 population per square kilometre are proposed to be brought under CRZ 3A and the development prohibited zone is restricted to 50 metres from the high tide-line, he noted. Mr. Rao said that the draft notification has proposed to bring Paduvari, Byndoor, Yadthare, Taggarse, Kota, Mattu, Pangala and Bada villages under Zone 2 from Zone 3. This reclassification will help undertake development activities in these regions. Gangolli village is proposed to be added under Zone 3A. Shrimp Cultivators Association secretary Sridhar Hegde and shrimp cultivators from Hanglur village said that the aerial survey has identified shrimp farms as river and this will affect farming activities. The Deputy Commissioner responded saying that the draft notification will not affect shrimp farming and the classification of shrimp farms as rivers will be rectified. Assistant Director of Fisheries Ganesh urged the administration to ensure fishermen are not affected by the new notification. Gangolli, Hangarakatte and Hejmady should be identified as ports in the CRZ map, he said. Mr. Rao said that all the suggestions given during the hearing will be submitted to the State government, which, after necessary changes, will forward them to the Union government. Coastal Zone Management Authority Regional Director B. Shripathi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-relaxations-may-come-under-crz-notification-2019/article36727560.ece
29 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||The Hindu-MCF painting, patriotic solo singing contests for school students||As part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav (India@75), The Hindu will, in association with Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. (MCF), organise inter-school painting and patriotic solo singing competitions for primary and high school students in the jurisdiction of Mangaluru City Corporation. Both the competitions will be conducted in two categories. They are junior category from Class IV to Class Vll and senior category from Class VIII to Class X. The topics for the painting competition for juniors will be “75th Independence Day celebration”, “Save environment” and “My favourite freedom fighter”. Students can select any one of the topics. The topics for the painting competition for seniors are “Unity in diversity”, “India’s youth in development” and “Indian agricultural scenario”. The participants can choose any of the subjects. Participants can use A3 drawing sheet. Registration is free. The final drawings should be submitted in their respective school offices before October 4, 2021. For the patriotic solo singing competition, participants should record a video of four minutes without any background music in Kannada or Hindi and must upload it on google drive and send the link tomjmthehindu@gmail.- combefore October 4, 2021. Prizes will be distributed to winners on October 7, 2021. The venue of the prize distribution ceremony will be intimated to winners later. All winners will be given trophies and certificates. All participants will be given participation certificates which they can collect from their respective school offices. For any further information, call Surendra K. Shetty on Ph: 9448279124, Madhav on Ph: 9035566695 or The Hindu office on Ph: 0824-2417575.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-hindu-mcf-painting-patriotic-solo-singing-contests-for-school-students/article36727562.ece
29 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Central Tax and Customs felicitates teachers||The Central Tax and Customs Commissionerate, Mangaluru, felicitated five teachers/achievers recently as part of celebrations of 75 years of Independence. They are Calistus D’Sa, principal of Roman Catherine Lobo School for the Visually Impaired, Mangaluru; Ibrahim Byari, retired principal, Government First Grade College, Belthangady; Rajaram Tolpadi, former Professor, Department of Political Science, Mangalore University; Prabhakar Neerumarga, former Deputy Registrar of Mangalore University and principal of MAPS Evening College, Mangaluru, and Edwin Marian Netto, writer and Indian Air Force war veteran of 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars. Commissioner of the Commissionerate Imamuddin Ahmad, who felicitated them, spoke on the deep respect all have for teachers and scholars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/central-tax-and-customs-felicitates-teachers/article36727564.ece
29 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||RPF personnel rescue minor girl in Udupi Railway Station||Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel attached to Konkan Railway Corporation’s Udupi Railway Station on Tuesday rescued a 16-year-old girl from Chandigarh who was said to have been kidnapped by unknown persons. The minor girl was found with an adult male at the railway station. RPF personnel then handed them over to the local police for further action after following the due process, said a communique from KRCL. Chandigarh Police informed the RPF in Udupi that a case of kidnap of a minor girl was registered with them on September 18 and the girl was about to board a train from Udupi towards Surat. The Chandigarh Police also transmitted copies of the FIR and the photographs of the girl. Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police Sudhir Shetty, who was on duty, immediately began a search for the girl, along with constables Srikanth and Zeena H. Pinto on the station premises. They found the girl, a resident of Chandigarh, at the main entrance, along with the adult male. The adult male was identified as Mohammed Sadik (26), resident of Mohalla Raza Colony in Bijnur district of Uttar Pradesh. The girl informed the RPF that she had left home about 10 days ago without informing her parents. Besides informing the Chandigarh Police, RPF personnel informed the Udupi Police too. Udupi Police then took the minor girl and Sadik for further action, the communique added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rpf-personnel-rescue-minor-girl-in-udupi-railway-station/article36727553.ece
29 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Cooperate with doctors, UPHC staff’||Mangaluru City Corporation on Tuesday asked the authorities of residential apartments, housing layouts and malls to cooperate with doctors and staff from Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) who are conducting COVID-19 test. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar said in a release that in the backdrop of re-opening of educational institutions, malls, shopping complexes, super-markets and other public establishments, the corporation is witnessing an increase in the rate of COVID-19 cases under its limits. Public establishments have already been directed to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines as a pre-condition before conducting public transaction and activities. Establishment owners are mandated to direct their staff to undergo COVID-19 test once in every 10 days. “Besides laxity in following COVID-19 protocol, it has been reported that a few residential apartments, housing layouts, malls are not cooperating with doctors and staff from Urban Primary Health Care Centres who are conducting COVID-19 test,” he said. Educational institutions should keep a check on outstation students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cooperate-with-doctors-uphc-staff/article36727554.ece
29 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Post-pandemic boost to Kodagu as helicopter tourism kicks in||Even as successive governments continue to dilly-dally over launching heli-tourism for high-end tourists despite umpteen promises, Kodagu has taken the first step towards giving a start to the initiative post-pandemic with local stakeholders taking the lead and kick starting the much-talked-about initiative. A group of tourists from Bengaluru landed in a chopper at a village to explore Coorg’s splendour, staying in a resort located close to one of the highest points in Kodagu - Tadiandamol. These tourists, instead of taking the 6-hour drive to Madikeri from the IT Hub, chose to fly by a chopper owned and run by a private operator to reach the hill station. In fact, Kodagu was also identified along with Mysuru for developing heli-ports by the Tourism Department which did not take off. However, an entrepreneur in the hospitality sector in Kodagu, Apparanda Sagar Ganapathy, who runs a resort at Kakkabe, coordinated with the chopper operator to ferry guests to his property where a helicopter landing facility was established recently at the resort to facilitate heli-tourism. Mr. Ganapathy, who is also the president of Association for Rural Tourism (ART), says the potential of rural tourism remains unexplored as corporates and well-heeled tourists are keen to explore the life and lifestyles in villages. Heli-tourism can bring tourists who can afford chopper rides to the remotest corners of Kodagu to experience the coffee land’s unmatched beauty and the Coorg villages. Villagers turned up in large numbers to witness the heli-tourism initiative. Kakkabe Panchayat president Kaliyanda Sampan and other locals were present to greet tourists. Corporate executives can have their meetings amidst nature instead of in multi-storied structures. They can fly in by chopper, have a meeting, spend some valuable time and head back to their destinations. Infrastructure can help promote such kinds of tourism, the stakeholders believe. The stakeholders in the hotel and hospitality sector in Kodagu, including ART and Kodagu Tourism Association, are also in the process of identifying infrastructure where choppers could land, bringing tourists, and promoting heli-tourism in a big way. Another resort is also in the process establishing the chopper landing space, foreseeing its potential, he said. Kodagu has many luxury resorts, which, according to the stakeholders, are getting back their clients with the opening of tourism post-pandemic. But the mid-range resorts are lacking clientele with corporates, particularly those from the IT industry, are yet to return to their offices and continue to work from their homes. “Before COVID-19, we used to get groups of 25-30 coming and staying in resorts during weekends or holidays. Such trips have stopped for one and half years due to the pandemic. Until the offices start working like before and schools and colleges function normally, tourism recovery may prolong,” Mr. Sagar said. Unlike other places, Kodagu is predominantly covered by undulating hills with thick forest cover. There is a need to establish a safe environment for the landing and taking off of the choppers. “If we provide infrastructure like heli ports or helipads, more operators can show interest in bringing tourists by choppers, thus driving the tourist economy and helping revive the sector,” the travel operators said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-to-get-a-post-pandemic-boost-as-helicopter-tourism-kicks-in/article36727157.ece
29 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Women to make up 25% of new police recruits’||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said women will comprise 25% of the new recruits for various posts in the State’s Police Department. Speaking at the Passing Out Parade of the 6th batch of Women Civil Police Constables at District Armed Reserve (DAR) Parade Grounds in Mysuru on Tuesday, Mr. Jnanendra said women already comprise about 10% of the police force in the State. “Our intention is to increase their percentage to 25%,” he said. Already, there is a women’s police station in each district of the State. “There are a total of 36 women’s police stations in the State. There is one women’s police station in each of the 30 districts, besides one each in the police commissionerates,” he said. The department was planning to set up a helpdesk for women in each police station in the State to give confidence to women to register complaints. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Jnanendra said efforts were also under way to post at least three women constables in each police station. He claimed that the BJP government was fast filling up the vacancies in the department. The number of vacancies had come down from 33,000 four years ago to 16,000 at present. The department was filling up another 4,000 posts this year including all the vacant posts of sub inspectors, he said, expressing confidence of filling up all vacant posts in the next two years. Among those to be recruited this year, will be 250 forensic sciences personnel, who will assist the department in gathering evidence from the scene of crime. Though department officials can also collect evidence, the government, after the alleged gang rape case in Mysuru, decided to recruit 250 post graduates exclusively for the purpose and equip them with technical training in gathering evidence at crime scenes. He also said that a total of 700 girl students from different colleges in Mysuru were undergoing training in self-defence by the department. Meanwhile, a total of 240 probationary women constables completed their eight-month Foundation Training at Police Training School (PTS) in Mysuru. Dharinidevi Malagathi, principal, PTS, said a majority of probationers had the qualification of higher education. About 180 of them were graduates and 38 were postgraduates. While one had a diploma, another 21 had passed PUC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/women-to-make-up-25-of-new-police-recruits/article36727162.ece
29 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Excitement in Kodagu following rise in enquiries for rooms ahead of Dasara||Ahead of Dasara season, stakeholders of the Kodagu tourism industry are hoping for a revival in footfall, thanks to the sudden rise in enquiries for hotel bookings for October. Even as higher-end resorts and homestays are already on the path to revival with an increase in bookings from guests for longer stays, the hotel industry believes that Dasara season would bring an opportunity to welcome tourists missing Coorg and its misty hills on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. With cases now under control and the weekend curfew withdrawn, tourists are keen to return to Karnataka’s key hill station to unwind after a long pause. B.R. Nagendra Prasad, president, Kodagu Hotels, Restaurants and Resorts’ Association, told The Hindu that enquiries for October bookings have picked up. This shows that confidence is back among tourists who are ready to visit Kodagu, which was out of bounds for a long time because of COVID-19 cases and the district’s proximity to Kerala where the positivity rate was high. “Now, cases are dropping and the situation is returning to normal. Though there are no Dasara events barring the procession on the finale, the plan for which is yet to be announced, tourists can visit Kodagu and explore its attractions. October and November happen to be the best season to visit the hill station,” he said. Mr. Prasad urged the district administration to support the revival of tourism and ensure that no restrictions are imposed ahead of Dasara season. “We will tell tourists to comply with all SOPs. Let us all establish an ambience where tourists get the confidence to explore Kodagu. The tourism industry, particularly in Kodagu, is in bad shape. Dasara can help us overcome the long-term impact of COVID-19 to some extent.” Stakeholders said 25% of Kodagu’s population are banking on tourism for their livelihood. The COVID-19 pandemic had hit them hard, forcing many to pick other professions. “Some have left Kodagu for jobs in other cities. Unless tourism improves, the industry’s problems will continue. Unless no effort is made to revive tourism, the travel industry will continue to sink,” they argue. Dasara offers the possibility of a revival, Mr. Prasad said adding that Kodagu has nearly 6,000 rooms in hotels and resorts. These rooms used to be packed in the pre-COVID-19 days. Floods and landslips also impacted tourism. Since 2018, problems for the industry have been unending, he said.  Kodagu has the largest number of homestays in Karnataka. Unconfirmed reports list around 25,000 rooms in homestays. Many are unauthorised with only around 2,000-plus homestays being run legally, sources in the Tourism Department said.  We will tell tourists to comply with all SOPs. Let us all establish an ambience where tourists get the confidence to explore Kodagu. The tourism industry, particularly in Kodagu, is in bad shape. Dasara can help us overcome the long-term impact of COVID-19 to some extent. B.R. Nagendra Prasad president, Kodagu Hotels, Restaurants and Resorts’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/excitement-in-kodagu-following-rise-in-enquiries-for-rooms-ahead-of-dasara/article36727568.ece
29 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Home Minister visits site of protest by Hindu outfits||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Tuesday visited the site of demonstration by Hindu outfits against the demolition of a temple in Nanjangud near here and called upon the protesters to call off their agitation. Mr. Jnanendra, in Mysuru to participate in the Passing Out Parade of 6th batch of Women Civil Police Constables from Police Training School, drove to Kote Anjaneyaswamy Temple near the North Gate of Mysuru palace and informed the protesters that the State government had already taken a number of steps with regard to the demolition of the temple including bringing in a Bill to protect places of worship. He said the government had shown its commitment to protecting the places of worship by transferring the Tahsildar of Nanjangud taluk. It may be mentioned here that the demolition of Mahadevamma Temple at Huchchagini village in Nanjangud taluk near here as part of the action plan drawn up by the district administration to clear places of worship that had come up in public places had sparked protests. The Hindu outfits, including activists of Hindu Jagrana Vedike, were staging a demonstration in front of Kote Anjaneya Swamy Temple. Later, speaking to reporters, Mr. Jnanendra said officials should have taken instructions from the government with regard to the action plan against the places of worship in public places and read the court orders in this regard properly. “Unfortunately, it did not happen that way. Accidentally, the temple has been demolished. Now, we have brought in a law in the regard,” he said, adding that Chief Minister Bommai had spoken to senior officials in the State in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/home-minister-visits-site-of-protest-by-hindu-outfits/article36727573.ece
29 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Railways staff pledge to donate organs||The Railway Protection Force (RPF), South Western Railway, Mysuru division, in coordination with the Department of Health and Family Welfare, organised an organ donation pledging and awareness camp on Monday through ‘Jeevanasarthakathe, a body appointed by the State government to oversee the implementation of the Transplantation of Human Organs Act, 1994. The programme was organised marking the Raising Day of the RPF. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railway, Mysuru Division inaugurated the camp in the presence of G.S.Ramachandra, Chief Medical Superintendent, South Western Railway Hospital, Mysuru; Niranjan, Nephrologist, Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute, Mysuru; Thomas John, Divisional Security Commissioner, South Western Railway, Mysuru division and others. About 75 personnel of the Railway Protection Force of South Western Railway and 25 employees of other departments pledged to donate their organs. Dr. Niranjan and the Transplant Coordinators of ‘Jeevanasarthakathe’, A.V. Choodesh and Chetan Kumar spoke about the importance of organ donation and the need for increased public awareness. The team collected the organ donation pledging forms and issued ID cards to donors. The consent forms of Mr. John, and A. Sridhar, Assistant Security Commissioner, South Western Railway, Mysuru Division, were handed over to the representatives of Jeevanasarthakathe in the presence of DRM. Addressing the participants, Mr. Agarwal appreciated the gesture of the Railway Protection Force in organising the camp, a first of its kind in South Western Railway — and expressed the confidence that this initiative would go a long way in achieving a sustained cadaveric transplant programme in the country thereby helping the needy. He also thanked the Jeevanasarthakathe team for their effort in educating the public on organ donation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-staff-pledge-to-donate-organs/article36727576.ece
29 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Raise conviction rate, police told||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has asked the Mysuru police to work towards increasing the conviction rate in criminal cases in the city. Speaking to reporters after a review meeting with police officials, Mr. Jnanendra said the conviction rate of crimes in Mysuru had dipped to 37.77% during 2020-21 from 44.27% in 2019-20. The rate in 2018-19 was 25.27% and 2017-18 was 38.54%. Apart from filing a chargesheet, the police should encourage witnesses to provide evidence in court.He argued that crime rate will come down only if punishment goes up and acts as a deterrent. He said he had also discussed the issue of night patrolling with the police. Already, about 250 police personnel are deployed for night patrolling. Mr. Jnanendra suggested senior officials also go on night beats to ensure proper and effective patrolling. Expressing concern over the rampant abuse of drugs in Mysuru, Mr. Jnanendra said the police had booked a total of 61 cases in the last three years, arresting 104 people. Police officials have been directed to show no leniency to persons involved in narcotics, however influential they may be. The police will also crack down on gambling dens in the city. “We are not against any skilled games. But, we will not allow the games to be played with bets,” he said while pointing out that the menace had extended to online games. A total of 17 musicians will be recruited to the Mysuru Police Band this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raise-conviction-rate-police-told/article36727571.ece
29 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Improve tourist places to attract more visitors’||“Yadgir district has many tourist places. Officers should take initiatives to improve the tourism sector to attract more tourists,” Member of Legislative Assembly Venkatareddy Mudnal has said. He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating a programme to mark World Tourism Day at Lumbini Garden in Yadgir city on Tuesday. “Yadgir district has seen the rule of many great empires and also many tourist spots, with natural waterfalls. But, unfortunately, prominent historical places and such tourist spots have remained in the dark owing to lack of interest on the part of officers in improving such places to attract tourists,” Mr. Mudnal said and advised them to take the initiative to improve such monuments and throw them open to visitors. Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya said that the young generation should study about the history of important places and tourist spots in the district and create awareness and also interest among people coming from outside the district. Chief Executive Officer of Zilla Panchayat Shilpa Sharma spoke. CMC president Vilas Patil, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy, Tahsildar Channamallappa Ganti, Assistant Director (in-charge) of Tourism Department Shalam Hussain, Basavaraj Chadriki, Bhaskar Rao Mudbul, Monappa Sirwal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/improve-tourist-places-to-attract-more-visitors/article36727397.ece
29 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Yadgir farmers oppose decision to acquire additional land for industrial corridor||The State government’s decision to acquire additional 3,269.29 acres of land to develop the Hyderabad-Bangalore Industrial Development Corridor in four villages in Yadgir district has attracted public anger with farmers gathering at Rachanalli Cross on Sunday and resolving not to give land but intensify agitation if required. The Special Land Acquisition Officer of Karnataka Industries Area Development Board (KIADB) recently wrote to the Tahsildar of Yagdir suggesting sending notices to land owners in Kadechur, Daddal, Shettyhalli and Rachanalli villages of Saidapur hobli in Yadgir taluk for acquisition. Farmers who participated in a preliminary meeting expressed anger at the government for not keeping a promise of providing jobs and extending other benefits for those who parted with 3,232 acres of land in 2011 to develop industries in the Kadechur-Badiyal Industrial Hub. They further said that they won’t give an additional 3,269.29 acres of land for the Hyderabad-Bangalore Industrial Development Corridor. “The government has failed to keep its promise to provide jobs and extend other benefits along with proper compensation for land acquisition, even after a decade. Now, again, the government is keen on acquiring additional 3,269.29 acres which we cannot give whatever may come,” Siddanagowda Kadechur, who addressed the farmers, said. Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries Murugesh Nirani in his reply in the legislature recently said that 1,500 acres of additional land is going to be acquired to establish a bulk drug farm park in Kadechur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-farmers-oppose-decision-to-acquire-additional-land-for-industrial-corridor/article36727392.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Off-season performance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/off-season-performance/article36727558.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Defence first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/defence-first/article36727187.ece
29 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Adoor, Fazil visit Lokame Tharavadu||Legendary filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan has said that art lovers should come and enjoy Lokame Tharavadu and not stay away. Mr. Gopalakrishnan visited the contemporary art show on Monday. “Both academic and self-taught artists are exhibited here in equal preference. We can see different approaches in each painting and other works. It is a new experience for the viewers. The conversion of coir Corporation godowns as art galleries is amazing. Even though the participants are Malayalees, Lokame Tharavadu is an international show. Curators from outside will come and artists will get an opportunity to exhibit their works in many spaces,” he said. Film director Fazil who visited the exhibition on Tuesday termed it a “great experience.” “I got to know there are so many great artists in Kerala after visiting the exhibition. It is not just seeing but experiencing. That is why everyone should come and enjoy. Particularly, children need to be brought here and allowed to have an understanding of art. Painting is the royal art of the arts. I want this art to reach children,” he said. Diversity on display He said that the show would attract a lot of spectators. “Every Keralite should see the works of 267 different Malayalee artists living in different countries and cultures. As I go through each work, I am very happy to see the diversity of artists that are displayed. It shows that there are so many great artists in our country,” he added. The exhibition is organised by the Kochi Biennale Foundation with the support of the State government. The show will last till November 30, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adoor-fazil-visit-lokame-tharavadu/article36727521.ece
29 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Delegates from Taiwan explore expo||The contemporary art exhibition ‘Lokame Tharavadu' is helping to revive the heritage of Alappuzha, writer N.S. Madhavan has said. Mr. Madhavan visited the art exhibition being held across seven venues in Alappuzha. “The exhibition is a revival of Alappuzha itself. This is because Alappuzha has a lot of dilapidated buildings and it is a matter of pride for Lokame Tharavadu to turn them into such beautiful spaces,” he said. On the exhibition Mr. Madhavan said, “Malayalis have a long tradition of visual experiences. Lokame Tharavadu is a show that made me realise that it is still very strongly rooted. With the participation of so many artists, it is clear that everyone’s roots are in one place. There has never been a show like this anywhere else,” Mr. Madhavan said. He said that it was a complex task to present the works of 267 artists in an art exhibition. Resurgence of artists “In addition to the fact that it’s achieved, we can see the great efforts of the artists and their resurgence, in the time of COVID-19, in the paintings and artworks exhibited here,” he said. Delegates from Taiwan visited Lokame Tharavadu on Monday. Ben Wang, Director General, Taipei Economic and Cultural Center (TECC), Chennai termed the show ‘absolutely amazing.’ “It is impressive. Kerala is a place where there is a unique tradition and rich culture. Kerala will become the most famous tourist destination through this show. I want to come here again,” Mr. Wang said. Susan Cheng, Deputy Director-General of TECC said that she got an idea about Kerala culture and life after visiting Lokame Tharavadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delegates-from-taiwan-explore-expo/article36727519.ece
29 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Stop dredging at Thottappally pozhi, KSSP urges government||The Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has urged the government to immediately stop the ongoing dredging activities at Thottappally pozhi and transportation of mineral-rich sand from there. In a statement here on Tuesday, KSSP district president V.N. Jayachandran observed that there was no flood threat at present and the process should be halted. Local residents were concerned about the sand removal. The State government allowed the removal of sand from Thottappally pozhi and desilting of the leading channel of the Thottappally spillway to ensure the smooth flow of floodwaters from Kuttanad into the sea. The sand is given to the Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML). "There is no flood threat, but sand removal continues unabated. The KSSP is opposed to it. The removal of sand from the pozhi should be carried out in a limited way to ensure the flow of floodwaters through the spillway to the sea," Mr. Jayachandran said. Disguise alleged Local residents, who are up in arms, allege that the government is engaged in large-scale mineral sand-mining under the disguise of flood mitigation. The coastline is prone to severe sea attacks and coastal erosion. Residents fear that the ‘sand mining’ would prove detrimental to the people residing along the shorelines from Valiazheekal to Punnapra. "The government should conduct an environmental study to assess the impact of dredging on the coast. The authorities have a responsibility to allay the concerns of the local residents," said Mr. Jayachandran. The KSSP also called for a study on redepositing sand, after separating minerals, at the coast.  Meanwhile, the indefinite relay satyagraha being staged under the aegis of the Karimanal Ghanana Virudha Ekopana Samithi against the mineral sand-mining at Thottappally completed 111 days on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stop-dredging-at-thottappally-pozhi-kssp-urges-government/article36727511.ece
29 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Conference on tourism||The Institution Innovation Council in association with Snehacharya Institute of Management and Technology, Karuvatta, organised a virtual conference titled ‘Tourism for inclusive growth: Leave no one behind’ to commemorate the World Tourism Day on Monday. Sandeep Kulshrestha, former director, Indian Institute of Tourism and Travel Management; Biju Varghese, deputy director, Department of Tourism; Lary Malicse, manager, Learning and Development, Sun Island Resort and SPA, Maldives; M. Malin, secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council; Ramanunni C. Nair, corporate general manager, Garuda Hotels and Resorts, Thrissur; and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conference-on-tourism/article36727504.ece
29 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Blueprint to be drawn up for Idukki package, says Minister||A blueprint will be prepared to implement the Idukki package announced by the Chief Minister, said Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine on Monday. Speaking at an official meeting to discuss the package, Mr. Augustine said the blueprint will be handed over to all local bodies. They should solicit public opinion with regard to the projects, which must be discussed at the grass-roots level, grama panchayats and municipalities so that they can be implemented on a time-bound basis. Urging all government departments to consider the proposals with a broad mind, he directed the department heads to recommend the inclusion of the amount earmarked for the projects in the annual budget and in the Five Year Plan. He said importance would be given to livelihood programmes connected to farming, soil protection, irrigation and tourism. They are the sectors identified for providing employment and income. The projects should be outlined with such a vision, he added. A meeting of people’s representatives and government officials will be convened on October 11. Dean Kuriakose, MP, MLAs, District Collector Sheena George and district development commissioner Arjun Pandian were among those who attended the meeting.  The local bodies have been asked to solicit public opinion with regard to the projects||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/blueprint-to-be-drawn-up-for-idukki-package-says-minister/article36727505.ece
29 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||ICAR award for Idukki cardamom farmer||Reji Njallanii, a cardamom farmer from Puliyanmala near Kattappana in Idukki district, has received the National Innovative Award, 2021 instituted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). He had earlier received recognition for developing pitless and ring planting of cardamom in addition to other new methods of farming. He has presented several papers at national-level agriculture forums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/icar-award-for-idukki-cardamom-farmer/article36727513.ece
29 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||UAVs to the rescue of farmers||The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) at Ambalavayal under Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has started execution of its modern rice technology protocol using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) in Wayanad district. A demonstration of application of biocontrol agents with a UAV, executed with the support of the Padinharathara Krishi Bhavan on a five-acre paddy field at Kuppadithathara, has evoked curiosity among farmers. The demonstration programme has been aimed at sensitising the farming community to achieving maximum production from a limited area and how to tide over the shortage of trained workers, says Allan Thomas, head, KVK. It has also been envisaged to enhance precise farming techniques to maximise production even in small and medium landholdings, Dr. Thomas says. During the programme, liquid pseudomonas, a biocontrol agent against bacterial leaf blight and blast diseases, has been sprayed. “We are planning to spray Sampoorna, a micronutrient for rice cultivation, after ten days,” says V.P. Indulekha, Scientist, Agronomy. “While the KAU is celebrating its golden jubilee, the KVKs have a responsibility to promote technologies that can help farmers with good agricultural practices,” says Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu. The programme has been conducted with the assistance of the ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute (ATARI) under the guidance of the Directorate of Extension, KAU. “The KVK hired the UAV from a private agency in Kochi for the demonstration purpose, which charges Rs. 600 for spraying the inputs on an acre. It would take around 30 to 40 minutes to spray the input on five acres,” says Dr. Thomas. Many benefits “If a group of farmers under a collective use the technology on a large area of land, it would help save time, effort, and money. Many a time farmers are forced to skip proper management practices owing to the dearth of trained workers. Now, they can execute all these using modern technology,” says Dr. Thomas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uavs-to-the-rescue-of-farmers/article36727537.ece
29 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||96% of people receive first dose in Kannur||COVID-19 vaccination in Kannur district has made progress with 96.08% of the target population receiving the first dose of vaccine. According to the Health department, 18.38 lakh people were vaccinated. Around 7.46 lakh people had received both doses of the vaccine (39.02%). Of those aged 18 to 44, over 2.14 lakh (22.64%) received two doses and 9.10 lakh (96.07%) received the first dose. Of the 45-59 age group, 2.48 lakh (47.18%) received two doses and 4.9 lakh (93.60%) received the first dose. Of those over 60 years, 2.83 lakh (64.62%) received two doses and 4.34 lakh (99.05%) received the first dose of vaccine. The health officials said the first dose was administered to 99% of the target population in Kannur Corporation, 95.91% in municipalities, and 96.01% in panchayats. The vaccination drive was implemented with the support of more than 450 doctors, 517 junior public health nurses, 385 health inspectors, 150 staff nurses, 150 nurses recruited through National Health Mission and 140 data entry operators. In addition, 1,976 Asha workers took part in activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/96-of-people-receive-first-dose-in-kannur/article36727455.ece
29 September 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||3-year-old dies||A three-year-old boy died when a gate fell on him. The incident took place at Uruvachal in Mattannur on Monday evening. Haider, son of Rishad, died at Kunnummal House, Perincheri. The accident occurred when the child was playing on the gate of his neighbours’ house. Though he was rushed to a hospital, he failed to respond to medical treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-year-old-dies/article36727453.ece
29 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Dalit family fights to get back land||For the past six years, Achutha from the Moger Scheduled Caste community and his eight-member family have been forced to live in a make-shift house on the edge of their own land in Bela village in Kasaragod. They were evicted from their 40 cents of land in 2016 when another person, Susheela, who is from the same community, claimed the rights over the land. It came as a shock for the Achutha and his family, who had the possession of the land since 1946. However, based on the complaint, the Vigilance Department, Kozhikode, conducted an inquiry and found that the ownership in the documents were changed at the village office. Despite this, the family of Achutha comprising children and women is now forced to live under the tarpaulin-covered roof through which water seeps during rain. Even for drinking water, they have to depend on their neighbours who permit them to use their well. Mr. Achutha, who is a labourer, said that his past three generations had lived in the land. However, now they felt betrayed not just by the authorities, but even by the advocates, who had taken up their case. Even though they had knocked on every door to get back their land as those who claimed the land managed to produce documents and received an order in their favour from the sub-court. They also got police protection from the High Court, he said. The police forced the family to leave the land after Ms. Susheela, who claimed the land, received orders for protection from the High Court, said Ravi, a Dalit activist, who has been supporting Achutha and his family. Those claiming the land also managed to pay the property tax from 2008, he said, and added that even the special mobile squad, which was a specially designated police station in the district to help investigate cases registered under the Scheduled Caste and Tribes Protection Act, felt helpless as both the claimants were from the same community. Interestingly, the Vigilance department, during the inquiry, had allegedly found that the documents which were in the name of Achutha’s mother were tampered with and names changed in the records in 1971. Following this, Achutha approached the High Court and convinced the court to withdraw the police protection given to Ms. Susheela. He also got an order to file a case in the lower court in the district. When contacted, Ms Susheela was unavailable for comment. However, her son, Raja, claimed that they owned the land and denied the allegations raised against them. He said that it was Achutha and his family, who had encroached upon the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dalit-family-fights-to-get-back-land/article36727450.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||District nearing 100% coverage of first COVID vaccine dose||Around 96% of the target population in Ernakulam has received the first dose of vaccine against COVID-19, according to the official estimates. The declaration of 100% coverage of the first dose will be made by P. Rajeeve, Minister for Industries on October 2. About 1.3 lakh persons could not be administered the first dose as they were tested positive for the infection. They will receive the vaccine after completing three months of recovery. The vaccine campaign started in the district on January 16. The target population was 29.52 lakh. Around 28.5 lakh had received the first dose. An official release said that vaccine was given to persons, who were residing outside the district as per the guideline that it could be received from any government hospital in the country. The 28.5 lakh count included people from outside districts, who had received the first dose here. About 6.6 lakh people in the category of 60 years and above had received the first dose. Of this, 4.76 lakh received both the doses. About 96.68% (7.9 lakh) of those in the age group between 45 and 60 years had received the first dose. Around 55.4% in this group had received both the doses. 1,132 new cases As many as 1,132 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. A total of 1,096 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 27 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 8.7%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Thrikkakara (51) and Thripunithura (51). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Edakochi, Okkal, Njarakkal, Nayaramablam, Mulavukad, Kadungalloor, Ayappankavu, Ernakulam North, Kumblanghi, Thoppumpady, and Manjapra, according to an official release. Around 12,895 tests were conducted on Tuesday. About 23,582 persons are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-nearing-100-coverage-of-first-covid-vaccine-dose/article36727461.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UG seats: SC/ST panel takes suo motu case||The Kerala State Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) has taken a suo motu case based on media reports that students belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe categories are losing out on the opportunity to enrol for undergraduate programmes offered by universities and autonomous colleges in the State owing to lack of clarity in the allotment process. A directive issued by the Registrar of the commission to the State universities on Tuesday stated that legal action will be taken against institutions that failed to comply with the procedures prescribed for the publication of vacancy position and special allotment for the aspirants. The commission has come across complaints that the aspirants are not being able to apply for the courses of their choice as the institutions are not publishing details pertaining to the course-wise vacancy for seats reserved for the SC/STs. The seat matrix, with details of the number of seats remaining for the courses in a college or university, should be published on the website of the institutions concerned, it says. Adequate time The students have to be given adequate time to understand the admission process before the spot allotment. They must be provided with sufficient time to register and complete their application process. The short window to complete the process often denies students from remote areas the opportunity to participate in it and gain admission before the deadline. The university authorities have to ensure that the SC/ST students get admission in the seats reserved for them by adhering to the directives issued by the commission, the directive says. Autonomous colleges The autonomous colleges denied the allegations that information on the seats reserved for the SC/ST students were not published on the website. But the aspirants had pointed out that the information lacked the number of vacant seats available for each programme. Instead, the managements often asked the students to fill an online form saying that they would be intimated personally about the vacant positions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scst-panel-takes-case-over-degree-admissions/article36727477.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CPI(M) ousts area committee secretary, suspends 12 others||Adhering to the State Committee’s instruction for stringent action against the leaders, who were found guilty on many counts by the inquiry commissions instituted by it, the CPI(M) Ernakulam district committee on Tuesday expelled Shaju Jacob, district committee member and area committee secretary for Koothattukalam, citing “serious anti-party activities”. This apart, action was taken against 12 others. One-year suspension was handed down to district secretariat members N.C. Mohanan and C.K. Manisankar, district committee members C.N. Sundaran, P.K. Soman and V.P. Saseendran, Vyttila area committee secretary K.D. Vincent, Perumbavoor area committee secretary P.M. Salim, area committee members M.I. Beeras, Saju Paul (former legislator from Perumbavoor), R.M. Ramachandran and Koothatukulam area committee members Arun Sathyan and Arun V. Mohan. C.B.A. Jabbar, Perumbavoor area committee member, will be removed from all elected positions, which means he will be downgraded to the branch level. CPI(M)’s former State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and acting secretary A. Vijayaraghavan took part in the district committee meeting in which stern action was taken against these leaders. The disciplinary action came in the wake of complaints raised against these leaders for their “unsatisfactory” work during the Assembly elections. KC(M)’s complaints Following complaints by Kerala Congress (M), which had fielded candidates in Permbavoor and Piravom; LDF independent candidate Jacob in Thrikkakara; and the CPI(M)’s M. Swaraj who contested from Thripunithura, the party had instituted C.M. Dinesh Mani, P.M. Ismail, Gopi Kottamurickal and K.J. Jacob commissions to look into the electoral debacle in Perumbavoor, Piravom, Thrikkakara and Thripunithura constituencies. It’s however unclear whether Mr. Manisankar, who was recently made chairman of Kerala Headload Workers’ Welfare Board would’ve to step down in the wake of his suspension from the party. The appointment was made on the recommendations of the State Committee, which will take a call on the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-ousts-area-committee-secretary-suspends-12-others/article36727472.ece
29 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Mariner evacuated to Kochi||The Coast Guard and the Navy jointly coordinated the medical evacuation of a mariner, Michael John Abaygar, from bulk carrier Lyric Poetry on Monday by naval aircraft. The vessel was proceeding from Gibraltar to Machong when the health of its Chief Officer Michael John Abaygar (aged 36 years) began deteriorating. On Sunday evening, personnel of the vessel raised a medical distress message to the Indian Coast Guard. The vessel’s agent, Sajinath of GAC Shipping Services, Kochi, intimated that the vessel was heading towards Kochi, as the officer’s medical condition was critical and he required immediate medical assistance. Amidst inclement weather, a Navy  helicopter reached the distress vessel and safely ‘recovered’ the patient. The Coast Guard in the meantime coordinated with the District Collector, Immigration Department, the shipping agent and Dr. Mathews, District Programme Manager of the National Health Mission, for necessary clearances, to enable the patient to be shifted directly to hospital for further medical assistance, the Coast Guard has informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mariner-evacuated-to-kochi/article36727466.ece
29 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Traffic police seek heavy-duty recovery vehicles||The city traffic police have sought heavy-duty recovery vehicles to tow away vehicles that are haphazardly parked or obstruct smooth flow of vehicles in view of the influx of private vehicles into the city following the pandemic situation. “A pair of recovery vans that the police now have falls grossly short of our daily rule-enforcement mandate, since parking violations are skyrocketing on arterial and side roads,” a senior traffic police official said. “Moreover, the pickup van type vehicles cannot tow big four-wheelers and tempo vans. The City Traffic Police (West) need at least three heavy-duty recovery vehicles which can tow away different vehicles, including light passenger and commercial vehicles. This is because all major markets are located in the city hub, which also has commercial hubs like MG Road.” “The Traffic Police (East) too need such vehicles to act as a deterrent against haphazard parking, including on highways and service roads. A requisition letter to procure them was sent to the police headquarters and we are following it up,” official sources said. Kochi was among the few major cities where recovery vehicles were not exhaustively used to tow away cars and two-wheelers. Adequate number of such vehicles will help undertake frequent patrol of roads to weed out obstructive parking, including from footpaths. The present practices of penalising offenders and fixing wheel clamp have been inadequate in this regard. The police had, during the past years, held deliberations to rope in civilian workers to help assist police officers in enforcing traffic rules, as is being done in metro cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-police-seek-heavy-duty-recovery-vehicles/article36727468.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chavara Cultural Centre to celebrate golden jubilee||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate online the golden jubilee celebrations of the Chavara Cultural Centre, which has carried out remarkable activities in the fields of art, culture, education, and for religious harmony, on September 30 at 11 a.m. The Chavara Sanskriti Puraskaram will be announced by Prior General Fr. Thomas Chathamparambil at the meet. Critic M.K. Sanu will deliver the jubilee message. Mary Joseph, judge of the Kerala High Court, will be the chief guest of the event. A galaxy of personalities from various fields are scheduled to be present on the occasion. Coinciding with the jubilee, the centre intends to institute scholarship worth Rs. 10 lakh for 100 students from families of artists for study of art or for job-oriented courses. A monthly cultural programme will be held at the centre to extend support to artists reeling under the impact of COVID-19. There will be national seminars on art and culture and programmes by teams from other parts of the country. The Chavara Public Library will be rededicated to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chavara-cultural-centre-to-celebrate-golden-jubilee/article36727470.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Quota for inmates of children’s homes||Mahatma Gandhi University has reserved one seat in its affiliated colleges for inmates of children’s homes and institutions functioning under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act. The decision was taken on the basis of a Government Order issued in 2012 that permitted one seat in each government and aided college for the undergraduate programmes. The varsity has now implemented the order by reserving one seat in each college for the inmates of children’s home and similar institutions. Senior university officials said that the move would help the aspirants in such care centres secure admission in the affiliated colleges. The one seat in each college reserved for such students will be over and above the sanctioned strength. The varsity hopes that the decision would ensure inclusivity of orphaned students and those lodged in child care homes in the higher education sector. Only one student had availed of the quota for the undergraduate courses in the new academic year, as per the latest official estimates. The varsity has also ratified a proposal to provide a weightage of 15 marks for aspirants, who had undergone training as Student Police Cadet in their Plus Two programme, while applying for its undergraduate courses. Those having NSS/NCC certificates have been receiving the grace marks while calculating the index marks for admission. A committee was asked to submit its recommendations on whether students having the certificate of Student Police Cadet could be given weightage of 15 marks similar to the benefit extended to those having NSS/NCC certificate. It had okayed the proposal and placed it before the authorities for approval. The decision will be applicable for admissions to the undergraduate programmes from the 2021-22 academic year. An analysis of the admission data in the new academic year had found that despite scoring higher marks in the qualifying examination meritorious students, who did not have any such certificates, were losing out to aspirants enjoying the grace marks.  The one seat in each college reserved for such students will be over and above the sanctioned strength Varsity officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quota-for-inmates-of-childrens-homes-in-mgus-colleges/article36727462.ece
29 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Girl students move child rights panel over denial of admission to Plus One course||Five young girl students of a child care home in the district have moved the Kerala State Commission for the Protection Of Child Rights against the denial of admission to Plus One course. The students, who got provisional admission in a girls’ high school at Kothamangalam in the first allotment, were denied admission for providing wrong information about the local body to which they belonged to. While filling the application form, the students gave the name of the local body in which the care home was located instead of their place of birth, said the care home authorities. The school authorities refused to budge though the issue was explained to them. If denied admission in the first allotment, the educational prospects of the students who hail from economically weaker sections of society will be affected. The students may have to seek admission in faraway schools and wait for the supplementary allotment if they fail to secure admission in the first allotment, the care home authorities said. The Child Welfare Committee, which received the complaint from the students, forwarded it to the Commission. The Commission is likely to consider the case on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-students-move-child-rights-panel-over-denial-of-admission-to-plus-one-course/article36727475.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court rejects Monson’s bail plea||Monson Mavunkal, the accused in the fake antique cheating case, was denied bail by a trial court here on Tuesday. Denying the bail application, P.V. Rejula, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ernakulam, noted that the apprehension of the prosecution that the accused may tamper with the evidence and influence and intimidate the witnesses was genuine. The custody of the accused was necessary for the investigation agency for his interrogation and collection of evidence, the court noted. Prosecution case The prosecution case was that the accused deceived a few persons, who preferred a complaint against him for cheating, by making them believe that he had Rs. 2,62,000,000,000,00 in his account with the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation by way of sale of antique and diamonds. He made them believe that the funds could not be released due to technical issues in respect of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). He also offered to provide interest-free loans to them on releasing the amount from the bank, the prosecution submitted. The prosecution also submitted that the petitioner pedalled high influence over higher officials, politicians and reputed persons in society. In its order, the court noted that the accused had also showed forged accounts statements and orders of FEMA to induce people to deliver crores of rupees. The acts of the accused prima facie showed his dishonest intentions at the very inception and forgery for the purpose of cheating. The prosecution thus made out a prima facie case against the accused. He was also involved in other crimes registered for similar offences. The investigation in the present case was in its initial stages, the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-rejects-monsons-bail-plea/article36727531.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Behanan alleges global racket behind ‘antique cheating’||Benny Behanan, Congress MP and Oommen Chandy loyalist, has alleged the operation of an international racket in the cheating using fake antiques case and said the ongoing investigation was aimed at saving the accused, Monson Mavunkal. A serious investigation was necessary to unravel the entire issue, Mr. Behanan said. In response to a question, Mr. Behanan said there was no need to disbelieve KPCC president K. Sudhakaran’s explanation for visiting Mr. Mavunkal’s home. BJP blames govt State BJP president K.Surendran said that the government, the Opposition and officials were on the side of cheats. He said an investigation by the Kerala police into the case wasn’t enough. The State Police Chief had said the case should be investigated by the Enforcement Directorate. Was this statement made with the Chief Minister’s consent, he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/behanan-alleges-global-racket-behind-antique-cheating/article36727459.ece
29 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vehicle owner can suggest nominee||Gone are the days when bereaved family members had to jointly visit the Regional Transport Office concerned to transfer ownership of a deceased person’s vehicle, what with an amendment to the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 in April allowing owners to nominate a person to whom a vehicle’s ownership can be vested with following his/her death. This can be done at the time of registering the vehicle or even afterwards online, as per the amendment to rules notified by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. “We hope to implement the changes as per the amendment soon,” say Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) sources. The amendment is a welcome break from the past when bereaved family members had to present themselves at the RTO office for a hearing with documents, including a legal-heirship certificate or a will left behind by the deceased, says Senior Deputy Transport Commissioner (retd) B.J. Antony. “Else, they had to jointly submit an affidavit affixing the ownership on a family member/individual,” he says. MVD officials say the process was not uniform across the country and necessitated multiple visits to RTO and other offices. Matters can be simplified further after the amendment if there is a column in the RC book where the nominee’s name is mentioned. Amendment details According to the amendment, the nominee can use the vehicle, as if it has been transferred to him/her, for a three-month period provided he/she has informed the RTO office concerned of the owner’s death within 30 days. The nominee will have to apply for transfer of ownership using Form 31 within three months of the owner’s death and also adduce his/her driving licence, owner’s death certificate, RC book, vehicle insurance, and other relevant documents. The owner can even change the nominee as per prescribed norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vehicle-owner-can-suggest-nominee/article36727529.ece
29 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Hibi Eden threatens legal action||Hibi Eden, MP, has said he will initiate legal action against those trying to spread baseless allegations by linking him to Monson Mavunkal, the fake antique collector who was arrested by the Crime Branch on Sunday in the Rs. 10-crore antique cheating case. Mr. Eden told mediapersons here on Tuesday that he had visited the residence of the accused on a request by the Pravasi Malayali Federation four years ago when he was a Member of the Legislative Assembly. “But I had never visited his museum or called him over phone even once,” he said. The Ernakulam MP asked those trying to link him with the accused to check the call records of Monson to ascertain whether he had contacted him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hibi-eden-threatens-legal-action/article36727463.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Employer can register headload workers: HC||The Kerala High Court has held that inclination or willingness to do headload work with the consent of the employer will satisfy the requirements of the Kerala Headload Workers Act to obtain registration as a headload worker. Justice Bechu Kurian Thomas made the ruling while allowing a writ petition filed by Manzoor E., proprietor of a cashew packing unit in Kollam, and three others challenging the order of the assistant labour officer, Kollam, rejecting the application for registering their employees as headload workers. T.R. Rajan, counsel for the petitioners, submitted that permanent workers had been employed to carry out all work, including loading and unloading operations. The area was later brought under the Kerala Headload Workers (Regulation of Employment and Welfare) Scheme. Therefore, the proprietor sought registration of their own workers as per Rule 26A of the Kerala Headload Workers Rules, 1981.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/employer-can-register-headload-workers-hc/article36727528.ece
29 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tree felling: HC rejects bail petitions||Observing that prima facie, the accused in the Muttil tree felling case had attempted to cut and remove the royal trees and misappropriate the valuable assets of the State, the Kerala High Court turned down the bail pleas of the four accused in the case. Dismissing the bail petitions of Anto Augustine, Josekutty Augustine, Roji Augustine, and Vineesh, Justice Shircy V. observed that the gravity of the offences alleged against these petitioners was grave and serious in nature as they had illegally cut and attempted to remove very valuable and royal trees, the assets of the State. “Prima facie, it appears that some government officials expected to work with absolute sincerity joined hands with the petitioners to do this illegal act and caused loss to the tune of Rs. 8 crore to the State,” the court said. Opposing the bail pleas, senior public prosecutor Sreeja V. submitted that the accused were highly influential and if they were released on bail, there was every possibility of their tampering with the evidence by using their political power and money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tree-felling-hc-rejects-bail-petitions/article36727530.ece
29 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Accused of blackmailing sexual abuse survivor||The South police are awaiting a forensic report on a smartphone belonging to Monson Mavunkal in connection with a case registered against him for allegedly blackmailing a sexual abuse survivor. The case was registered in March based on the survivor’s complaint that Monson allegedly tried to blackmail her into withdrawing the case against the accused, reportedly his father’s friend. The case was originally registered by the Kalamasserry police but was transferred to South as the place of occurrence fell within the latter’s limit. The accused, who was released on bail, reportedly approached Monson for striking a compromise deal following which the latter met a friend of the survivor’s brother. “Monson then threatened to expose the survivor by showing the video footage of the abuse based on which she lodged a complaint. He, however, was granted conditional anticipatory bail though we seized his phone and sent it for forensic examination,” said police sources.  The South police have now booked him under Section 67 of the IT Act and relevant Indian Penal Code sections. Further addition of charges will depend on the forensic report, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-of-blackmailing-sexual-abuse-survivor/article36727538.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Recycled products expo at metro station||An exhibition-cum-sale of products made out of waste materials would be arranged at Kochi Metro’s Edappally station on October 2, in connection with Gandhi Jayanthi. Registration Several useful items such as home decor and stationery, could be made out of materials that are often discarded as waste. Such products can be exhibited at the metro station from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on the day. Those interested may register viawww.kochimetro.org, said a KMRL press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/recycled-products-expo-at-metro-station/article36727457.ece
29 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Offence of bigamy doesn’t stand after divorce: HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday held that the offence of bigamy cannot be invoked against a person when his/her second marriage is solemnised after obtaining a decree of divorce from the first marriage and the appeal against the decree has been dismissed. The court, while quashing a case registered against a man from Thrissur under Section 494 of the IPC , observed that the amended Section 15 of the Hindu Marriage Act dealt with the stage in which a divorced person could validly enter into a second marriage. The case was registered on a complaint by the divorced wife that her husband had got married for a second time during the pendency of an appeal against the divorce decree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/offence-of-bigamy-doesnt-stand-after-divorce-hc/article36727478.ece
29 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam to implement sanitation programmes||A slew of sanitation and waste management programmes will be held across the district till August 2022 as part of the 75th year of Independence celebrations, District Collector Afsana Parveen has said. After a discussion with local body heads, including Mayor Prasanna Earnest, here on Tuesday, she said public places, waterbodies and drains would be cleaned with public participation. “Cleaning of schools will be a priority and vector-borne diseases will be controlled by processing biodegradable waste at source,” she said. The district administration will conduct a survey to assess the need for waste-processing systems at households, institutions and at the community level. Workers to be honoured The functioning of the Haritha Karma Sena will be extended to more places for the collection and processing of inorganic waste. The Take A Break project will be extended accordingly. The anniversary of the Swachh Bharat Mission will be celebrated on Gandhi Jayanti (October 2) and ODF-plus (open defecation-free) declaration will be made at various local bodies the same day. The best sanitation workers from different local bodies will be honoured on the occasion and they will be provided uniforms and caps. “Scrap dealers, Haritha Karma Sena units and the representatives of residents’ association will also be honoured,” said the Collector.  Public places, waterbodies and drains will be cleaned with public participation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-to-implement-sanitation-programmes/article36727522.ece
29 September 2021||Kollam,KERALA||1,273 cases in Kollam||Kollam district reported 1,273 new cases of COVID-19 and 163 recoveries on Tuesday. While 1,268 patients contracted the virus through known contact, the others include five health-care workers. Kollam has 40,291 persons under observation, and the number of samples collected is 24,29,980. While 897 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 3,75,151 primary and 20,687 secondary contacts. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 15.3 %. In Kottayam district, the number of new COVID-19 cases continued to rise, with 768 persons testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 726 persons, including four health workers, contracted the virus via local transmission. As many as 1,234 persons recovered from the disease, bringing down the total active cases to 6,372. 540 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 540 persons tested positive for the disease. The disease also claimed eight lives in the district. With 1,212 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases in Pathanamthitta stood at 7,764.  (with inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1273-cases-in-kollam/article36727515.ece
29 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||17 cases settled at mega women’s panel adalat||Seventeen cases were settled at a mega adalat organised by the Kerala State Women’s Commission at Asramam here on Tuesday. While the commission has sought police report in three cases, DNA test was recommended for one. Though 100 petitions were considered, 79 were rescheduled for the next hearing due to various reasons, including the absence of respondents. According to the commission, there is an increasing trend of children abandoning elderly parents after getting property rights. The members said the laws must be strengthened to protect parents. “After the relaxation of restrictions related to COVID-19, we are trying to settle maximum cases,” said commission member Shahida Kamal. Domestic violence, boundary disputes, civil and criminal complaints and grievances against officials came up before the commission during the adalat.  Commission seeks police report in three cases, while DNA test is urged for one||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/17-cases-settled-at-mega-womens-panel-adalat/article36727507.ece
29 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Awaken and bring out the love within us, says Mata||Urging her followers to empower themselves, Mata Amritanandamayi, on the occasion of her 68th birthday on Monday, said that the root of all conflict and trouble in the world is the sense of ‘I’. “We should set this ‘I’ aside and awaken and bring out the love within us. This should start from our homes and then spread to our places of learning and work. It is time for us to build bridges of love and friendship. In this way, may we be able to realise a world-family of unbounded love,” she said in her message. Her birthday was celebrated as ‘Day of Sadhana’ for world peace and there were no other celebrations in the wake of pandemic and other natural calamities. Observing that the world has undergone tremendous change, she said every living and non-living thing was going through a process of change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awaken-and-bring-out-the-love-within-us-says-mata/article36727506.ece
29 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Enterprise units for fisher women||The Society for Assistance to Fisherwomen (SAF) under the Fisheries Department has invited applications from fisher women groups to start enterprise units. As much as 75% of the project cost will be grant, 20% bank loan and 5% beneficiary contribution. Application forms are available at the offices of the SAF and Matsyabhavan. The last date for applications is October 20. Call 9633076431, 9745403570 or 9895332871.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enterprise-units-for-fisher-women/article36727508.ece
29 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Walk-in interviews at polytechnic||Government Polytechnic College, Punalur, will conduct walk-in interviews at 10 a.m. on September 29 to fill the vacancies of assistant professor in Mathematics and guest lecturers in Electronics Engineering, Computer Engineering and Electrical and Electronics Engineering. First-class in BTech is the qualification required for the post of guest lecturer, while postgraduate degree in the related subject and UGC NET are required for the assistant professor post. Candidates are required to bring certificates, PAN card and Aadhaar card. For more details, contact 0475-2228683.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walk-in-interviews-at-polytechnic/article36727523.ece
29 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam MCH readies for liver transplant||The Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam, will be ready to conduct its first liver transplant surgery within two months, Health Minister Veena George has said. Inaugurating a slew of development projects worth over Rs. 8.89-crore at the hospital here on Tuesday, the Minister said the launch of the liver transplant surgery would pave the way for a major change in public health sector. Equipped with state-of-the-art equipment and systems for the treatment of the common man, the hospital had witnessed the commissioning of several projects over the past five years, said the Minister. Minister for Cooperation and Registration V.N. Vasavan, who presided over the function, said efforts were under way to set up a Haematology Department in the medical college and Rs. 12 lakh had been sanctioned from his MLA fund to purchase new equipment for the liver transplant surgery department. Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, delivered the keynote address. Medical College Superintendent T.K. Jayakumar presented the development report. Surgical block At a meeting to review various projects at the hospital, directives were issued to complete work on the Rs. 16.6-crore Pharmacy College project by December. The meeting also decided to hold talks with the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board regarding the completion of the Rs. 136-crore surgical block. The meeting also reviewed the progress of work on the cardiology block, coming up in a five-storey building, on the hospital campus. Other projects under construction include the Surgical Store (Rs. 3 crore) and Paramedical Hostel (Rs. 6 crore), a Rs. 564-crore Super Specialty Block and Rs. 11.50 crore Territorial Cancer Center. Plans are afoot to kick-start works on the Rs. 1.26-crore Infectious Diseases Institute while the Public Works Department has already prepared an estimate of Rs. 83 crore for the construction of a mother and child hospital. The project report for the Trauma Care Centre, meanwhile, is in the early stages of preparation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-mch-readies-for-liver-transplant/article36727517.ece
29 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Malabar panel dusts off proposal for Thiruvambady airport||With the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the State government expressing their inability to acquire land for the expansion of the Calicut airport, several groups under the aegis of the Malabar International Airport Committee (MIAC) have dusted off an old proposal for an airport at Thiruvambady in Kozhikode district. Five years ago, the Malabar Development Council (MDC) had mooted a proposal for the new airport when the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) banned the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at the Calicut International Airport. Land for a greenfield airport was identified in 2,165 acres of an estate having helipad facilities at Thiruvambady. Site inspection  MDC president C.E. Chakkunny said an expert panel had inspected the site a decade ago and had submitted a report that the area stretched across three grama panchayats was suitable for a greenfield airport. A meeting of local body chiefs and representatives of political parties had urged the State government to reconsider the proposal for the Thiruvambady airport, expected to benefit the hill regions of Kozhikode and the districts of Malappuram and Wayanad. Mr. Chakkunny said the AAI had asked the State government five years ago to apply for setting up a new greenfield airport at a suitable site under the Greenfield Airport Policy of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. However, the proposal had failed to take off, he said. “Likewise, the situation completely changed with the commissioning of the Kannur International Airport and the lifting of the ban on wide-bodied aircraft at the Calicut airport. Now, the operation of wide-bodied aircraft has been suspended again after the Air India Express crash in August last,” said Mr. Chakkunny. Exemption needed However, the setting up of a greenfield airport within 150 km of an existing airport requires exemption in policies from the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Moreover, a new project would incur huge funds anywhere between Rs. 2,000 crore and Rs. 3,000 crore and entailed considerable risks in a mountainous region. A new airport at Thiruvambady would also create unfavourable circumstances for the existing Calicut airport and the one at Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malabar-panel-dusts-off-proposal-for-thiruvambady-airport/article36727441.ece
29 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mahila Mall issue rocks Corpn. Council meet||The issue of Mahila Mall, now defunct, led to heated discussions at the Kozhikode Corporation Council meeting on Tuesday as Congress councillor P.N. Ajitha highlighted the recent developments at the mall and demanded the intervention of the civic body in resolving the problems amicably. Stock missing In a submission, Ms. Ajitha said many remaining entrepreneurs at the mall, especially the ones on the ground floor, recently found that a large section of their stock was missing and complained that the mall management had removed it without the consent of the shop owners. The removal of the mall’s signboard by the building owner also irked the woman entrepreneurs who continue to have shops at the mall. Congress councillor K.C. Shobhita said the Corporation did not take any action even though she had pointed out the issues at the mall at a council meeting a few months ago. BJP councillor T. Rineesh demanded that the Corporation should give compensation to the entrepreneurs who are neck-deep in debt due to the closure of the mall. However, Mayor Beena Philip maintained that the Corporation had no legal or moral responsibility to interfere in the matter. She said that she had spent more than 30 hours in talks with all the three parties involved (the group that managed the mall, the building owner and the entrepreneurs) with an aim to solve the issue. ‘No liability’ Deputy Mayor C.P. Musafir Ahamed said the Corporation had no liability to compensate the entrepreneurs as it was not a party in the venture in any manner. Ms. Ajitha said it was the inefficiency of the group that managed the mall that had resulted in its failure, and that the Corporation had a responsibility towards the entrepreneurs for selecting the group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mahila-mall-issue-rocks-corpn-council-meet/article36727443.ece
29 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CU students yet to get grace marks updated||The Calicut University authorities have been urged to extend the last date of application for postgraduate and BEd courses, as students are yet to get their grace marks updated in their grade card. P. Rasheed Ahammed, Syndicate member, said in a letter to Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj that many students had complained that they were not able to include grace marks before the last date for filing applications. For PG courses in Calicut University, the last date is October 4 and for BEd courses, it was September 21. It has been over a month since the university declared results of the undergraduate courses. The delay in getting grace marks added denies the students a chance to apply for courses of their choice in other universities or even Calicut University itself. It is learnt that both the University of Kerala and Mahatma Gandhi University had already provided grace marks to students. “The grace marks can go up to 100. This means that if they are not included in the grade card, the student will miss out a chance to get a course of choice,” Mr. Ahammed pointed out. According to sources, the delay in uploading marks is caused by the software, as officials will have to manually add details and cross-check facts. “It will take at least 15 minutes to complete the process. It can be delayed up to a day,” an official said. Mr. Ahammed urged the Vice Chancellor to extend the last date of application for PG and BEd programmes till the completion of distribution of updated grace cards to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cu-students-yet-to-get-grace-marks-updated/article36727614.ece
29 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||ECMO turns a lifesaver during pandemic||A machine that functions as an artificial lung or heart has become a saviour of sorts for critically ill COVID-19 patients who cannot be put on ventilator support. With World Heart Day falling on Wednesday, more heart-specialist doctors are reportedly depending on it to save lives in the pandemic period. Blood is drawn out of the body into the Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) machine and oxygen is mixed with it using a special bypass pump-circuit. The blood is then pumped back into the body. “Earlier, we rarely used the ECMO machine because of its cost and other reasons. After the pandemic struck, it has become more useful. Almost 50% of patients who can’t be put on ventilator support have survived because of this machine,” says Murali P. Vettath, chairman, Centre for Heart and Vascular Care, Meitra Hospital, Kozhikode. ‘Use heart’ The World Heart Federation has come up with a theme ‘Use heart’ to mark the day. “World Heart Day is more crucial than ever as the world still struggles to fight COVID-19 and we have never been more aware of the importance of our own and our loved one’s health,” says the federation. People have been urged to use digital networks that have the power to connect patients with families, friends, other patients, doctors and caregivers. “No one should have to feel alone, pandemic or not, so let us use technology to overcome isolation and gaps in care. As half the world does not have internet connectivity, they cannot access digital tools to help prevent, diagnose and treat cardio-vascular diseases. Disconnected hearts are vulnerable and connected hearts are empowered,” a note by the federation says. “It is important for heart patients to be in regular touch with their doctors. During the initial months of the pandemic, many did not venture out to consult their doctors because of fear. As a result, some of them suffered heart failure by the time they reached hospitals,” says Dr. Murali. Healthy diet Health experts also call for looking after the heart by eating a healthy diet, saying ‘no’ to tobacco, and getting plenty of exercise. “Digital tools, like mobile phones and wearables, can help you get motivated and stay on track,” they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ecmo-turns-a-life-saver-during-pandemic/article36727452.ece
29 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Increase compensation for COVID victims, civic body urges Centre||The Kozhikode Corporation on Tuesday passed an adjournment motion demanding that the Central government raise compensation for COVID-19 deaths from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 5 lakh and that the compensations be paid from the PM-CARES Fund. Health standing committee chairperson S. Jayasree, who presented the motion, pointed out that Rs. 50,000 was too low a compensation for a life lost. However, the motion did not sit well with the Opposition councillors. BJP councillor T. Rineesh demanded that the State should share 50% of the compensation, considering that Kerala had a high number of cases and that the account of COVID-19 deaths remained indeterminate. Congress councillor K.C. Shobhita pointed out that the State had set aside a huge amount for vaccination and had also received a huge amount through the Vaccine Challenge, which could be used to compensate the victims. She pointed out that Kerala had not even given subsidies for vaccination, while many other States had. The motion was passed despite the opposition of the BJP councillors. Earlier, the Mayor rejected an adjournment motion jointly proposed by Moideen Koya of Indian Union Muslim League and Mr. Rineesh against the government order to deposit the fund of local bodies at treasuries. The Mayor cited that the order had been opposed by all local body heads and the matter was under discussion due to which it need not be discussed further at the council. Congress councillor S.K. Aboobakker’s submission about the non-functioning fire hydrants on S.M. Street led to chaos in the council as he took too much time for his presentation. The Mayor had to adjourn the council for a few minutes to calm the councillors down and later served a warning to Mr. Aboobakker not to repeat the act. Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini explained the measures taken by the Corporation after the recent fire on Moideen Palli Road. She said the Corporation had served notices to around 200 shops to remove the obstacles and illegal constructions in buildings within a month. As for the fire hydrants, the Mayor said the brass valves of the hydrants were repeatedly getting stolen and the Fire Department was planning to put the hydrants in a box to avoid that. Councillor Saritha Parayeri pointed out the need for a martyrs’ memorial in Kozhikode, which the Mayor said would be considered soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/increase-compensation-for-covid-victims-civic-body-urges-centre/article36727444.ece
29 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Former Fisheries Commissioner dead||Former Commissioner of Central Fisheries, M.K.Ravindran, 72, passed away at a private hospital in Kozhikode on Tuesday. He was suffering from lung cancer for a few months and was tested positive for COVID a week ago. However, the cause of death has been identified as cardiac arrest. Mr. Ravindran was a senior fisheries researcher and had worked for over 10 years as Fisheries Commissioner in Delhi and later as Director General of the Fisheries Survey of India. He was instrumental in sanctioning Thalai, Koyilandy, and Neendakara fishing harbours in the State during his stint as Fisheries Commissioner. He led the four-month-long adventurous Indian Antarctic Expedition while he was Director of a central fisheries institution in Kochi during 1992-2000.  He is survived by his sons Suraj R. Nair and Rahul R.Nair. His wife Sumathi had passed away earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/former-fisheries-commissioner-dead/article36727449.ece
29 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IUML does not pursue gender politics: Noorbina||Amid controversies surrounding Haritha, the women’s wing of the students’ organisation of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Noorbina Rasheed, national general secretary of the party’s women’s wing, Vanitha League, has said that the party was pushing for “community politics and not gender politics”. Speaking at a seminar organised in connection with a meeting in memory of former Chief Minister C. H. Muhammad Koya here on Tuesday, she said that minority politics was not above gender politics. “Women in the IUML should not forget that they are Muslims first and then only women. The model adopted in the IUML is that women should live for their families,” she said, adding that she, as a woman, lived for her husband and children. Ms. Rasheed said the identity of the party was that of religious minority and party’s constitution had never subscribed to the idea of gender minorities. “We are born as Muslims. We have to live as Muslims and die as a Muslim in India. We should maintain that,” she said. She said that the general public and society had the mistaken idea that the party stood for gender politics. The seminar was organised by Haritha after it was reconstituted following allegations that Muslim Students Federation (MSF) leaders had made sexually explicit remarks against its girl leaders. The new Haritha leaders also vowed that they would do nothing that would hurt the sentiments of IUML leadership. A time would come when all would realise that the decision taken by the party was right, Rumaisa Rafeeq, the new Haritha general secretary, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-does-not-pursue-gender-politics-says-noorbina/article36727454.ece
29 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Probe into tremor-like sound in house||The Revenue Department has deputed a special team to inquire into the origin of a strange tremor-like sound from beneath a house in Kuruvattur grama panchayat in Kozhikode district. Revenue Minister K. Rajan said in a release on Tuesday that experts from the State Disaster Management Authority would be part of the team. This follows a request by Minister for Forests A.K. Saseendran, who visited the house on Tuesday. The team led by G. Sankar, a retired scientist from the National Centre for Earth Science Studies, Thiruvananthapuram, would visit the spot on Wednesday for a preliminary examination. They would later submit a report to the Minister if further studies were required. Local residents are reportedly in the grip of fear after this sound started emanating from the house of Poloor Konott Thekke Marath Biju in the past two weeks. It is reported that earlier, the sound was heard only in the night. For the past couple of days, it is heard during the daytime too. A district-level team had submitted a report to the District Collector, seeking further studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-tremor-like-sound-in-house/article36727447.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,KERALA||HC stays ASI order on excavation||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday stayed an order of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) withdrawing the approval granted to Professor P.J. Cherian, director of the PAMA Institute for the Advancement of Transdisciplinary Archaeological Sciences, for excavations at Pattanam and Mathilakam sites in Ernakulam and Thrissur districts of Kerala. Justice Rekha Palli stayed the September 3, 2021 order of the ASI in which the permission granted to Prof. Cherian’s team on June 4, 2021 for excavation of Pattanam and Mathikalam sites till September 30, 2021 was revoked. The ASI had cited that Prof. Cherian has been wrongly using its logo without prior approval and also collecting internship fee from students against the norms of research supported by the ASI. Advocate Aditi Mohan, representing Prof. Cherian, argued that the ASI’s letter suspending the right of her client to carry out excavation is based on factually incorrect presumptions and has been passed without granting any hearing to Prof. Cherian. She said this was against the basic principles of natural justice. Prof. Cherian, in his plea, said the project ‘PAMA Excavations at Pattanam and Mathilakam in Kerala’ has a multi-disciplinary team comprising experts from various universities along with online collaboration from foreign varsities. On the basis of the ASI’s permission, Prof. Cherian and his team started the excavation process at the two sites. He had also requested the ASI to extend the deadline by a minimum of six months or for one year due to the hardships caused by COVID-19 restrictions and the monsoon season. However, the ASI, through its September 3 letter, withdrew the excavation permission with immediate effect. Prof. Cherian stated that the ‘Pattanam Excavations’ were the first ever multi-disciplinary excavations undertaken in Kerala. Pattanam lies between Kodungallur and North Paravur in the Periyar delta. Since the year 2007, archaeological excavations were undertaken by the Kerala Council for Historical Research (KCHR). The main objective was to search for archaeological evidence that would help to locate or identify an early historic urban settlement and the ancient Indo-Roman port of Muziris or Musiri on the Malabar coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-stays-asi-order-on-excavation/article36727481.ece
29 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||BJP, UDF clash in Palakkad||Councillors of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) came to blows here on Tuesday over the locking of a room allotted to the latter at the municipal building. The police had to intervene to ease the tension. UDF councillors alleged that some of them were injured in the scuffle. The problem started when the UDF councillors found out that the municipal authorities had locked a room allotted to them. When the UDF members attempted to break the lock open, BJP councillors tried to prevent them, leading to the scuffle.  A discussion held under the leadership of municipal Chairperson Priya Ajayan brokered a peace deal between the groups. UDF councillors alleged that the BJP turned vindictive after the UDF councillors had launched a series of agitations pinpointing the failures of the ruling party in the municipality.  BJP has turned vindictive after we launched agitations against its failures. UDF councillors||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-udf-clash-in-palakkad/article36727682.ece
29 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Aisha Sultana receives Atmabhiman Puraskar||Activist and filmmaker from Lakshadweep Aisha Sultana received the Atmabhiman Puraskar instituted by the Other Backward Communities (OBC) Department of the Congress here on Tuesday. She was selected for the second edition of the award for upholding dignity and integrity high above power and other social, religious or political pressures. The Atmabhiman Puraskar was instituted in the memory of Pulikkat Ratnavelu Chetty, the Indian Civil Service officer who proved that the dignity of an Indian was above the British flag. The award was given away on the Atmabhiman Day (September 28), marking the death anniversary of Chetty. Inaugurating the function, K. Muraleedharan, MP, bewailed the government’s attitude towards Chetty’s sacrifice for the nation’s dignity. “We cannot expect justice for Chetty from a government that is trying to even delete Jawaharlal Nehru from the list of freedom fighters,” he said. A memorial The Anchuvilakku at the District Hospital junction in Palakkad town is a memorial for Chetty. “Even if our attempts to make this a national memorial fails, the fact will remain that we had such a great patriot like Chetty who held the nation’s dignity up high,” said Mr. Muraleedharan. Congress leader V.S. Vijayaraghavan presented the award to Ms. Sultana. Shafi Parambil, MLA, released the English and Hindi versions of a documentary, Pulikkatt Ratnavelu Chetty, ICS, scripted and directed by Boban Mattumantha. KPCC OBC Department Chairman Sumesh Achuthan presided. Chetty, who was the first Indian Civil Service officer in the Madras Presidency, held the Indian pride high by giving his life for a racial insult he faced in Kozhikode while being the assistant collector of Palakkad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aisha-sultana-receives-atmabhiman-puraskar/article36727612.ece
29 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad municipality sticks to ‘sir’, ‘madam’||The Palakkad municipality on Tuesday rejected a resolution moved by the Congress to scrap the salutations ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ from official use. Congress councillor Mansoor Manalanchery moved the resolution seeking the support of the ruling BJP to do away with ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ on the ground that the salutations were the remnants from the British colonial period. The ruling BJP, however, rejected the demand saying that ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ could not be removed from officialese as they were integral to the language of respect being in current use. Chairperson’s stand Chairperson Priya Ajayan said it was a matter that required a detailed and deep examination, and therefore, no quick decisions could be taken on an emotional note. The campaign against the use of ‘sir’ and ‘madam’ had assumed wider recognition with more and more local self-governments joining the bandwagon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-municipality-sticks-to-sir-madam/article36727681.ece
29 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Bodies of three students recovered from reservoir||The bodies of the three students who drowned in the Walayar dam’s reservoir were recovered on Tuesday. The three were part of a five-member group of 16-year-old students who came from Sundarapuram in Tamil Nadu to bathe in the Walayar reservoir on Monday afternoon. The body of Poornesh was recovered soon after the search resumed on Tuesday morning. The bodies of Anto Joseph and Sanjay were fished out by afternoon. A team of rescue workers from the Navy, Fire and Rescue Services, police, Civil Defence Wing, and Trauma Care members from Malappuram had joined the search operation. The victims were first-year computer engineering students at Hindustan Polytechnic, Othakalmandapam, Coimbatore. They reached Walayar on two bikes to spend the hartal day. Sanjay fell in a trench while bathing and the others drowned while trying to save him. The two others escaped as they were bathing in shallow waters. Many accidents The Walayar dam reservoir is notorious for drowning accidents. With mud and trenches lurking underneath, the placid waters have coaxed and drowned 26 people in the last six years. As many as 17 of them were from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-bodies-recovered-from-reservoir/article36727265.ece
29 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Works afoot for Sabarimala pilgrimage||With just around 45 days left for the Mandalam-Makaravilakku festival, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has kick-started preparations for the annual pilgrim season at Sabarimala. According to TDB officials, tenders for the purchase of raw materials for the preparation of offerings have been issued, while maintenance works on buildings and toilet blocks have also commenced. The auctioning of stalls at Pampa and the Sannidhanam is slated to begin this week. Review meetings Last week, a Fire and Rescue Services delegation, led by District Fire Officer Harikumar, inspected the pilgrimage path from Nilackal to the Sannidhanam to plan for the safety of devotees. The team is slated to submit its findings and recommendations to the Pathanamthitta District Collector and the Director General, Kerala Fire And Rescue Services. “The preparations will take a final shape after the review meetings to be convened by the Devaswom Minister on October 4, followed by an online meeting by the Chief Minister three days later,” said N. Vasu, president, TDB. A final decision on the number of pilgrims to be permitted on a daily basis will be made after consultations with the Health Department. “Considering the perceived improvement in the overall COVID-19 situation, we have sought more relaxations. Our concerns regarding the underutilisation of online slots have been under the consideration of the High Court,'' he added. Fast running out of reserves, the cash-strapped TDB has approached the government, seeking a financial assistance of Rs. 100 crore to prepare for the festival season. As per estimates, the restrictions imposed due to COVID-19 are having a drastic effect on the revenue source of the TDB, with the board suffering a loss of about Rs. 600 crore since March 2020. The average daily expenditure on Sabarimala during the season is estimated to be over Rs. 30 lakh, while the income from the temple dropped to Rs. 21 crore during the last pilgrimage season as against Rs. 270 crore the previous year. Water supply Meanwhile, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has initiated steps to transport water to the tank with a capacity of 65.75 lakh litres at Nilackal. The distribution of water to devotees at Pampa and the Sannidhanam will be carried out through another plant at Thriveni. The selection of the new Melsanthis for the Sabarimala and Malikappuram temples will take place on October 17, while the annual pilgrim season will begin a month later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/works-afoot-for-sabarimala-pilgrimage/article36727510.ece
29 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Kakki-Anathodu reservoir on the brim||In view of the incessant rain in the Sabarimala forests, water level in the Kakki-Anathodu reservoir of the Sabarigiri hydroelectric project has recorded a steady rise over the past two days and reached 975.91 metres on Tuesday morning. The blue, orange and red alerts for the dam are issued when the water level reaches 974.91 metres, 975.91 metres and 976.41 metres respectively. In view of the continuing rainfall in its catchment area, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB)’s dam safety division has issued an orange alert. The warning will be upgraded and may lead to opening of shutters to maintain the water level. The opening of the reservoir may cause a sudden rise in the water level in both the Pampa and Kakkattar. The District Collector has advised against venturing into these water bodies under any circumstances. The maximum water level of the reservoir is 981.46 metres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kakki-anathodu-reservoir-on-the-brim/article36727524.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Road map for higher education||The government has mooted creation of institutional development plans to rectify deficiencies in higher educational institutions and prepare a three-year road map for the development programmes. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who announced the plan while inaugurating a two-day workshop on ‘Empowering higher education’ here on Tuesday, stressed the need to assess academic quality and infrastructure readiness to identify lacunae and growth opportunities. Parameters The workshop was organised jointly by the Higher Education Department and the Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC). Highlighting the role of the State Assessment and Accreditation Centre (SAAC), he urged each institution to go in for a thorough assessment. The assessment must be undertaken in accordance with the parameters adopted by SAAC along with those laid down for the All Kerala Higher Education Survey and the National Institute Ranking Framework system. Engg. colleges The Chief Minister said top-performing engineering colleges would soon be upgraded as institutions of technological excellence. He stressed the need for technical institutions to enhance the quality of each course to obtain National Board of Accreditation (NBA) accreditations. Urging higher education institutions to “dream big”, Mr. Vijayan called for fundamental changes to improve academic quality and infrastructure. All universities must strive to achieve a minimum National Assessment and Accreditation Council score of 3.5. Chairing the inaugural session, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said the government did not intend to play into the hands of neo-liberalism by supplying a cheap labour force but intended to create industry linkages in order to upskill the youth. Incubation units She advocated the establishment of production centres and incubation units under each institution to enable students gather practical knowledge and also earn while learning. Expressing the State’s inability in turning its back on the National Education Policy 2020, Dr. Bindu said the reforms must be implemented keeping its “regressive” proposals at bay. State Planning Board Vice Chairman V.K. Ramachandran, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, Chief Minister’s Chief Principal Secretary K.M. Abraham, KSHEC Vice Chairman Rajan Gurukkal, Additional Chief Secretary (Higher Education) V. Venu, and KSHEC member-secretary Rajan Varughese spoke at the function. Six sessions Vice Chancellors, senior officials of universities, and academics participated in six parallel thematic sessions. The recommendations will be compiled to formulate an action plan for various reforms in the higher education sector on Wednesday.  CM calls for fundamental changes to improve academic quality and infra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-map-for-higher-education/article36727664.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Canals to be rejuvenated under Smart City project||The city Corporation is set to take up the rejuvenation of canals and conservation of water bodies in the city as part of its Smart City projects. The Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited (SCTL) has now floated an Expression of Interest for prospective bidders who can take up the project, which involves the cleaning up and conservation some of the major canals in the city. Three stretches Three different stretches of canals are part of the sites proposed by the SCTL. The first stretch consists of the Pazhavangadi canal from observatory hills till Kannammoola, extending to a distance of 5.9 kilometres. The second stretch is in the Attakulangara-Karimadom area, including the Karimadom pond spread out over an area of 7,500 square metres, the Kuryathi canal having a length of 1.8 kilometres, and a part of the Thekkenamkara canal. The third stretch is the part of the Killi river from Myladikkadavu bridge to the Attukal bridge, having a length of 1.8 kilometres. The proposed works to be taken up include canal boundary protection, desiltation, fencing to prevent garbage from being disposed, clearance of solid waste to ensure smooth flow of water, prevention of sewage from being disposed into the water bodies by connecting the same to a sewer network, replacement of drainage pipes or water pipes that are obstructing the water flow, installation of solid waste management facilities, connecting of all storm water drains with the canal, and CCTV surveillance to monitor waste dumping. The civic body has over the years implemented several projects for the cleaning up and rejuvenation of the city’s major canals. Waste dumping However, many of these have yielded desired results as waste dumping has continued soon after major clean-up drives, leading to restriction of flow and flooding in nearby low-lying areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/canals-to-be-rejuvenated-under-smart-city-project/article36727672.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth gets life term for raping minor||A fast track court here on Tuesday sentenced a 29-year-old youth to rigorous imprisonment for life for brutally raping a minor girl after barging into her house two years ago. Abused Thiruvananthapuram Fast Track Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan pronounced the verdict against Shiju, 29, of Mariyapuram in Chenkal who had sexually abused the victim in her house under the Poojappura police station limits. He was sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 20,000 under Section 450 (house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), two years’ imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 5,000 under Section 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and rigorous imprisonment for life and a fine of Rs. 50,000 under Section 5(j)(ii), (l) r/w 6 (made the child pregnant as a result of penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The court also found him guilty under Section 376 (2) (commit rape repeatedly on the same woman) of the IPC. A default of the fines would lead to additional imprisonment of six months, six months and one year respectively. While the period of sentences will run concurrently, the convict is entitled to a set off for the period from April 24, 2019 (the date of arrest) and the date of sentencing (Tuesday). The case pertained to an incident that occurred on January 30, 2019 and the next day when the victim was 15 years old. According to the prosecution led by special public prosecutor Vijay Mohan R.S. and Ajith Prasad, Shiju, who worked in a construction site opposite the victim’s house, went to her house on the pretext of requiring drinking water. He raped her on two consecutive days after blackmailing her by threatening to reveal the incident and also kill her. The incident came to light after she was found to be pregnant three months later. The accused was arrested on April 24, 2019. The then Poojappura Circle Inspector K. Premkumar had submitted the charge-sheet. 12 witnesses Twelve witnesses and 22 exhibits were examined by the court during trial. While the defendant had claimed innocence and alleged that he was falsely implicated and assaulted by the police, the defence did not succeed in proving his claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-gets-life-term-for-raping-minor/article36727671.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Self-sufficiency in milk, egg production soon: Minister||Dairy Development and Animal Husbandry Minister J. Chinchurani has said that the government targeted achieving self-sufficiency in milk, poultry eggs and meat production in the State. Conducting the State-level launch of the Model Animal Husbandry Panchayat scheme in Karakulam grama panchayat on Tuesday, Ms. Chinchurani said the State had also set its sights on self-sufficiency in dairy products, the sale of which had been registering record highs every year. Milma had been producing around 35 such products and some of them were included in the food kits distributed by the Food and Civil Supplies Department. The State had been providing the highest price in the country for milk procured from dairy farmers, she added. The Minister said that various schemes for supplying cattle feed to farmers at subsidised rates were being considered. While this was due to the unavailability of raw materials in the State, the Animal Husbandry Department had been studying the feasibility of collaborating with the Agriculture Department to undertake corn and soybean cultivation to facilitate the production of cattle feed. Gomithra software Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, who presided over the function, formally launched the Gomithra software for implementing the proposed cattle insurance in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/self-sufficiency-in-milk-egg-production-soon-minister/article36727666.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hunger-free project launched||The Hunger-free-Kerala Subhiksha Hotel project got under way here on Tuesday. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil who inaugurated the project said it would be extended to all Assembly constituencies in the State. Supply of lunch, including that to bed-ridden patients, would be made part of the project. A unit will be given Rs. 10 lakh as assistance by the government as part of the project. Supply of provisions through Supplyco at subsidised rates for smooth functioning of the hotels was under consideration, the Minister said. The first Subhiksha Hotel in the district began functioning from the building of the State Central Library canteen at Palayam. The Nanthancode-based Vayana Kudumbashree unit will run the hotel. Lunch will be available to the needy from the Subhiksha Hotel at Rs. 20. Other special dishes will also be available at low rates. Minister for Transport Antony Raju presided over the function. Both Ministers had lunch at the hotel to launch the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hunger-free-project-launched/article36727675.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case graph falls, so do testing numbers||The State’s COVID-19 case graph has been showing signs of dipping. However, it remains to be seen whether the graph is actually on its way down because testing has also seen a decline for the past two days. The State reported 11,196 new cases on Tuesday when 96,436 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s active case pool has been dropping steadily and went below the 1.5 lakh mark on Monday. The active case pool now has 1,49,356 patients, with 18,849 persons reported to have recovered from the disease. The Health Department said only 12.7% of the active cases were admitted in hospitals. The official cumulative case fatality now stands at 24, 810 with the State adding 149 deaths to the official list of deaths. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals came down to 1,387, while the total number of hospitalisations across the State has come further down to 21,038. The cumulative case burden now stands at 46,52,783 cases. Most in capital Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,339, followed by Kollam 1,273, Thrissur 1,271, Ernakulam 1,132, Malappuram 1,061, Kozhikode 908, Alappuzha 847, Kottayam 768, Palakkad 749, Kannur 643, Pathanamthitta 540, Idukki 287, Wayanad 230 and Kasaragod 148.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-graph-falls-so-do-testing-numbers/article36727534.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Kireedom’ bridge to be part of model tourism project||The ‘Kireedom’ bridge across the Punchakkari canal in Kalliyoor grama panchayat in the capital, named so after some scenes of the 1989 Mohanlal-starrer Kireedom were shot here, is set to be the centre-piece of a model tourism project. Announcing the project on the World Tourism Day on Monday, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty, who is also the MLA of the Nemom constituency in which the bridge is located, said that the entire area had many things to offer to the tourists. “The area around the Vellayani lake is beautiful with green spaces and a variety of birds. It can be turned into an interesting tourism destination with boating and facilities to provide the local cuisine for the tourists. The Kireedom bridge became almost as important as the major characters in the movie, with some of the key scenes being shot in this location,” said Mr. Sivankutty in his Facebook post. The bride, which has been in a sorry state, has witnessed many plans for renovation over the past decade. In 2014, the State Human Rights Commission had ordered the State government to repair it. The same year, the film’s crew had gathered at the bridge to mark its 25th anniversary. A new bridge was constructed parallel to it, but the old one was retained because of its popularity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kireedom-bridge-to-be-part-of-model-tourism-project/article36727661.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rahul arriving today as rebellion rages||When he arrives in Kerala on Wednesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, is likely to find himself in the thick of a raging rebellion by the ‘old guard’ against the new Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership. Mr. Gandhi is scheduled to land in Kozhikode and proceed to Wayanad for a slew of meetings. KPCC president K. Sudhakaran, who has been singled out for public criticism by Congress veterans V.M. Sudheeran and Mullappally Ramachandran, is likely to meet Mr. Gandhi. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan is also in Kozhikode. It is unclear whether organisational issues in Kerala are on Mr. Gandhi's agenda. Tug-of-war All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar, who met Mr. Sudheeran on Monday, is likely to brief the national leadership on the organisational tug-of-war in the State. Last week, Mr. Sudheeran had resigned from the AICC and KPCC's political affairs committee in protest against ‘authoritarianism and lack of consultation’ in the party. Mr. Sudheeran had reportedly accused Mr. Sudhakaran and Mr. Satheesan of bypassing senior leaders in the appointment of District Congress Committee presidents. ‘The new leadership had dashed expectations,’ he had said. At a stroke, Mr. Sudheeran appeared to have found common cause with the grievances of Congress veterans Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, who control the ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups, respectively. Both the groups are shadow boxing their way forward in the KPCC reorganisation process to preserve their traditional relevance in the party's hierarchy. The factions are vying with the ‘emergent triad’ of Mr. Sudhakaran, Mr. Satheeshan and AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal to insert their loyalists into key party positions. As KPCC presidents, Mr. Sudheeran and Mr. Ramachandran had tried to distance themselves from groups and opposed factionalism with mixed results. Both leaders are perceived to be close to Congress Working Committee member A.K. Antony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/as-rebellion-rages-rahul-gandhi-to-visit-kerala-today/article36727326.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assault on minor: man convicted||A 61-year-old man was sentenced to two years of imprisonment by a fast-track court here on Tuesday in connection with case a sexual assault against a minor girl that had occurred in his house three years ago. Thiruvananthapuram Fast Track Special Judge R. Jayakrishnan sentenced Jagnayak S.S., a freelance researcher, who hails from Kinavoor in Kudappanakunnu, after he was found guilty of the crime that occurred in 2018. Jagnayak was the second accused of the particular case that had been registered by the Mannanthala police. The family of the victim, who was then 17 years old, had then taken the ground floor of his house on rent. Besides Jagnayak, his family and servant Antony, the prime accused, resided on the first floor of the same building. According to the prosecution led by special public prosecutor Vijay Mohan R.S., Antony sexually assaulted the victim on multiple instances between between January 1 and 8, 2018. While the victim and her parents complained to the Jagnayak, he initially attempted to downplay the issue.The first accused had died during the course of the trial. The then Mannanthala police Sub Inspector J. Rakesh had submitted the charge-sheet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assault-on-minor-man-convicted/article36727676.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Process waste water inside RTC garage: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the KSRTC Managing Director and the city Corporation Secretary to take steps to process the waste water-oil mix inside the KSRTC city garage. The direction was issued by commission chairperson Antony Dominic following a complaint by R. Balaraman who lives near the Vettimurichakotta. He complained that oil-laced waste water from the garage was collecting in front of the nearby houses. The city Corporation Secretary informed the commission that the KSRTC had been issued notice to process the waste water inside the garage itself. The KSRTC told the commission that a pollution-control mechanism would be arranged inside the garage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/process-waste-water-inside-rtc-garage-shrc/article36727663.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three students injured in road accident||Three Plus Two students were knocked down by a jeep at Palode on Tuesday. The students, identified as Aparna Raj, Abhirami and Jitha, were on their way to appear for the Plus One examinations at the Peringamala Iqbal Higher Secondary School. While Jitha sustained minor injuries, the others were admitted to the Medical College Hospital here. The jeep, believed to have been used by a driving school, was seized by the Palode police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-students-injured-in-road-accident/article36727667.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Ensure student safety during online classes’||Educational institutions should ensure the safety of students while making use of various platforms for online education, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. Acting on a complaint from Amal Saji, State ambassador of the Rakshak national awareness campaign for protection of rights of children, the commission, comprising member K. Nazeer, on Tuesday directed the General Education Secretary and the Director of General Education to issue instructions to the institutions not to share the same link for online classes multiple times and instead use new links and new passwords to prevent online crimes. It called for sensitising students and parents to the need to ensure that outsiders do not get the links for classes or passwords. Each class should use one specific ID and password. Safety protocols The Education Department authorities were asked to take steps to adopt safety protocols for online classes in consultation with technical experts and cyber experts of the police. Students, teachers, and parents should also be made aware of the online safety measures. As soon as any illegal activity by a stranger is detected during online classes, class teachers should get in touch with heads of institutions and take steps to inform the police. The State Police Chief should initiate prosecution proceedings under relevant sections in case of any such complaints. Station house officers of the police should be given clear instructions in this regard. The police authorities should implement awareness activities against cyber crime, the commission said. In his complaint, Mr. Saji had said that for some time now, cybercriminals had been gaining illegal entry into student online class groups and were harassing students and using offensive and sexually coloured language. Such incidents were keeping students away from online classes, he said, seeking a direction to the departments concerned to take steps to ensure that only students were being added for the online classes and those who hacked the online class links to create trouble were identified and booked. Police role The police, in their report, said that they had always acted when such incidents had come to their notice or complaints had been received. Before using such online platforms, their terms and conditions should be studied and safety ensured. Schools should also deploy an administrator to monitor if strangers were entering online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-call-to-ensure-student-safety/article36727525.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Limit participation in Navaratri fete: Minister||Only requisite number of people should participate in the Navaratri festivities, Minister for Labour V. Sivankutty has said. He was taking part at a meeting in connection with the conduct of the festival at the Secretariat on Tuesday. Celebration committee office-bearers, the Subcollector and the police attended the meeting. The Minister said the government wanted the celebrations to follow the COVID-19 protocol. He said the government was not against the wishes of devotees or traditions. However, only minimum people should attend the festivities. The police would distribute passes to the needy. The applications for the passes should be submitted to the police. Ceremonial sword Rest for half an hour for those carrying the ceremonial sword could be considered at Parassala, Neyyattinkara and Nemom. If there was any problem in bringing the silver horse, a decision would be taken after talks with the District Collector. For matters to be pursued across the State border, an order would be issued after discussions with the District Collector, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural), Mr. Sivankutty said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/limit-participation-in-navaratri-fete-minister/article36727662.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,339 new cases in capital||The district recorded 1,339 COVID-19 cases and 1,124 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 14,002 on Tuesday. A test positivity rate of 14.3% was recorded. A total of 43,172 people are in quarantine in the district. These include 8,562 people who have been observing self-isolation in their homes. The pandemic has claimed 3,903 lives thus far in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1339-new-cases-in-capital/article36727677.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||EV charging stations to be expanded||Most customers looking to purchase an electric vehicle may have valid concerns about getting stuck in the middle of nowhere with the battery running out and no way to recharge it. But that anxiety may soon be a thing of the past in Kerala. The government is pushing ahead with a project to expand the network of charging stations across the State. Six so far Apart from the six charging stations that have been operational since November 2020, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) expects to complete the work on 40 additional stations in another two months. The construction of another three stations by the Agency for New and renewable Energy Research & Technology (Anert) is also proceeding on schedule to supplement the three functional units. All 56 charging stations under construction in various districts will be equipped to charge different kinds of EVs currently available in the market including cars, three-wheelers and scooters. On KSEB poles Simultaneously, the KSEB is also working on a project to provide charging points for two and three wheelers on distribution poles across the State. The pilot project will be launched in Kozhikode next month, a press note quoting Electricity Minister K.Krishnankutty on Tuesday said. It said 20 more EVs would soon be provided on lease to various departments by Anert under the Carbon Neutral Governance programme, taking the fleet strength to 50. Meanwhile, the Energy Management Centre is stepping up its Go Electric campaign to sensitize the public about the advantages of shifting to EVs and the options for purchase at concessional rate. Subsidy Customers can book electric two wheelers on the websitewww.MyEV.org.inor through the MyEV mobile app and claim subsidy up to Rs. 43,000. EMC is also rolling out a scheme to provide subsidy for electric autorickshaws.  All 56 charging stations under construction in various districts will be equipped to charge different kinds of EVs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-to-expand-network-of-ev-charging-stations/article36727476.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sabari express rescheduled||Train no. 07229 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Secunderabad Junction Daily (Sabari) Express Special scheduled to leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 7 a.m. on September 30 has been rescheduled to leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 10 a.m. (late by three hours) due to traffic regulation for track maintenance works in the Chennai Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-rescheduled/article36727474.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four held with synthetic drugs||The Kazhakuttam police on Tuesday arrested four youths with alleged possession of synthetic drugs. The police identified the accused as Dominic Peter, 26, of Arattuvazhi in Thumba; Kiran, 28, of Kanjirampara; Praveen Lawrence, 25, of Puthukurichy in Kadinamkulam; and Vipin, alias Kannan, 26, of Kadinamkulam. They were allegedly caught from an apartment at Attinkuzhy following an alert by the City Narcotic Cell. The police confiscated various narcotic substances, including MDMA, LCD stamps and ganja from their room. They have been accused of supplying such contraband substances to youngsters in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-with-synthetic-drugs/article36727678.ece
29 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Green Consumer Day||Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister G.R. Anil inaugurated the State-level Green Consumer Day observance here on Tuesday. Additional Chief Secretary, Food and Civil Supplies, Teeka Ram Meena participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-consumer-day/article36727668.ece
29 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assumes charge||Lakshminarasimha Rao Kudligi has joined as chief, Social Policy, to lead the UNICEF social policy team for Kerala and Tamil Nadu, a pressnote issued here today said. Mr. Rao is an economist and a public finance management professional with over 28 years of experience. He has also worked with the Ministry of Finance in Bhutan, Nepal, Ghana, and Bangladesh, the pressnote added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assumes-charge/article36727673.ece
29 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||2,345 police constables to take oath tomorrow||Oath-taking ceremony of 2,345 police constables of the second-batch Integrated Police Recruit Training Centre (IPRTC) will be held on Thursday at the Parade Ground of the Kerala Police Academy here and various Battalion parade grounds, strictly observing physical-distancing norms as part of the COVID-19 protocol. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will be the chief guest and will attend the parade online. He will receive the compliments of the parade. State Police Chief Anil Kant will attend the ceremony online. IGP (Training), Director of the Kerala Police Academy and Director, IPRTC Ramavarmapuram, Thrissur, P. Vijayan will attend the oath- taking ceremony at the Kerala Police Academy and receive the compliments of the parade. K. Padmakumar, ADGP, AP Battalion and P. Prakash, DIG, AP Battalion, will attend the ceremony. Duty during training During the training period, the trainees were deputed for duty in connection with the local body election in December 2020 in all the three phases. In April 2021, they were again deputed for duty in connection with the Assembly election. For almost one month, these trainees were on duty at their respective mother police stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2345-police-constables-to-take-oath-tomorrow/article36727684.ece
29 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Second-round questioning on in heist case||Second round of interrogation of the accused in the Kodakara black money heist case started on Tuesday. Two accused in the case, Babu and Shukkur, appeared for interrogation at the Thrissur Police Club. The police had registered a case against 22 accused in the case. Two accused will be questioned on Wednesday. According to the Special Investigation Team, money illegally brought for the election campaign of the BJP was robbed at Kodakara. It alleged that the BJP leaders had direct and indirect links in the case. Robbed An armed gang robbed the money belonging to Dharmarajan and Sunil Naik, BJP-RSS leaders from Kozhikode. Dharmarajan’s driver had lodged a complaint with the police saying an amount of Rs. 25 lakh was robbed. Later during investigation the police found that the actual amount looted was Rs. 3.5 crore. The police had added 19 BJP leaders, including party State president K. Surendran, as witnesses in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-round-questioning-on-in-heist-case/article36727683.ece
29 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Kodi’ Suni on hunger stir in Viyyur jail, official denies||‘Kodi’ Suni, convict in the T.P. Chandrasekharan murder case, has allegedly been on a hunger strike for the past two days in the Viyyur high security prison demanding that the authorities shift him to a Kannur jail. He had given a letter to the jail superintendent raising the request earlier. However, the jail superintendent denied the news about his hunger strike. Kodi Suni, who was in the Central Jail here, was shifted to the high security prison after a mobile phone was seized from him. He had also complained about threat to life in the jail. The Crime Branch is investigating the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodi-suni-on-hunger-stir-in-viyyur-jail-official-denies/article36727532.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Along shores of safety||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/along-shores-of-safety/article36727446.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Minister at Walayar||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-at-walayar/article36727616.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Take cover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/take-cover/article36727670.ece
29 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assess groundnut crop loss in Anantapur: CPI||If the coastal areas of Andhra Pradesh were reeling under too heavy rain due to frequent cyclones, farmers in Anantapur and Kurnool districts in the Rayalaseema region were facing losses due to lack of rain for the past 55 days, which the State state government should assess immediately, demanded Communist Party of India State secretary K. Ramakrishna. At Hampapuram in Rapthadu Mandal of Anantapur district, Mr. Ramakrishna on Tuesday visited the 11-acre agriculture field of Narsimhulu, who had sown groundnut crop on time with rains arriving early in June and July during the current kharif season. Large patches of groundnut crop had withered at a time pod formation had started and rains were essential for the full-fledged formation of the seeds in the pods, Narsimhulu explained to Mr. Ramakrishna and other district party leaders who accompanied him. “Each farmer has spent Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 25,000 per acre in Anantapur and Kurnool districts, but due to lack of rain, they cannot retrieve any yield, which the State government must scientifically assess by sending a team of agriculture officers and scientists. Let the Agriculture Minister first make a visit to these areas and understand the problem, instead of a group of ministers reacting to Jana Sena Party chief Pawan Kalyan’s comments on the cinema tickets selling issue,” Mr. Ramakrishna told mediapersons. The government should not limit its assistance to Rythu Bharosa, but assess the damage at the village level and pay compensation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/assess-groundnut-crop-loss-in-anantapur-cpi/article36727595.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||60 students of Bengaluru private school test positive||A new cluster with 60 COVID-19 cases has been detected at the Sri Chaitanya Girls’ Residential School, near Electronics City. Of the 60 students who have tested positive, one student, who had high fever, has been admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital, one is under home quarantine, while the remaining 58 students are under quarantine in the hostel. The school, which had reopened on September 5, will now remain closed till October 20. There were 485 students in the hostel and 57 staff, including 22 teachers. On September 26, one hostel resident, said to be from Ballari, developed symptoms, including fever, vomiting, and diarrhoea, and tested positive for COVID-19, BBMP’s health officials said. G. Srinivas, District Health Officer, told The Hindu that the remaining students were tested on September 27. Of the 105 students who underwent Rapid Antigen Test, 27 tested positive; and of the 424 students who took the RT-PCR test, 33 tested positive. BBMP officials said the 58 students, who are all asymptomatic and in the isolation facility on the school campus, are being taken care of by the medical staff of a private hospital. Dr. Srinivas said of the 60 students who had tested positive, 14 are from Tamil Nadu and 46 from different parts of Karnataka. The hostel earlier had four students sharing one room. “Now, this has been changed to two students per room. Also, with the school now closed, we have indicated to the management to resume online classes if needed,” he said. With the news of the cluster spreading, parents started gathering at the school wanting to take back their wards home. Dr. Srinivas said one student had already been sent with her parents to Hosur. “We have sanitised the hostel and school premises, apart from providing pulse oximeters, sanitisers, etc. We are closely monitoring the situation,” he said.  Now, this [four students in one hostel room] has been changed to two per room. Also, with the school now closed, we have indicated to the school management to resume online classes if needed. G. Srinivas, District Health Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/60-students-of-bengaluru-private-school-test-positive/article36727045.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second building collapse in Bengaluru in two days||In the second such incident in two days, a three-storey building partially collapsed at the KMF quarters near Dairy Circle on Tuesday. This is not far from the three-storey building that collapsed in Lakkasandra on Monday, where 22 Namma Metro workers had a narrow escape having moved out minutes before the structure came down. Officials said the building in the KMF quarters was in a dilapidated condition with cracks having developed. Though a few occupants were present in the adjacent building, no one was staying in the collapsed site at the time of the incident, fire and emergency services personnel said. Residents were evacuated before the collapse. It was an emotional moment for the 18 families as their J block BAMUL quarters collapsed in front of them. While many watched the incident helplessly, others were running around to save belongings left behind in a hurry while evacuating. The residents noticed the cracks and the wall and ceiling chipping and alerted the management, who in turn advised them to vacate the premises. While many vacated the premises on Monday, a few residents sustained minor injuries in the last minute hurry to collect their belongings. Fire and emergency personnel, along with the police, cordoned off the area and managed to rescue two pet dogs trapped inside the building. The management decided to evacuate occupants of the other block and initiated the process of relocation while planning to demolish the structures and build new quarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-building-collapses-in-bengaluru-in-as-many-days/article36727047.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drug racket busted, four held in Bengaluru||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) unearthed a drug racket and arrested two Iranian nationals, who were allegedly peddling hydro ganja to their clients in the city. Based on a tip-off that the accused were selling drugs in D.J. Halli, a team of CCB officials intercepted the car belonging to the accused and upon search, recovered LSD strips and 13 hydro ganja plants and special equipment, like LED lights, heaters, and temperature regulators used to grow the drugs worth Rs. 1 crore. Based on their information, the police raided a villa in Bidadi, which the accused had rented to grow hybrid marijuana, Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said. The accused confessed that they sourced the hydro ganja seeds and special equipment from the dark net and installed it in the villa. The prime accused, Javed Rustumpor, was earlier arrested in an NDPS case by Yeshwantpur police, but he continued his activities after coming out on bail. Javed, along with his associate Babak Shimohammadi, are from Iran and came to the city on study visas and overstayed to peddle drugs after their visa expired, the police said. The accused ganged up with local peddlers Mohsin Uzzama and Mohsin Khan to sell hydro ganja, which they would sell at Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 per gram. The accused have been taken into custody for further investigations, Mr. Patil said.  Second case In a similar case, the Hennur police on Tuesday arrested two Nigerian nationals and recovered 31 kg of marijuana worth Rs. 10 lakh from them. The accused have been identified as Chinonye Ikechukwu, 39, and Clevian Chibuike Anyawu, 46, who were living in a rented house in CMR Layout in Hennur to carry out drug peddling business. They have been booked under the NDPS Act and taken into custody for further investigations. The owner of the house will also be booked for renting out the premises to the foreign nationals without following the required procedure, S.D. Sharanappa, DCP, East Division, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drug-racket-busted-four-held-in-bengaluru/article36727048.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||In-person learning to resume for Class I-VIII from November 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday allowed physical classes for students of Class I-VIII from November 1. The standard operating procedure issued in this regard must be strictly followed, it said. In a statement, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said the decision was based on the inputs from medical experts, educationalists and parents. Students of Classes IX to XII have already been attending physical classes. The experts had contended that students of Class I-VIII were under immense stress, experienced a gap in learning and suffered loss as they did not attend physical classes and remained home for several months because of the COVID-19 restrictions, Mr. Stalin pointed out. The School Education Department would undertake preliminary arrangements for the resumption of physical classes, he said. Mr. Stalin said the lockdown would be in place in the State till 6 a.m. on October 31. “The restriction on social, political and cultural events, festivals and consecrations, among others, would continue.” Religious places and places of worship would remain closed on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, Mr. Stalin said. All relaxations and restrictions already announced would continue. The government allowed the weekly grievance day meeting to be held in the office of the Collector every Monday. This was in view of the huge crowd gathering at the Secretariat to submit petitions, he said. The Chief Minister also appealed to members of the public to exercise caution ahead of the festival season and avoid crowded places. On Tuesday, Mr. Stalin chaired a meeting of Ministers and officials to review the COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-person-learning-to-resume-for-classes-i-viii-in-tn-from-nov-1/article36727168.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Functionalities are user profile specific: IRCTC||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has stated that there is no chance of cancelling a train ticket by using a different user identity and password. Referring to a report titled “Teen flags bug in IRCTC’s system” published in these columns on September 21, 2021, IRCTC’s spokesperson Anand Kumar Jha said that there was no scope to cancel a ticket or change the boarding station, by taking advantage of a vulnerability since the functionalities were user profile specific. But, he said the issue of accessing the transaction details by changing the transaction identity had been fixed on second September 2, 2021. P. Renganathan, 17, Chennai-based XII Standard student who flagged the issue had written to the the Computer Emergency Response Team stating that he had discovered a critical vulnerability that leaked the transaction details of millions of travellers. Explaining how the private data could be accessed, Renganathan said that by changing the transaction identity one could gain access to others travel details. To this, CERT thanked the teenager and confirmed by email that the vulnerability had been fixed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/functionalities-are-user-profile-specific-irctc/article36727058.ece
29 September 2021||Dindagur,ANDHRA PRADESH||A temple entry for Dalits for first time||Thimmaiah, 75, of Dindagur in Channarayapatna taluk, was elated on Tuesday. For the first time in his life, he could enter the temples in his native place. In fact, none of his forefathers had this opportunity. “I was born in this village, and my children and grandchildren were born here. But none of us have entered the temples,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Thimmaiah and more than 100 members from the Dalit colony of the village entered the temples in presence of the police and officers of Channarayapatna taluk administration on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, tahsildar J.B.Maruthi and Deputy Superintendent of Police Lakshme Gowda held a meeting in the village with regard to the Dalits’ demand for protection to enter the temples. When the officers wanted to know if there was any opposition from the “upper” castes, the response was negative. A couple of villagers insisted that all these years, the Dalits had not attempted to enter the temples and there had not been any opposition to them doing so either. After recording the opinions of the public, the tahsildar declared that the temples were open and the Dalits could enter them. He said the administration would intervene if there was any opposition to their entry. Then, the Dalits entered the temples in groups. They went to Malleshwara temple, a Hoysala structure, Keshava temple, also a Hoysala temple built in the 13th century, Basavanna temple, Santhamma temple, which was built for the local deity, among others. “We usedto offer our prayers standing outside the temple during the festivals,” said Mr. Thimmaiah. Memorandum Earlier this month, a few Dalit youth submitted a memorandum to the taluk administration seeking protection to enter the temples. D.D. Santhosh, a theatre activist of the village, had alleged that a hotel located close to Keshava temple practised untouchability. Considering these petitions, the taluk administration conducted a meeting on September 20 and ordered the closure of the hotel. However, none of the “upper” castes had attended the meeting, forcing the officials to reschedule the meeting to Tuesday. Shivalinganna, representing the “upper” caste people, said nobody would oppose the Dalits’ entry into the temples. “We have harmony in the village and there is no opposition to their entry. If there are any minor differences, we will resolve them amicably,” he said. He also said that practising untouchability in a hotel was “an insult to the village”. “The hotel has been closed. The law will take its course if somebody follows untouchability in the village. Now, Scheduled Caste people expressed willingness to enter the temples. We have assured them security in case of any opposition. The issue has been resolved,” said Mr. Maruthi. Youngsters in the Dalit colony argued that the very fact that their forefathers never attempted to enter the temples was enough to showcase how they were silenced over the centuries. “There were instances of discrimination against Dalits in the past in the village. The issue of seeking entry into temples has a long history that we do not wish to recall now,” said Mr. Santhosh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-temple-entry-for-dalits-for-first-time/article36727044.ece
29 September 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Streams swell in W. Godavari||Crops in thousands of acres were inundated following incessant rains and many roads connecting Andhra Pradesh and Telangana and the National Highway were submerged in floodwaters as the streams were in spate. Road connectivity between Jangareddygudem and Eluru, Chebrolu-Dubacherla, T. Narsapuram and Chintalapudi and many other villages was snapped as heavy rains lashed in the border Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts and in the catchment areas. Some government offices, and Anganwadi centres located in low lying areas in Eluru, Lingapalem, Pedavegi, Kamavarapukota, Unguturu, Denduluru, Akiveedu, Narsapuram, Palakol, Bhimavaram and other places were inundated. Power supply hit Floodwater entered into the houses in some colonies as the drainages and canals overflowed. Power supply was disrupted in some habitations. Many canals, including Jalleru, Gunderu, Tammileru, Yerrakaluva, Kovvada, Baineru and other streams and rivulets flowing from the hills in Polavaram, Jeelugumilli and Buttaigudem mandals were overflowing. Speaking to The Hindu on Tuesday, West Godavari in-charge Collector Himanshu Shukla said the flood level in Tammileru was at 345 feet, while its full capacity was 355 feet. The capacity of Yerrakaluva was 83 feet, and the flood level had touched 82 feet. 5 lakh cusecs discharged “Irrigation officials are discharging flood to the downstream and the villagers staying in low level areas were cautioned,” he said. Mr. Shukla directed the officials to be alert as the water level in Godavari river was rising at Bhadrachalam. Irrigation officials released 5.19 lakh cusecs of flood water to the downstream on Tuesday. Revenue, Irrigation, AP Transco, Medical and Health, Police, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Panchayat Raj and other department officials were put on alert and told to monitor the situation from time to time, Mr. Shukla said. Mr. Shukla along with Joint Collector B.R. Ambedkar and Eluru Revenue Divisional Officer P. Rachana visited the National Highway at Denduluru where floodwater was overflowing on the road causing traffic disruption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/streams-swell-in-w-godavari/article36727097.ece
29 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to set up aqua hubs, retail outlets||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that aqua hubs and retail outlets are being set up across the State not only to provide nutritious food to people but also ensure better prices to aqua farmers by increasing local consumption. During a review meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said complaints were received that exporters and processing companies were forming a syndicate and cutting the prices for aqua farmers. “The government is stepping into the pre-processing, processing and retail sectors to solve this problem,” he said. He told officials to create awareness and provide training on cultivation of sea foods having export potential. New regulations on aquaculture should be strictly enforced, he said. Officials should ensure that subsidies reached aqua farmers and come up with ideas to further improve their lot, he said. Opening small restaurants at aqua hubs could be explored, he added. He released the Fish Andhra logo. 40,000 jobs The officials informed the Chief Minister that around 40,000 people would be directly employed through aqua hubs and affiliated retail stores. Around 80 aqua hubs and 14,000 retail outlets would be made available by January 26. Pre-processing and processing units would be ready by December next year. They said steps were being taken to set up 10 processing plants and 23 pre-processing plants to save farmers from the clutches of syndicates and ensure better prices for them. Works related to four fishing harbours – each at Juvvaladinne, Nizampatnam, Machilipatnam and Uppada – were started and the facilities would be ready by June-July next year. Construction of five more harbours would be taken up in December 2021 and completed within 18 months, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-set-up-aqua-hubs-retail-outlets/article36727600.ece
29 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan wants dairies to hike milk procurement price||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that dairy farmers are earning Rs. 5 to Rs. 15 more per litre after Amul Dairy has entered the market and wanted dairies across the State to increase the price of milk procured from farmers. During a review meeting on Jagananna Palavelluva scheme and the Fisheries Department, the Chief Minister said some vested interests had destroyed the cooperative sector dairies. He said conditions were created for most of the cooperative dairies to not function properly to benefit Heritage Dairy. “I am happy that sustainable development of women has been made possible after the implementation of YSR Cheyutha and Aasara schemes. A transparent cooperative system will benefit women and I want the system to be strengthened,” he said. The officials informed the Chief Minister that Amul had purchased 71,373 litres of milk in November 2020 which rose to 14.46 lakh litres in August 2021. A total of 1.06 crore litres of milk had been procured so far. The average procurement had increased from 6,780 litres to 51,502 litres per day. He unveiled Jagananna Palavelluva guidelines for secretaries and Jagananna Palavelluva - Training Handbook designed by the Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Cooperative Federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-wants-dairies-to-hike-milk-procurement-price/article36727049.ece
29 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gurram Jashuva continues to inspire people’||The State government will take forward the imagination and ideology of legendary verse poet Gurram Jashuva, said Minister for Education A. Suresh. Dr. Suresh, along with MLC Dokka Manikya Vara Prasad and MLA Tadikonda V. Sridevi, garlanded the statue of Jashuva at Guntur to mark the 126th birth anniversary of the poet. “The contribution of Jashua to the Telugu language is incomparable. His stirring verse poetry mirrored the prejudices and untouchability prevalent in those times. Jashuva’s memory will be kept alive through the Jashuva Kala Praganam being constructed in Guntur. The introduction of English medium will go a long way towards empowering the weaker sections,” said Dr. Suresh. The State government has been working towards the emancipation of people from weaker sections by implementing several welfare schemes. The Telugu Sanskrit academy is further propagating their ideals. Kala Pranganam MLC Dokka Manikya Vara Prasad said that the Kala Pranganam is being built at a cost of Rs. 3 crore and would be completed by the end of the year. The kala pranganam would be equipped to host literary festivals, verse conclaves etc. He said that Jashuva was the first poet to use common man language in verse poetry. MLC K.S. Lakshmana Rao, MLA Md. Mustafa also spoke. Collector Vivek Yadav offered floral tributes to Jashuva at the Collector’s office. Joint Collector Rajakumari was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gurram-jashuva-continues-to-inspire-people/article36727715.ece
29 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child mountaineer gets a pat from CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday congratulated Bhuvan Jai, the youngest to scale Mount Elbrus, the highest peak in Europe. Bhuvan Jai is the son of Gandham Chandrudu, Special Secretary for Minority Welfare. Mr. Gandham Chandrudu, coach Shankaraiah and Special Chief Secretary Rajat Bhargav were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-mountaineer-gets-a-pat-from-cm/article36727720.ece
29 September 2021||Guntur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to adopt sensitive areas||Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, K. Arif Hafeez, has said that the police will adopt sensitive residential areas to ensure that they become crime-free. The SP along with his officers visited Venkatadripet near the New Guntur Railway station, an isolated stretch frequented by anti-social elements, on Tuesday. Residents showed an abandoned ticket counter and pointed to a heap of liquor bottles. “We have decided to adopt the street and convert it into a model area. The police will work with Guntur Municipal Corporation to ensure civic amenities are improved,,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-to-adopt-sensitive-areas/article36727102.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS writes to KRMB against A.P.’s hydel project||Telangana government has written one more letter to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on Tuesday requesting the latter to stop Andhra Pradesh from calling and awarding tenders pertaining to Pinnapuram pumped storage hydro-electric project by diverting Krishna water to outside the basin. In the letter addressed to KRMB Chairman M.P. Singh, Engineer-in-Chief (General-Irrigation) C. Muralidhar said the matter was already brought to the former’s notice in December 2020 that AP was taking up a hydel project in violation of the Section 84 and 85 of the AP Reorganisation Act, under which such projects could be taken up only with the prior approval of the Apex Council. The board was requested to take action to prevent AP from calling and awarding tenders for the projects as it was being taken based on diversion of Krishna water to outside the basin when there was huge deficit within the basin areas itself and several projects in the basin were starving for water. Requesting the board again to stall all new projects and expansion of existing projects and canal systems by AP without the appraisal of the board and approval the Apex Coucil and also communicate the information to the Secretary in the Ministry of Jal Shakti for appropriate action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-writes-to-krmb-against-aps-hydel-project/article36727170.ece
29 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revenue Inspector in ACB net||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials arrested a Revenue Inspector for allegedly demanding a bribe to perform an official favour, in Rampachodavaram of East Godavari district on Tuesday. P. Veerabrahmam, working at the Rampachodavaram Tahsildar’s office, allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 5,000 from a petitioner who filed an application for mutation of land. The petitioner, named G. Rambabu of Rampachodavaram, approached the ACB and lodged a complaint. The RI was later caught by the ACB officials while he was accepting the bribe from Mr. Rambabu at his office, according to a press release issued by ACB-Vijayawada, ACB officials registered a case and an investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revenue-inspector-in-acb-net/article36727630.ece
29 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Road from Amalapuram to Ravulapalem declared as NH’||Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop on Tuesday thanked the Central government for designating the Amalapuram-Ravulapalem road as a national highway in Konaseema region of East Godavari district. The new road has been designated as NH 216-E, which passes through Konaseema region. The total length of the road is nearly 30 km. “On September 27, the Ministry of Road Transportation and Highways issued a gazette notification, declaring the Amalapuram-Ravulapalem road as a national highway,” Mr. Viswaroop said in a press release. According to the gazette, the highway goes via the Palivela route in the Konaseema region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/road-from-amalapuram-to-ravulapalem-declared-as-nh/article36727631.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police get custody of fraud accused||The Kerala Crime Branch police will interrogate Monson Mavunkal, a self-styled antiquities dealer and confidence trickster, as they obtained his police custody for three days on Tuesday. He is unlikely to be taken around for evidence collection as is usually the norm as the police remain confident that a thorough interrogation would suffice to elicit critical details. Statements will be collected from people associated with the alleged fraudster, including his present and former employees and petitioners on whose complaint he was arrested on Sunday. Notwithstanding the many other allegations that have sprung up implicating big names from political, police, film and civil service fraternity, the Crime Branch probe remains strictly restricted to two cases of fraud — cheating the six petitioners of Rs. 10 crore and a resident of Pala of another Rs. 1.5 crore. However, the fact that Monson had collected the entire amount through accounts held by other people may prove critical when the case reaches the trial stage. While names and pictures of many celebrities have emerged, till now there has been no specific evidence proving their involvement in his frauds though the Crime Branch will probe whether any such evidence exists. Most of his collections were reportedly cheap knock-offs procured locally. At least in one instance, an idol of Lord Ganesh, which the accused had exhibited at his home at Kaloor claiming to be from the 19th century, was reportedly created by a local sculptor who is now fighting for his payment. Even the premium cars that dotted the portico in front of his home were reportedly used ones and sold relatively cheap by their owners in metro cities. He used them for impressing gullible victims. Meanwhile, there was high drama when Monson complained of discomfort ahead of being taken to the court and had to be rushed to the Ernakulam General Hospital. Though he was reportedly found to have high blood pressure, he was eventually taken to the court after observation at the hospital for a while. Blackmailing case In another development, the South police are awaiting forensic report on a smartphone of Monson in a case registered against him for allegedly blackmailing a sexual abuse survivor. The case was registered in March based on the survivor’s complaint that Monson allegedly tried to blackmail her into withdrawing the case against the accused, reportedly his father’s friend. The case was originally registered by the Kalamasserry police but was transferred to south as the place of occurrence fell within the latter’s limit. The accused, who was released on bail, reportedly approached Monson for striking a compromise deal following which the latter met a friend of the survivor’s brother. “Monson then threatened to expose the survivor by showing the video footage of the abuse based on which she lodged a complaint. He, however, was granted conditional anticipatory bail though we seized his phone and sent it for forensic examination,” said police sources. Monson petitioned the court that the south police were rude with him following which he was allowed to appear before the Kalamasserry police for periodical signatures. The south police have now booked him under Section 67 of the IT Act and relevant IPC Sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-get-custody-of-fraud-accused/article36727051.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC dismisses petition against Karnataka curbs||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest writ petition seeking a directive to Karnataka to allow passengers from Kerala who have COVID-19 vaccination certificates for at least one dose to enter the State and remove the requirement to carry a negative RT-PCR certificate taken 72 hours before travel. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali dismissed the plea by A.K.M. Ashraf, Manjeswaram MLA, and another person, for want of territorial jurisdiction of the High Court. The court said no part of the cause of action as regards the circulars issued by Karnataka / its officials would arise in Kerala. It said a Division Bench had passed an interim order during the first lockdown when absolute blockades were created by Karnataka, prohibiting entry of passengers from Kerala. Such a situation was not prevailing now. The restrictions were made within Karnataka to manage the travelling public entering the State, which could only be viewed as a methodology adopted by the State to curb COVID-19 spread, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-dismisses-petition-against-karnataka-curbs/article36727057.ece
29 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. sees zero deaths in 24 hours||The number of active COVID-19 cases dipped to less than 3,500 as the number of recoveries outnumbered new infections by over 200 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. The region witnessed zero deaths in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Tuesday. As a result, the toll remained unchanged at 2,126 in the region, including 1,090 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The region saw steady decline in fresh cases and improvement in recoveries. At least 92 persons in SPSR Nellore district and another 83 persons in Prakasam district tested positive for the disease. With this, the cumulative tally inched closer to 2.82 lakh mark. At least 385 persons recovered in the region, including 194 in Prakasam district. The number of active cases down to 1,781 in SPSR Nellore district and 1,716 in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-sees-zero-deaths-in-24-hours/article36727587.ece
29 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gurram Jashuva remembered||Rich tributes were paid to noted poet Gurram Jashuva on his 126th birth anniversary here on Tuesday. Prakasam Collector Pravin Kumar led the admirers in garlanding the statue of the poet, well-versed in Telugu as well as Sanskrit, at the Prakasam Bhavan here. Speaking on the occasion, the Collector recalled the contributions of the poet in fighting against caste discrimination and improving the lives of the downtrodden sections of the society and promoting inter-caste marriages. Taking inspiration from Jashuva, the district administration would implement welfare schemes with more vigour,he said. Jashuva fought against untouchability through his works, including Gabbilam , Firadausi (A Rebel) and Kandiseekudu (A Refugee).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gurram-jashuva-remembered/article36727588.ece
29 September 2021||Sangareddy,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector rescued from flooded office||Rain fury in north Telangana on Monday night did not spare Rajanna-Sircilla Collector Anurag Jayanthi, who was confined to his chambers in the new Collectorate complex for several hours. With water surrounding the complex, the Collector had to be shifted out along with his staff in a tractor. This is the second time in the past one month that the Collectorate complex has had to bear the brunt of rain fury. Local residents pointed out that the new complex was constructed in Full Tank Level (FTL). Marooned post meeting According to information, Mr Jayanthi has been in staying in the quarters constructed in the Collectorate on the outskirts of district headquarters. On Monday night, he held a review meeting with officials and stayed back at the camp office which was inundated due to rain. “There are three tanks from which water was overflowing and reached the mini tank bund, which is not yet completed. About 600 houses are still inundated in Sircilla and they fear even when it rains briefly. Cellars of many buildings were filled with water and the road to Karimnagar was completely blocked. People have to go through bypass road,” said Vijay, a local resident, adding that officials failed to take steps to divert flood water though Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao had given clear instructions n that regard. It was stated that many in the town feel the pinch of rain hardships and have to face it at least for another two months, till the cyclone season is over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-shifted-out-of-flooded-office-in-tractor/article36727165.ece
29 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM/KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy inflows trigger floods in Srikakulam||With heavy inflows from catchment areas following incessant rains, many rivers, including Vamsadhara, Suvarnamukhi and Nagavali in Andhra Pradesh, have been in spate since Tuesday. This led to heavy flooding in many mandals, including Palakonda, Burja, Amadalavalasa, and Srikakulam. Around 48,500 cusecs of water has been released from the Narayanpur Anicut built across the Nagavali in Burja mandal. The inflow was 29,100 cusecs in the Madduvalasa reservoir built across the Suvaranamukhi, a tributary of Nagavali river, and the outflow was 50,434 cusecs, in the Palakonda division. Road connectivity to several villages was completely cut off as rivers, rivulets and streams overflowed, leaving over 53,000 people stranded. The situation was worst in the Palakonda division with people facing shortage of food and water and there was no electricity. Srikakulam District Fire Officer Ch. Krupavaram, Palakonda DSP M. Sravani and other officials travelled in a boat in the floodwaters and reached Kondasekarapalli, Koppara villages of Palakonda division. They provided food and explained the relief measures being taken to rescue people stranded in the floods. Srikakulam Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar said the district administration had taken preventive steps to minimise the damage to crops in the backdrop of floods and continuous heavy downpour in many parts of the district on Tuesday.  Paddy cultivation At least 4,453 hectares under paddy cultivation have been inundated following incessant rains across East Godavari district. The total extent of area under paddy cultivation is above 2.22 lakh hectares in the district.  There was some respite for Telangana from rain on Tuesday. Almost entire Telangana was battered during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. The highest of 25 mm rain was recorded at Ailapur in Jagtial district. However, the impact of Monday’s very heavy to extremely heavy rain was still visible on Tuesday too. According to the Met department, a highest of nearly 22.6 cm rain was recorded at Jakranpalle in Nizamabad district during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Rain in the last few days and heavy rain on Monday both within Telangana and in the neighbouring States of Maharashtra and Karnataka have ensured heavy inflows into major projects, with the Sriramsagar project discharging 4 lakh cusecs from the spillway and the inflow was 3.25 lakh cusecs.  (With inputs from Telangana bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/following-rain-many-rivers-in-spate-in-ap/article36727054.ece
29 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZINAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crops in 1 lakh acres damaged||The heavy rain and flash floods triggered by Cyclone Gulab have damaged standing crops including paddy, groundnut, banana, custard apple, lemon trees in more than 1 lakh acres in Vizianagaram and Srikakualm districts. The government has asked the agriculture officers and village agriculture assistants to take up the enumeration exercise to assess the damage. Agriculture Deputy Director (Vizianagaram) S.B.S. Nandh said that the water stagnation in fields was a major concern in the aftermath of the cyclone. “Paddy crops in 22,000 acres, maize in 12,700 acres and cotton in 4,950 acres have been inundated in the district. As per initial reports, standing crops in nearly 45,000 acres in Vizianagaram and around 55,000 acres in Srikakulam have been damaged,” Mr. Nandhsaid. Meanwhile, CITU leader M. Tirupati Rao, Srikakulam Girijana Samsksehama Sangtham president M. Lakshmana Rao and general secretary B. Apparao visited the flood-hit areas in the Palakonda division and took stock of the situation. Compensation sought They urged the government to announce a compensation of at least Rs. 30,000 per acre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crops-in-1-lakh-acres-damaged/article36727601.ece
29 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Akanda Balakanda Parayanam’ organised||Religious ecstasy marked ‘Akanda Balakanda Parayanam’ organised at Nada Neerajana mandapam here on Tuesday. About 142 slokas were recited under the narration of Brahmasri Prava Ramakrishna Somayajulu. The ‘parayanam’ took off to a spiritual start with K. Vandana and her team singing Tyagaraja songs and culminated with Ramastakam penned by Maharshi Veda Vyasa. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, Vice-Chancellor of National Sanskrit Varsity Muralidhar Sharma and Vedic scholars from Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetam and SV Vedic University took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/akanda-balakanda-parayanam-organised/article36727589.ece
29 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||No request letters to be entertained on Oct. 4: TTD||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has announced in a press release that it would not entertain any recommendation letter on October 4 for the darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple on the following day. Senior officials of the trust board said the decision was taken to facilitate the smooth conduct of the ‘Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam’ rituals at the hill temple on October 5, with the annual Brahmotsavams scheduled to begin on October 7. Usually, the recommendation letters are accepted by the TTD authorities a day in advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-request-letters-to-be-entertained-on-oct-4-ttd/article36727604.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-State highway ‘thieves’ held in Chittoor||A band of 12 highway thieves, involved in stealing diesel from trucks passing towards Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, was held near SITAM college in Chittoor on Tuesday. Upon getting clues pertaining to the gang hailing from Raigarh, Shajapur and Indore districts of Madhya Pradesh, the Chittoor Taluk police lay in wait and arrested the band on Tuesday. ‘Repeat offenders’ Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Sudhakar Reddy said the gang had involvement in several cases and was wanted in similar offences under many police limits in the neighbouring States. Their modus operandi was to make random halts alongside the highway and steal diesel by breaking the sealed tank of stationary trucks in the lay-bye. Five gang members found carrying diesel containers on two trucks were arrested near SITAM College. Upon interrogation, they spilled the beans, based on which the remaining were held at Cherlopalli. The arrested were Ali Hussain (38), Shahrukh Mansoori (27), Pavan Gurjar (30), K.Deepak (19), Pappu Yadav (20), Ashraf Mansoori (21), M. Javed (30), Talib Khan (26), Parvez Khan (19), Sadiq (32), Salman Khan (26), all hailing from Madhya Pradesh. Dawood, a diesel dealer in Bangarupalyam, who used to purchase the stolen diesel from the thieves, was also arrested. Four trucks and 2,100 litres of diesel were seized from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inter-state-highway-thieves-held-in-chittoor/article36727592.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women make ‘divine’ souvenirs with used flowers||With a little training imparted by professionals, women hailing from simple backgrounds have been successful in making artefacts and souvenirs made of dry flowers. Apart from making ‘agarbatthis’ from used flowers, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has also embarked on making souvenirs and divine images made of dry flowers and has signed an MoU with Dr. YSR Horticultural University for imparting training. The training programme is being held at the varsity’s Tirupati-based Citrus Research Station. Women are being trained in making portraits of gods, paper weights, key chains, etc., with the dry flower technology. TTD Joint Executive Officer (Health and Education) Sada Bhargavi, who visited the training camp on Tuesday, called it a privilege for the local women to get into making such ‘divine’ souvenirs. “The TTD is not engaged in such tasks for the sake of revenue or enterprise, but with the sacred vision to present the used flowers, which are viewed as ‘Swami Pushpa Prasadam’, to the devout”, she reiterated. Vice-Chancellor T. Janakiram, who joined the meeting via a virtual link, thanked the TTD for taking its endeavour to provide a devotee-friendly environment to a new high by involving the varsity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-make-divine-souvenirs-with-used-flowers/article36727594.ece
29 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD brings out reader-friendly version of Bhagavatham||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has brought out Sri Maha Bhagavatham penned by Bammera Pothana in a reader-friendly version comprising twelve ‘Skandas’ that run into eight volumes. The epic literature, costing Rs. 2,700, is made available to all interested devotees at the TTD publication stalls at Tirumala, Tirupati and Tiruchanur. The book drafted after a massive exercise taken up by 33 pundits, has come out in simple Telugu in 5,696 pages, divided into eight volumes. Devotees intending to obtain the volumes by post can send a demand draft from any nationalised bank drawn on ‘The Executive Officer, TTD’ and payable at Tirupati, with a covering letter addressed to ‘Officer on Special Duty, Publications Wing, Press Compound, Kapila Theertham Road, Tirupati 517 501’. The volumes can be procured on payment of additional charges towards packing and postage system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-brings-out-reader-friendly-version-of-bhagavatham/article36727590.ece
29 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||300 COVID victims’ next of kin secure jobs at placement drive||More than 300 persons who lost their breadwinners due to COVID-19 and those who lost jobs during the pandemic secured placements in a job mela organised for COVID-19 victims here on Tuesday. The placement drive was conducted by District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), of Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department, in association with World Vision, an NGO, said WD&CW Project Director (Krishna district) K. Uma Rani. A.P. Skill Development Corporation district manager V. Koti Surya, who attended the programme, said the job mela for COVID-19 victims was the first-of-its-kind in the State. Around 500 candidates, who had lost either both or one of their parents to COVID-19, and those who had lost their jobs during the pandemic, attended the job mela, Mr. Surya said. District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Vijay Kumar said more than 20 companies, including private automobile, health insurance, service sector, security and other companies offered jobs during the drive. Job aspirants with educational qualifications ranging from SSC to PG, ITI, Diploma and other qualifications applied for various jobs. Representatives of the firms selected the candidates after conducting interviews, said World Vision district manager N. Joshi Babu. “As per the directions of the Supreme Court, we visited some families who lost their parents or other family members due to COVID and studied their economic status which was deplorable. To improve their family conditions, the job mela was conducted,” Mr. Vijay Kumar said. WD&CW Assistant Project Director S. Jaya Lakshmi said the candidates were selected for job mela through Village and Ward Secretariats. More placement drives would be conducted soon, Ms. Lakshmi said. The COVID-19 patients, who lost their jobs and were undergoing a severe financial crisis, thanked the officers for conducting the job mela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/300-jobs-given-to-next-of-kin-of-covid-victims/article36727098.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State bags best tourism policy award||Andhra Pradesh has bagged “Best Tourism Policy”. The award was presented by the Tour and Travels’ Association at a function organised in virtual mode. At a press conference, Special Chief Secretary, Youth Advancement, Tourism and Culture Rajat Bhargava complimented the tourism team and attributed the achievement to Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s vision. Stating that the government had identified the tourism sector as one of the key growth engines, he said the new AP Tourism Policy was a path-breaking one in many ways. Mr. Bhargava said the policy had been crafted keeping in mind the ever-changing nature of tourism, the strengths and advantages in the State, the interests of large-scale and small-scale investors, and all other stakeholders. It offered some of the best incentives, attractive terms for land allotment and proposed initiatives that would position the State as a premier world-class tourism destination with robust infrastructure. ‘Abundant potential’ He said Andhra Pradesh was a land of abundant tourism potential, as the State was blessed with the country’s second longest coastline (974 Km), perennial rivers, scenic backwaters, hills and forests, ancient temples and Buddhist sites, besides a vibrant and rich culture and heritage. The government was committed to the socio-economic development of the State and regarded the tourism sector as one of the key growth engines for the economy of the State and crucial for employment generation The main objectives of the policy were to create a conducive environment for co-creation of diverse tourism products and experiences and develop 11 themes of tourism including Rural Tourism, Heritage Tourism, Buddhist Tourism, Eco-Tourism, Beach and Water Tourism, Recreation and Adventure Tourism, Religious Tourism, Cuisine Tourism, Wellness Tourism, MICE Tourism and Medical Tourism. “We want to provide best quality experience at all touch points to the tourists visiting the State and promote responsible tourism practices among all tourism stakeholders,” Mr. Bhargava said, adding that the idea was to position the state as a preferred tourism destination nationally and globally. Incentives He said the incentives like 100 % waiver of land use conversion charge, 100 % reimbursement of stamp duty and fixed cost power reimbursement to new tourism units at Rs. 2 per unit for a period of five years from COD were some of the best in the country. Mr. Bhargava said a rationalised land lease policy was bound to attract investors to the state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-receives-praise-award-for-its-tourism-policy/article36727596.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Janakirami Reddy is head of APHCAA||Candidates supported by the YSR Congress Legal Cell have been elected as the office-bearers of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Advocates’ Association (APHCAA) K. Janakirami Reddy is elected as president of the association. Out of the total 1,563 votes polled, Mr. Reddy secured 821 votes, as against 353 votes secured by Anand Seshu Popuri and 366 votes by K. Satyanarayana Murthy, the other two contenders for the post. Narasimha Murthy P. has been elected the vice-president, Narsi Reddy Konapalli general secretary, Kasim Saheb Dudekula joint secretary and Sapthagiri Metta library secretary of the association. Mr. Reddy has served as Government Pleader in the Panchayat Raj, Home and Cooperative Departments for a decade, from 2004 to 2014. He brings with him an overall experience of 34 years at the Bar. ‘Will stand by the Bar’ Mr. Reddy said his agenda would be to ensure that the Bar remained strong with adequate representation, mutual consultation and progression. “I will stand by you all and ensure that the genuine demands of the Bar are met,” he said. A native of Kurnool district, Mr. Reddy is now working as part of the legal team of Andhra Pradesh in representing all the river water disputes pending in the Supreme Court and water tribunals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/janakirami-reddy-is-head-of-aphcaa/article36727104.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth booked for misadventure on flyover||The traffic police registered cases against several youth who were seen in a video performing dangerous stunts on their motorcycles atop the Kanaka Durga flyover. Videos that went viral on social media recently showed the youths performing stunts while brandishing a gun. After receiving information regarding the incident, police conducted an inquiry, identified the youths and booked them on Tuesday under appropriate sections, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. The gun seen in the video was a toy pistol, police said, adding that stern action would be taken against those who created inconvenience to road users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-booked-for-misadventure-on-flyover/article36727721.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight more succumb to COVID across State||The State reported eight more deaths due to COVID-19 and 771 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,48,230 and 14,150 respectively. The number of active cases came down to 11,912 as 1,333 patients have recovered in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stands at 20,22,168 and 98.73% respectively. The daily test positivity rate of the 45,592 tests conducted in the past day was 1.69%. So far, 2.817 crore samples were tested with a positivity rate of 7.27%. East Godavari, Guntur and Chittoor reported two deaths each in the past day while Krishna and Kadapa reported one death each. Chittoor reported 153 more infections while Vizianagaram reported no infection in the past day. Chittoor was followed by East Godavari (104), Nellore (92), Guntur (89), Prakasam (83), Krishna (76), West Godavari (74), Visakhapatnam (42), Kadapa (29), Srikakulam (13), Anantapur (12) and Kurnool (4). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (290892), Chittoor (243561), West Godavari (177537), Guntur (175764), Anantapur (157583), Visakhapatnam (156559), Nellore (144761), Prakasam (137038), Kurnool (124016), Srikakulam (122685), Krishna (117278), Kadapa (1,14,913) and Vizianagaram (82,748).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-more-succumb-to-covid-across-state/article36727598.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||World Heart Day programme by The Hindu and Andhra Hospitals||The Hindu’s Future India Club in association with Andhra Hospitals will organise an awareness programme on the occasion of World Hearth Day at the Heart and Brain Institute. The programme will highlight the World Heart Day theme 'Harnessing the power of digital health to improve awareness, prevention and management of Cardio Vascular Diseases’. During the awareness programme, Andhra Hospitals chief of children's services P.V. Rama Rao will speak on neonatal and paediatric issues, senior cardiologist J. Sreemannarayana will speak on the topic 'Health heart for adults'. Consultant paediatric cardiologist K. Vikram, cardiothoracic surgeon D. Dileep and others will also speak. There will be a question and answer session during which participants can get their doubts clarified from experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/world-heart-day-programme-by-the-hindu-and-andhra-hospitals/article36727101.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Akademi releases Intermediate textbooks||Education Minister A. Suresh on Tuesday said the education sector was one of the top priorities of the YSR Congress Party government in the State. Speaking after releasing the Intermediate textbooks, along with the A.P. Telugu and Sanskrit Akademi Chairperson N. Lakshmi Parvathi, the Minister said textbooks with 54 titles printed by the Telugu Akademy were being released. Of them, books with 27 titles were pertaining to the first year and 27 for the second year Intermediate course. Besides curriculum textbooks, the Akademy would print books useful for students writing competitive examinations. The Minister said in the days to come, besides textbooks of Degree and Post-Graduate courses, the Akademy would also print thesaurus, translation works and ancient and modern literature. Ms. Parvathi said the Intermediate books were printed in Telugu, English and Urdu languages. The erstwhile Telugu Akademy in the composite Andhra Pradesh was a full-fledged organisation but after the bifurcation of the State, Andhra Pradesh had to set up a new body. She said the former TDP government did nothing to revive the Akademy here. MLA Katasani Rambhupal Reddy, Akademy Director V. Ramakrisha and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-akademi-releases-intermediate-textbooks/article36727605.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CET must for admissions into PG programmes’||For the first time in the State, the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) is organising a common entrance test (APPGCET-2021) for students seeking admission into 144 post-graduate courses including M.A., M. Com., M.Sc., M.Lib.Sc., M.P. Ed., M.Tech being offered by 15 universities in the State. In a statement on Tuesday, APSCHE Secretary B. Sudheer Prem Kumar said that students could secure admission in any university in the State through this common entrance test, thus saving time and money. Admissions would be done through a web-based entrance test, he said. APSCHE Chairman K. Hemachandra Reddy said that no university would be allowed to conduct a separate entrance test and urged students who wanted to pursue post-graduate programmes to register for the CET.  Last date extended The last date for registration (without fine) has been extended to October 6. For registration, students may visit wwwhttp://sche.ap.gov.in/ APPGCET, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cet-must-for-all-pg-admissions-in-ap/article36727169.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel to monitor e-Shram portal implementation||A State-Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) headed by the Chief Secretary to the Government has been formed to monitor the implementation of e-Shram portal introduced by the Central government to recognise and register workers in the unorganised sectors. In a release, the government stated that a government order appointing the SLMC with Chief Secretary as the chairperson and Secretaries of the departments concerned as members. The committee ensures registration of all workers, including migrant workers, street vendors,on the portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-to-monitor-e-shram-portal-implementation/article36727714.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC releases notifications||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has issued notifications for filling the posts of Horticulture Officer in Horticulture Service (39 posts). Applications can be submitted from October 11 to November 2. Applications are also invited for Telugu Reporters in AP Legislature Service (5), from October 18 to November 8, to the posts of Lecturers/Assistant Professors (Ayurveda) in Ayush Department (3) from October 7 to November 28 and to the post of Lecturers/ Assistant Professors in Homoeo in Ayush Department (24) from October 7 to November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-releases-notifications/article36727105.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indonesia envoy makes trade pitch||Consul General of the Republic of Indonesia in Mumbai Agus P. Saptono called upon industrialists and entrepreneurs from Andhra Pradesh to take part in the Trade Expo-Indonesia 2021 and explore the opportunities for investing in Indonesia. Mr. Saptono presented the opportunities for enhancing bilateral trades between Indonesia and India during an online session organised by the Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (APCCIF) in association with the Consulate General of the Republic of Indonesia in Mumbai, Embassy of the Republic of Indonesia and Indonesian Trade Promotion Centre (ITPC), Chennai.  APCCIF head Pydah Krishna Prasad said industrials from the State are keen on exploring trade opportunities in Indonesia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indonesia-envoy-makes-trade-pitch/article36727099.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘damaging’ vehicles||A former convict, S. Nagaraju alias Chanti, who allegedly damaged the windshields of 11 cars in the city, was arrested on Tuesday. DCP K. Babu Rao said Nagaraju, a resident of Chuttugunta in the city was earlier convicted in similar cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-damaging-vehicles/article36727712.ece
29 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna in spate||The Krishna river was in spate following heavy rainfall triggered by cyclone Gulab in the catchment area and upstream areas. The flood level at Prakasam Barrage has been increasing gradually since Monday. As of 6 p.m. on Tuesday, the Barrage was receiving an inflow of 2.17 lakh cusecs. All the crest gates were lifted, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-in-spate/article36727713.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Overflowing canals, rivulets flood culverts, roads in Agency areas||Normal life has been disrupted due to heavy rain for the last three days under the influence of Cyclone Gulab in the Visakhapatnam district. Several culverts and kucha roads in the rural and in the Agency areas have been washed away by the overflowing of canals and rivulets and cutting off villages in the interior parts to the mandal headquarters since Monday. In some parts, water is seen overflowing onto the roads. Keeping in view of the incessant downpour and flooding in many areas, the district administration announced holiday for the schools on Tuesday. Public transportation between Araku and S.Kota was disrupted due to heavy flow of water on the ghat road near Ananthagiri on Tuesday morning.  Meanwhile, around 20 villages have been cut-off after Matsyagedda rivulet started to overflow on causeway near Iradapalle panchayat in Paderu mandal. Similarly, a number of perennial streams were in spate and water flowed over roads and culverts at a number of places such as at Jogampeta in Koyyuru mandal, Addumanda in G.K Veedhi and at a number of places in Araku, Hukumpeta, Munchinput and Dumbriguda mandals. On the Araku ghat road, trees fell on the road and police authorities had a tough time in clearing them. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna said that a couple of houses were damaged due to continuous rains in Paderu mandal and in many areas due flow of water onto the roads, the interior villages have been cut off. A few culverts were also washed away in several mandals. Four teams were formed with officials from Revenue, Roads & Buildings and others, who are monitoring the four main ghat roads — Ananthagiri, Chintapalle, Paderu and Araku — and to check whether there are any landslides, overflowing of water and falling of boulders, he said. “Once the rain subsides, we will prepare a report on overall damages, agriculture losses and submit a report. At present our focus is on the waterlogged areas,” Mr. Gopala Krishna added. Meanwhile, in the city water has started to recede from the colonies that were flooded on Monday. People who were shifted to rehabilitation centres have started to go back to their houses from Tuesday afternoon. D. Ramanayya, a resident of Ekalavya Colony, who lives in a thatched house, said that rice bags and essential commodities in their houses were damaged due to the sudden flash floods. “About 70 families live here and all of them were affected. We are being provided food by the government and NGOs since Monday,” he said. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana on Tuesday morning inspected several rehabilitation centres at Madhavadhara and Thatichetlapalem areas and enquired about the amenities being provided. Sanitation hit A number of roads were still covered with debris and the conditions of the roads that were already damaged have worsened. Sanitation activity was also hit across the city due to the rains. According to statistics from AP CM Dashboard, the rural and Agency areas witnessed good rains in the last 24 hours compared to the city limits. Areas such as Narsipatnam, Kotlavuratla, Ravikamatham, Nakkapalle, Kasimkota, Pendurthi, Madugula, Parawada, Anakapalle, Yelamanchali and Butchayyapeta recorded good rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/overflowing-canals-rivulets-flood-culverts-roads-in-agency-areas/article36727641.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 persons arrested for ‘stealing’ manganese ore from VPT yard||The crime wing of the city police arrested 10 persons, including a woman, who is said to be the kingpin, for allegedly stealing 250 tonnes of manganese ore from a yard belonging to the Visakhapatnam Port Trust here on Tuesday. The stolen ore is said to be worth around Rs. 35 lakh. According to Deputy Commissioner of police (Crime) V. Suresh Babu, the case was taken up after Synergy Shipping Private limited had lodged a complaint on September 24 stating that 250 tonnes of manganese ore was missing from the stockpile. The main kingpin have been identified as Challapalli Yellayyamma (38) wife of Appanna, a resident of Kobbarithota. ACP (Crime) Ch. Penta Rao, who led a 15-member team to crack the case, said that Yellayyamma has around 29 criminal cases pending and she is a habitual offender and have committed several such thefts of cargoes from the VPT yards, in the past. Abhijeet Ferro Alloys had imported around 3,645 tonnes of manganese ore on June 26, and had appointed Synergy shipping to handle the cargo. The shipping company had appointed Ravus Security and Housekeeping Agents to provide security at L-17 yard of VPT, where the cargo was stocked. After moving the cargo from the yard to the factory, when the final stock taking was done by Abhijeet Ferro Alloys, it was found that 250 tonnes of ore was missing from the leftover stock of 695 tonnes. “A complaint was filed and we took up the case. Based on CC TV footage and other evidences, we came to understand the cargo was moved by Yellayyamma and her gang by using three trucks supplied by one Abdul Rehaman, who is one of the arrested,” said Mr. Penta Rao. The cargo was stolen on three different dates and the trucks had made seven trips. One of the arrested Goriki Durga Rao, who worked as security guard at the yard, played a key role in helping Yellayyamma in stealing the ore. He reportedly took Rs. 10,000 for each load, said the ACP. The stolen cargo was transported Bobbili in Vizianagaram district, where it was unloaded in an open space. Except for the driver of one of the trucks, who is absconding, all the other 10, involved in the case have been arrested and the cargo has been retrieved, said Harbour Police Station Inspector M. Avataram, who also led the team with the ACP. The two trucks/ tippers and one loader used to load the cargo have also been seized.  The cargo was stolen on three days and the trucks had made seven trips. Goriki Durga Rao, who worked as security guard at the yard, played a key role in helping Yellayyamma in stealing the ore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-persons-arrested-for-stealing-manganese-ore-from-vpt-yard/article36727733.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heart patients need to be extra cautious: cardiologist||Heart patients need to be extra cautious during the pandemic time. While anyone can catch the COVID-19 infection, people with underlying heart conditions are likely to have a more severe infection than others, says N.V. Gourisankar Reddy, interventional cardiologist, KIMS ICON Hospital. “There are complaints that the viral infection could cause rupture of atherosclerotic plaques (fatty deposits) in the coronary arteries, leading to acute coronary syndromes (heart attack). Individuals who experience severe chest discomfort, during symptoms of coronavirus, should call the health care advice team immediately. Severe systemic inflammatory conditions may aggravate arrhythmias or even trigger atrial fibrillation in some individuals,” he says on the eve of World Heart Day on Tuesday. Social distancing People with heart ailments should avoid sick persons, keep two-metres distance from other individuals, whenever possible. Fresh vegetables A diet rich in fresh vegetables and fruit is generally recommended at all times and not just during COVID-19 to help the body maintain a working immune system. Fresh vegetables and fruits contain a much broader range of necessary nutrients than vitamin pills. Therefore, it is always better to eat a lot of fresh vegetables and fruit than trying to compensate with formulated nutrients. When taking formulated vitamins, please make sure your intake does not exceed the recommended daily dosage. Some vitamins might cause harm, if taken in too high doses, and some supplements could interact negatively with your heart medicines, he said. Dr. Reddy says that heart patients should continue their medications and if in doubt, one has to contact a doctor or nurse but the patients should not change the dosage on their own. Regular exercise, control of blood pressure and diabetes, managing stress and good sleep were some of the other lifestyle changes which heart patients should adopt, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heart-patients-need-to-be-extra-cautious-during-pandemic-cardiologist/article36727637.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired meteorologist flays slow IMD response||The ‘failure’ of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) to update the bulletins from time to time during Cyclone Gulab has drawn flak from a retired meteorologist. He has sent a letter through email to the Director General of IMD Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, wondering what prevented the IMD from issuing bulletins at regular intervals. The retired Meteorologist T. Krishna Bhagavanudu of Visakhapatnam noted in his letter that the official website of IMD, New Delhi, had issued the ‘All India Weather Summary and Forecast Bulletin’ at 8.45 p.m. on Sunday. The next bulletin of IMD was issued at 8.45 a.m. on Monday. This was 12 hours after the crossing of Cyclone Gulab, the previous night. He expressed disbelief that the IMD, with all the technology at its disposal, failed to issue bulletins after every couple of hours, at least during the cyclone. Local TV channels had already declared, early in the morning, that the Cyclone Gulab has already crossed. The public were in the clutches of the natural disaster and if, something happened to them, due to lack of information, who would be responsible for it, he questioned. He said that the facts should be made available to the public for the inordinate delay in the dissemination of cyclone information by the IMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/retired-meteorologist-flays-slow-imd-response/article36727638.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC rescues villager stranded in river||The helicopter crew of the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) rescued a villager who was stranded in the Suvarnamukhi River due to flash floods caused by heavy rain under the the impact of Cyclone Gulab, late on Monday night. The survivor has been identified as D. Simhachalam, aged around 40 years, a native of Venkatabhairavapalem village in Vizianagaram district. The ENC deployed an Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) from the INS Dega, after receiving an SOS from the government officials at around 5:30 p.m. on Monday. After arriving at the location, about 120 km from the INS Dega, the ALH could not trace the villager due to inclement weather and dark conditions. Subsequently, a Seaking 42C helicopter equipped with night vision facility was deployed to undertake the rescue mission at around 11 p.m. and it located the villager. Mr. Simhachalam was given first-aid after he was brought to the INS Dega. Later, he was shifted to the King George Hospital (KGH) for treatment. His family members were informed by the Naval Air Station. Mr. Simhachalam thanked the Navy for saving his life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enc-rescues-villager-stranded-in-river/article36727608.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flight simulator at INS Dega goes operational in Vizag||A state-of-the-art MiG-29K flight simulator has gone operational at INS Dega, on Monday. Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag-Officer Commanding in-chief of Eastern Naval Command, inaugurating it said that it is an important milestone towards setting up of the naval aviation facilities for the indigenously built Aircraft Carrier INS Vikrant, on the eastern seaboard. Effective training The flight simulator will aid in effective training of MiG-29K pilots on all possible types of combat flight missions in all weather conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flight-simulator-at-ins-dega-goes-operational-in-vizag/article36727723.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide drinking water to flood-hit areas: Minister||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao surveyed several flood-hit areas here on Wednesday morning to assess the situation. He instructed the officials to take relief works on a war-footing. Initially, he visited colonies at Yellapuvanipalem, near the airport, and spoke with locals about their issues. A few locals brought to his notice that due to increase in encroachment of drains, the flooding is occurring. They also informed the Minister that permissions are being given to several apartments without proper clearance and they do not even have proper drainage outlets. The Minister asked the officials to ensure that proper drinking water is being supplied to the areas and there should be no issues with electricity supply and that the drains are desilted. Later, he also checked the agricultural lands which were flooded with rainwater at Mucharla and Sirlapalem in Bheemunipatnam mandal. He also inspected the culvert which was washed away near Ananthavaram area in the same constituency. He has asked the officials to prepare reports regarding losses and also assured the farmers that the government would help them. Seasonal diseases Meanwhile, District Collector A Mallikarjuna conducted a teleconference with officials from various departments and instructed them to ensure that seasonal diseases do not spread after the rains. He cautioned them that there is a possibility of water stagnation due to the rains, which may lead to breeding of mosquitoes. The Collector instructed them to clear all places where water was found to be stagnated. He also asked the ANMs, volunteers and other sachivalayam staff to create awareness among people about seasonal diseases. He ordered the officials to send water tankers to the needy and also continue COVID-19 vaccination programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/provide-drinking-water-to-flood-hit-areas/article36727642.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive on sanitation today||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) will be organising a special sanitation drive to clear choked drains, canals and roads on Wednesday after Cylone Gulab, said GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana. She conducted a teleconference with the officials from various departments here on Tuesday. She said that debris and also uprooted trees in every ward should be cleared and immediately shifted to the dumping yard. She has asked officials from Engineering Department, Urban Community Development (UCD), Town Planning, Public Health departments to coordinate with each other and organise the drive. Malaria department staff, sachivalayam secretaries and volunteers should visit every house in their wards and create awareness about possible spread of seasonal diseases after the rains, she said. She suggested the officers to involve political representatives, corporators, NGOs and resident welfare associations in the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drive-on-sanitation-today/article36727728.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Train cancelled due to Cyclone Gulab||The late running of the pairing train has led to the cancellation of train no. 01019 CST Mumbai – Bhubaneswar special, leaving CST Mumbai on September 28. In the return direction, 01020 Bhubaneswar- CST Mumbai special, leaving Bhubaneswar on September 30 will be cancelled due to non-availability of rake. The following trains have been rescheduled in view of disruption of services due to Cyclone Gulab. Train no. 02874 Yesvantpur-Howrah special, scheduled to leave Yesvantpur on September 27, has been rescheduled to leave 10.15 a.m. on September 28 due to late running of the pairing train. The train No. 08048 Vasco da Gama-Howrah special, scheduled to leave Vasco Da Gama at 6.30 a.m. on September 28, is rescheduled to leave at 8.30 p.m. due to late running of the pairing train. Train no. 02610 Tirupati – Santragachi special, scheduled to leave Tirupati at 8.05 p.m. on September 27 is rescheduled to 11.05 a.m. on September 28. Train no.02822 Chennai Central-Howrah special train, scheduled to leave at 7:15 p.m. on September 27 is rescheduled to 3.30 p.m. on September 28. Train no. 02874 Yesvantpur-Howrah special, scheduled to leave Yesvantpur station at 10:15 a.m. on September 28 is rescheduled to leave at 3 p.m. on September 28 due to the late running of the pairing train. Train no. 02246 Yesvantpur-Howrah special, scheduled to leave Yesvantpur station at 11 a.m. on September 28 is rescheduled to leave at 5 a.m. on September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/train-cancelled-due-to-cyclone-gulab/article36727606.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Christian forum alleges violations in filling up of co-opted posts under minority quota||The Andhra Pradesh Christian Leaders Forum State Chairman Oliver Rayi has alleged gross violation in appointing members to the co-opted posts in the quota meant for minorities in the Mandal Praja Parishad elections in Visakhapatnam district. These positions were offered to those who produced fake Baptismal certificates overnight, depriving Christian minorities, he said. Mr. Oliver said that these posts should be filled only with Christians by birth in this minority quota. Giving the posts to those who have acquired fake certificates was not only injustice to the Christian community, but also circumvention of law by the politicians concerned, he alleged. He alleged that about 14 nominations to the MPP post in Visakhapatnam district were made under questionable and fraudulent means and it seemed that the government officials too were pressurised to act under duress. He said that some of the nominations made under Christian Minority category were: Bonda Appalaraju (Kapu) from Anakapalli, Chepala Sriramulu (fisherman community) from Atchutapuram, Kakara Ellarao (Setti Baliji) from Bheemili and Kolimela Atchinaidu (Turpu Kapu) from Buthchayyapeta. Mr. Oliver Rayi demanded that an inquiry be conducted into these appointments and stern action be taken against those responsible for it. Such actions by the government would create a distrust between the community and the government, he said. The Christian community was facing a lot of unnecessary criticism that they were involved in conversions, with political support and for political gain. It would also imply that government by itself was encouraging conversions by luring them with posts such as these, he said and added that the very purpose of such reservations was defeated and the government should cancel these nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/christian-forum-alleges-violations-in-filling-up-of-co-opted-posts-under-minority-quota/article36727722.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed||A delicate surgery was performed on a 31-year-old pregnant lady with 9 months gestation at the Victoria Government Hospital(VGH), here, recently. She underwent surgery for ovarian cancer in 2019 at Hyderabad. They removed the diseased ovary and it was diagnosed as Dysgerminoma (ovarian cancer). This was her first pregnancy, and she was advised ultra sound. A Caesarian section was done and she delivered a female baby with weight of 2.8 kg, followed by Radical Hysterectomy, both mother and baby are healthy, and chemotherapy was planned after discharge, according to a statement issued by the hospital on Tuesday. The surgery was done by the 4th unit team of doctors. They are Vanaja, Associate Professor of Gynaecology, Raghavendra, Surgical Oncologist, Sharmila, Assistant Professor, and Madhuri, Anaesthetist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-surgery-performed/article36727724.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gurram Jashuva remembered||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao garlanded the statue of noted poet Gurram Jashuva on the occasion of his 125th birth anniversary, on Beach Road, here on Tuesday. He said that Jashuva had strove hard for improving the lives of weaker sections. He had made a place for himself in the hearts of the Telugu people, the Minister said. The State government has been observing his birth anniversary as a State festival every year. He had also served as a Member of Legislative Council, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. The called upon youth to draw inspiration from the poet. AP Official Language Commission Chairman Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, VMRDA Chairperson A. Vijaya Nirmala, Director of the Department of Culture Mallikarjuna Rao, Joint Collector Arun Babu, Chairperson of AP State Creativity and Culture Commission Vangapandu Usha, DRO Srinivasa Murthy and RDO Penchala Kishore participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gurram-jashuva-remembered/article36727639.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Events lined up for World Wildlife Week||On the occasion of World Wildlife Week-2021 (October 2 to 8), the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park is going to organise various events for wildlife lovers, said Curator Nandani Salaria. On October 8, Vizag Zoo Wildlife Run will be conducted for nature lovers. Anyone can participate in this run, she said. She said that short film/documentary competition on the theme of ‘Wildlife Conservation’ and photography competition will be held. Enthusiasts can short films to mail id events.igzp@gmail.com through Google Drive. For more details about short film competition, interested can follow zoo on social media "@vizagzoo"||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/events-lined-up-for-world-wildlife-week/article36727727.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two persons dead and one missing, says Collector||The district administration has prepared the initial damage assessment report after heavy rains and strong winds hit Visakhapatnam under the influence of Cyclone Gulab. According to District Collector A. Mallikarjuna, 244 villages in 30 mandals were hit by the cyclone. He said that as many as 28,636 people were affected. Two persons were killed and one had gone missing, he said. About 8,250 hectares of agricultural lands were damaged due to the rains and floods. Around 355 km of public roads, 1,385 km of water pipelines and 198 street lights were damaged. A total of 135 houses were also damaged, he said on Tuesday. Dr. Mallikarjuna said that the administration has set up 28 rehabilitation centres. As many as 10,512 persons were shifted to these centres. As of now, 2,160 persons are present in these centres, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-persons-dead-and-one-missing-says-collector/article36727730.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricket matches postponed||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) under-19 women’s matches, which were earlier scheduled from September 28 to October 4, have now been postponed because of the persistent rains. The matches are rescheduled from September 30 to October 4, with the same fixtures without any rest days in between. All the three venues, Dr. YSR ACA VDCA stadium, Vizag, Railway Ground, Vizag, and Dr. PVG Raju ACA Sports Complex, Vizianagaram, have made the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cricket-matches-postponed/article36727732.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 42 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 52 COVID-19 affected persons have recovered and 42 new cases were recorded in the district in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The cumulative tally has increased to 1,57,067. The death toll stands at 1,088 as no death related to coronavirus was recorded in the last 48 hours. The recovery rate is hovering around 98.7 %, as the number of recoveries stands at 1,55,085. Active cases have reduced to 894.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-42-new-covid-19-cases/article36727729.ece
29 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy still missing||The 14-year-old Krishna Vamsi Reddy who had gone missing on Monday in a swamp in Sundarayya Colony under Steel Plant police station limits, is still untraced. The boy, a native of Sitanagaram area of Pedagantyada, had gone for fishing along with two of his friends on Monday afternoon and had reportedly gone missing, while venturing into waters to catch fish. Since Monday evening, local police with the support of NDRF teams from the steel plant have been involved in search operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-still-missing/article36727731.ece
29 September 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sell liquor through online first, JSP tells State govt.||Jana Sena Party(JSP) State Secretary Babu Paluru on Tuesday asked the State government to sell liquor through online before taking steps to sell movie tickets through online portal. Addressing the media here, he said that the government was trying to target JSP president and actor Pawan Kalyan by controlling the entire movie ticketing system. “The Ministers Perni Venkataramaiah, Botcha Satyanarayana and others are not worried about skyrocketing prices of petroleum products and essential goods. They are only worried about movie tickets. People who cannot afford will not go to movies but they can’t avoid buying rice, pulses, petrol and others. The Ministers should try to control prices of essential commodities instead of concentrating on Mr. Pawan Kalyan,” said Mr.Babu. BJP leaders Ravi Teja Lalisetty and S. Gangadhar said the JSP activists would give a befitting rely to all the Ministers and other leaders who were using unparliamentary language against Mr. Pawan Kalyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sell-liquor-through-online-first-jsp-tells-state-govt/article36727634.ece
29 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trafficking a major challenge for society, says Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Tribal Welfare Pamula Pushpa Sreevani on Tuesday said that human trafficking had become a major challenge for society, with fraudsters targeting gullible women. She formally released anti-human trafficking posters at her camp office located in Chinamerangi village of Kurupam constituency. The new legislation ‘Trafficking in Persons (Prevention, Care and Rehabilitation) Act-2021 would be a boon for society to fight the trafficking of women and children. Integrated Rural People Welfare Association (IRPWA) president P.K. Prakasha Rao said that an awareness programme would be organised on October 2 in Vizianagaram to spread the message about the salient features of the new Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trafficking-a-major-challenge-for-society-says-deputy-cm/article36727636.ece
29 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||World Heart Day rally today||Collector A. Surya Kumari and Superintendent of Police M. Deepika Patil will flag off ‘Use Heart to Connect’ rally on Wednesday at Fort Junction of Vizianagaram on the occasion of World Heart Day. Several doctors, representatives of various medical organisations will participate in the rally which would culminate at near RTC Complex. Both the officials will participate in Cardiac Health Awareness Programme to be held at a private hospital to make people to be aware of the heart problems and preventive measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/world-heart-day-rally-today/article36727632.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A stitch in time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-stitch-in-time/article36727107.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Silver lining||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/silver-lining/article36727644.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-woes/article36727717.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vagaries of nature||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vagaries-of-nature/article36727610.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dr. Uday Kumar elected executive member of IOS||Uday Kumar Digumarthi of Sri Lalitha’s Super Speciality Dental Hospital has been elected as an executive committee member of Indian Orthodontic Society (IOS) at the 55th Indian Orthodontic Conference in Amritsar recently. A professor in the Department of Orthodontics at Anil Neerukonda Institute of Dental Sciences, Dr. Uday Kumar has been elected twice consecutively as executive committee member of the Indian Orthodontic Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dr-uday-kumar-elected-executive-member-of-ios/article36727725.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dammaiguda’s cup of woes overflows, thick in leachate||Rain water mixed with leachate and sewage is the bounty several colonies in Dammaiguda municipality are blessed with whenever the skies open up. On Monday, they woke up to streets-turned-streams, thickened by dark oil-like substance which floated on the water. As the day progressed, the colour of the water lightened to red-brown in which children frolicked, blissfully unaware of the consequences. Thousands of residents here were besieged not only by slimy water, but also by the all pervasive stench emanating from the dump yard at Jawaharnagar very close to the location, from where leachate entered the water giving it the colour and body.  “This is the story every time it rains, but the water is especially dark this time. We are apprehensive that it may pollute our ground water eventually,” said M. Balaram, resident of Anjanadri Nagar Colony. Last year’s horror It was first in 2016 when he saw the colony inundated. Flooding persisted for a whole fortnight then, he recalled. Last year during the October floods, rain water entered homes and damaged household goods and appliances. Residents had to climb to the higher floors to save themselves. “This year too, water came up to waist level. We could not sleep the whole night and were prepared to leave if the situation worsened,” Mr. Balaram related, showing the rash that he developed on his hands after trying to work the manhole cover. “I kept messaging the municipal authorities since 3.30 a.m., asking them to drain the water. They instead asked us to vacate homes and shift to safer locations immediately, as there was risk of lake breach,” said G. Chandramohan, president of the Sri Sai Enclave. The scourge of leachate mixed water flowing from Dammaiguda Lake torments several localities here, including MLR Colony, PS Rao Colony, Anjanadri Colony, LSR Colony, VSN Homes, Satyanarayana Colony, and Karmika Nagar. All the open plots in these localities are filled with greasy water, portending a disease outbreak. ‘Deliberate spill’ Residents allege that the management of the Jawahar Nagar dump site takes cover under rain to let the leachate from Nallacheruvu downstream. “They create a breach in Nallacheruvu to let the polluted water downstream, which enters Dammaiguda Lake. In order to divert the flood water, residents of an unauthorised settlement close by create a breach in the bund of the Dammaiguda Lake which inundates our area,” alleged K.Srinivasa Sharma, an office-bearer of the newly elected Anjanadri Nagar Colony Welfare Association. Whether breached or not, it is everybody’s knowledge that the leachate originating from the legacy dump at the Jawahar Nagar facility flows down to Nallacheruvu, and during rains, the water swells in volume, and pollutes Dammaiguda Lake downstream. Adding to the existing woes is the increasing mass of sewage from colonies burgeoning all around, which is invariably dumped in the storm water drains. “A proposal has been sanctioned for bigger pipelines six months ago. We request the authorities to begin the works as soon as possible,” Mr. Sharma said.  I kept messaging the municipal authorities since 3.30 a.m., asking them to drain the water. They instead asked us to shift to safer locations. G. Chandramohan, A local resident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dammaigudas-cup-of-woes-overflows-thick-in-leachate/article36727412.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala contest set to gain momentum||The much-awaited bypoll for the Huzurabad Assembly constituency will be held on October 30 and the results would be announced on November 2. The Election Commission of India issued the notification on Tuesday for bypolls to several Assembly and Parliament constituencies across the country including Huzurabad. The bypoll was necessitated with the resignation of former Health Minister, Eatala Rajender from the Assembly after he was dismissed by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao from his Cabinet on charges of ‘land grabbing'. He later joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and is likely to be its candidate. The ruling TRS has announced the name of its student’s wing president Gellu Srinivas Yadav as its candidate while the Congress is yet to finalise its nominee. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Left parties are also likely to field their candidates. The elections have already raked up enough heat with accusations and counter-accusations by both BJP and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). The contest, however, is being seen between Mr. Rajender and Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao as it is believed that personal differences between them have actually led to the bypoll. The government has been on an offensive both politically and administratively to ensure Mr. Rajender’s defeat at any cost. The announcement of Dalit Bandhu scheme where every Scheduled Caste family will be provided a grant of Rs. 10 lakh by the government is being seen in this backdrop. Since Huzurabad has been chosen as the pilot for the project, it is evident that the government wants to gain maximum mileage out of it is the criticism from the opposition. After the schedule was announced, Mr. Rajender held a press conference and described it as a fight between the arrogance of the Chief Minister and the self-respect of the Huzurabad voters. He alleged that KCR and Mr. Harish Rao had violated all norms of democracy and misused power to target him but people would teach them a lesson. He said the police were threatening the BJP workers with false cases if they continued to sail with him while the officials were manipulating the voters list. “We will complain to the Election Commission,” he said adding that the BJP state president Bandi Sanjay’s rally would be held in Huzurabad on October 2. The campaign has reached the crescendo much before the dates were announced with Mr. Rajender visiting every village in the constituency seeking their support and evoking the sentiment that he was targeted for raising questions that irked the Chief Minister and his style of functioning. To counter the high voltage campaign the TRS has brought in its ever-dependable Finance Minister, T. Harish Rao to ensure that the ruling party had smooth sailing. He has been camping in the area holding series of meetings with caste groups and wooing the BJP cadre into the TRS fold. Mr Rajender has been trying to convince the voters that he was targetted by KCR as he did not compromise with his self-esteem and questioned the CM on certain government decisions. He claimed that he was seen as an obstacle to the elevation of KCR’s son and IT Minister, KT Rama Rao to the top post in the near future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-contest-set-to-gain-momentum/article36727434.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Provide relief to rain-hit ryots: HC||Telangana High Court on Tuesday instructed the State government to initiate measures within three months to enumerate and assess the crop losses suffered by farmers due to rains in September and October of 2020. Pronouncing verdict in a PIL petition, a bench of Acting Chief Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice T. Vinod Kumar also directed the government to extend assistance to ryots, including tenant farmers, in the form of agricultural input subsidy within a month of enumeration of crop loss. The subsidy for this can secured from National or State Disaster Response Fund (NDRF/SDRF) under National Disaster Management Act-2005. The government should also take steps to give additional and appropriate relief to small and marginal farmers who suffered massive economic loss due to absence of crop insurance coverage within four months. The petitioners wanted the government to provide relief to farmers who lost crops during heavy rains in 2020 and complained that inaction of the government in enlightening agriculturists about crop insurance scheme cost them dearly. The bench observed that State government cannot deny input subsidy to farmers who lost crops due to rains citing its Rythu Bandhu scheme, which offers Rs. 10,000 per year per acre, as an alternative. The government’s scheme gives benefits only to landowner farmers even if they did not suffer any crop loss. The bench also recalled that agriculture input subsidy to the tune of Rs. 22 crore was given to farmers in addition to Rythu Bandhu scheme in payment following the HC order in a PIL petition connected to crop losses. It was the duty of the State government to inform the farmers through extension facilities about Prime Minister’s Fasal Bima Yojana, the bench said. Since the scheme was being made voluntary in year 2021, the farmers may opt for the scheme by paying their own money, the bench said in its order. A letter of the Accountant General of the State dated this May 21 said Rs. 2,581.16 crore were available with the SDRF by April 1, 2020. “When such substantial funds were available... it was not proper for Telangana government to contend that no assistance was given to it by the Centre for providing relief to the farmers,” the bench said. The bench rejected the State government’s contention that it initially imagined huge loss due to rains in 2020 based on preliminary estimates and that ultimately it was found that no farmer suffered crop loss in excess of 33%. The bench pointed out that Telangana government sent final estimate of crop loss on October 19 to the Central government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/provide-relief-to-rain-hit-ryots-hc/article36727431.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||15 groups formed to assess 185 lakes in GHMC, HMDA limits||The Irrigation Department has formed 15 flood managements groups (FMGs) comprising engineers of the department and headed by Superintending Engineers (SEs) on Tuesday to take all precautionary measures to protect 185 lakes, tanks and ponds of the department in GHMC and HMDA limits. The groups have been mandated to assess the conditions such as damages and breaches occurred and precautions and preventive measures to be taken for the protection of those water bodies. Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar said the groups would inspect all the lakes and ponds allocated to them and submit their report to the government along with recommendations within two days. Further, the groups have been told to submit daily report to Engineer-in-Chief (General) and Chief Engineer, Hyderabad. The CE Hyderabad would allocate the areas to the 15 groups. The groups would be headed by SEs of Sangareddy, Irrigation Chevella, CADA, TSIDC, Bhongir, WALAMTARI, Irrigation Hyderabad, O&M, CDO, Siddipet, Quality Control Hyderabad, Mechanical Hyderabad and Lakes Hyderabad. Meanwhile, Mr. Rajat Kumar also had a video-conference with all engineers till Assistant Executive Level (Irrigation) in the State and reviewed the situation arising out of heavy rainfall over the last few days. All CEs reported that the situation was under control and no damages or major problems were reported. The CEs informed the Special Chief Secretary that a few breaches were reported but they were being attended on war-footing. The engineers were told to maintain constant vigil and utilise their delegated financial powers to attend any emergency work. People have also been requested to report any damages they notice to irrigation structures to the flood control room 040-23390794.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/15-groups-to-assess-185-lakes-in-ghmc-hmda/article36727408.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NIMS cardiologists perform rare surgery||A 56-year-old woman from Kamareddy suffering from a rare condition underwent surgery at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) here. The patient had breathlessness and rapid heartbeat for the past six month with NIMS cardiologists stating it is rare for a person to suffer from three conditions together — Mitral Valve Stenosis, Wolff Parkinson White (WPW) syndrome along with Left Atrial Flutter. Usually, one team each perform surgeries or medical procedures on each of the conditions. However, Professor and Head of Unit-1 in cardiology department of the hospital, O. Sai Satish said only one team led by him addressed the medical conditions in a single surgery on September 17. The patient was discharged on Saturday. Breathlessness The Mitral Valve Stenosis led to breathlessness in the patient while WPW syndrome elevated her heart beat to around 250-300 per minute against the normal rate of around 75 beats per minute . Balloon Valvotomy was performed to relieve stenosis in the mitral valve, 3D mapping along with radio-frequency ablation was used to address left atrial flutter and left sided WPW syndrome. These surgeries were performed free of cost under the Aarogyasri Health Scheme of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nims-cardiologists-perform-rare-surgery/article36727414.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Alert sounded for Musi River||A large quantity of surplus water arriving into the twin reservoirs is being let downstream into River Musi following heavy downpour in the catchment areas. Six flood gates of the Osmansagar reservoir and 10 gates of Himayatsagar have been lifted to let out 2,100 cusecs and 7,700 cusecs of water, respectively. While four gates of the Osmansagar had already been lifted by two feet on Monday night, they were further lifted to three feet on Tuesday morning, apart from two more gates being lifted to the same height. With regard to Himayatsagar, only two gates were lifted by one foot on Monday night. On Tuesday, eight more gates were lifted phase-wise, all by two feet, and the height of the earlier two gates was increased to three feet, in order to cope with the 5,000 cusecs of inflows.  Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board has alerted the Revenue administrations of Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and Police about the possibility of floods in Musi river, so that residents of the surrounding areas could be shifted to safer locations. The road leading to the causeway on Musi river in Amberpet was barricaded near Musarambagh crossroads, as a precautionary measure. Contrary to forecast, the city experienced a relatively dry Tuesday. A few areas such as Madhapur, Cherlapally, Kapra, Borabanda and Srinagar Colony recorded rainfall of 2-2.5 mm. The GHMC, through a press statement, informed that about 200 families in the low-lying areas of Mehdipatnam have been supplied food from Annapurna canteens, and 60 families in Musarambagh have been shifted to rehabilitation centres with food and drinking water provisions. GHMC control room received 448 complaints on Monday and Tuesday, of which 37 were made on Tuesday, the statement said. A majority of the complaints were about water stagnation and tree falls, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alert-sounded-for-musi-river/article36727406.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Respite from rain after Monday’s battering||After bettering almost entire Telangana during the 24-hour period till 8.30 am on Tuesday, there was some respite from rain with a highest of 25 mm rain recorded at Ailapur in Jagtial district from 8.30 am to 9 pm on Tuesday. However, the impact of Monday’s very heavy to extremely heavy rain was still visible on Tuesday too. According to the Met department, a highest of nearly 22.6 cm rain was recorded at Jakranpalle in Nizamabad district during the 24-hour period till 8.30 am Tuesday followed by 21 cm at Navipet and over 20.9 cm at Dharpalle, both in Nizamabad district. At another 38 places, the rainfall recorded was in the range of 10 cm and 18.3 cm in Nizamabad, Rajanna-Sircilla, Kamareddy, Nirmal, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Jagtial, Peddapalli, Mulugu, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Khammam districts. At another 10 places the rainfall recorded was between 9 cm and 9.9 cm and at another 90 places in the range of 5 cm to 8.9 cm. Rains for the last few days and heavy rains on Monday both within the State and in the neighbouring States such as Maharashtra and Karnataka have kept heavy inflows into major projects with Sriramsagar project discharging 4 lakh cusecs from the spillway and the inflow was 3.25 lakh cusecs. The rains have also kept the flows into a large number of minor irrigation tanks and medium irrigation projects. According to Irrigation department officials, nearly half (49.13%) or 21,552 out of 43.870 tanks, were discharging surplus water, another 30.7% (13,451) have water over three-fourths of their capacity but below surplus level and 9% (3,954) tanks have water over half capacity but below three-fourths capacity. Another 2,771 tanks (6.32%) have water over one-fourths of their capacity but below half and the remaining 2,142 (4.9%) have water up to one-fourths of their capacity. A majority of the 36 medium irrigation projects were discharging surplus water. Against their capacity of 62.12 tmc ft, they were holding 57.78 tmc ft on Tuesday morning. Cumulative inflows into them were at 2,34,755 cusecs and the outflows were at 2,58,585 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/respite-from-rain-after-mondays-battering/article36727430.ece
29 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Climate change poses significant threat of urban flooding: research||An extreme rainfall event due to climate change can cover 80 to 90% of Panjagutta area, according to research on impact of climate change on urban floods in Hyderabad. The research by BITS-Pilani, Hyderabad-campus scholar Vemula Swathi under K. Srinivasu Raju’s guidance shows how the city will be impacted as heavy rainfall events become inevitable due to climate change. According to the author, the study covered stormwater drain network, modelling historic and extreme rainfall events, impact of future climate change and formulation of mitigation measures that urban planners can adopt. The modelling also showed the impact on river Musi. “Results showed that changing rainfall and land use and land cover increased peak run-off by three times, and flood depth in river will increase by 22% from 1995 to 2031.  In 2016, 48% of the city was highly vulnerable and in 2031, 51% of the city will be so,” says the research paper. The author suggests five detention ponds to combat increasing run-off reducing the high vulnerable area by 8% in 2016 and 9% in 2031. “We wanted to prepare the ground work for policy makers to deploy strategies in managing future floods. Water is a boon. In the short term, it can cause damage but if we can save water, it will help us in the long run,” says Mr Srinivas Raju, who is leading the Information Technology Research Academy-sponsored project to study urban flooding and its impact. “We are coming up with strategies to soak up water and reduce run-off. In the GHMC limits, we have 75-80% built-up area. Our suggestion is to tap these impervious surfaces and harvest rain water,” informs R. Madhuri, who is currently doing the research with Mr. Raju. Hyderabad is no stranger to flood havoc having seen the Musi terror on September 28, 1908, and floods in August 2000 when 240-mm rainfall was logged in 24-hour span, and in October 2020, the city received 192 mm rain. “As scientists are linking heavy rainfall events to climate change, we have used hydrology modelling and Global Climate Model to design how future run-offs can be managed. The investment may be high initially but it will be repaid within 15 years,” says Mr. Raju about the expansion of stormwater drains as well as developing new water harvesting structures across the city. Existing stormwater network (SWN) is inadequate to carry run-off from future extreme daily rainfall of 431 mm, 564 mm and 693 mm. A huge capacity building (i.e. doubling the conveyance of existing SWN) is required to transmit the run-off from such events, predict the engineers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/climate-change-poses-significant-threat-of-urban-flooding-research/article36727404.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Research on COVID gets CCMB’s award||Before SARS-CoV-2 pandemic hit the nation, CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB)’s scientist Divya Tej Sowpati was into genome sequencing and research of the common fruit fly or the ‘Drosophila’. “Never handled the viruses before so it brought forth new challenges,” he said, on Tuesday. But then, he and his team’s pioneering work in sequencing, analysing and tracking the coronavirus variants got him the prestigious ‘CSIR Young Scientist Award’ for biological sciences at the hands of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, in the presence of Union Minister for Science & Technology Dr Jitender Singh and CSIR DG Shekhar C. Mande in New Delhi. A post graduate in zoology from Sri Venkateshwara University, Tirupati, Dr. Sowpati wanted to be a doctor but meandered into scientific research with special interest in genetic and epigenetics. He did his PhD from Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics/University of Hyderabad in 2012 and started his own independent group at Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology in early 2019. “I was always interested in computer programming and this has helped in my research,” he said. Ever since the pandemic broke out, the scientist and his team had found variants such as A3i for first time in the country, studied how gradually this was taken over by new dominant variants such as A2a, mutations in different variants and compared them with global ones to identify any reason for worry. “We are on par with rest of the world as far as COVID-19 genome analysis is concerned and we can do much better on data generation,” observed Dr. Sowpati, also involved in sequencing more than 10,000 viral genomes, and analysing more than 60,000 viral genomes to understand the viral evolution. This helped Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology’s efforts in genome surveillance through Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) of 28 labs. “We have been fortunate to be a part of COVID-19 mitigation efforts as it gave us an opportunity to utilize our skillsets and knowledge towards a societally relevant work. This award goes to my team, family, friends, colleagues, and mentors for their support and encouragement,” he said. CCMB Director Dr Vinay K Nandicoori hailed the award and said: “Dr Sowpati is a very talented young scientist and an example of what young researchers like him can achieve with right kind of facilities and ambiance”. ‘Dry swab-based one-step COVID-19 testing method’ developed by the institute was also awarded the ‘Certificate of Merit’ in CSIR’s Technology Award, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/research-on-covid-gets-ccmbs-award/article36727167.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clock 10,000 steps for 10 days to help ailing children||Aster Volunteers, the corporate social responsibility arm of Aster DM Healthcare, will launch a 10-day campaign where Rs. 100 would be donated for every 10,000 steps taken by a participant, with the money then going towards funding heart surgeries of less privileged children. According to a press release, the campaign would be launched on World Heart Day on September 29, spread over 10 days from 5 a.m. onwards, till October 8. The aim of the campaign is to encourage people to walk for better heart health, while also providing them the opportunity to help with a good cause. The programme is open to all. Those interested to participate can pre-register themselves on ‘https://heart2heart.astervolunteers.com/’. They can also spot-register at the kiosk booth set up at Krishnakanth Park, KLM Park, KBR Park and Vengal Rao Park. “Further, anyone can take part in this activity without being present at the aforementioned venues also. Those interested can register, walk or run, record their steps on their own gadgets or smartphones and share the total step count on the last day through screenshots ataster.volunteers@ asterdmhealthcare.com,” the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clock-10000-steps-for-10-days-to-help-ailing-children/article36727415.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three men involved in moral policing arrested||Three men who were involved in a moral policing incident in Bazar Ghat, Nampally, on Sunday evening were arrested by the Hyderabad Police. They objected when a young girl was pillion riding with a boy from a different faith. One more alleged vigilante is yet to be caught. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) P Viswa Prasad said that based on a religious cloth tied to their bike, a passer-by accosted them and questioned their identity. More people gathered. “We checked the CCTV footage. The boy was slapped twice. The girl was made to get down the bike and board an auto. He was let off in ten minutes,” the DCP Viswa Prasad said. After a video has reached the police, they started to enquire and traced the boy based on the registration number of the bike and took details of the incident. Cases were registered under IPC Sections 295A, 341, 323, 509 read with section 34.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-involved-in-moral-policing-arrested/article36727417.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘I am the brand ambassador of poor’||Telangana State BJP chief and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar said he is going to be the “ambassador” of the poor people denied double bedroom housing, for farmers whose loans were not waived and that of the Dalits who did not get the CM’s post and three acres of the land as promised by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government. “Yes, am going to be the ambassdor for all these people till this corrupt government is ousted,” he said on Tuesday, in a counter to Minister for IT, Industries and Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao sarcastic remarks in the Legislative Assembly on his programme. Addressing public meetings at Bejjanki in Siddipet district on the 32nd day of ‘Praja Sangram Yatra’, he charged the government with not compensating a single farmer for their crop loss in the last seven years. Farmers have been facing several problems and loss to their crops but this government failed to mitigate their woes and did not bother to implement the ‘Fasal Bhima Yojana’ of Modi government where they could have secured financial relief. “I want Chief Minister to show any proof of receiving any letter about the Centre refusing to buy rice from Telangana farmers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-am-brand-ambassador-of-poor/article36727432.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speciality materials vital for new missile systems, says expert||The country will need a large requirement of speciality materials as advancements in missiles progresses and high-performance high temperature materials will be necessary as the speed of the missiles increase from supersonic to hypersonic, said Director-General, Missiles and Strategic Systems,-DRDO B.H.V.S. Narayana Murthy on Monday. He emphasized the importance of strategic materials stating that they form the basis for any missile programme and hence, its timely availability will help complete projects within the scheduled time. He was participating in a panel discussion on ‘Building Resilience Together – Strategic Materials’ organised by MIDHANI. Mr. Murthy said there has been significant improvement in material supply from indigenous sources like MIDHANI and there is need to extend all the support that is needed. The panel discussion was moderated by Project Director at Defence Research and Development Laboratory (DRDL) Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Missile Complex, DRDO, Jaiteerth Raghavendra Joshi, DRDL Director Dasarath Ram, BDL Chairman and Managing Director Siddharth Mishra and other senior officials. MIDHANI CMD Sanjay Kumar Jha elaborated about the strategic materials in the country and the necessity for right infrastructure and testing facilities to be augmented to meet the future growing demand of strategic materials like ferrous, non-ferrous metals and alloys, composites, and additive manufacturing, a press release said. The discussions put forward several ideas and strategies that need to be adopted to bring about resiliency of supply chains, strengthening and supporting indigenisation of materials thereby reducing the dependence on ‘certain nations’ or ‘over reliance’ on a single nation, supplier, etc. Mitigation strategies were put forward such as identifying alternative sources for these raw materials, entering strategic partnerships with suppliers, long term contracts, stock piling, etc were discussed. It was decided each of the organisations should be proactive and address these risks soon to build a robust resilient material supply chain for the Indian missile program.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speciality-materials-vital-for-new-missile-systems-says-expert/article36727646.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad-Bengaluru road traffic disrupted||For the second year in a row, the Hyderabad-Bengaluru traffic flow was disrupted for a few hours due to the overflowing water of Appacheruvu in the southern part of the city. Traffic was partially restored at 10 a.m. after police turned the one-way road into two-way, clearing the blocked vehicular traffic. The lake water blocked the Hyderabad-Airport road while the Airport-Hyderabad road was functional. Earlier in the day, Hyderabad police asked motorists to use the Outer Ring Road to reach the airport. The Appacheruvu, which broke its bank on Monday night, is a small water body between the Jalpally lake and Premavathi Lake. A new overbridge is being constructed in Gaganpahad area and has remained incomplete over the past two years leading to vehicular congestion on one of the busiest stretches of highway that links Hyderabad to the airport at Shamshabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-bengaluru-road-traffic-disrupted/article36727410.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AI tool to predict risk of cardiovascular disease||An Artificial Intelligence (AI) powered tool to predict risk of cardiovascular disease was launched by Apollo Hospitals on Tuesday. Physicians can use the risk assessment tool to deliver proactive, pre-emptive and preventive care for at-risk individuals, improving lives while mitigating future pressure on healthcare systems. It delivers CVD risk score using algorithms specifically for the Indian population and helps in developing standardised care regimens. The risk is categorised into three categories: high, moderate and minimal. Besides, it gives insights on the risk contributors that can be modified to improve the score. Those interested to undergo the assessment can walk into Apollo Hospitals and pay Rs. 200. Apart from physicians at the corporate hospitals group, physicians at government and private hospitals can access the AI-powered tool by sending their details to infoaicvd@ apollohospitals.com Dr. Prathap C Reddy, Chairman, Apollo Hospitals Group said that while some predictive tools do exist to help physicians understand the probability of their patients developing heart disease, most of these are based on Western data sets. “This impacts their accuracy when applied in an Indian context. The Apollo AI-powered Cardiovascular Disease Risk tool will change,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ai-tool-to-predict-risk-of-cardiovascular-disease/article36727416.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Atal Incubation Centre invites ideas from young entrepreneurs||A new enzyme for developing a new antibiotic, stress management in pets by analysing their stools and a potential anti-malarial drug/vaccine — all by CSIR-CCMB scientists Manjula Reddy, Umapath and Puran Singh Sijwali — are entrepreneurial projects being incubated at the Atal Incubation Centre (AIC)-CCMB with infrastructural facilities and funds. AIC is open to new ideas from young entrepreneurs in the field of biological sciences for mentoring and nurturing, said chief executive officer and consultant scientist N. Madhusudana Rao in a live interaction over the weekend. Participating in the institute’s ‘Open Day’, Dr. Rao said AIC is ready to ready to “listen to any young entrepreneurs with even half baked ideas” as beginners are also helped in scaling up of an idea, making prototypes, taking approvals, intellectual property rights and connecting with the investing agencies. Close to 50 startups were incubated in this facility set up four years ago with help of NITI-Aayog and 28 startups are currently functioning, fine-tuning their research plus business plans. Under the accelerated development to combat COVID-19, eight startups are being supported, including a firm trying to make diagnostic kits without a single import component. While there has been an ongoing programme on finding various methods for adult healthcare, a new programme on maternal and child health care is about to be launched for which project proposals are welcome. More details in this regard are available on ‘https://aic.ccmb.res.in/’. The new diabetic-friendly variety of Sambha Masuri rice developed by the CCMB in association with the Indian Rice Research Institute and National Institute of Nutrition will soon be available in the market with technology being made available to some firms, said senior scientist Hitendra Kumar Patel on ‘Innovations to Help Farmers’. The improved variety seeds have been shared with 10,000 farmers and it is being grown on 7 lakh hectares in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand. Better rice varieties giving higher yields, early maturation, ability tp withstand drought, floods, etc., are under various stages of research, he added. The institute is also working on new lab-based anti-venom testing to avoid animal exploitation and ensure it is affordable and easier to access for rural masses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/atal-incubation-centre-invites-ideas-from-young-entrepreneurs/article36727428.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman dies in accident||A 31-year-old woman died after a container lorry ran over her in Quthbullapur on Tuesday early morning. The woman, Vijitha, is a resident of Quthbullapur. Jeedimetla police sub-inspector K. Goutham said that she was heading to a yoga session on a bike and overtook the heavy vehicle. However, she fell down and the lorry ran over her leading to her instantaneous death. The driver of the heavy vehicle is absconding. Couple ends life A couple from Ananthapur, Andhra Pradesh, ended their life by coming under a train in Mellacheruvu, Gadwal, Telangana. The couple are from Dharmavaram. In case of any emotional breakdown, there is always someone to listen at Roshni-Suicide prevention helpline +914066202000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-dies-in-accident/article36727650.ece
29 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Don’t insult TS people: TRS||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) took strong objection to BJP State president Bandi Sanjay’s remarks that the Telangana people have been turned into beggars by the government and demanded that the remarks be withdrawn immediately. At a press conference here, Government Whip Balka Suman, MLA Nannapaneni Narender and MLC Shambhipur Raju said the contents of Mr. Sanjay’s letter to the Chief Minister were false, misleading and derogatory and insulted the people of Telangana. Mr. Suman said Mr. Sanjay was trying to get into media headlines due to poor response to his ongoing walkathon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-insult-ts-people-trs/article36727436.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gunners Day observed with great fervour||The 195th Gunners’ Day was celebrated at Artillery Centre, commemorating the raising of the first modern artillery unit — 5 (Bombay) Mountain Battery in 1827 — with traditional zeal and fervour. Commandant Jaydeep Yadav laid a wreath at the AOC war memorial in a solemn ceremony and paid homage to the gallant soldiers of the regiment of artillery who gave the supreme sacrifice for the nation. Artillery, with its modern state-of-art weapon systems including guns, missiles and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), has emerged as a major battle-winning factor. From conventional wars to border skirmishes and counter-insurgency operations, the gunners by their value and sacrifice have created a niche for themselves, he said. Earlier, a commemorative run and a blood donation camp organised by the Red Cross Society and MNJ cancer hospital was held with the Golconda Gunners donating 100 units of blood, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gunners-day-observed-with-great-fervour/article36727647.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||220 more COVID cases||Telangana has recorded 220 COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 6,65,504. While 44,200 samples were put to test, results of 1,492 were awaited. One more COVID patient has died. The new 220 cases include 80 from GHMC, 21 from Karimnagar, 13 from Khammam, 12 each from Medchal-Malkajgiri and Nalgonda. No infection was detected in Nirmal, Narayanpet, KB Asifabad, and Bhupalapally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/220-more-covid-cases-in-state/article36727418.ece
29 September 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong wants action against policemen who ‘mistreated’ Prof.Kodandaram||Telangana Congress has demanded action against the policemen who allegedly ill-treated Telangana Jana Samiti (TJS) president, M. Kodandaram tearing his clothes while arresting him to prevent his participation in Bharat Bandh. TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy said the Chief Minister should apologise to Mr. Kodandaram for the police behaviour. It was not an insult just to the former OU professor but also the entire Telangana community. In a separate statement, TPCC Campaign Committee Chairman, Madhu Yaskhi Goud said the government in the combined Andhra Pradesh and Andhra leaders too treated him with respect even when he conducted the Million March and “Sagara Haram” at Tank Bund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-wants-action-against-policemen-who-mistreated-profkodandaram/article36727435.ece
29 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Huge damage in Khammam district||As cyclonic storm-induced rains took a break in most parts of the district on Tuesday, the heavy rains that lashed the district under the influence of cyclone Gulab on Monday left vast tracts of agricultural fields inundated and various stretches of the highways badly damaged. Crops in around 3,170 acres were inundated due to waterlogging caused by the heavy rains that battered many parts of the district on Monday, according to preliminary estimates by the Agriculture Department. Nearly 2720 acres of paddy crops and 450 acres of cotton crops remained under a sheet of rainwater in various mandals across the district, the sources added. Wyra, Konijerla, Kusumanchi, Thallada, Mudigonda, Yerrupalem and Madhira mandals bore the brunt of the cyclone-induced downpour on Monday. Some parts of the district witnessed intermittent drizzle. Flood warning In Sangareddy, officials of Singur issued flood warning on Tuesday and lifted five gates as heavy floods were coming from Maharashtra. Presently there was 29 tmcft water in the reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huge-damage-in-khammam-district/article36727658.ece
29 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Heavy flood expected to Singur||Officials of Singur issued flood warning on Tuesday evening and lifted five gates as heavy floods were coming from Maharashtra. Presently there was 29 tmcft water in the reservoir, with almost full capacity, and the officials were reportedly planning to release about two tmcft water from the reservoir in the next 24 hours so that the upstream flood can be accommodated. Even district administration issued prior warnings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-flood-expected-to-singur/article36727437.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Simple joys of life||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/simple-joys-of-life/article36727655.ece
29 September 2021||Jaipur,||13 employees suspended in REET case||Thirteen employees of the Education department were suspended for their alleged involvement in irregularities during the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET)-2021, a State Minister said on Tuesday. The 13 employees were suspended after FIRs were registered against them, School Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra said. He said they will be terminated from service if allegations are found to be true. Those suspended included 10 teachers, one lecturer, one physical education teacher and one junior assistant. They were posted in Sirohi, Jalore, Barmer, Nagaur, Dungarpur, Rajsamand, Bharatpur and Bundi districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/13-employees-suspended-in-reet-case/article36727502.ece
29 September 2021||KOCHI,||Kerala High Court dismisses petition against Karnataka curbs||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest writ petition seeking a directive to Karnataka to allow passengers from Kerala who have COVID-19 vaccination certificates for at least one dose to enter the State and remove the requirement to carry a negative RT-PCR certificate taken 72 hours before travel. The Bench, comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali, dismissed the plea by A.K.M. Ashraf, Manjeswaram MLA, and another person, for want of territorial jurisdiction of the High Court. The court said no part of the cause of action as regards the circulars issued by Karnataka / its officials would arise in Kerala. It said a Division Bench had passed an interim order during the first lockdown when absolute blockades were created by Karnataka, prohibiting entry of passengers from Kerala. Such a situation was not prevailing now. The restrictions were made within Karnataka to manage the travelling public entering the State, which could only be viewed as a methodology adopted by the State to curb COVID-19 spread, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kerala-high-court-dismisses-petition-against-karnataka-curbs/article36727331.ece
29 September 2021||Mumbai,||ED questions Minister in money laundering case||Maharashtra’s Transport Minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab on Tuesday appeared at the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office here in connection with a money laundering case. ‘Nothing to hide’ Before going in for questioning, Mr. Parab said he has nothing to hide and nothing to fear. “I have done nothing wrong,” he added. He was questioned by the ED officials for over eight hours before being allowed to go at 7 p.m. The case against Mr. Parab follows allegations levelled by former Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze who is in the National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody for his role in the bomb scare outside Antilia, the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. Vaze’s claim Mr. Vaze had claimed that the Minister received Rs. 20 crore as kickbacks for transfer of police officials in Mumbai through another officer from the Transport department. The ED had issued summons to Mr. Parab for the second time on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ed-questions-minister-in-money-laundering-case/article36727328.ece
29 September 2021||Mumbai,||Don’t discharge Vaze, court tells hospital||A special court in Mumbai on Tuesday directed the hospital where dismissed policeman Sachin Vaze is admitted post his open heart surgery to not discharge him until his application on house custody is decided. After the hospital informed the court that Mr. Vaze, an accused in the Antilia bomb scare and the Mansukh Hiran murder case, can be discharged on September 28, he had moved an application through his lawyer Raunak Naik seeking that he not be discharged till his application on house custody is decided. Mr. Vaze has asked the court to allow him house custody for recovery post his heart surgery, but the National Investigation Agency has opposed it claiming he may abscond. Special Judge A.T. Wankhede directed the hospital to withhold Mr. Vaze’s discharge till Wednesday, when his application will be heard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dont-discharge-vaze-court-tells-hospital/article36727501.ece
29 September 2021||Mumbai,||Chargesheet filed in Sakinaka rape case||Eighteen days after a 32-year-old woman was raped and tortured with iron rods at Sakinaka, the Mumbai police have filed a chargesheet in the case. A press note released by the Mumbai police said, “A First Information Report was filed under various sections of the IPC and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The chargesheet of 346 pages was filed after examining 77 witnesses.” Senior advocate Raja Thakare appointed to assist the prosecution said, “The chargesheet will be submitted before the Dindoshi court.” CM Uddhav Thackeray announced Rs. 20 lakhs for the victim’s daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chargesheet-filed-in-sakinaka-rape-case/article36727334.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kanhaiya Kumar is latest member of ‘Left for Congress’ club||Spending their campus life affiliated to Left-wing student organisations at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and then joining the Congress afterwards has been a trend seen across several decades among student leaders. Kanhaiya Kumar, who was the president of the JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) from 2015-16, representing the All India Students’ Federation (AISF), joined the Congress on Tuesday, making him the newest member of the club. Others who have made the switch include Shakeel Ahmad Khan, national secretary of the Indian National Congress. He was the JNUSU president from 1992-93, representing the Students Federation of India (SFI). Syed Naseer Hussain, a Rajya Sabha member, was JNUSU president from 1999-2000, representing the SFI. Mohit Pandey, JNUSU president from 2016-17, representing the All India Students’ Association (AISA), is now working with the Congress in Uttar Pradesh. Keenly watched Batti Lal Bairwa from the SFI, who was elected for two terms as JNUSU president from 1996-98, is currently the secretary of the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee. Sandeep Singh from the AISA was JNUSU president from 2007-08 and is now a political adviser to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi. Student politics at JNU are keenly watched as several students have used the platform to launch successful political careers at the national level. The annual JNUSU presidential debate, organised before the election, sees heated discussions on not just campus problems but national and international topics as well. Apart from a few exceptions, Left-wing student outfits dominate the union. Mr. Kumar’s move to exit the Communist Party of India (CPI) and join the Congress has evoked much discussion on campus. Sunny Dhiman, who was the National Students’ Union India (NSUI) presidential candidate for the JNUSU in 2016, and is currently a student at the university, says although some members of the NSUI are a bit disgruntled at Mr. Kumar joining the Congress after spending his student life in the AISF, he feels that Mr. Kumar is doing no great harm to his ideology. Ideologically close “The CPI is ideologically close to the left of Centre like the Congress. We believe that people with such an ideology should affiliate with the Congress. For Mr. Kumar, for him to grow, the Congress was the only party to join where someone with an open mind can work,” says Mr. Dhiman. Students affiliated to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) feel Mr. Kumar joining the Congress after his student days is no surprise and many Left activists have done it over the years. They feel that it confirms that in the February 9, 2016, sedition row, those who raised anti-India slogans had the support of the Congress. JNUSU joint secretary from 2015-16 Saurabh Sharma, who was the only member of the panel from the ABVP when Mr. Kumar was president, says that in a democracy, people have the right to switch political parties but accepting Mr. Kumar shows the true face of the Congress. Training ground “The Congress practices politics based on caste, religion and region, and from the number of Left leaders that have joined the party after JNU, it shows that Left politics is a training ground for those that the Congress later absorbs. A clear pattern has emerged,” says Mr. Sharma, who is now an assistant professor at JNU. Mr. Kumar joining the Congress is proof the party supports “anti-national” people who call for the break-up of the country, he adds. National president of the AISA and former JNUSU president from 2018-19 N. Sai Balaji, who is currently pursuing his PhD from JNU, says that a leader moving from the Left parties to the Congress will cause no harm to the Left-wing students’ movement despite Mr. Kumar gaining credibility from his association with the Left. “The students’ movement is based on the ground and is the face of resistance today. The movement will not be weakened by one student leader leaving due to personal reasons. It is not about individuals but a collection of people,” Mr. Balaji said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kanhaiya-kumar-is-latest-member-of-left-for-congress-club/article36727325.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal launches ambitious Deshbhakti curriculum||Every child in Delhi will be a patriot in the true sense, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said as he launched the Aam Aadmi Party government’s ambitious Deshbhakti curriculum on Tuesday. At the launch event held at the Chhatrasal Stadium on the birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, the Chief Minister remarked that nowadays people feel patriotic only while raising the Tricolour or singing the National Anthem. But patriotism has to be a continually evolving feeling within everyone, he said. “In the last 74 years, we taught physics, chemistry and maths in our schools but did not teach deshbhakti to the children. Patriotism is within all of us but it needs a push. Every child in Delhi will be a patriot in the truest sense. The Deshbhakti curriculum will prove to be instrumental in the country’s development and will take India forward rapidly,” he said. Mr Kejriwal added, “We need to develop an environment wherein we all and our children constantly feel patriotic at every step we take.” The Deshbhakti curriculum will be rolled out from nursery to Class XII as and when the schools reopen for the respective grades. There will not be any textbooks. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said, “We talk about Bhagat Singh, Hemu Kalani, Jhansi Ki Rani and Tantia Tope’s battles, but we never discuss what led them onto the battles, how they fought those battles. The Deshbhakti curriculum will bridge this knowledge gap.” According to officials, the topics include taking responsibility towards the country and its progress, constructive criticism, respect for and harmonious coexistence with others, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kejriwal-launches-ambitious-deshbhakti-curriculum/article36727333.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Salary cut for officer’s ‘casual manner’ in probing riots case||In an unusual order, a Delhi court has ordered a one-time deduction of Rs. 5,000 from the salary of a Delhi police officer responsible for seeking “adjournment in a very casual manner” in a north-east Delhi riots case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg said some of Delhi Police’s investigating officers (IOs) and Special Public Prosecutors (SPPs) do not appear in the cases on the dates fixed. When they do appear after prodding of senior officers by the court, “they appear without inspection of the file and seek adjournment in a very casual manner to comply with orders passed by the court on the dates on which they had not appeared,” the judge said. Poor conduct The court further noted that the conduct of the police officers as well as the SPPs has already been brought to the notice of several senior police officers, including the Commissioner of Police. “However, they have failed to ensure that such incidents do not take place any more,” the court said, adding that the cost of Rs. 5,000 will be deposited by Delhi Police in the Prime Minister National Relief Fund. It specified that the deduction of the cost should be from the salary of the responsible officer. The court was dealing with a case wherein the IO was directed to supply a copy of the e-challan to accused Komal Mishra in compliance with an April 12, 2021, order. However, on September 25, the IO informed the court that the copy of the e-challan has not yet been supplied to the accused as he was not aware of the court order. The IO made a request for adjournment to supply the copy of the e-challan to the accused, prompting the court’s Rs. 5,000 fine order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/salary-cut-for-officers-casual-manner-in-probing-riots-case/article36727315.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||25 inmates in Mandoli jail injured||Over 25 inmates in Mandoli jail allegedly inflicted injuries upon themselves on Monday evening after two prisoners were not allowed to step out of the ward. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed the incident. There has been a recent string of violent incidents reported from the Tihar Prison Complex. At least five incidents have been reported in the last few weeks. “On Monday, two inmates wanted to go out of the ward without giving any reason. On not being permitted, they caused injuries to themselves and also instigated others to self-inflict injuries,” said a senior jail official. Subsequently, as several inmates started injuring themselves, the police went inside the ward to control the situation. The inmates allegedly banged their heads against the walls and stabbed themselves. The jail staff had to allegedly use “mild force” to control the prisoners. All the injured were shifted to the jail dispensary where they were treated and discharged. One severely injured prisoner was shifted to GTB Hospital where he was treated and later discharged, said an official. The incident was caught on CCTV.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/25-inmates-in-mandoli-jail-injured/article36727322.ece
29 September 2021||new delhi,||Ban on bursting, sale of firecrackers up to Jan. 1||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Tuesday ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022. According to the order, experts have warned of a possibility of another surge of COVID-19, and largescale celebrations by bursting of firecrackers will result not only in agglomeration of people in violation of social distancing norms but also high level of air pollution, leading to health issues. The bursting of firecrackers under the prevalent pandemic crisis is not favourable for the cause of larger community health given the significant relationship between air pollution and respiratory infections, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ban-on-bursting-sale-of-firecrackers-up-to-jan-1/article36727318.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. has not kept vow to pay rent of tenants’||The BJP will gherao Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on Thursday to protest against the Delhi government for allegedly failing to keep its promise of paying rent of tenants affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, said State party president Adesh Gupta. The Delhi High Court had expressed displeasure over the non-fulfilment of this promise made by Mr. Kejriwal recently but this was not the first time that the government had backtracked on such a statement, said Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. “To hide its own failures, the senior counsel of the government told the High Court that so far nobody has contacted us asking for rental amount to be paid,” Mr. Gupta said. “While on one hand the Kejriwal government falsely charges daily wagers for not contacting it and on the other when they file a writ petition in the court for the rent payment, the same government opposes it,” he alleged. Mr. Bidhuri suggested that Mr. Kejriwal publicly apologise on the issue. “Kejriwal had announced Rs. 1 crore each to the families of every doctor, nurse, medical staff, sweeper, teacher, policeman, and staff working related to COVID. The number of such families is about 400, but so far only a dozen people have been given this amount,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-has-not-kept-vow-to-pay-rent-of-tenants/article36727319.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman run over by bus in Dwarka||A 40-year-old woman was run over by a cluster bus in Dwarka’s Baba Haridas Nagar on Monday night. The offending driver has been arrested, the police said. The police said that around 9.45 p.m., the victim, Sundari, was on her way home with her husband and son when a speeding bus hit her and then ran her over, killing her instantly. The son suffered minor injuries. The bus driver, Sandeep Dagar, was arrested from the spot. A case has been lodged under Sections 279 (Rash and negligent driving) and 304A (Causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and further probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-run-over-by-bus-in-dwarka/article36727320.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Wildlife conservation campaign from Oct. 2||The Delhi government will organise a Wildlife Conservation Awareness Campaign at Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary from October 2, said Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday. Mr. Rai said the government had planted 1.70 crore trees in the Capital in the last seven years and the green cover of the city had increased by 2,500 hectares. “To curb pollution in Delhi, tree plantation drives have been great contributors. The balance, which trees create in the environment is being restored by the government aggressively,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wildlife-conservation-campaign-from-oct-2/article36727321.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||jaideep - covid||Delhi recorded two deaths due to COVID-19 and 34 new cases over the past 24 hours, according to a government health bulletin on Tuesday. The test positivity rate stands at 0.05% and there are 373 active cases in the city. The latest fatalities have pushed September’s toll to seven. The total death toll has risen to 25,087, and the case tally stands at 14,38,780. A total of 2.05 lakh people got the jab over 24 hours out of which 90,935 got their first dose, read the vaccination bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jaideep-covid/article36727323.ece
29 September 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Police station collapses after stored explosives go off in Puri||A police station completely collapsed after explosives stored in the building went off in Odisha’s Puri district on Monday. There was no casualty or injury, as no police personnel was present at the Balanga police station during the incident at the dead of night. Narrow escape “The explosion was so powerful that the police station building is not in a shape for use. One sentry deployed at the gate of Balanga police station escaped unhurt,” said Narasingha Bhola, Inspector General of Police (central), who visited the spot. The police station is likely to function in a temporary shed. The Puri district administration has ordered an inquiry into the circumstances under which the explosion took place and why the explosives were not disposed of. Question of safety “The explosion has exposed the inefficiency of the police stations which should ensure free and fair by-election in Pipli constituency. When police personnel are not safe, they cannot provide security to people,” said Bharatiya Janata Party leader Parvati Parida. She demanded that the election should be conducted by deploying Central forces.  The explosion was so powerful that the police station building is not in a shape for use. One sentry deployed at the gate of Balanga police station escaped unhurt Narasingha Bhola Inspector General of Police (central)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/police-station-collapses-after-stored-explosives-go-off-in-puri/article36727496.ece
29 September 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha announces ex-gratia of Rs 50,000 for each COVID-19 death||The Odisha government on Tuesday said as directed by the Supreme Court, it will provide financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 to the kin of each of those who died of COVID-19. This was informed by the chief of the Directorate of Medical Education and Training (DMET) C. B. K. Mohanty. The relief amount will be paid from State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), according to norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-announces-ex-gratia-of-rs-50000-for-each-covid-19-death/article36727497.ece
29 September 2021||GURUGRAM,||60 butterfly species identified in Haryana||As many as 60 butterfly species have been identified in a first-of-its-kind survey in Haryana by the State’s Forest and Wildlife Department in neighbouring Rewari district on Tuesday, coinciding with the “Butterfly Month” observed from September 5 to October 4. The major species of the butterflies identified are Common Albatross, Small Branded Swift, Indian Skipper, Conjoined Swift, Lesser Grass Blue, Gram Blue, Tiny Grass Blue, Pea Blue, Bright Babul Blue, Forget-Me-Not, Zebra Blue, Common Pierrot and Rounded Pierrot. The day-long survey, aimed at assessing butterfly diversity in the Aravali region of the State, was conducted across 10,000 hectares of Khol block comprising ten villages, namely Palra, Ahhrod, Bassduda, Khol, Manethi, Bhalki, Majra, Nandha, Balwari and Khaleta, with continuous stretch of hillocks. 60 experts Divisional Forest Officer of Rewari, Sunder Sambharya, said the survey conducted under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner Yashendra Singh proved that this region of Aravali mountain range was rich forest in terms of flora and had good moisture. He added that sixty experts from across the country including, Delhi, Mumbai and Faridabad, took part in the survey and expressed satisfaction at the identification of the large number of species in a single day in a semi-arid region. Haryana State Bio-Diversity Board and non-government organisation Nature First also contributed to the survey conducted under the leadership of Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, Jagdish Chander. Conservation plans Mr. Sambharya said that butterflies were sensitive to the habitat disturbance and pollution and their conservation was important for the sustenance of life on the planet. The outcome of the survey will form the basis for observing the impact of habitat disturbance and climate change on the ecology of the region. It will also help in chalking out management strategy for the conservation of butterflies and moths. A booklet of all butterflies’ species recorded with photographs and team members will be published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/60-butterfly-species-identified-in-haryana/article36727495.ece
29 September 2021||GUWAHATI,||70 organisations cut ties with Gogoi’s Raijor Dal ahead of polls||Some 70 organisations have withdrawn their support to activist-turned-politician Akhil Gogoi’s Raijor Dal ahead of Assembly by-elections. Bypolls to five Assembly seats in Assam are to be held on October 30 along with three constituencies in Meghalaya and one each in Mizoram and Nagaland. The Bhabanipur, Mariani and Thowrah bypolls in Assam became necessary after the MLAs quit to join the BJP, while the representatives of the remaining seats in the region died. The 70 organisations, many of them community-based, had since 2018 been associated with the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS), a peasants’ body that Mr. Gogoi had founded. They also backed the Raijor Dal, formed mainly by the KMSS members in October 2020. ‘Controversial’ induction “We have decided to withdraw support to Raijor Dal because of the autocratic attitude and political immaturity of its top leadership that runs the party as a private company. There is lack of democracy within and the party inducted many who have engaged in anti-Assam activities,” leaders of the 70 organisations told journalists on September 27. They also accused Raijor Dal of catering to the interest of a “specific section” of people while referring to the induction of “controversial” leaders from the All Assam Minority Students’ Union. Raijor Dal working president Bhasco de Saikia said the withdrawal of support by the 70 organisations was a blessing in disguise. “None of these organisations were active in politics and party activities for a long time. A few of their members were involved in anti-party activities as well and would have been suspended soon,” he stated. All the Raijor Dal candidates contested the 2021 Assembly polls as independents due to the party’s failure in registering with the ECI in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/70-organisations-cut-ties-with-gogois-raijor-dal/article36727330.ece
29 September 2021||Guwahati,||Top Maoist Tingraj Orang surrenders||A top Maoist in Assam surrendered in Guwahati on Tuesday, police said. Tingraj Orang, in-charge of expanding the base of proscribed outfit CPI (Maoist) in Brahmaputra and Barak valleys, surrendered before Additional Director General of Police, Special Branch, Hiren Nath. The 49-year-old Maoist was the convener of the outfit’s Assam State Organising Committee and also the general secretary of its Barak and Brahmaputra valley zonal committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/top-maoist-tingraj-orang-surrenders/article36727491.ece
29 September 2021||Guwahati,||Educational institutions to reopen in Assam in phased manner from Oct 1||All educational institutions in Assam will reopen in a phased manner from next month with physical classes in colleges, universities and technical institutions as well as for Class IX students to resume from October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/educational-institutions-to-reopen-in-assam-in-phased-manner-from-oct-1/article36727492.ece
29 September 2021||IMPHAL,||Social activist’s killing: strike disrupts life in Manipur||Normal life in Manipur was disrupted on Tuesday following a 48-hour general strike called by the Joint Action Committee demanding justice for Athuan Abonmei, a social activist who was kidnapped and murdered. Abonmei was abducted in front of the police and security forces deployed on September 22 from a venue in Tamenglong district where Chief Minister N. Biren was scheduled to inaugurate some development projects in the district. Officials transferred JAC convener Majabung Gangmei said that they had demanded the suspension of the District Collector and Police Superintendent. However, Mr. Biren, who is also the Home Minister, declined to do so pointing out that two officials had been transferred. People obstructed traffic movement on highways, allowing vehicles of the press and emergency services. The combined forces also raided two houses where two suspects were hiding. They managed to escape under the cover of darkness. Photographs and documents relating to the NSCN(M) were recovered from the houses. The meeting also agreed that the post-mortem on the body of Abonmei would be done on Tuesday. Earlier, it was planned for Monday, but the JAC representatives made it clear that the body would not be claimed till the murderers were accounted for. Shops and other commercial establishments were closed and there was very thin attendance in the government offices. However, there was no report of any untoward incident in the State during the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/social-activists-killing-strike-disrupts-life-in-manipur/article36727499.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Rohini shoot-out: HC asks police for status report on security||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the city police to submit a status report on the steps taken to ensure adequate security in district courts, in the wake of the recent shoot-out at a crowded Rohini courtroom, which left three men dead. Justice Rekha Palli said the issue of security of lawyers required urgent attention. “We don’t want to lose lives. Lawyers could also become victims of incidents like the recent one. We don’t want that,” Justice Palli said while posting the case for hearing on October 11. The High Court also asked the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) to respond to the petition filed by advocate Deepa Joseph, who said she was severely jolted by the shocking shoo-tout. Ms. Joseph practices in the district courts. The police informed the High Court that it was taking steps to ensure that the security in district courts is geared up adequately. BCD’s counsel said they had a detailed meeting with senior police officers and it was agreed that security at district courts would be upgraded to be at par with that at the Supreme Court. Advocate Joseph, in her plea, said the shoot-out inside the court puts a big question mark on the safety and security of judges, lawyers and litigants inside the district courts. The petition pointed out that last Friday’s shoot-out was not the first of its kind in Delhi. In the recent past there have been incidents of shooting in the Dwarka courts, a firing near the Saket courts in May 2019 and earlier in 2017, an undertrial was killed after being shot inside the Rohini Courts Complex, the plea said. In similar line to the incident at the Rohini courts was the killing of a Delhi Police head constable when four armed assailants opened fire inside a courtroom at the Karkardooma Courts Complex in 2015, it added. The plea also sought that Delhi Police make the security and frisking of lawyers at par with the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court, and take disciplinary action against the officers who fail to implement this direction with utmost diligence and seriousness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rohini-shoot-out-hc-asks-police-about-security-measures-at-courts/article36727317.ece
29 September 2021||Ranchi,||Jharkhand officer killed in encounter||A 41-year-old Deputy Commandant rank official of Jharkhand Jaguar, an anti-Naxalite force of the State police, was killed in an encounter with extremists in Latehar district on Tuesday, a senior official said. An ultra of the banned Naxalite outfit, Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP), was also gunned down in the encounter which took place inside Salayya forest, IG (Operations) and Jharkhand Police spokesperson A.V. Homkar said. “Deputy Commandant and Assault Commander of Jharkhand Jaguar Rajesh Kumar was injured during an encounter with extremists. He was airlifted to Ranchi but did not survive,” Mr. Homkar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jharkhand-officer-killed-in-encounter/article36727493.ece
29 September 2021||Kabul,||Taliban to ‘temporarily’ adopt 1964 monarchy Constitution||The Taliban said on Tuesday they will temporarily adopt a 1964 Constitution that granted women the right to vote, but eliminate any elements they disagree with. The Taliban’s Acting Justice Minister issued a statement saying the Islamists planned to introduce a Constitution used during Afghanistan’s short-lived golden age of democracy, but only briefly and with amendments. “The Islamic Emirate will adopt the Constitution of the former King Mohammad Zahir Shah’s time for a temporary period,” Mawlavi Abdul Hakim Sharaee said. But anything in the text found to be in conflict with Sharia law and the principles of the Islamic Emirate would be discarded, he added. Nearly six decades ago, before the world’s superpowers intervened in the country, Afghanistan enjoyed a brief period of constitutional monarchy during the reign of King Mohammad Zahir Shah. The king ratified the Constitution a year after coming to power in 1963, ushering in nearly a decade of parliamentary democracy before he was overthrown in 1973. The 1964 Constitution, which gave women the right to vote for the first time and opened the doors for their increased participation in politics, would appear an awkward fit with the Taliban’s hardline views. The group, which took over power in mid-August, has vowed a softer and more inclusive approach than during their brutal 1996 to 2001 rule. But when they presented their caretaker government earlier this month, all the top positions went to hardliners and no women were included.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-to-temporarily-adopt-1964-monarchy-constitution/article36726864.ece
29 September 2021||Washington DC,||Biden’s remarks on Indian press spark row at White House briefing||The American and Indian press became part of the news last week, after President Joe Biden suggested, before journalists were allowed into the Oval Office on Friday for a ‘press spray’, that he and Prime Minister Narendra Modi not take questions and that the Indian press was “much better behaved” than the American press. “The Indian press is much better behaved than the American press… I think, with your permission, we could not answer questions because they won’t ask any questions on point,” Mr. Biden can be heard saying in a video clip from an Indian television channel that was in the Oval Office, setting up before reporters arrived. The Indian press has been at the receiving end of restrictions and unflattering references from several quarters in Washington DC over the last few days, around the visit of Mr. Modi to the American capital. First, the issue around restrictive access to Mr. Modi’s events. Then, President Biden’s hot mic moment, during which he said the Indian press were “much better behaved” than their American counterparts. Third, and most recently, in the framing of questions by American reporters at Monday’s White House press briefing. Being called “better behaved” is not, generally, considered a compliment by journalists. Mr. Biden’s comments in this instance are similar to his predecessor’s from 2017. “You have a friendly press,” former U.S. President Donald Trump said to Mr. Modi during the Prime Minister’s White House visit. Asked on Monday why the American President was criticising U.S. reporters in that setting, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said: “Well, I would note first that he took questions on Friday and he took questions again today. And I think what he said is that they’re [the U.S. press] not always on point.” “Now, I know that isn’t something that anyone wants to hear in here [the White House briefing room], but what I think he was conveying is, you know, today he might want to talk about COVID vaccine... and some of the questions are not always about the topic he’s talking about on that day. I don’t think it was meant to be a hard cut at the members of the media,” she said. Asked by another reporter if the President was “reticent” about taking questions in front of a foreign leader, in the context of Mr. Biden’s meetings last week with Mr. Modi and, before that, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Ms. Psaki denied that was the case. “He’s taken questions standing next to a foreign leader many, many times in the past and will continue to,” she said. Mr. Biden frequently addresses the press — however, these addresses often consist of calling on reporters using a pre-decided list of names. Poor ranking Then came a question that appeared to speak to Mr. Biden’s lack of knowledge of the Indian press environment as well a poor ranking of the Indian press in terms of press freedoms. “The President said that the Indian press was better behaved than the U.S. press, but the Indian press is ranked 142nd in the world, according to Reporters Without Borders, for press freedoms. How does he say that about the U.S. press, compared to the Indian press?” a reporter asked Ms. Psaki. “I would just say to you that having now worked for the President, serving in this role for nine months, having seen that he’s taking questions from the press more than 140 times, including today, and Friday, that he certainly respects the role of the press, the role of the…free press. We ensure that we have press with us, of course, when we travel, that we have press with us for sprays in foreign capitals and we will continue to,” Ms. Psaki said. “And I think that should speak to his commitment to freedom of press around the world.” Neither leader answered questions after the Modi-Biden meet and reporters shouted questions out to them as the gathering was dispersing. The Indian press pool for the bilateral meetings with Mr. Biden and Vice-President Kamala Harris as well as for the Quad, had guaranteed spots only for state-run media and one private news agency. Some outfits were assigned more than one spot (such as for handling camera and associated equipment). The White House press pool is decided by a system administered by officials and the White House Correspondents Association, the rules of which are known and shared on request. The White House Press Office did not seem aware that access to the Indian press ‘pool’ for the events was not an equal opportunity process.  The Hindu was finally able to join the ‘press sprays’ at the start of each meeting (the only access any press was given). However, at no point was it informed that it would be allowed a place in these. It is still unclear how exactly this happened. Mr. Modi did not address the press during his visit. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla held two on-the-record briefings during the course of the Washington portion of the visit. Following the Quad meeting on Friday, Australian PM Scott Morrison held a press ‘gaggle’ at the White House. Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga addressed the press on Friday evening and Saturday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bidens-remarks-on-indian-press-spark-row-at-white-house-briefing/article36726868.ece
29 September 2021||Zhuhai,||China displays new drones, jets||China on Tuesday showed off its increasingly sophisticated air power including surveillance drones, with an eye on disputed territories from Taiwan to the South China Sea and its rivalry with the United States. The country’s biggest air show, in the southern coastal city of Zhuhai, comes as Beijing pushes to meet a 2035 deadline to retool its military for modern warfare. China still lags behind the United States in terms of tech and investment in its war machine, but experts say it is narrowing the gap. On Tuesday, the air force aerobatic team left colourful vapour trails as it manoeuvred in formation, while visitors inspected new jets, drones and attack helicopters on the tarmac. The CH-6, a prototype drone with a wingspan of 20.5 metres, was among the domestic tech unveiled. It is designed for surveillance and can also carry weapons for strike missions, according to open-source intelligence agency Janes. Other debutants included the WZ-7 high-altitude drone for border reconnaissance and maritime patrol as well as the J-16D fighter that has the ability to jam electronic equipment. The Zhuhai air show, usually held every two years, was postponed from last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic and is being staged before a largely domestic audience due to travel restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-displays-new-drones-jets/article36726858.ece
29 September 2021||Berlin,||Germany’s Laschet faces calls to resign over election setback||Pressure was mounting on Tuesday on Armin Laschet to quit after his Conservatives lost to the Social Democrats in Germany’s election, further complicating his bid to form the next government after the disastrous vote. Mr. Laschet’s Christian Democratic Union-Christian Social Union (CDU-CSU) Conservative alliance brought home its worst election result in post-war Germany of 24.1%, behind Olaf Scholz’s Social Democrats (SPD) on 25.7%. But Mr. Laschet, the conservative bloc’s hope to succeed veteran Chancellor Angela Merkel, insisted his party would still try to build a governing coalition and was ready for talks with the Greens and the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) for a possible partnership. ‘Not satisfied’ Though he admitted he could “not be satisfied with this result”, Mr. Laschet also claimed “no party”, not even the Social Democrats, could claim a mandate to govern from Sunday’s vote outcome. But calls were growing louder for Mr. Laschet to admit defeat and resign, even from within his own party. “You have lost. Please have some insight. Avert further damage to the #CDU and resign,” Ellen Demuth, a CDU member of the Rhineland-Palatinate state parliament, wrote on Twitter. “We lost the election. Full stop,” said Tilman Kuban, the head of the CDU’s youth wing. Marcus Muendlein, the chairman of the party’s youth wing in the state of Saxony, called for “a true new beginning”, which he said could “only be successful if our leader and candidate for chancellor, Armin Laschet... resigns”. A stormy session is expected later on Tuesday when the newly elected MPs of the CDU and its Bavarian allies, the CSU, sit down together for the first time since the vote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/germanys-laschet-faces-calls-to-resign-over-election-setback/article36726859.ece
29 September 2021||PARIS,||France and Greece sign defence deal||France and Greece on Tuesday announced a defence deal worth around €3 billion ($3.5 billion), including Athens’ decision to buy three French warships, as part of a strategy to boost its defence capacities in the Eastern Mediterranean amid recurring tensions with Turkey, a long-time foe. French President Emmanuel Macron and Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced a defence and security strategic partnership in Paris. “This partnership expresses our will to increase and intensify our cooperation in the defence and security sector based on our mutual interests,” Mr. Macron said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-and-greece-sign-defence-deal/article36726866.ece
29 September 2021||BRUSSELS,||EU--Brexit||The European Council on Tuesday approved a €5 billion ($5.8 billion) reserve aimed at helping European Union (EU) businesses tackle the short-term effects of Brexit. The Council, which represents the national government of every EU member nation, said the money would cover extra costs and compensate losses from the U.K.’s withdrawal from the 27-nation trade bloc.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-brexit/article36726865.ece
29 September 2021||United Nations,||Iran's nuclear program has crossed 'all red lines': Israel PM||Israel’s Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Monday said Iran had breached all the “red lines” aimed at curbing its nuclear weapons programme, but that Israel “will not allow” Tehran to get the bomb. In his first address to the United Nations General Assembly, Mr. Bennett said the Islamic republic had in recent years taken “a major leap forward” in its nuclear production capacity and ability to enrich weapons-grade uranium.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/irans-nuclear-program-has-crossed-all-red-lines-israel-pm/article36726861.ece
29 September 2021||Seoul,||North Korea fires ‘missile’, insists on their right to test weapons||North Korea fired a presumed short-range missile into the sea on Tuesday, the South’s military said, as Pyongyang’s United Nations Ambassador insisted it had an undeniable right to test its weapons. The projectile was fired from Jagang into waters off the east coast, according to South Korea’s Joint Chiefs of Staff. Pyongyang’s UN Ambassador Kim Song told the UN General Assembly: “Nobody can deny the right to self-defence for the DPRK.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-fires-missile-insists-on-their-right-to-test-weapons/article36726862.ece
29 September 2021||Washington,||Pakistan home to 12 foreign terrorist outfits: US Congressional report||Pakistan is home to at least 12 groups designated as ‘foreign terrorist organisations’ by the U.S., including five India-centric groups like the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammed, said a Congressional report on terrorism. U.S. officials identified Pakistan as a base of operations or target for armed and non-state militant groups, the Congressional Research Service said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-home-to-12-foreign-terrorist-outfits-us-congressional-report/article36727076.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||How to grease the wheels of justice||Speaking at an event organised by the Karnataka Bar Council, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana quoted a former Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, Warren Burger, “The notion that ordinary people want black robed judges, well-dressed lawyers in fine courtrooms as settings to resolve their disputes is incorrect. People with problems, like people with pains, want relief and they want it as quickly and inexpensively as possible.” He made a plea to ‘Indianise’ courts to make them responsive to the needs of the Indian citizens. The Chief Justice of India has the historic opportunity to make this happen. At present, despite good intentions, the nation’s judiciary is hurtling towards a disaster and needs immediate attention. A measure of the justice delivery system is the pendency of cases in courts across the country. We have seen a significant deterioration in this aspect as shown in the table. More than 40% of cases are decided after three years in India, while in many other countries less than 1% of cases are decided after three years. If India does not act decisively and quickly, this percentage will keep increasing. The rich, the powerful and the wrongdoers have a field day by getting their cases expedited or delayed as they wish. The increase in corruption and crime is a direct fallout of the sluggish justice delivery system. This severely impacts the poor and marginalised. For them, the judicial process itself becomes a punishment. Data show that about 70% of prisoners in India are undertrials and are mostly poor citizens. Filling vacancies Two measures can be implemented within two years to tackle this issue. First, reduce the pendency of cases by filling sanctioned judicial positions. Analysis shows that between 2006 and 2019, the average increase in pendency was less than 2% per year whereas the average vacancy in sanctioned judicial positions was about 21%. If the sanctioned positions had been filled, pendency of cases would have gone down each year. The nation neither needs 70,000 judges, as claimed by former Chief Justice of India T.S. Thakur, nor does it need to double the present number of judges. It needs to add about 20% of judges. This is in line with the sanctioned strength. This figure has been endorsed by Justice B.N. Srikrishna, Justice R.C. Chavan and 100 IIT alumni. The responsibility of selecting judges is largely with the judiciary itself. The responsibility of appointments in the subordinate judiciary lies with the State governments and their respective High Courts. The responsibility of ensuring near-zero vacancies should be with the Chief Justices of the High Courts and the Chief Justice of India and they should be held accountable for the same. Right now, nobody believes that they are accountable, and filling judicial vacancies is not considered a matter of priority. Filling all vacancies may result in a requirement of about 5,000 courtrooms. A simple solution would be to run 5,000 courts in two shifts. Use of technology The second is to improve working with the use of technology. The e-Committee of the Supreme Court has been in existence since 2005. It has made three outstanding recommendations which are not being followed. One, computer algorithms should decide on case listing, case allocation and adjournments with only a 5% override given to judges. It said all rational reasons and limits should be put on adjournments; case listing should give main weightage to ‘first in, first out’; and case allocation should take into account logical criteria. This would be a big step in reducing arbitrariness and the unfair advantage that the powerful enjoy. Two, the courts should focus on e-filing. The e-Committee made detailed SOPs on how petitions and affidavits can be filed and payment of fees can be done electronically without lawyers or litigants having to travel to the courts or use paper. This should be implemented in all seriousness and would also save about three lakh trees annually. Three, it focused on virtual hearings. COVID-19 prompted the courts to adopt virtual hearings. However, virtual hearings were held only in some cases while physical hearings were held in most. In pre-COVID-19 years, the increase in the pendency of cases in all courts used to be about 5.7 lakh cases a year. In 2020 alone, it increased to an astonishing 51 lakh. It appears that if a hybrid virtual hearing model is not adopted, the backlog of cases could cross 5 crore in 2022. The dysfunctional justice system will be perpetually overwhelmed. All the courts in the country must switch to a hybrid virtual mode immediately and start disposing cases. Even after the COVID-19 crisis ends, it would be beneficial to continue hybrid virtual courts. This will make access to justice easier for litigants, reduce costs, and also give a fair opportunity to young lawyers from small towns. The required hardware is available in all courts. No change in laws All the recommendations — e-filing of petitions, affidavits and payment of fees; algorithm-based computerised listing, roster, case allocation and adjournments with only a 5% override to be given to judges; hybrid virtual hearings; filling judicial vacancies; and holding Chief Justices responsible for ensuring that vacancies in judicial positions are less than 5% — are based on the Supreme Court’s various decisions and the e-Committee’s recommendations. These would require no changes in laws. At a conference, High Court Chief Justices and the Chief Justice of India and the government could make decisions on all of this. If all this is done, India’s judicial system can rank among the 10 top countries of the world. These changes would make India the preferred nation for international investments and also fulfil the fundamental right to speedy justice of citizens. Shailesh Gandhi is former Central Information Commissioner and Arun Joshi is a Technical Consultant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/how-to-grease-the-wheels-of-justice/article36726855.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||NEET fails the multidimensional construct of merit||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government in Tamil Nadu has now passed a law scrapping the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Called the Permanent Exemption Bill for NEET, it exempts medical aspirants in Tamil Nadu from taking NEET for admission to undergraduate degree courses in medicine, dentistry and homoeopathy. Many, including judges of the Supreme Court of India, were of the opinion that NEET would be most student friendly as it would not only save them from the trouble of appearing in multiple tests but also ensure a transparent and fair system of medical admissions. But how this ‘one-test, one-nation’ policy would really affect students, particularly those from rural and underprivileged sections, has not been studied properly. How it would undermine the rights of minority institutions too was not given much importance. What has been the experience of other countries with such tests? What would be the true implications of a one test policy on federalism? A revived debate In accordance with the DMK’s electoral promise of promoting equity in medical admissions, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, constituted a high-level committee under the chairmanship of retired Madras High Court judge, Justice A.K. Rajan. After the High Court had dismissed a petition by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State Secretary K. Nagarajan against the constitution of this committee, the DMK government moved with god speed and got the law against NEET passed by the State Assembly. Of course this law will not be able to help students as the President of India is unlikely to give his assent to it as the BJP had opposed it. Yet, the enactment of this law has succeeded in reviving the debate about the usefulness of NEET. While medical education is on the Concurrent list (Entry 25), it is subject to the maintenance of standards in higher education which is within the domain of the central government under the Union list (Entry 66). In any case, the field is occupied by the central law namely Section 14 of the National Medical Commission Act, 2019 that provides for NEET. NEET is a unique system of admission as no admission in medicine is possible in India without clearing NEET. The idea of common tests was initiated by Murli Manohar Joshi as the HRD Minister in the A.B. Vajpayee government. It found some support in the judgment of the Supreme Court in T.M.A. Pai Foundation (2002). NEET was notified by the Medical Council of India (MCI) in 2010 but in 2013, a three-judge majority decision in Christian Medical College Vellore Association vs Union of India and Others had struck down NEET. The decision was widely criticised as being pro-rich, for pro-coaching centres, and anti-student and one which would lower the standards of medical education. As a result, the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 was amended and Section 10D was inserted to empower the MCI to conduct NEET. Moreover the review petition against this judgment was allowed in 2016 and the Supreme Court ordered the conduct of NEET from 2016 itself. Imposed by the judiciary Surprisingly, the Bench did not accept even the Government of India’s repeated requests to permit State governments to conduct their tests at least in 2016. NEET was thus imposed by the Court and not the Narendra Modi government. Interestingly, the Court did not pay much attention to its own judgment in Islamic Academy of Education and Another (2003) where a five-judge Bench had clarified T.M.A. Pai Foundation and held that institutions that have a special feature and have a fair and transparent admission procedure for at least the last 25 years can seek an exemption from the common admission test. The Justice Arun Mishra-led Bench in 2020 again upheld NEET even in respect of minority institutions. Article 30 gives them the right to admit students of their choice. ‘Choice’ cannot be limited just to the right to reservation. Each university or institution has a right to emphasize some special areas of study. For instance, the Gandhi Medical College, Seva Gram, Vardha, had a paper on Gandhian Studies in its test. Similar was the case with the Armed Forces Medical College which used to test a student in defence studies. Instances of alleged question paper leakage in the very first year of NEET, media reports of unfair means and examination malpractices by students show that both NEET as well as JEE are not fool-proof tests satisfying the parameters of fairness and transparency. Data on post-NEET impact The A.K. Rajan report has substantiated arguments against a single test in its 165-page report. A majority of the 86,342 people the panel spoke to were opposed to NEET. The diversity in Tamil medical institutions has been affected with the introduction of NEET. The percentage of students from rural areas has dropped from 61.45% to 50.81%. Similarly, the percentage of candidates from government schools has gone down from 1.12% to 0.6%. The percentage of English medium students — already dominating medical education — went up from 85.12% to 98.01%. The percentage of students from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has gone up to 38.84%. For students from economically poorer sections, it was a decline — from 47.42% to 41.05%. The number of first generation learners has gone down too. Post NEET, Tamil students constitute just 1.99%. ‘Elitism’ in NEET Unfortunately, the Supreme Court considered just the legality of NEET but overlooked the real impact NEET would have on the ground particularly on underprivileged candidates and minority institutions. Forget India with its huge regional disparities and marked differences in the standards of various State boards. Even in the United States, a number of surveys found that it was mainly the children of mostly rich, white and politically powerful families who cleared prestigious common tests. Empirical research in the United States on standardised common tests has found that these tests are biased against the poorer and underprivileged sections of population, women and minorities. To overcome these problems, race-sensitive admission criteria were introduced, leading to the judgment in Grutter (2003). Thus, there is an element of class in NEET and the Justice Rajan committee has found hard evidence of such elitism. If similar committees are appointed in other States, there are sure to be identical findings. Moreover with just one national test, commercial coaching institutes are bound to prosper. And since most coaching centres are in the cosmopolitan and big cities, poorer students from a rural background, and who have studied in the vernacular medium, would always be at a disadvantage in any ‘one nation-one test’ policy. There is also large-scale variation in syllabus when it comes to the CBSE and State boards. Wrong translation of questions including in Tamil had also been a problem. If unequals are tested on the basis of one test, i.e. NEET, the mandate of equality is violated as Article 14 demands likes are to be treated alike, not unlikes are to be treated alike. Thus, it goes against the Preamble as it does not provide equal opportunity to all. What it basically achieves is just ‘formal’ rather than ‘substantive equality’ as it overlooks differences. The greatest argument in favour of NEET is judicial belief about the promotion of merit though without any clarity on the meaning of merit. The reality is that many private colleges even after NEET do admit students under Non Resident Indian and management quota on extremely low scores i.e. much lower than the scores of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Class categories. Merit requires fair competition and equality of opportunity. Is it not a fact that the central government and judges sincerely believe that the multidimensional construct of merit can be adequately, if not accurately, measured? When NEET does not satisfactorily meet this fundamental criterion, competition cannot be termed as fair and just, and the equality of opportunity becomes illusory. There is substantial scholarship in the West (Sacks, Freedle, Wells, Camara and Schmidt) that common admission tests cannot measure abilities that are essential for learning such as imagination, curiosity and motivation. NEET does not test qualities that a doctor must possess such as compassion, empathy and passion to serve humanity. Accordingly hardly any doctor is willing to serve in rural areas. NEET toppers won’t necessarily make good doctors. While the Tamil Nadu government should try to improve educational standards of its schools, the NEET syllabus should not be based entirely on CBSE. The central government too should review the policy of a single test so that diversity of the society is reflected in our medical institutions and the goals of the New Education Policy — of equity, inclusion and access — are realised. Faizan Mustafa, an expert of constitutional law, is the Vice-Chancellor of the NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/neet-fails-the-multidimensional-construct-of-merit/article36726846.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Germany as a development actor in a post-Merkel era||The era of Angela Merkel, as Chancellor of Germany for the past 16 years, is coming to an end while the battle of a number of global crises is at its peak. The federal elections, on September 26, that mark the end of the Merkel-era, have given rise to a currently unforeseeable political future. So, how will Germany define its role as an important international agent in the fight against global challenges, including climate change, and fostering global sustainable development in line with the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations? Climate change, resource destruction and species extinction are limiting development opportunities and global scope for action more than ever before. Major emerging economies, including India, and regional powers are, besides the ‘old’ countries of the West, since long shaping the economic, political and cultural interdependencies of a more complex, dynamic, accelerated world. And it is now time to act: to battle climate change and biodiversity loss, rising social inequalities and poverty, defend democracy and secure peace. Key roles soon In this, Germany and India take on core roles in the coming two years: Germany, as the second biggest bilateral development donor globally (the United States is first), takes over the G7 presidency in 2022. India presides over the G20 in 2023. These offer an opportunity to mutually strengthen the processes of club governance and foster a focused dialogue among our political leaders and policy-making for a common future. There is a shift now Yet, Germany’s ability to live up to this responsibility depends on the outcome of the recent elections and coalition negotiations. The field of international cooperation for sustainable development has, over the past 16 years, moved from the Millennium Development Goals of the UN that were formulated in New York as standards to be reached by low- and middle-income countries, to the understanding that poverty alleviation and fighting rising inequalities go hand in hand with combating environmental and climatic change processes. ‘Development’ was redefined as ‘sustainable development’ and thus, as a challenge to be addressed by all countries, and in all societal and economic sectors. An important instrument for achieving sustainable development is — as has become clearer than ever before — international and transregional cooperation on an equal eye-level, geared towards a global common good. Today, six years after the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement were formulated and one and a half years into a global pandemic, we need radically transformative structural policies for the global common good and in line with the 2030 Agenda of the UN. Germany as the  third biggest economy, in terms of its share in global trade, has to live up to its responsibility and set the course for these transformative changes. Yet, it can only do so in partnership, and especially in partnership with the big transition economies, including India. We need structural policies that foster the global common good. Core fields of action include reducing social inequalities, overcoming poverty and ensuring social justice, promoting social peace, political participation and cultural diversity, creating a climate-neutral and stable economic system, vehemently advocating for healthy ecosystems, stable climate and biodiversity. The key policy areas that need urgent attention have been highlighted again by the COVID-19 pandemic: we need to make financial markets, digitalisation and the economy sustainable; social protection, food and health systems need to be more robust; strengthen education, science and innovation, inclusive institutions for social cohesion, and promote rules-based, regional and multilateral governance. Equitable cooperation This type of policy-making rests on cooperation on equal eye-level: between countries, social groups and living environments; between politics, business, science and society, and between ministerial departments. United and driven by the common goal of the global capacity to act. It is a global cooperation policy for our common sustainable future. Changing internal and external structures in a way that self-determination, political and economic participation and social peace are possible for all people in the future requires continuous dialogue around the identification and shaping of common values and preconditions for the future. This also means that a global cooperation policy for a sustainable future requires a strong governance architecture. It can only be realised through the interplay of domestic and externally-oriented departments, different decision-making levels from local to global, and politics, business and society working together. However, strategic leadership and coordination must be anchored at the cabinet level, in a ministry whose political logic does not focus only on economic growth or poverty reduction, security or climate protection, but lays emphasis on stronger global cooperation for the global common good. The reduction of social inequalities must be addressed in conjunction with climate protection, political participation and economic prosperity. The focus must be on the dynamics between the global megatrends of our time; not on ministry-specific single transformational steps. Germany’s Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development brings the necessary experience to this task. But it needs the will to innovate now, has to develop a strategic vision, and requires the necessary decision-making powers and resources. The partners of cooperation for global transformative change are transition and high-income countries just as much as low-income countries. The multilateral level of cooperation must thus move to the centre, supported by bilateral and European cooperation on all continents. Glasgow meet as opportunity The cooperation with India is of key importance — as a transregional player — in fighting social inequalities and addressing climate change. The global differences in combating the COVID-19-pandemic with COVID-19 recovery funds amounting to 16% of GDP in high income countries, 4% in middle income and only 1% in low-income countries, meet the continuous increases in greenhouse gas emissions. The upcoming COP26 in Glasgow thus serves as an important platform to negotiate investments into the greenhouse gas neutral transformations of India’s energy and transport sectors just as much as into the social security systems enabling societal capacities to live with the crises ahead. A global cooperation policy for a sustainable future must adopt a planetary perspective with a focus on the dynamics between social, ecological and economic change processes, cultivate dialogue across departmental boundaries and systematically shape transformative structural policy for the global common good. Germany in a post-Merkel era requires wise leadership in the Chancellor’s office that turns its attention to younger generations and to the world, recognises the urgency of global cooperation policies for a sustainable future with India and the world, and supports them at the cabinet table. The elections have to pave the way accordingly. Anna-Katharina Hornidge is Director of the German Development Institute (DIE/GDI) and Professor of Global Sustainable Development at the University of Bonn||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/germany-as-a-development-actor-in-a-post-merkel-era/article36726848.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||In pursuit of happiness||Until the beginning of the publication of the United Nations World Happiness Report in 2012, happiness was not considered an objective of governance. But it has now emerged as a new measure of the quality of governance. The connection between law, governance and happiness has been gaining considerable attention over the years. This is because the report has shown time and again that countries with a higher GDP and higher per capita income are not necessarily the happiest. Dismal performance The United Nations World Happiness Report of 2021 ranks India 139 out of 149 countries. Happiness was measured by also taking into consideration the effects of COVID-19 on the people and their evaluation of the performance of governance systems. The report shows that COVID-19-induced social distancing had a severe impact on happiness as sharing and community life were hugely affected during the pandemic. India’s dismal performance on happiness is crucial if we look at governance and the law. Happiness has never been considered an explicit goal of public policy in India. The trust and confidence enjoyed by public institutions are quite pertinent in the happiness score sheet. Guarantees of rights, participation, dignity, and social justice are crucial in the determination of happiness in a society like India. We tend to limit the role of law to a mere sanctioning instrumentality which satisfies the retributive instincts of people. However, the law is capable of creating many positive obligations, which may lead to a collective conscience, care and cooperation. It is capable of making people feel that they have a role in resolving their problems through distributive justice. “To feel that your lost wallet would be returned if found by a police officer, by a neighbour, or a stranger, was considered to be a measure of happiness than income, unemployment, and major health risks,” the report states. Law ought to bring happiness to the lives of people. The great degree of unhappiness in Indian society has a lot to do with the way the law and its institutions operate. People live in pain and anguish as their legitimate grievances remain unaddressed by the legal system. It is erroneous to believe that every case that is decided by the courts brings happiness to the people. According to the World Justice Report, as many as 40% of people live outside the protection of law in the world. More than 5 billion people fall into this ‘justice gap’. India’s share is very big in these figures. The estimated figure of 3.5 crore pending cases in various courts of the country is not merely a number as all those connected with these cases are in a state of anxiety. They are certainly not happy people. Typically, the criminal justice system for these people is a source of unhappiness. India’s rule of law rank was 69 as per the World Justice report 2021. It has a chilling effect on the right to life, liberty, economic justice, dignity and national integration. Justice in India hardly seems to espouse the goal of happiness in society. Criminal justice drastically impacts the lives of people. It is capable of providing safety but it also leads to fear, stigma and repression. People are rarely satisfied with the police and courts in this country. Lower crime rates, happier societies The data suggest that happy countries have lower crime rates. Crime and its resultant suffering are a major source of unhappiness. For instance, in Finland, Denmark, the Philippines, South Africa, India and Sri Lanka, at least one of the four crime variables share an inverse relation with the happiness score of the nation. It means that individuals living in nations with high crime rates are less happy and satisfied than individuals living in nations with comparatively lower crime rates. Countries scoring high on the Rule of Law Index also score well on the index of happiness. Second, in the report, happiness levels were significantly determined by various socio-demographic factors like health, education, crime rate, criminal victimisation and fear of crime. Nations are now responding to the happiness index. The United Arab Emirates was the first country in the world to have set up a Ministry of Happiness. The Ministry monitors the impact of policies through a happiness meter and takes measures to ensure a better life. Bhutan introduced Gross National Happiness as a measure of good governance. Rothstein and Uslaner (2005) say that honest and effective governments can create more socio-economic equality. This leads a greater number of people reposing trust in their government, which is an important condition for happiness. G.S. Bajpai is Vice-Chancellor at Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law, Punjab. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-pursuit-of-happiness/article36726851.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Bureaucracy’s digital challenge||The biggest challenge today to Indian bureaucracy is the shift from desk to digital. This shift is not limited to a transition towards e-office and e-governance, but includes the organisational and bureaucratic response to digital spaces, especially the use of social media. The focus has been mostly on the former, while the latter has remained largely unaddressed. To use or not to use social media There are two opinions on the use of social media by civil servants. While there are many people, including former civil servants, who are in favour of civil servants using social media in their official capacity, others argue that anonymity, the defining feature of Indian bureaucracy, gets compromised in the process. In fact, as an organisational form, the bureaucracy is incompatible with social media. While bureaucracy is characterised by hierarchy, formal relationships and standard procedures, social media is identified by openness, transparency and flexibility. It is true that many civil servants have become accessible to the common people and public service delivery issues have been resolved through the use of social media. Social media has also created a positive outlook towards an institution long perceived as opaque and inaccessible. Social media has increased awareness among people about government policies and programmes. But social media also does more. It provides an opportunity to bureaucrats to shape the public discourse and engage with the public while being politically neutral. At a time when the tendency among the political executive is to receive the very remarks or advice from bureaucrats that they want to hear, social media ensures that blind obeying is minimised and bureaucrats serve the people. Anonymity has been a hallmark of Westminster bureaucracies, including in India. But there is a basic contradiction in remaining habitually anonymous while governance in public is now the new normal. Further, values are becoming more dominant than facts in public policymaking. And both values and facts are getting reshaped due to fake news and systematic propaganda within public policy circles as well. In such a scenario, the bureaucracy, which is expected to be the epitome of public values and a storehouse of facts, shouldn’t be expected to govern in private. The use of social media is gradually getting institutionalised in many Westminster system-based countries. During the Brexit debate in the U.K., many civil servants shaped public debate through the use of social media even while remaining politically neutral. In India, civil servants haven’t reflected on this aspect of digital bureaucracy. Anonymity and opaqueness have already been watered down through the Right to Information Act of 2005. But they continue to be prominent features. Accessibility and accountability In India, the role of social media in bureaucracy has taken a different direction. Social media is getting used by civil servants for self-promotion. Through their selective posts and promotion of these posts by their social media fans, civil servants create a narrative of their performance. All this is justified in the name of accessibility and accountability. There is a wrong notion getting entrenched in the public consciousness that social media is the way to access civil servants and make them accountable. Social media may have improved accessibility and accountability, but it is important to note that civil servants are at an advantage to share the information they want and respond to those they want. It is not a formal set-up where accessibility and accountability are based on uniformity of treatment. Social media accountability is no alternative to institutional and citizen-centric accountability. It is, in fact, partly unethical to use social media during office hours and justify it when some people who have travelled long distances are waiting outside the office. Bureaucrats should use social media to improve public policies. If they don’t use social media appropriately, their role as independent advisers stands threatened. Zubair Nazeer is an Assistant Professor (Public Administration) at Jamia Millia Islamia||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bureaucracys-digital-challenge/article36726856.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||No clear winner||The German elections are known to be a predictable exercise largely dominated by the Conservatives. But this time, even after the preliminary results are out, there is no clarity about which party would form the coalition and who would succeed Angela Merkel, who had announced her retirement well before the polls. There are now two wannabe Chancellors and two kingmakers, and coalition talks are expected to drag on. The centre-left Social Democrats (SPD) took a narrow lead with 25.7% of the vote, followed by the bloc led by Ms. Merkel’s conservative Christian Democrats (CDU), with 24.1%, their lowest vote share. The Greens won 14.8%, their best performance in a national poll, while the liberal, pro-business Free Democrats (FDP) took 11.5%. Olaf Scholz, who put the trailing Socialists in the lead, has claimed victory and shown interest in working with the Greens. Armin Laschet, the Conservative leader, has also promised to put “every effort” to ensure a CDU-led government. That leaves the Greens and the Liberals as kingmakers. Since the Socialists and the Conservatives, currently coalition partners in the Merkel government, will not be together again, the next government is set to be a three-way coalition. Over the last 16 years, Ms. Merkel has been the undisputed face of the CDU and one of Germany’s most popular leaders. Her decision to retire has left a vacuum both in the CDU leadership and in German politics. Under the uncharismatic conservative Armin Laschet, the CDU, which ruled 52 of the 72 post-war years of Germany, looked like a pale shadow of itself, while Mr. Scholz, who belongs to the pro-business sections of the Social Democrats, led a campaign focused on social justice, by promising to increase the minimum wage, build affordable houses and raise taxes on the rich. This campaign allowed the Social Democrats to eat into the traditional vote base of the Conservatives. The growing awareness of climate politics led to the rapid and visible rise of the Greens. Mr. Scholz will now seek to bring together the Social Democrats, Greens and Liberals, the so-called ‘traffic light’ coalition that will have 416 seats, well beyond the 368 needed for majority. But a lot would depend on coalition talks and reaching common ground, as the CDU has also thrown its hat into the ring. When Ms. Merkel took over the reins of Germany in 2005, Europe’s largest economy was stalled with high unemployment. She overcame crises, strengthening Germany’s economic prowess and transforming its role in Europe. But she also saw German politics getting fragmented and the rise of the neo-Nazi AfD, which got a 10.3% vote share in Sunday’s poll. Whoever succeeds Ms. Merkel has their task cut out to offer stable governance, address growing social disquiet and strengthen the EU. And a bigger challenge is to take up this ambitious agenda while leading a three-way coalition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-clear-winner/article36726840.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Tackling the Maoists||In a meeting with State leaders and representatives, Home Minister Amit Shah noted that the geographical influence of the Maoists has reduced from 96 districts in 10 States in 2010 to 41 now. The contraction is not surprising. Armed struggle has found few takers beyond select pockets untouched by development or linkages with the welfare state; and far from consolidating its presence — a prospect that seemed possible following the merger of two major Naxalite groups into the proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist) — the organisation is limited to the remote and densely forested terrains of central and east-central India. Rather than mobilising discontents with the Indian state by projecting its weaknesses and ensuring inclusion and welfare, the Maoists have privileged armed struggle, invited state repression and sought to use this to recruit adherents. Such a strategy has led to some of India’s poorest people, the tribals in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand in particular, being caught up in endless violence, and also caused severe losses to the Maoists as well as anti-insurgent security forces. This has followed the predictable path of most Maoist insurrections that retained armed struggle to achieve their aims – in the Philippines and Peru, for example — leaving behind death and violence rather than enabling genuine uplift of the poor. Despite these, the Maoists have not budged from their flawed understanding of the nature of the Indian state and democracy, unwilling to accept that the poor people, whom they claim to represent, seek greater engagement with the electoral and welfare system. The Maoist insurgency still has potency in South Bastar in Chhattisgarh, the Andhra-Odisha border and in some districts in Jharkhand. These States must focus on expansive welfare and infrastructure building even as security forces try to weaken the Maoists. Frequent skirmishes and attacks have not only affected the security forces but also left many tribal civilians caught in the crossfire. A purely security-driven approach fraught with human rights’ violations has only added to the alienation among the poor in these areas. The Maoists must be compelled to give up their armed struggle and this can only happen if the tribal people and civil society activists promoting peace are also empowered. The Indian government should not be satisfied with the mere weakening of the Maoist insurgency and reduce commitments made for the developmental needs of some districts of concern in States such as Jharkhand, as its Chief Minister has alleged. The Union government and the States must continue to learn from successes such as the expansion of welfare and rights paradigms in limiting the movement and failures that have led to the continuing spiral of violence in select districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tackling-the-maoists/article36726841.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Right not to disclose source||The right of newsmen not to disclose confidential sources is a “precondition of the unfettered dissemination of news,” Senator James Pearson said to-day [Washington, September 28] as a Senate Sub-Committee opened hearings on freedom of the press. “It is axiomatic,” he said in a testimony prepared for the sub-committee on constitutional rights, “that there can be no dissemination of information without collection of information. Therefore, unreasonable governmental interference with the collection of newsworthy information is inimical to a free press.” Mr. Pearson said the U.S. Supreme Court had never held that newsmen had a right to protect confidential sources. But he said 17 States have adopted laws protecting their right to do so. “In those States where the privilege has been effective for a number of years,” he said, “there is no evidence to indicate that law enforcement officials and prosecutors have been hamstrung in ferreting out crime. The press cannot serve as an investigative organisation for two masters: the government and the public.” Mr. Pearson and one other Senator are sponsoring legislation to establish by law the right of newsmen to refuse to disclose confidential sources of information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/right-not-to-disclose-source/article36726849.ece
29 September 2021||Mumbai,||SEBI clears norms for gold exchanges||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), on Tuesday approved the framework for a gold exchange as well as for vault managers, facilitating trading in securities tied to the yellow metal. The markets regulator’s approval for the proposals made in the Union Budget paves the way for gold exchanges to be set up for trading in ‘Electronic Gold Receipts’ (EGRs) like in the case of other securities. Existing stock exchanges will be allowed to provide the platform for trading of EGRs, SEBI said after a board meeting in Mumbai. The denomination for trading the EGRs and conversion of EGRs into gold would be decided by the exchanges with the approval of SEBI, Chairman Ajay Tyagi said, while addressing the media. The clearing corporation would settle the trades executed on the exchanges by way of transferring EGRs and funds to the buyer and seller, respectively, he said. Vault managers EGR holders, at their discretion, could withdraw the underlying gold from the vaults after surrendering the EGRs. SEBI-accredited vault managers would be responsible for the storage and safekeeping of gold deposits, creation of EGRs, withdrawal of gold, grievance redressal and periodic reconciliation of physical gold with the records of depository. The vault manager would have to have a net worth of at least Rs. 50 crore. On the broader objective of such exchanges, Mr. Tyagi said, “India is a net importer of gold. We are price takers and not price setters. The whole idea is to move from being price takers to be price setters. Price discovery at the exchanges will lead to... transparency in gold pricing.” Mr. Tyagi added that the exchanges would enable transparent price discovery, investment liquidity and assurance in the quality of gold. SEBI also cleared norms for social exchanges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-clears-norms-for-gold-exchanges/article36726826.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘States’ revenues to rise, but won’t dent indebtedness level’||States’ revenues are expected to grow by about 15% this year after a 3% drop in 2020-21, Crisil said on Tuesday, citing an estimated 20% rise in GST collections and about 25% jump in tax receipts on petroleum products. However, States’ indebtedness levels would only improve marginally, from a decade-high 34% last fiscal to 33% this year, the rating agency reckoned, estimating that a 10-11% rise in revenue expenditure would negate the higher tax inflows. Also, while States had budgeted for about 55% growth in capital outlays to about Rs. 5.6 lakh crore in 2021-2022, Crisil estimated actual growth would be about 20% ‘given the past track record’ and their already ‘well above’ historical levels of fiscal deficit of close to 4% of Gross States Domestic Product (GSDP). “As the economy recovers... collections from GST and sales tax from petroleum products, comprising approximately 30% of States’ revenue is likely to rebound strongly,” said Ankit Hakhu, director at Crisil Ratings. However, a more intense third wave could impact estimates, Crisil noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/states-revenues-to-rise-but-wont-dent-indebtedness-level/article36726828.ece
29 September 2021||mumbai,||Fintech firms can check digital fraud: RBI official||Technology-driven fintech firms can play multiple roles in areas such as digital-fraud prevention, financial inclusion and cross-border payments, said RBI Deputy Governor T. Rabi Sankar. The technological innovation in finance, he said, also raises hopes for substantial efficiency gains, better customer experience and greater social welfare. While talking about the potential of the fintech firms, Mr. Sankar also underlined the need for effectively dealing with ‘threats of online frauds, compromise of customer credentials and data privacy and safety for the spring of hope not to turn into the winter of despair.’ He was speaking at Global FinTech Fest 2021. As the digital payments landscape was maturing, Mr. Sankar said RBI’s regulatory attention is shifting to the next level of reforms. “Another area where fintech holds promise is to prevent digital frauds,” he said. Citing data, he said incidents of digital frauds have risen during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fintech-firms-can-check-digital-fraud-rbi-official/article36726823.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bank recapitalisation can aid NARCL’s success: ADB||The success of India’s latest gambit to clean up the banking system’s toxic assets through a ‘bad bank’ will hinge on several factors, and global evidence shows such initiatives worked better when accompanied by recapitalisation of banks, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) said. It noted that the resolution process under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) was ‘skewed’. There were also concerns about rising non-performing loans (NPLs) and low uptake of bank credit deterring private investment, the multilateral lender flagged in its outlook update last week. While the IBC had led to a paradigm shift in the resolution process, quicker and more efficient resolutions were important for improving resource allocation in the economy, ADB’s Rana Hasan and Shalini Mittal said in response to queries from The Hindu . Dr. Hasan is the Bank’s regional economic adviser for South Asia and Ms. Mittal is an associate economic analyst. The government has taken measures to speed up resolution of bad loans via the National Asset Reconstruction Co. Ltd. (NARCL), which aims to resolve the twin balance sheet problem of the banks by easing stress on banks’ balance sheets and enabling them to direct resources to more productive assets, they noted. “Many countries... have established such companies to resolve NPLs,” they said. “KAMCO, established in Korea in 1997, played a key role in... resolving financial institutions’ bad loans and corporate restructurings. Similarly, Danaharta in Malaysia had a lifetime loan recovery rate of 58%,” they added. Recapitalisation “will help strengthen banks’ balance sheet, improve capital adequacy ratio and encourage banks to lend more, thereby improving the credit flow in the system. Evidence from 135 major banks across 15 European Union nations and Switzerland showed that segregation of impaired assets (into a bad bank) worked when done along with recapitalisation of the banks,” they emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bank-recapitalisation-can-aid-narcls-success-adb/article36726832.ece
29 September 2021||COIMBATORE,||Include spices in PLI for value addition: UPASI||The United Planters’ Association of Southern India (UPASI) has urged the Spices Board to take up with the Ministry of Food Processing Industries the need to include spices in the Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI). This would encourage value addition with the development of infrastructure for the sector, it said. UPASI also said there was a need to impose policy restrictions on import of natural rubber for a minimum period of two years and safeguard duty of 70% as there was a surge in imports hurting domestic growers. Imports from April to June this year were higher by 0.32 lakh tonnes compared with the year-earlier period, the Association said. On coffee, the UPASI said Coffee Board should pursue with the Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Finance to raise budgetary allocation for development activities. On tea, it said rising imports were a concern and the domestic tea sector was witnessing rising cost of production. Any higher imports would have a telling effect on the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/include-spices-in-pli-for-value-addition-upasi/article36726834.ece
29 September 2021||new delhi,||Don’t compromise data privacy in fintech: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said there should be no compromise on data privacy and safeguard of client data with an increasing number of Indians now using digital mode of payment. She said the value of digital transactions jumped to Rs. 6 lakh crore in January-August 2021 from Rs. 4 lakh crore and Rs. 2 lakh crore in 2020 and 2019, respectively. “Data privacy is one of the things which is very important and it is an issue on which there can be a lot of contentious views. However, basic respect for privacy as the guiding principle is well appreciated. “Unless my data is safeguarded well, I wouldn’t want to get into a scheme of things. “So, that is the guiding principle,” Ms. Sitharaman said at the ‘Global FinTech Fest 2021.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dont-compromise-data-privacy-in-fintech-fm/article36726835.ece
29 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||Drug imports gain time on shelf-life rule||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has extended till April 30 the deadline for allowing import of drugs with residual shelf life less than 60%. Pharmaceuticals Export Promotion Council of India (Pharmexcil) said import of drugs with less than 60% residual shelf life was being permitted since April 2020. It followed representations from importers citing delay in clearances at ports, close on the heels of the COVID-19 outbreak. With the existing deadline till October 31, the latest extension is for six months. Pharmexcil director general Ravi Uday Bhaskar said the DCGI’s decision is bound to come as a relief for importers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/drug-imports-gain-time-on-shelf-life-rule/article36726824.ece
29 September 2021||new Delhi,||Australian Minister Tehan to visit India for FTA talks||Australian Minister for Trade, Tourism and Investment Dan Tehan will be in India this week to take forward bilateral negotiations for a free trade agreement (FTA). He is also expected to address a business leaders’ forum during his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/australian-minister-tehan-to-visit-india-for-fta-talks/article36726830.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC raises Rs 789 cr from anchor investors ahead of IPO||Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC said on Tuesday it had collected Rs. 789 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial share sale that opens for public subscription on Wednesday. It was decided to allot 1,10,80,800 shares to anchor investors at Rs. 712 apiece, valuing aggregate transaction at Rs. 788.95 crore, according to a circular.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/aditya-birla-sun-life-amc-raises-rs-789-cr-from-anchor-investors-ahead-of-ipo/article36727074.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Lava International files IPO papers with Sebi||Mobile maker Lava International has filed papers with markets regulator SEBI to raise funds via an initial public offering (IPO). The IPO comprises fresh issuance of shares worth Rs. 500 crore and an offer for sale of 43.73 million shares, according to the prospectus.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lava-international-files-ipo-papers-with-sebi/article36727075.ece
29 September 2021||New Delhi,||Future gets NCLT go-ahead to conduct shareholders meeting for deal with Reliance||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) allowed Future Group firms to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek approval for the sale of assets to Reliance Retail Ltd. A NCLT bench also dismissed Amazon’s application opposing the merger of Future Group firms.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/future-gets-nclt-go-ahead-to-conduct-shareholders-meeting-for-deal-with-reliance/article36726836.ece
29 September 2021||Mumbai,||TAG ties up with NCERT to enhance teachers’ digital skills||Tech Avant-Garde (TAG), Microsoft’s global training partner, said it has signed an agreement with National Council of Educational Research & Training (NCERT) to collaborate for enhancing digital skills among teachers so as to facilitate a Connected Learning Community (CLC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tag-ties-up-with-ncert-to-enhance-teachers-digital-skills/article36726827.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Amazon to offer computer education to 1 lakh eligible students from 900 schools in India||Amazon said it will offer computer science (CS) learning opportunities to more than 1 lakh students from 900 government and aided schools across seven Indian States. As a precursor, it introduced global computer science education programme, Amazon Future Engineer, in India on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-to-offer-computer-education-to-1-lakh-eligible-students-from-900-schools-in-india/article36726839.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Rana’s cool, Narine’s blitz take Knight Riders past the finish line||A team that was more desperate to win eventually came out stronger. Chasing 128, Kolkata Knight Riders stuttered but recovered to cross the finish line for an important win as left-handers Nitish Rana and Sunil Narine got it right under pressure to keep Delhi Capitals at bay in their IPL match at Sharjah. Tuesday’s three-wicket win kept KKR in the fourth spot. DC, too, retained second place. The thrust In the 14th over, when KKR was 76 for four, Rana provided the thrust by hitting two sixes off a Lalit Yadav over that went for 20. Two overs later, Sunil Narine smashed two sixes and a four as Kagiso Rabada was hit for 21 runs. In a battle within the battle, R. Ashwin made no secret of his joy on scalping Eoin Morgan for a duck after the KKR skipper and the off-spinner were involved in a verbal spat when Delhi batted. Much before the result was formalised, the KKR bowlers provided the platform. In control On a surface where the ball tended to grip a little and did not quite come on to the bat, KKR restricted DC to 127 for eight with a very disciplined display. Even Rishabh Pant (39) did not look convincing as most DC batsmen fell in their attempts to break the shackles. Shikhar Dhawan opened with Steve Smith, in for an unfit Prithvi Shaw, but departed after a flashy knock. After regaining the Orange cap with a boundary in the first over, Dhawan tried to bat like Shaw and his over-aggressive approach proved his undoing. Sunil Narine hit the in-form Shreyas Iyer’s off-stump. Smith, after looking impressive in patches, appeared increasingly tired in the afternoon heat and was finally bowled. Pant could only watch as wickets fell in a heap. Surprisingly, Venkatesh Iyer cracked DC’s middle order with two quick blows and Narine added another as DC slipped to 92 for six in the 16th over before the 100 was reached in the 17th over. Ashwin and Pant fell in the final over after adding 28, but the tally never looked big enough to threaten KKR.  Morgan’s men retained the fourth spot after the three-wkt. win over DC Pant’s outfit continued to be in second place||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ranas-cool-narines-blitz-take-knight-riders-past-the-finish-line/article36727067.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jyothika and Sherin hog the limelight||The search is on for young quartermilers to strengthen the Indian women’s relay team for next year’s Commonwealth Games, Asian Games and Worlds. And Dandi Jyothika Sri, who had run the quartermile and mixed relay at the 2017 under-18 Worlds, produced an impressive 53.05s for the 400m gold in the first National under-23 athletics championships at the Nehru Stadium here on Tuesday. Second fastest time Her time is the second fastest by an Indian this year, behind Priya H. Mohan’s 52.77s which came at the recent under-20 Worlds. Jyothika’s run was a dominating one and the 21-year-old from Andhra Pradesh finished more than 1.5s ahead of Jharkhand’s Florence Barla. She entered this year with a personal best of 54.70s and clocked 55.98s (inter-State) and 54.83 (National Open) in her last two competitions. Ayush Dabas won the men’s 400m in a personal best 46.58s while Tamil Nadu’s Sherin Abdul Gafoor also produced a PB 6.45m, the third best long jump by an Indian this year. Karnataka’s Shashikanth Angadi and Delhi’s National Open champion Taranjeet Kaur finished as the fastest man and woman respectively.  The results:   Men: 100m: 1. V.A. Shashikanth (Kar) 10.57s, 2. Pranav Gurav (Mah) 10.67; 3. G. Kathiravan (TN) 10.85.   400m: 1. Ayush Dabas (Har) 46.58s; 2. Vikrant Panchal (Har) 47.08; 3. Mohammed Hossain (WB) 47.20.   110m hurdles: 1. Tejas Shirse (Mah) 14.12s; 2. Yashwant Laveti (AP) 14.25; 3. Kunal Chaudhary (Del) 14.44. Shot put: 1. Ashish Kumar (Har) 17.20m; 2. Aniket (Utkd) 17.09; 3. Akash Grewal (UP) 17.03.   Discus: 1. Basukesh Poonia (Raj) 53.27m; 2. Praveen Kumar (Raj) 51.38; 3. Abhay Gupta (Har) 50.41. Javelin: 1. Rohit Yadav (UP) 72.42m; 2. Anmol Rana (UP) 71.17; 3. Anuj Kalera (Raj) 68.73.   20000m race walk: 1. Suraj Panwar (Utkd) 1:28:53.11s; 2. Amit Khatri (Har) 1:28:54.81; 3. Juned (Har) 1:29:20.78. Decathlon: 1. Yaman Deep Singh (Raj) 6975 pts; 2. Robin Singh (UP) 6636; 3. Mohit (Har) 6615.   Women: 100m: 1. Taranjeet Kaur (Del) 11.54s; 2. A.T. Daneshwari (Kar) 11.66; 3. Nithya Gandhe (Tel) 11.90.   400m: 1. Dandi Jyothika Sri (AP) 53.05s; 2. Florence Barla (Jha) 54.69; 3. Nancy (Har) 55.25.   100m hurdles: 1. Aparna Roy (Ker) 13.80s; 2. K. Nandhini (TN) 13.96; 3. Moumita Mondal (WB) 14.05. Pole vault: 1. Pooja (Har) 3.60m; 2. Pavithra Venkatesh (TN) 3.50; 3. Divya Mohan (Ker) 3.50.   High jump: 1. Athira Somaraj (Ker) 1.71m; 2. Rekha (Har) 1.69; 3. Giji Stephen (TN) 1.69.   Long jump: 1. Sherin Abdul Gaffoor (TN) 6.45m; 2. Sandra Babu (Ker) 6.29; 3. Pooja Saini (Raj) 6.22.   Discus: 1. Sunita (Har) 46.75m; 2. Shivani (UP) 46.25; 3. Neetika Verma (UP) 44.77. 20000m walk: 1. Reshma Patel (Utkd) 1:45:01.55s; 2. Mansi Negi (Utkd) 1:45:45.95; 3. Munita Prajapati (UP) 1:46:20.57 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jyothika-and-sherin-hog-the-limelight/article36727127.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The future of commentary must work harder to get there||Running commentary, the craft of bringing the game to the listener and viewer at home (or anywhere else), has undergone many changes from radio to television to IPL. The IPL rates a category of its own because like the tournament itself, the commentary has become a generic term for oversell. But that is not the main reason. It is possible that the Dugout might be the future of commentary. The tournament has, to a certain extent ironed out some of its excesses and moved closer to the sport side of the spectrum from the purely entertainment side when it began. Not so the commentary, which has been a work in progress for over a decade now, and continues to exist somewhere in between, neither fish nor fowl. Genesis of Dugout Television’s initial instinct — that the IPL cannot be reported in the straightforward manner other cricket is — was the right one. But in concentrating on form over content, on spectacle rather than substance, it quickly came to a dead end. Thus was born the Dugout. This meant, however, two sets of entertainment, one on field and the other in the studio. Over the years the word associated with IPL is ‘loud’ — from the game itself to Danny Morrison in the commentary box. Even if you enjoy the game, there is no guarantee that you will enjoy the banalities of the commentary. There was an argument for the innovations at the start. ‘Razzmatazz’ and ‘sportainment’ were the buzzwords then, and anything that reflected these in the commentary was seen as contributing to the overall value. When Mandira Bedi was for a brief while one of the faces of the IPL, she brought enormous attention to bear upon the tournament; the organisers believed that all publicity was good. Soon we had cheerleaders in the studio which looked rather silly, but it was part of work in progress. An alternative was needed to the loud and over the top style of those calling the game at the venue, and thus was born the Dugout, a more sober, more analytical and better informed commentary from the studio. It worked for a while, attracting a viewership that was interested in tactics and technique and stories behind the events. But the experts soon felt a need to be cute and funny (apart from having to praise everything good, bad or ugly, which presumably is part of the contract), and instead of the on-field commentary raising its standard, the Dugout lowered its own. Few commentators are natural entertainers, speaking with the range and confidence of stand-up comedians. Under pressure to entertain, they struggle because of the forced nature of the attempt. Artificial What is poor Ajit Agarkar doing in the midst of all this noise and flashing lights, unsure if he should remain his sober self or try to match the artificial exuberance of his colleagues? Agarkar speaks a good game, but he is not much given to shouting and feigned high spirits. Brian Lara, one of the modern greats, what is he doing? The maker of the highest scores in both first class and Test innings is reduced to taking an exaggerated bow every time a so-called ‘prediction’ of his regarding the fall of a wicket turns out right. Commentary in the disco box with coloured lights flashing all around and sounds emanating unexpectedly and so much screaming and shouting may be fun, but I doubt it. When Virat Kohli was missed the first ball he faced against Mumbai Indians, the commentators were so busy patting one another on their backs that they omitted to mention who the fielder was who had let the ball through. Even if you sit miles away from the action, the basics don’t change: tell the viewer what he needs to know. The viewer should not be forced to flip between channels. The IPL is a television sport, and lends itself to the kind of viewing experience that is only diminished by annoying commentary. All shots cannot be incredible, all wickets are not ‘huge’, and every car on display every year cannot be the greatest thing since sliced bread. Sure, I am not the demographic this is aimed at. But I found many youngsters too watch the matches with the sound switched off. When there is enough action on the field, we don’t need more thumping and shouting and colour off it to underline that, or indeed compete with it. T20 started out as a bit of a hit-and-giggle cricket, and in the early years the IPL was unsure whether it was sport or entertainment. But it has worked at gaining acceptance as a sport thanks to radical approaches to data harvesting, selection, technique and coaching. The Dugout needs to gain similar credibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-future-of-commentary-must-work-harder-to-get-there/article36726870.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Confident Royal Challengers take on struggling Royals||Fresh from an impressive 54-run win over Mumbai Indians, Royal Challengers Bangalore will take the field against Rajasthan Royals at Dubai on Wednesday with confidence. RCB snapped a two-match losing streak in fine fashion on Sunday, stunning a strong MI with authority. Skipper Virat Kohli and Glenn Maxwell notched up fifties, before Harshal Patel’s hat-trick sealed the match in RCB’s favour. Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal played his part, picking up three crucial wickets. RR, on the other hand, has lost two straight matches. The most recent setback came on Monday, when the side went down to Sunrisers Hyderabad by seven wickets. Skipper Sanju Samson has been on fire with the bat, but has lacked support from teammates. RR has been badly affected by the withdrawal of England star Jos Buttler, who pulled out of the second leg citing bubble fatigue. Vital for Royals  The next few matches will be vital for RR, as it is stuck on eight points alongside three other mid-table teams. Some winning momentum will help to break free from the pack and make a bid to qualify for the playoff rounds. RCB (12 points) is in a more comfortable position, with six wins in 10 matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/confident-royal-challengers-take-on-struggling-royals/article36727063.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Pollard and Hardik keep MI in the hunt||Hardik Pandya and Kieron Pollard lived up to their tag of finishers as Mumbai Indians defeated Punjab Kings by six wickets with an over to spare at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday. Hardik (40 n.o., 30b, 4x4, 2x6) and Pollard (15 n.o., 7b, 1x4, 1x6) were involved in an unbroken 45-run stand off 23 balls for the fifth wicket. Earlier, Saurabh Tiwary, who replaced an out-of-form Ishan Kishan, laid the foundation for the chase with a 37-ball 45 (3x4, 2x6) after the bowlers had kept PBKS on a leash. The victory at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium — MI’s first in four matches in the second leg — kept MI’s title defence alive while dealing a big blow to Punjab Kings’ aspirations of making it to the playoffs. When Pollard joined Hardik in the middle after Tiwary was caught behind off Nathan Ellis’ back-of-the-hand slower ball in the 16th over, MI required 44 off 29. Hardik, who was dropped by Harpeet Brar off left-arm pacer Arshdeep Singh in the 15th over, took his time before going after Mohammed Shami in the 17th. Pollard then went after Arshdeep in the next over before Hardik sealed it with a six off Shami — the ball going through Deepak Hooda’s hands at long-on — in the penultimate over. When PBKS batted, Hooda (28, 26b, 1x4, 1x6) and Aiden Markram (42, 29b, 6x4) stabilised the innings with a 61-run association for the fifth wicket after their team slid to 48 for four in the eighth over. With MI picking up four wickets for 12 runs off 14 balls, the Punjab side was in serious trouble. Pollard triggered the collapse, taking the prize scalps of Chris Gayle (caught at long-on) and captain K.L. Rahul (caught at short fine-leg off a slower delivery) in the space of three balls. With Rahul’s wicket, Pollard became the first cricketer to achieve the double of 10,000 runs and 300 wickets in T20s. The West Indian celebrated the day in style by shining with the willow too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mi-bowlers-keep-pbks-on-a-leash/article36727070.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Day to remember for Hashika||Hashika Ramachandra clinched the group II girls’ 200m freestyle and 400m medley golds on the final day of the State aquatics championship on Tuesday. Her timing of 2:13.66s in 200m freestyle is a new meet record. At the end of the six-day event, Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre bagged both the senior and junior overall championships.  The results (winners all): Men: 200m freestyle: Srihari Nataraj, 1:52.62 (NMR, Old: Tanish George Mathew, 1:53.73, 2021); 200m breaststroke: Litheesh G.Gowda, 2:36.07; 100m butterfly: Tanish George Mathew, 56.80; 400m medley: S. Siva, 4:40.77.   Women: 200m freestyle: B.G. Madhura, 2:18.39; 200m breaststroke: Inchara S. Narayan, 3:23.96; 100m butterfly: Damini K. Gowda, 1:09.43; 400m medley: V. Preetha, 5:50.05.   Boys: Group I: 200m freestyle: R. Sambhavv, 1:55.30; 200m breaststroke: Vidith S. Shankar, 2:22.41 (NMR, Old: S.P. Likith, 2:30.43, 2013); 100m butterfly: R. Sambhavv, 56.06; 400m medley: Shoan Ganguly, 4:43.02 (NMR, Old: Self, 4:44.72, 2021); 4x100m medley: BAC-A, 4:00.54 (NMR, OR: BAC, 4:03.81, 2021).   Group II: 200m freestyle: Anantajit Mukherjee, 2:06.77; 200m breaststroke: Krish Sukumar, 2:35.72; 100m butterfly: Niranjan Karthik, 1:03.46; 400m medley: Pavan Dhananjaya, 5:00.77; 4x100m medley: Dolphin Team A 4:29.91.   Girls: Group I: 200m freestyle: Ashmitha Chandra, 2:15.77; 200m breaststroke: Saanvi S. Rao, 2:47.96 (NMR, Old: Self, 2:49.30, 2021); 100m butterfly: Nina Venkatesh, 1:05.58; 400m medley: A. Jedidah, 5:32.25; 4x100m medley: Dolphin Team A, 4:49.37.   Group II: 200m freestyle: Hashika Ramachandra, 2:13.66 (NMR, Old: Hashika, 2:13.46, 2021); 200m breaststroke: A.K. Lineysha, 2:49.51; 100m butterfly: Rishika U. Mangle, 1:05.65 (NMR, Old: Self, 1:05.94, 2021); 400m medley: Hashika Ramachandra, 5:29.98; 4x100m medley: Dolphin Team A, 4:45.75 (NMR, Old: Dolphin, 4:48.57, 2021).   Overall championship: Junior: BAC (616 points); Senior: BAC (326)   Individual championship: Men: Srihari Nataraj (185); Women: Damini k.Gowda (35); Boys: Group I: Vidith S. Shankar (1025), Group II: Navaneeth R.Gowda (535); Girls: Group I: Nina Venkatesh (535), Group II: Riddhima Veerendra Kumar (685) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/day-to-remember-for-hashika/article36727110.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Warner’s SRH future not discussed: Bayliss||David Warner has batted with one of the broadest bats at the IPL. His 5,449 runs, at an average of 41.59 and a strike rate of 139.96, vouch for that. He also led Sunrisers Hyderabad to victory in 2016. Something that seems like a distant memory now. He was relieved of captaincy earlier this season and dropped for the match against Rajasthan Royals. Eyebrows were raised when he didn’t accompany the team to the stadium here on Monday. He watched the match from his Dubai hotel room; he wrote on Instagram that he wouldn’t be at the stadium again. There has been speculation that his association with SRH, which dates back to 2014, may not last beyond the season. His former teammate at the Hyderabad franchise, Dale Steyn, had spoken of that possibility back in May. After SRH’s comfortable seven-wicket victory against Royals, in which Warner’s replacement Jason Roy scored 60, coach Trevor Bayliss refused to read too much into the Australian opener’s absence from the ground. “We have a lot of young players and we decided... to give them an opportunity to come along and experience the game (at the stadium),” he told reporters after Monday’s match. He added that Warner’s future at SRH had not been discussed yet. “I am sure he has got a lot more runs in him yet in the IPL,” he said. Royals all-rounder Chris Morris said his team wasn’t winning the big moments in a game. “We have to pull up our socks and win the big moments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warners-srh-future-not-discussed-bayliss/article36727065.ece
29 September 2021||STOCKHOLM,||Sweden calls up injured Ibrahimovic||Veteran AC Milan striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic was named in the Sweden squad for next month’s World Cup qualifiers on Tuesday in spite of an ongoing Achilles tendon problem. Ibrahimovic, who turns 40 on Sunday, is in the group set to face Kosovo and Greece in Group B matches on October 9 and 12. Sweden is currently second in the group, four points behind leader Spain. Sweden’s top goalscorer with 62 in 118 matches, “Ibra” emerged from an almost five-year international retirement in March with a view to going to the Euros, although a knee injury eventually ruled him out of the tournament. He returned to the pitch with AC Milan against Lazio on September 12, but Achilles tendon pain has sidelined him since, both for Sweden and Milan. Meanwhile in South America, Lionel Messi headlines the Argentina squad for three qualifiers in October as announced on Monday. The Argentines are away to Paraguay on October 7 before hosting Uruguay three days later and wrapping up against Peru on October 14, also in Buenos Aires. Argentina, with 18 points, is second in the standings behind Brazil, who have amassed 24 points in eight matches. Three Premier League players — Aston Villa goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez and Tottenham pair Giovani Lo Celso and Cristian Romero — are in the Argentina squad even though the country is on Britain’s coronavirus travel red list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sweden-calls-up-injured-ibrahimovic/article36727195.ece
29 September 2021||LONDON,||Brighton misses out going to top||Neil Maupay ran through to lob home a finish in the fifth minute of stoppage time and earn Brighton a 1-1 draw at local rival Crystal Palace in the Premier League on Monday. Brighton would have climbed into first place with a win but still left Selhurst Park satisfied after Maupay’s late equaliser, which came as Joel Veltman helped the ball forward from just inside his own half following a poor clearance by Palace goalkeeper Vicente Guaita. Wilfried Zaha had put Palace ahead from the penalty spot in first-half stoppage time after Conor Gallagher was fouled in the box by Leandro Trossard as the midfielder ran nto the area. Palace was denied just a second victory of the season under recently hired manager Patrick Vieira, after beating Tottenham 3-0 in its last home match. Bunched together Brighton stayed in sixth place but moved into a tie for points with Manchester City, Manchester United, Chelsea and Everton, who are all a point behind leader Liverpool. In LaLiga, Denis Suarez scored four minutes into stoppage time for Celta Vigo to beat Granada 1-0. Suarez netted the winner from inside the area after an assist by Santi Mina to secure Celta its second consecutive win after a winless start to the season. The goal came a few moments after Granada nearly broke the deadlock with a couple of opportunities that were stopped by Celta goalkeeper Matias Dituro. The host got the victory despite Iago Aspas missing a 73rd-minute penalty kick, with his shot saved by Granada goalkeeper Luis Maximiano. Real Madrid leads the league through seven rounds, one point more than Real Sociedad and two points more than Sevilla and defending champion Atlético Madrid. Sevilla has a game in hand.  The results:   Premier League: Crystal Palace 1 (Zaha 45+2-pen) drew with Brighton 1 (Maupay 90+5).   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 1 (Suarez 90+4) bt Granada 0.   Serie A: Venezia 1 (Aramu 78-pen) drew with Torino 1 (Brekalo 56) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brighton-misses-out-going-to-the-top/article36727113.ece
29 September 2021||Bhopal,||MP govt. felicitates women’s hockey team||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday felicitated the Indian women’s hockey team and handed them a cheque of Rs. 31 lakh in recognition of their superb performance at the Tokyo Olympics. Chouhan hosted the entire team for a lunch at his residence this afternoon in honour of their historic show at Tokyo. The chief minister said that “the Indian women’s hockey team has given an outstanding performance in the Tokyo Olympics. These young women won the hearts of the people of the country. In the next Olympics, they will win the gold medal.” He also said that the team displayed immense courage and skill in the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mp-govt-felicitates-womens-hockey-team/article36727128.ece
29 September 2021||Bulgaria,||Bopanna & Qureshi pair loses||Rohan Bopanna in partnership with Aisam-Ul-Haq Qureshi was beaten 6-2, 6-7(1), 10-7 by the third seeds Oliver Marach and Philipp Oswald in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €481,270 ATP tennis tournament here.  Other results:   € 44,820 Challenger, Sibiu, Romania: Singles (first round): Sumit Nagal bt Lucas Miedler (Aut) 6-3, 6-1.   € 44,820 Challenger, Murcia, Spain: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Raul Brancacciio & Flavio Cobolli (Ita) bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & Manish Sureshkumar 6-2, 7-6(6).   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: First round: Niki Poonacha bt Pierre Yves Bailly (Bel) 6-3, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Singles (first round): Roland Stuurman (Ned) bt Nitin Kumar Sinha 6-2, 6-0; Volodymmyr Uzhylovskyi (Ukr) bt Karan Singh 6-3, 7-5; Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): SD Prajwal Dev & Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Nico Jjaeger (Sui) & Sstephanos Schinas (Gre) 6-4, 6-2.   $25,000 ITF women, Lisbon, Portugal: Singles (first round): Malene Helgo (Nor) bt Riya Bhatia 6-2, 6-2.   $ 15,000 ITF women, Cairo, Egypt: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Jasmijn Gimbrere & Lian Tran (Ned) bt Alexandra Iordache (Rou) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi 6-4, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-qureshi-pair-loses/article36727129.ece
29 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||From line umpire to referee, I am happy, says Nitin||Nitin Kannamwar is a very experienced tennis official in the country who has officiated 48 times in the four Grand Slams, including 24 times in Wimbledon.  Back from Tokyo, and taking a breather before the next string of events around the world, the 57-year-old Nitin was understandably proud to have executed his role as tennis referee in the Paralympics. Nitin, who had started as a line umpire in 1994, had prepared for his role as referee (the first Asian to be entrusted the task) even while performing his duty as a review official for the Olympics. It was his fourth Olympics after Atlanta, Sydney, Beijing. It was the third Paralympics for Nitin who was the chief of umpires in Rio. He also served as the referee in the two Youth Olympics in Singapore and Nanjing. Team show “We delivered the event as a team in such an adverse situation,” said Nitin. He has been to six Asian Games and served as referee and ITF supervisor, but there is no bigger stage than the Olympics. “You cannot compare the Olympics with anything. All eyes of the world are on the Games,” he said. “It means a lot to me. From line umpire to referee, I am happy,” said Nitin, who started as a tennis player and has also been a coach. Preparing ahead The preparation for the Games had started months ahead, but so much had to be changed owing to the conditions triggered by the pandemic. “I was there five days in advance for Paralympics. We have seven to eight screens for schedule, draws, etc.,” said Nitin. Nitin was understandably happy that the Olympics and Paralympics went off very well thanks to strict measures and efficiency of the Japanese. The challenges were met with equanimity and Nitin was proud that he could play his part with satisfaction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/from-line-umpire-to-referee-i-am-happy-nitin/article36727307.ece
29 September 2021||Chennai,||Vijay meets Rovers||Vijay CC will meet Jolly Rovers in the final of the VAP Trophy one-day tournament. In the semifinals on Tuesday, Vijay defeated Grand Slam by seven wickets. And Jolly Rovers outplayed Nelson by 176 runs. The two will meet in the final, a day match with a 9 a.m. start, on Thursday at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium. Electing to bat, Grand Slam made 232 for eight in 50 overs, with No. 3. Bhargav Merai notching up 102 (104, 7x4). Pursuing 233, Vijay was home in the 47th over. In the other game, Nelson’s decision to field backfired as Rovers raced to 328 for seven. Left-handed opener Sai Sudharsan made hectic 98 (67b, 13x4, 2x6). Then, twins B. Aparajith and Indrajith, came up with innings of 82 and 50 in quick time. The Nelson batters crumbled, with only R. Karthikeyan offering some resistance with a 67-ball 50.  The scores (semifinals):   At TI-Murugappa: Grand Slam 232/8 in 50 overs (R. Kavin 57, Bhargav Merai 102, S. Radhakrishnan 26, A. Aswin Crist 3/50) lost to Vijay 233/3 in 46.1 overs (V. Ganga Sridhar Raju 58, S. Lokeshwar 60, Daryl S. Ferrario 47 n.o., K.B. Arun Karthick 39 n.o.).   At MAC: Jolly Rovers 328/7 in 50 overs (B. Sai Sudharsan 98, M. Kaushik Gandhi 48, B. Aparajith 82, B. Indrajith 50, M. Poiyamozhi 3/54) bt Nelson 152 in 34.4 overs (P. Praveen Kumar 32, R. Karthikeyan 50, P. Saravana Kumar 3/32, N. S. Harish 3/31) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vijay-meets-rovers/article36727192.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Gowthaman — lone bright spot from TN||Boxing activities have come to a halt in Tamil Nadu for a while due to infighting between the two factions in the Tamil Nadu State Boxing Association (TNSBA). With the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) showing its disapproval for the Association(s) bringing two teams for the previous Senior Nationals, the two TNSBA factions buried their egos and conducted a common trial to select the State boxers for the recently concluded Senior National championships in Vijayanagar. With no proper camp for all the TN boxers who were selected for the Senior Nationals, the State didn’t do well, barring P. Gowthaman, son of a labourer working in a leather company. The 23-year-old was the lone medallist from the State as he bagged a bronze in the Cruiserweight category (80-86kg). Gowthaman, pursuing Masters in Social Work from GTN College (Dindigul), was thrilled to get his first medal at the Senior Nationals in three attempts but lamented that had there been a camp he would have given a better result. “Had there been a camp I would have definitely won gold. “If I get a government job I will be able to concentrate and perform better and win medals for my State and country,” he said. Coached by Saravanan (Keshava Prasath and Manikandan) in Chromepet, Gowthaman uses powerful punches for his height (5’ 6”), is not afraid of reputations on the ring, and has the potential to get better, according to Olympian V. Devarajan, a BFI selector. Devarajan believes that a bright future awaits Gowthaman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gowthaman-lone-bright-spot-from-tn/article36727189.ece
29 September 2021||Lahore,||Inzamam discharged after an angioplasty||Pakistan’s former captain and most-capped player Inzamam-ul-Haq had to undergo an emergency angioplasty at a private hospital here after complaining of heart-related issues and breathing difficulty. Teammate and current PCB chairman Ramiz Raja later confirmed on social media that Inzamam has been discharged from the hospital after successfully undergoing the procedure. “Inzi wishing you well and so good that you are now back at home. Rest and recoup my friend,” Raja tweeted. The 51-year old, who played 120 Tests and 378 ODIs, also served as chief selector between 2016-2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inzamam-discharged-after-an-angioplasty/article36727061.ece
29 September 2021||LAUSANNE,||Italy to play Argentina next June||Italy and Argentina will face each other next June 2022, in a first meeting between the winners of the Euro and the Copa America, UEFA and CONMEBOL announced on Tuesday. The European and South American governing bodies released a joint statement saying the game was planned “during the international window in June 2022 at a venue to be confirmed.” “The agreement reached by the two organisations currently covers three editions of this match between the respective continental winners,” the communique said. The announcement comes during an intensifying turf war pitting the two most powerful confederations in world football against global governing body FIFA. UEFA and CONMEBOL are opposed to FIFA’s recently-unveiled plan to double the frequency of its World Cups. The two continental bodies say that would disrupt their calendar and compete with their continental events. Many national leagues, supporters’ associations and the players’ union FIFPro have also expressed hostility to a biennial World Cup. FIFA has the support of former players and coaches in its “legends” programme, and, probably, a silent majority of small countries highly dependent on the World Cup revenue. It will consult its 211 member federations on Thursday. UEFA and CONMEBOL said in their statement that the match between their champions “is part of the expansion of the cooperation between UEFA and CONMEBOL, which notably includes women’s football, futsal and youth categories, the exchange of referees, as well as technical training schemes” and that they would be opening a joint office in London.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/italy-to-play-argentina-next-june/article36727114.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Veteran cricket umpire Satyaji Rao passes away||Noted cricket umpire Badami Satyaji Rao passed away here on Tuesday. He was 92 and is survived wife Nagamani and son Vinay Badami. Rao became a First Class umpire in 1956 and served the game until 1981, and between 1960 and 1979 officiated in 17 Test matches, a then record. His debut Test was the India-Pakistan match at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata in December 1960, with the last coming in Kanpur in February 1979 between India and West Indies. Five Ranji finals Born in (then) Bangalore on October 16, 1929, Rao officiated in local leagues organised by the Mysore State Cricket Association. He also had the distinction of umpiring the final of the Ranji Trophy on five occasions and also officiated in the Duleep Trophy final on four occasions. Rao also had stints as an administrator, serving as the KSCA assistant secretary and as president of the Association of Cricket Umpires of Karnataka. The Karnataka State Cricket Association condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/veteran-cricket-umpire-satyaji-rao-passes-away/article36727117.ece
29 September 2021||DOHA,||Indian women blank Jordan in opener||Indian women beat Jordan 3-0 in their opening first division match of the 25th-ITTF-ATTU Asian table tennis championships at the Lusail Sports Arena here on Tuesday. India's top-ranked paddler Sutirtha Mukherjee followed by Archana Kamath and Ayhika Mukherjee scored convincing wins over their opponents. The men will take on Iran in the quarterfinals of the championship division on Wednesday. Meanwhile, in the men's singles draw of 128 released, India's top-ranked players, Sharath Kamal and G. Sathiyan have received byes in the first round. Harmeet Desai will take on Ahmed Alawlaqi of Qatar while Manav Thakkar will meet Qatar's Fahed Almughanne. Sanil Shetty will face Jaber Al-Balhan of Kuwait.  The results:   Women: First division (first stage): (Group 1): India bt Jordan 3-0 (Sutirtha Mukherjee bt Bara Al-Wedian 11-6, 11-6, 11-4; Archana Kamath bt Taimmaa Abo-Yaman 11-6, 11-5, 11-3; Ayhika Mukherjee bt Yara Aldmaisy 11-7, 11-1, 11-1); Jordan bt Nepal 3-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-blank-jordan-in-opener/article36727073.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Chance for Angelino to come good||Angelino, a failed favourite, may make amends in the first division of the Set To Fly Handicap (1,600m), the main event of the races to be held here on Wednesday (Sept. 29). The carried over amounts of Rs. 16,504, Rs. 6,822 and Rs. 7,121 will be added to the Jackpot, Mini Jackpot and second Treble respectively.  SUNSHINE HEART HANDICAP (1,400m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Country’s Genius (5) Surya Prakash 60, 2. Dr Feelgood (1) K. Mukesh Kumar 60, 3. God’s Wish (7) P. Sai Kumar 60, 4. Golden Streak (2) H.M. Akshay 60, 5. Moment Of Life (9) Ishwar Singh 60, 6. Propahlady (11) Farid Ansari 59.5, 7. Roses In My Dreams (8) C. Brisson 59, 8. Velocity (4) Nikhil Naidu 58.5, 9. Lady Zeen (6) Ramandeep Singh 58, 10. Dream Run (12) C. Umesh 57.5, 11. Flash Star (10) R. Manish 57 and 12. Betty Boop (3) Janardhan P 54.5.  1. DR FEELGOOD, 2. ROSES IN MY DREAMS, 3. GOD’S WISH   ROYAL BEAUTY HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 20 to 45 (no whip), 2-30: 1. Sir Baffert (12) H.M. Akshay 60, 2. Kristalina (7) C. Brisson 58.5, 3.Rush More (4) Kiran Naidu 58.5, 4. Big Treasure (9) Gaurav Singh 57, 5. Empress Eternal (5) Farid Ansari 57, 6. Wind Symbol (6) Nikhil Naidu 57, 7. Welcome Baby (1) Shahzad Alam 56, 8. Majestic Charmer (10) Shyam Kumar 55, 9. Tifosi (11) Ishwar Singh 54.5, 10. Glorious Symphony (2) Yash Narredu 53, 11. Sichuan (8) Manikandan 53 and 12. Ocarina (3) Md. Farhan Alam 50.  1. SIR BAFFERT, 2. EMPRESS ETERNAL, 3. KRISTALINA   ENDLESS TRIBUTE HANDICAP (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 3-00: 1. Charliez Angel (2) C. Umesh 60, 2. Kings Show (11) Kuldeep Singh 60, 3. Fort St. George (10) Gaurav Singh 59, 4. Queens Hall (5) P. Sai Kumar 59, 5. Striking Distance (6) Ashhad Asbar 58, 6. Break The Silence (9) K. Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 7. Wonderful Era (8) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 8. Bossinova (3) A. Ayaz Khan 55.5, 9. Choir (12) H.M. Akshay 55.5, 10. Daiyamondo (1) Surya Prakash 54.5, 11. Grey Twilight (4) Ramandeep Singh 52 and 12. Moonlight Night (7) M. Bhaskar 52.  1. BREAK THE SILENCE, 2. STRIKING DISTANCE, 3. MOONLIGHT NIGHT   SOURCE CODE HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 3-30: 1. Shalem (12) Nikhil Naidu 60, 2. Celeritas (10) K. Mukesh Kumar 59, 3. Excellent Phoenix (2) Antony Raj 58.5, 4. Starlight (9) S. Kabdhar 58.5, 5. Tudor (1) Koshi Kumar 57.5, 6. Pense’e (3) Neeraj 57, 7. Angel Heart (4) P. Sai Kumar 56, 8. Ms Boss (5) Ashhad Asbar 55.5, 9. Rhiannon (6) C. Umesh 55.5, 10. Rippling Waters (8) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 11. Katahdin (7) Manikandan 54 and 12. Skylight (11) Kuldeep Singh 53.  1. PENSE’E, 2. ANGEL HEART, 3. SHALEM   SET TO FLY HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,600m), rated 60 to 85, 4-00: 1. Breaking Bounds (6) Farid Ansari 60, 2. Torbert (1) Yash Narredu 59.5, 3. Artistryy (2) K. Mukesh Kumar 58.5, 4. Penang (9) C. Umesh 57.5, 5. Emelda (8) Akshay Kumar 57, 6. Sentosa (3) Surya Prakash 57, 7. Avellino (4) P. Vikram 56, 8. Optimus Commander (7) Janardhan Paswan 55.5 and 9. Divina (5) Nikhil Naidu 54.  1. DIVINA, 2. AVELLINO, 3. EMELDA   SET TO FLY HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,600m), rated 60 to 85, 4-30: 1. Angelino (2) H.M. Akshay 62.5, 2. Chief Of Command (7) Farid Ansari 62, 3. Star Twist (4) C. Umesh 59, 4. Cuban Pete (3) Ashhad Asbar 59, 5. Pretty Gal (1) Gaurav Singh 56.5, 6. That’s My Class (8) Ishwar Singh 56, 7. Hebron (5) K. Mukesh Kumar 55.5 and 8. Octavian (6) Yash Narredu 54.5.  1. ANGELINO, 2. STAR TWIST, 3. PRETTY GAL   QUEEN OF THE HILLS CUP (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 5-00: 1. Conscious Keeper (1) P. Sai Kumar 56, 2. Mystical Magician (2) Nikhil Naidu 56, 3. Reign Of Terror (7) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. War Emblem (4) Md. Farhan Alam 56, 5. Aretha (3) C. Umesh 54.5, 6. Beauregard (5) K. Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 7. Reckoning (6) R. Manish 54.5 and 8. Wisaka (8) Shahar Babu 54.5.  1. ARETHA, 2. MYSTICAL MAGICIAN, 3. WISAKA   SOURCE CODE HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 40 to 65, 5-30: 1. Texas Rose (1) K. Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Eagle Prince (3) Nakhat Singh 59, 3. Sirona (10) P. Vikram 59. 4. Pacific (5) Ashhad Asbar 58, 5. Eyes Of Falcon (11) Ajeet Kumar 57.5, 6. Wonder Blaze (7) S. Kabdhar 57.5, 7. Incredible Star (2) P. Sai Kumar 57, 8. Off Shore Breeze (12) Yash Narredu 57, 9. Pinewood (6) Antony Raj 57, 10. Princess Sasha (9) Ishwar Singh 57, 11. Shadow Of Love (8) Gaurav Singh 56.5 and 12. Embrace (4) Shahar Babu 55.5.  1. SIRONA, 2. OFF SHORE BREEZE, 3. TEXAS ROSE  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii): 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chance-for-angelino-to-come-good/article36727190.ece
29 September 2021||Melbourne,||Haynes to miss rest of India tour||Australia women’s cricket team vice-captain Rachael Haynes has been ruled out of the lone Test and subsequent three-match T20 International series against the visiting Indians because of a right hamstring injury. Haynes suffered the right hamstring injury during the third ODI in Mackay, which India won by two wickets but lost the three-match series 2-1. “Unfortunately her (Haynes) hamstring is no good,” Australia women’s team coach Matthew Mott was quoted as saying by cricket.com.au . In Haynes’ absence, Beth Mooney is likely to open the innings alongside Alyssa Healy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/haynes-to-miss-rest-of-india-tour/article36726871.ece
29 September 2021||DUBAI,||Last two league games at same time||The IPL Governing Council on Tuesday decided that the two final league stage games will start concurrently at 7:30 p.m. IST instead of the usual double-header with one game starting in the afternoon. This is being done to avoid giving any unfair advantage to a team in case the last match has a side with a mathematical chance of qualification. The IPL Media Rights tender for 2023-2027 will be released after the appointment of two new IPL teams, scheduled to be announced on Oct. 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/last-two-league-games-at-same-time/article36727062.ece
29 September 2021||Sitges (Spain),||India seals quarterfinal berth||Victories for Tania Sachdev and Bhakti Kulkarni paved the way for India’s 2.5-1.5 victory over formidable Armenia in the third round league encounter in Group-A of the FIDE World women’s team chess championship here on Tuesday. The hard-fought win assured India of a place in the quarterfinals.   The results (third round):   Group A: India bt Armenia 2.5-1.5 (D. Harika drew with Elina Danielian; R. Vaishali lost to Lilit Mkrtchian; Tania Sachdev bt Anna M. Sargsyan; Bhakti Kulkarni bt Susanna Gaboyan); Azerbaijan lost to Russia 0.5-3.5; Spain bt France 2.5-1.5).   Group B: Ukraine drew with Poland 2-2; Kazakhstan bt FIDE Americas 2.5-1.5; Germany lost to Georgia 0.5-3.5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-seals-quarterfinal-berth/article36727077.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Mohd. Ali wins title||Mohd. Ali won the advance singles category final defeating G. Arvind 11-7, 11-8, 11-6 in the fourth PingPong@SPARS and Indiana Sports sponsored table tennis tournament here on Monday. In the beginner’s category, B. Rama Rao defeated R. Lalit 11-3, 11-8, 11-13, 11-7.  The results:   Advance singles: Final: Mohd. Ali bt G. Arvind 11-7, 11-8, 11-6. Third place: Zubair Farooqui bt Swarnendu 12-10, 11-9, 5-11, 11-8.   Intermediate singles: Final: P.V. Mani bt Tanmai 14-12, 11-8, 11-6. Third place: Kanak Saxena bt K. Shiva Kumar 11-8, 14-12, 11-4.   Veterans: A. Sri Rama Rao bt E.S. Gyaneshwar 9-11, 11-7, 11-9, 11-5. Third place: M.V.N. Kishore bt V.M. Vijay Kumar 11-8, 11-8, 11-2.   Beginners: Final: B. Rama Rao bt R. Lalit 11-3, 11-8, 11-13, 11-7. Third place: Vamshi Krishna bt Sri Shaanvi 6-11, 11-7, 13-11.   Doubles: R. Lalit & R. Chetan bt Abhinav Sujith & S. Raj Navneet 11-7, 11-6, 11-6. Third place: Vijay Kumar & Vamshi Krishna bt G. Suganya & M. Sathwik 11-6. 12-10, 11-6 .    Advantage Tennis Academy here will introduce a high performance training programme for under-14 and 18 years from October 1, according to head coach D.R.C. Kiron. The programme will include fitness and conditioning, biomechanical assessments, tennis psychology, among others.   Gymnast B. Aruna Reddy, 2018 World Cup bronze medallist, will represent India in the World artistic gymnastic championship to be held in Kitakyushu (Japan) from Oct. 18 to 24. Sports Authority of Telangana State chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy personally met her at the national camp in Ambala (Haryana) to convey complete support to her from the State government. “Aruna is the pride of Telangana and being a part of the six-member (three men and three women) Indian squad, we hope she would come back with laurels,” Venkateshwar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohd-ali-wins-title/article36727402.ece
29 September 2021||Mysuru:,||Pushyanth guides Nanjangud home||K.G. Pushyanth (101 n.o., 9 x 4) helped Nanjangud defeat Agraharam CC by six wickets in the KSCA Mysore zone fourth division league at Mandya on Sunday.  The scores: Agraharam 234 in 44 overs (T. Ashoka 60, Mohan Jakati 58, Devaki Bhatta 34, Harshith Kadam 4/27, Harshith Kumar 3/26 ) lost to Nanjangud 235 for four in 48.4 overs (K.G. Pushyanth 101 n.o., R. Harshith Kumar 52, M.D. Ayush 46).   Kuvempunagar 236 in 47.2 overs (R. Aditya 41, C.R. Sonan 35, Amogh 32, Gautham 3/18 ) bt Vijaya 200 in 36.2 overs (Mashood 64, P.R. Rajesh 45, Amogh 3/24, S. Dhananjaya 3/37).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pushyanth-guides-nanjangud-home/article36727567.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru:,||Chetan Reddy wins three events||Chetan Reddy won three events in the Equestrian Premier League, at the Embassy International Riding School here.  The results (winners only): Show jumping: 120-130cm: Chetan Reddy. 120cm: Chetan Reddy. 115cm: Chetan Reddy. 110cm: M. Barath. 60cm: K. Neil.   Junior jumping: 105cm: Sanyogeeta.   Children jumping: 90cm: Jaiveer Verma. 80cm: Jaiveer Varma.   Dressage: Junior: Isabelle. Children: Arush. Novice: Isabelle .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chetan-reddy-wins-three-events/article36727112.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 08:44 IST,||Sudoku — September 29, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-29-2021/article36727834.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||Healthcare for Healthy Hearts||One of the few positive outcomes of the COVID-19 pandemic, is that the primary focus worldwide has been on health – building up immunity and most importantly, focussing on a healthier lifestyle. Another positive upshot of the pandemic is that medical facilities worldwide, especially in India, have remarkably improved. And while better and easily accessible health care is a big asset, especially in times of emergency, the most important takeaway of the whole situation is that being self-aware and careful with one’s health is the key to a longer happier and healthier life. And that is precisely what the World Heart Day is all about. Every year on the 29th of September, World Heart Day is celebrated to raise awareness of cardiovascular disease (CVD), which include heart ailments and stroke. Cardiovascular diseases are the world's leading cause of death. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), it is conservatively estimated that almost 18.6 million lives, that is 31% of all fatalities worldwide each year, are due to heart related ailments. Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are a group of disorders of the heart and blood vessels that include coronary heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, rheumatic heart disease amongst other conditions. More than four out of five CVD deaths are due to heart attacks and strokes, and one third of these deaths occur prematurely in people under 70 years of age, according to World Health Organization (WHO). And tragically, many fatal cases could have been avoided if a few changes were incorporated into one’s lifestyle. Which is why the World Heart Day focusses primarily on spreading awareness and the preventive measures that can be adopted to avert cardiovascular diseases (CVD). World Heart Day was first commemorated in 1999, following a collaboration between the World Heart Federation and the World Health Organization. World Heart Federation is a non-governmental organisation and is based in Geneva, Switzerland. It was formed in 1972 as International Society of Cardiology. In 1978, it merged with the International Cardiology Federation to form the International Society and Federation of Cardiology. This body changed its name to World Heart Federation in 1998. It is the principal representative body for the global cardiovascular community and represents more than 200 heart foundations, scientific societies, civil society and patient organizations from over 100 countries. Antoni Baye de Luna, the former president of the World Health Federation, came up with the idea for the World Heart Day. The day was observed on the last Sunday of September until 2011. In 2012, a pledge was taken up by world leaders to reduce global mortality from noncommunicable illnesses by 25% by 2025. In this context, the World Heard Day became an annual event on September 29. Every year, the day is celebrated with different theme focussing on varied aspects of CVD. This year on World Heart Day, the World Heart Federation is asking the world to ‘Use Heart to Connect!’ The healthcare crisis due to the pandemic has spurred the need to find different and innovative ways to connect people to heart health. Hence in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide, the theme is all about 'harnessing the power of digital health to improve awareness, prevention and management of CVD globally'. The pandemic and lockdowns brought into the limelight the power of digital communication. Accordingly, the theme of World Heart Day talks about using the same tool to spread awareness and manage CVD globally. As the world still struggles to fight COVID-19 and more persons including young people die of heart failure; there is need for everyone to be more aware of the importance of ensuring good health and fitness. There are many misconceptions around CVD. It is a commonly misunderstood perception that CVD affects people above the age of 45, or in urban areas, where people are more reliant on technology and live sedentary lives. But the truth is that CVDs can strike any age group and even those with active lifestyles. Heart diseases nowadays are not impacted only by the age. They also happen in young adults. At any age, plaque can start accumulating in the arteries and later lead to clogged arteries. Obesity, Diabetes Mellitus Type-2 are several factors which can cause heart diseases even in young and middle-aged people. Treating diabetes and keeping it well under control can help reduce risk of cardiac diseases. Unhealthy food and inactive lifestyle lead to obesity, which is dangerous for young adults. It is recommended to get cholesterol levels checked every 5 years starting at the age of 20. An active lifestyle, controlling cholesterol, managed blood pressure, well controlled blood sugar, quitting smoking and maintaining healthy weight are some of the factors that can prevent a person from heart diseases even if there is a history of cardiovascular diseases in the family. A heart attack happens when blood flow to the heart is suddenly blocked. Part of the heart may die if the person doesn’t get help quickly. The most expected sign of a heart attack is pain or discomfort in the centre or left side of the chest — or a feeling of pressure, squeezing, or fullness. But there are many more seemingly unrelated symptoms that need to be considered. For instance, pain or discomfort in the upper body — like the arms, back, shoulders, neck, jaw, or upper stomach (above the belly button); shortness of breath or trouble breathing; feeling sick in the stomach or throwing up; stomach ache or sharp pain like heartburn; feeling dizzy, light-headed, or unusually tired; breaking out in a cold sweat for no apparent reason. Don’t ignore sudden unexplainable changes in the body. Signs of a heart attack often come on suddenly. But sometimes, they develop slowly — hours, days, or even weeks before a heart attack happens. The heart is one of the most important organs as it delivers oxygen and nutrients to the cells in the body, and also removes cleanses it. Any sign of a heart trouble should be taken seriously. People should be encouraged to look after their own heart, by eating a healthy diet, saying no to tobacco and getting plenty of exercise. Digital tools, like phone apps and wearables, can really help for motivation to stay on track. Getting regular physical activity can help prevent heart disease. Adults need at least 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity each week. This includes anything that gets the heart beating faster — like walking, dancing, and biking. Managing stress can help prevent serious health problems like heart disease, depression, and high blood pressure. Deep breathing and meditation are good ways to relax and manage stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/healthcare-for-healthy-hearts/article36727645.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,||5 districts continue to account for majority of COVID-19 cases||A total of 1,630 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. Chennai, Coimbatore, Erode, Chengalpattu and Thanjavur districts continued to report more cases, accounting for nearly 42% of the total fresh cases. Chennai led the table with 184 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 183 cases. There were 121 cases in Erode and 117 in Chengalpattu. Thanjavur logged 90 cases, while there were 86 cases in Tiruppur and 70 in Tiruvallur. Among the other districts, Salem recorded 65 cases, Tiruchi had 59 cases, Namakkal had 54 cases and Tiruvarur had 52 cases. Five districts had fewer than 10 cases each. So far, Tamil Nadu has recorded 26,60,553 cases. The State reported another 17 deaths, taking the toll to 35,526. The number of districts that reported fatalities stood at 11. These included Chennai, where six deaths were recorded. While Coimbatore recorded two deaths, the remaining nine districts recorded one death each. Among the deceased were three persons in their 40s. As many as 1,643 persons were discharged. With this, the total number of recovered patients stood at 26,07,796. The State’s active caseload stood at 17,231. Coimbatore accounted for the most number of active cases, at 2,042, followed by Chennai (2,031). There were 1,206 active cases in Erode and 1,111 in Chengalpattu. Four districts — Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Tenkasi and Theni —had fewer than 100 active cases each. A total of 1,50,725 samples were tested. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 4,66,88,837. According to the September 27 data, Thanjavur accounted for the highest positivity rate, at 2.5%. Krishnagiri and Tiruppur followed with 2% each. While Coimbatore had a positivity rate of 1.7%, Chennai’s stood at 0.9%.  The State reported another 17 deaths, taking the toll to 35,526. The number of districts that reported fatalities stood at 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/5-districts-continue-to-account-for-majority-of-covid-19-cases/article36727202.ece
29 September 2021||Belagavi,||Belagavi police seek information on torture of two-year-old girl||Police have sought information from the general public about a two-year-old girl who was rescued from a farm in Halyal village, near Athani, after alleged torture, four days ago. Farmers had found the girl, unconscious and wrapped in a cloth, thrown in a sugarcane field near the river bank, on September 24. She had suffered burns, made with cigarette butts on her face, chin, neck, back and private parts. Her painful cries alerted the farmers who then sounded Pradeep Nandagaon, a social worker, who shifted her to a private hospital and alerted the police. The police shifted her to the district hospital and registered a case. The girl regained consciousness after treatment. She is too young to speak or make a statement, doctors told the police. An investigating officer told The Hindu that medical tests and preliminary investigation have revealed that the girl did not suffer sexual assault. Another investigating officer said that they suspected that the girl could be a victim of black magic. Medical tests have revealed that camphor and almond oil was used to cause the burns. These material are used by black magicians on their victims. There is also a pattern in the location of the burns. That made us suspicious, said the officer. It is possible that the parents of the girl or other relatives were involved in the offence, he said. The District Police released a set of photographs of the rescued girl. Copies of the image have been sent to police in Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “We are asking officers in those States for cases of missing children. We have not got any information so far,’’ Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi said. “We are requesting the general public to give us any information leading to the identity of the victim or the accused. We will act on the information, but maintain absolute secrecy about the name of the information provider,” the Superintendent of Police said. The information can be given to members of the team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police S.V. Girish that is investigating the case or to the office of the Superintendent of Police directly. Investigators are also studying a video clip allegedly showing the torture of a child. The clip, shot from a distance, features a man who mercilessly beats the girl who looks similar to the rescued child. While the man slaps the girl and beats her with a whip, a woman sitting nearby, smiles and laughs, as if she supports the man’s actions. The girl, who does not speak, makes loud sounds and cries, throughout the two-minute-and-14-second-long clip. Another officer said that the video was widely shared on social media last week. “As of now, there is no evidence that this is the same girl from the video, but we are studying it from all angles,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-seek-information-on-torture-of-toddler/article36727163.ece
29 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Allocation for grant of COVID-19 incentives is in the final stage||Healthcare professionals and workers who were involved in COVID-19 management are yet to receive the special pay/incentives promised since last year. Now, the allocation of funds for grant of the incentives is in the final stage, say officials. Last year, the AIADMK government promised healthcare workers involved in COVID-19 management a one-month “special pay”, but the promise remains unfulfilled. In May this year, the DMK government announced incentives ranging from Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 30,000 for doctors, medical students, nurses and other staff members who worked directly with COVID-19 patients continuously for three months — April, May and June 2021. A doctor working at one of the government hospitals in Chennai said, “We have not received any incentive till now. After the previous government made an announcement, the hospital administration prepared a list of names and designation of the staff who worked in COVID-19 management. Such a list was prepared for at least three to four times, but no incentive was given. After the new government took over, another list was prepared and sent. I think the issue is in who to include and who to exclude...” A nurse attached to a primary health centre pointed out that two lists were sent for the grant of incentives. “All of us have worked in COVID-19 management in one way or the other. This will include sanitary workers, too.” An official of the Health Department said the allocation of funds for the payment of incentives was in the final stage. Official sources said the Health Department asked the Revenue Department for additional funds. Earlier this month, it had written to the Revenue and Disaster Management Department, noting that a detailed proposal for around Rs. 399 crore for grant of incentives for eligible staff of 10 Departments was submitted to the government. The government had issued an order sanctioning Rs. 160 crore for the staff who had worked directly with COVID-19 patients. The Department pointed out that it was impossible to pay the eligible staff of 10 big Departments with Rs. 160 crore. All the Departments involved in COVID-19 work — for instance, a nurse in the Greater Chennai Corporation — was eligible for the incentive, an official added. “The proposal was for about Rs. 200 crore, compared with the initial estimate of Rs. 160 crore. It is in the advance stage of approval for the revised amount. With Rs. 160 crore already allocated, we have sent a proposal for getting the additional amount of Rs. 39 crore-Rs. 40 crore,” a health official said.  The proposal is for about Rs. 200 crore, compared with the initial estimate of Rs. 160 crore. With Rs. 160 crore already allocated, we have sent a proposal for the additional amount of Rs. 39 crore-Rs. 40 crore An officialHealth Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/allocation-for-grant-of-covid-19-incentives-is-in-the-final-stage/article36727200.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka reports 629 new COVID-19 cases, 17 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 629 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,74,528. Bengaluru Urban reported 229 cases and six deaths. With 17 deaths, the toll rose to 37,717. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 782 people were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,24,102. The State now has 12,634 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.67%, the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 2.7%. As many as 93,014 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 63,951 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 4,73,92,952. While 22 districts reported zero deaths, Bengaluru Urban reported six deaths. The other deaths were reported from Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkamagaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Kolar, and Uttara Kannada. Seven districts — Bidar, Gadag, Kalaburagi, Koppal, Raichur, Vijayapura, and Yadgir — recorded zero cases, while 10 districts recorded cases in single digits on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/karnataka-reports-629-new-covid-19-cases-17-deaths/article36727137.ece
29 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Bababudangiri row: HC says 2018 decision on rituals infringes rights of Hindus, Muslims||Observing that the Government Order of 2018 on Sree Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah in Chikkamagaluru infringes the rights of both Hindus and Muslims, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday quashed the GO which had authorised only the Mujawar appointed by Shah Khadri to perform prescribed religious practices and rituals of both the communities by entering the santum sactorum . “Article 25 of the Constitution guarantees freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion. By the impugned order [of 2018], firstly, the State have infringed upon the right of Hindu community to have the puja and archana done in the manner as per their faith. Secondly, State have imposed upon the Mujawar to perform ‘paduka pooja’ and to light ‘nanda deepa’ contrary to his faith. Both these acts amount to flagrant violation of rights of both communities guaranteed by Article 25 of the Constitution of India,” the court observed. The court also found that the report of a three-member high-level committee (HLC), headed by a retired High Court judge, was “not free from bias” as the HCL had rejected the second report of the Endowment Commissioner, before whom one of the members of the HCL had deposed on the same issue. Justice P.S. Dinesh Kumar delivered the verdict while allowing a petition filed in April 2018 by the Sri Guru Dattareya Peeta Devasthana Samvardhana Samithi, Chikkamagaluru. The petitioner had questioned the legality of March 19, 2018, Government Order, which had besides codifying the religious rituals to be performed at the shrine, authorised only the Mujawar to perform these rituals. While remittingthe matter back to the State government for considering it afresh, the court made it clear that the fresh consideration had to be made as per the law and without reference to the report of the HLC. ‘Contrary to govt. stand’ The March 19, 2018, GO, the court said, was also contrary to the stand taken by the State government before the Supreme Court that the Cabinet would take a decision after considering the pros and cons of the second report submitted by the Endowment Commissioner. However, the government delegated the consideration to a HLC, which rejected the Commissioner’s report, the court noted. The High Court also pointed out that the 2018 GO had incorrectly extracted the recommendation of the Cabinet sub-committee. Justice Kumar also held that the “HLC misdirected itself” in recommending that the practices prevailing as on August 15, 1947, must be continued while replying the provisions of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, as the shrine was decreed as “a religious institution being a holy place ofworship belonging to or of the Hindus and Mohammadans alike where they worship, and it is not a Wakf property” by a trial court way back in 1980 and this decree was confirmed by both the High Court and the apex court. The GO was issued when Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister. However, when the petition came up for hearing before the High Court in June 2018, the government, headed by then Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, had given an undertaking not to take further steps based on the GO till the matter was adjudicated by the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bababudangiri-row-hc-says-2018-govt-order-on-rituals-infringes-rights-of-hindus-muslims/article36727132.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Fresh notification on ex gratia payment||The State government has issued a fresh notification on payment of ex gratia amount to the kin of people from BPL families who have died due to COVID-19. As pre the notification issued on September 28, an ex gratia amount of Rs. 1 lakh would be paid to the kin of poor COVID-19 victims under the Sandhya Suraksha scheme. It also provides for payment of a compensation of Rs. 50,000 announced by the Centre to the kin of COVID-19 victims from the State Disaster Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fresh-notification-on-ex-gratia-payment/article36727135.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||A watery delight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-watery-delight/article36727204.ece
29 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Krishna to inaugurate Mysuru Dasara||Breaking from the tradition of not picking a politician for the role, the Karnataka government has chosen the 89-year-old former Chief Minister S.M. Krishna, now with the BJP, for inaugurating this year’s Mysusu Dasara. An announcement in this regard was made by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Responding to queries on why the government deviated from the precedence of not choosing politicians for such a role, the Chief Minister said, “Mr. Krishna is a statesman. He has contributed immensely to the development of this region through various positions held by him.” It is also being seen in political circles as an effort by the BJP to make use of Mr. Krishna’s image to make inroads in the Old Mysore region where it is still weak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/krishna-to-inaugurate-mysuru-dasara/article36727134.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The descendants||“The producers actually asked if I’m ‘100% Indian’,” recalls Sujata Day about an unfortunate audition experience for a major sitcom in 2018. The actor-filmmaker, along with four other Indian-American actors, was vying for the role of the fiancée of one of the show’s lead characters. “In response to the producers’ query of my ethnicity, I said, ‘My parents are from Kolkata and I speak fluent Bengali, so yes.’ But the fact that I had to defend my Indianness was very strange. I know I didn’t book the role because I clearly didn’t look ‘Indian enough’ to them.” Day, during a video call with The Hindu Weekend , shakes her head as she talks about the then-and-now of South Asian representation in western film spaces. But the 37-year-old is not alone in her views of a culturally-stagnant cinema industry in the West. The industry boxed its South Asian actors and filmmakers into what they deemed acceptable. But in the past five years, creatives have continually expressed their dissent, announcing on social media, as well as during roundtables, protests and even stand-up routines that they are tired of the ‘identikit Indian’ roles. More South Asian-origin actors, such as Dev Patel, Janina Gavankar, Rahul Kohli, Geraldine Viswanathan, Utkarsh Ambudkar, Kuhoo Verma, and Anya Chalotra, are shunning reductive roles in favour of fully-rounded characters that had long been reserved for only a few actors of colour. For example, in Hulu’s Plan B , Verma’s portrayal as a sexually-curious teen who has to come to terms with the reproductive rights in her conservative state of South Dakota as she tries to purchase Plan B resonated with many women of colour. Prior to this, Indian girls were the one-dimensional personification of purity culture across western cinema. More recently, Dev Patel’s casting as the historically assumed-white Sir Gawain in The Green Knight turned the tables on the scope of open ethnicities.  Creating a community  The changes, however, are slow and not simultaneous; some generations of creatives will reap the rewards of those who have toiled for years in the murky industry. Things now could be looking up for casting as well as attention to details in South Asian roles and script. In Disney Channel’sSpin, Avantika Vandanapu plays a young Gujarati high school student who is an ace coder and who, through a happenstance crush on a boy at school, discovers and nurtures talent for DJing. Vandanapu’s Telugu roots have seen her appear in 2015’s Brahmotsavam alongside Mahesh Babu and 2016’s Premam with Naga Chaitanya and Shruti Haasan. The 16-year-old says her auditioning process for Spin was a far cry from the horror stories minority actors have experienced, and she owes it all to their resistance and perseverance over the years. “From the moment I saw the script, I was so glad Disney had not generalised the Indian ethnicity, but had narrowed on the specificities of the Gujarati culture,” she says. “Seeing an Indian girl written as someone who is comfortable in her identity rather than having an identity crisis was exciting.” Of course, Vandanapu understands identity conflicts are a prevalent matter, but she hopes it is not the only narrative for people of the Indian diaspora.  To be or not to be Indian  The identity struggle is never easily reconciled. Take that episode of The Mindy Project where Mindy (Mindy Kaling) goes on a date with the ‘ideal Indian man’ but he, unimpressed by her lack of knowledge about India, says he “could never date a coconut — brown on the outside, white on the inside”. This lights a flare to the tough dichotomy the diaspora tackles every day while forging their identity; embracing their surrounding culture and holding onto tradition. Some address this by not taking on the ‘Indian-origin’ tag. Kuhoo Verma — who starred in Kumail Nainjani’s The Big Sick and Hulu comedy Plan B — identifies as a woman of colour, as her family moved to the United States from South India, but prefers to be known as ‘just an actor’ in the industry.  On their own terms  Meanwhile, actors and filmmakers such as Nik Dodani, Sujata Day and Kiran Deol are also taking matters into their own hands — by either creating their own support structures for South Asian actors or producing their own films and taking them to international stages such as the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF). One of the happy results is The Salon, co-founded in 2019 byAtypicalandEscape Roomactor Dodani, along with Bash Naran and Vinny Chhibber. “It started out as an informal way for us to connect,” says the 27-year-old. “Vinny, Bash and I were chatting and we found we all knew different folks in the South Asian film industry but not everyone knew everyone. For the first year, our goal was to just get people in the same room, to have the most basic form of community. Our vision is to help the next generation of South Asian talent. This industry is white-dominated, and the Black and Latinx communities in Hollywood have organised and supported each other in ways that are so inspiring; we hope to replicate that.” Day is not blind to the industry’s flaws either, one of the most prominent being its unwillingness to change. “Green-lighters in the film community were, and still are, slow, but now we are giving ourselves the green light,” she says. So, the filmmaker pooled her money and directed, wrote and starred in comedy-drama Definition Please , which has been a favourite on the festival circuit in the US, having won ‘Outstanding Directorial Debut for a Feature Film’ at the South Asian Film Festival in America, and Best Narrative Feature at CAAMFest. Toldthrough the Indian female gaze, the indie film follows an Indian-origin woman who is living in the past glory of her spelling bee champion days while trying to move forward and dealing with her grief-stricken family. The film, which also stars Ritesh Rajan, succinctly explores themes of female friendships, familial pressures, mental health, and toxic masculinity in the Indian community.  Money talks  Having travelled to many film festivals when it came out in 2017, Day’s eight-minute short, Cowboy and Indian (a drama-thriller about a Bengali bride who collapses in the street and is rescued by a cowboy) is now being made into a television series — made possible by a South Asian film executive reaching out to her. “It absolutely matters who’s also buying stories for production. We need representation there too!” she says. Agreeing with her, actor-filmmaker Kiran Deol elaborates, “I feel like funding for filmmakers is always the 21-million-dollar question. This is true for folks of any colour trying to get their projects made.” A growing space that is increasingly getting more funding is book-to-screen adaptations. Diksha Basu’s Destination Wedding , which was shortlisted for the Wodehouse Prize, is currently being adapted to a series. Meanwhile, Rakesh Satyal and Dodani have long been working on an adaptation of Satyal’s 2009 bestseller Blue Boy , which tells the story of a young gay Indian-American boy who is bullied through his school years. For the film, Dodani turns screenwriter. “We’re trying to find the right home and financing for it. We want to make sure it’s done right and gets the right budget and talent,” he says. So, while many creatives are all-too-happy to bid goodbye to ‘brownface’, casting appropriation and tokenism — as Deol sees it, this farewell is rather fresh — there is still a lot to look forward to and to demand in terms of inclusion. “The changes showcase for me both how far we have come, and how far we have to go,” Deol sums up, adding, “I’d love to get to a place in representation where we have the room to tell extremely specific stories that don’t have to speak for the entire diaspora because there is enough variety in the shows and movies that get airtime, that there is a multiplicity of voices and points of view to choose from.” It will be a frustrating wait for this level of change and some unfortunate barriers are inevitable. But as more creatives of colour vocalise their needs and rights, and also hold studios and casting agencies accountable, things are bound to change. The OTT Problem Continued on page 3  “The conversation around inclusion and equity has been changing for a few years now, but has accelerated immensely after last summer. The Black Lives Movement is directly responsible for that; every community of colour in the US is benefiting from the work the activists have done over the years. The real test, if the industry starts walking the walk, is in the next five to ten years” — Nik Dodani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-descendants/article36727483.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||CARE Hospitals Seminar on Heart Care||CARE Hospitals, Hi- Tech City, in Association with Elders Club International Association organized Seminar on the occasion of World Heart Day (29 Sept), 2021 to Create Awareness on Heart Care, how to prevent cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and take small steps to keep heart healthy. On this occasion Hospital Chief Operating Officer Dr.Ravi Kiran said, “CVD-risk prevention is one of the important priorities among India’s sustainable development goals. Health is the responsibility of both the individual and the state. At an individual level, it is important to regularly check blood pressure, control blood sugars, control your cholesterol and triglyceride levels and engage in regular physical activity.” Dr.Bharat Purohith, Sr.Consultant Cardiologist said “With sedentary lifestyle fuelling the risk of heart diseases among youth, it is important to undergo preventive heart checkups once in a year. 70 - 80% of heart diseases are preventable with regular heart check-ups, early identification of risk factors and modification of risk factors and major lifestyle changes.” Emphasizing on heart disease prevention, Dr.A.Nagesh, Sr.Condultant Heart Transplant Surgeon said “Three out of ten senior citizens have been diagnosed with hypertension, 5.2% with chronic heart disease and 2.7% with stroke.” Speaking on the occasion Dr.Vinoth, Consultant Cardiologist said , “India accounts for 60% of the World’s heart disease burden despite having less than 20% of the World’s population. In India, the mean age at which people get the first myocardial infarction is 53 years, which is about 10 years earlier than their counterparts in developed countries.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/care-hospitals-seminar-on-heart-care/article36727424.ece
29 September 2021||September 29 2021 00:00 IST,||The descendants||“The producers actually asked if I’m ‘100% Indian’,” recalls Sujata Day about an unfortunate audition experience for a major sitcom in 2018. The actor-filmmaker, along with four other Indian-American actors, was vying for the role of the fiancée of one of the show’s lead characters. “In response to the producers’ query of my ethnicity, I said, ‘My parents are from Kolkata and I speak fluent Bengali, so yes.’ But the fact that I had to defend my Indianness was very strange. I know I didn’t book the role because I clearly didn’t look ‘Indian enough’ to them.” Day, during a video call with The Hindu Weekend , shakes her head as she talks about the then-and-now of South Asian representation in western film spaces. But the 37-year-old is not alone in her views of a culturally-stagnant cinema industry in the West. The industry boxed its South Asian actors and filmmakers into what they deemed acceptable. But in the past five years, creatives have continually expressed their dissent, announcing on social media, as well as during roundtables, protests and even stand-up routines that they are tired of the ‘identikit Indian’ roles. More South Asian-origin actors, such as Dev Patel, Janina Gavankar, Rahul Kohli, Geraldine Viswanathan, Utkarsh Ambudkar, Kuhoo Verma, and Anya Chalotra, are shunning reductive roles in favour of fully-rounded characters that had long been reserved for only a few actors of colour. For example, in Hulu’s Plan B , Verma’s portrayal as a sexually-curious teen who has to come to terms with the reproductive rights in her conservative state of South Dakota as she tries to purchase Plan B resonated with many women of colour. Prior to this, Indian girls were the one-dimensional personification of purity culture across western cinema. More recently, Dev Patel’s casting as the historically assumed-white Sir Gawain in The Green Knight turned the tables on the scope of open ethnicities.  Creating a community  The changes, however, are slow and not simultaneous; some generations of creatives will reap the rewards of those who have toiled for years in the murky industry. Things now could be looking up for casting as well as attention to details in South Asian roles and script. In Disney Channel’sSpin, Avantika Vandanapu plays a young Gujarati high school student who is an ace coder and who, through a happenstance crush on a boy at school, discovers and nurtures talent for DJing. Vandanapu’s Telugu roots have seen her appear in 2015’s Brahmotsavam alongside Mahesh Babu and 2016’s Premam with Naga Chaitanya and Shruti Haasan. The 16-year-old says her auditioning process for Spin was a far cry from the horror stories minority actors have experienced, and she owes it all to their resistance and perseverance over the years. “From the moment I saw the script, I was so glad Disney had not generalised the Indian ethnicity, but had narrowed on the specificities of the Gujarati culture,” she says. “Seeing an Indian girl written as someone who is comfortable in her identity rather than having an identity crisis was exciting.” Of course, Vandanapu understands identity conflicts are a prevalent matter, but she hopes it is not the only narrative for people of the Indian diaspora.  To be or not to be Indian  The identity struggle is never easily reconciled. Take that episode of The Mindy Project where Mindy (Mindy Kaling) goes on a date with the ‘ideal Indian man’ but he, unimpressed by her lack of knowledge about India, says he “could never date a coconut — brown on the outside, white on the inside”. This lights a flare to the tough dichotomy the diaspora tackles every day while forging their identity; embracing their surrounding culture and holding onto tradition. Some address this by not taking on the ‘Indian-origin’ tag. Kuhoo Verma — who starred in Kumail Nainjani’s The Big Sick and Hulu comedy Plan B — identifies as a woman of colour, as her family moved to the United States from South India, but prefers to be known as ‘just an actor’ in the industry.  On their own terms  Meanwhile, actors and filmmakers such as Nik Dodani, Sujata Day and Kiran Deol are also taking matters into their own hands — by either creating their own support structures for South Asian actors or producing their own films and taking them to international stages such as the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF). One of the happy results is The Salon, co-founded in 2019 byAtypicalandEscape Roomactor Dodani, along with Bash Naran and Vinny Chhibber. “It started out as an informal way for us to connect,” says the 27-year-old. “Vinny, Bash and I were chatting and we found we all knew different folks in the South Asian film industry but not everyone knew everyone. For the first year, our goal was to just get people in the same room, to have the most basic form of community. Our vision is to help the next generation of South Asian talent. This industry is white-dominated, and the Black and Latinx communities in Hollywood have organised and supported each other in ways that are so inspiring; we hope to replicate that.” Day is not blind to the industry’s flaws either, one of the most prominent being its unwillingness to change. “Green-lighters in the film community were, and still are, slow, but now we are giving ourselves the green light,” she says. So, the filmmaker pooled her money and directed, wrote and starred in comedy-drama Definition Please , which has been a favourite on the festival circuit in the US, having won ‘Outstanding Directorial Debut for a Feature Film’ at the South Asian Film Festival in America, and Best Narrative Feature at CAAMFest. Toldthrough the Indian female gaze, the indie film follows an Indian-origin woman who is living in the past glory of her spelling bee champion days while trying to move forward and dealing with her grief-stricken family. The film, which also stars Ritesh Rajan, succinctly explores themes of female friendships, familial pressures, mental health, and toxic masculinity in the Indian community.  Money talks  Having travelled to many film festivals when it came out in 2017, Day’s eight-minute short, Cowboy and Indian (a drama-thriller about a Bengali bride who collapses in the street and is rescued by a cowboy) is now being made into a television series — made possible by a South Asian film executive reaching out to her. “It absolutely matters who’s also buying stories for production. We need representation there too!” she says. Agreeing with her, actor-filmmaker Kiran Deol elaborates, “I feel like funding for filmmakers is always the 21-million-dollar question. This is true for folks of any colour trying to get their projects made.” A growing space that is increasingly getting more funding is book-to-screen adaptations. Diksha Basu’s Destination Wedding , which was shortlisted for the Wodehouse Prize, is currently being adapted to a series. Meanwhile, Rakesh Satyal and Dodani have long been working on an adaptation of Satyal’s 2009 bestseller Blue Boy , which tells the story of a young gay Indian-American boy who is bullied through his school years. For the film, Dodani turns screenwriter. “We’re trying to find the right home and financing for it. We want to make sure it’s done right and gets the right budget and talent,” he says. So, while many creatives are all-too-happy to bid goodbye to ‘brownface’, casting appropriation and tokenism — as Deol sees it, this farewell is rather fresh — there is still a lot to look forward to and to demand in terms of inclusion. “The changes showcase for me both how far we have come, and how far we have to go,” Deol sums up, adding, “I’d love to get to a place in representation where we have the room to tell extremely specific stories that don’t have to speak for the entire diaspora because there is enough variety in the shows and movies that get airtime, that there is a multiplicity of voices and points of view to choose from.” It will be a frustrating wait for this level of change and some unfortunate barriers are inevitable. But as more creatives of colour vocalise their needs and rights, and also hold studios and casting agencies accountable, things are bound to change. The OTT Problem Continued on page 3  “The conversation around inclusion and equity has been changing for a few years now, but has accelerated immensely after last summer. The Black Lives Movement is directly responsible for that; every community of colour in the US is benefiting from the work the activists have done over the years. The real test, if the industry starts walking the walk, is in the next five to ten years” — Nik Dodani||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-descendants/article36727581.ece
