30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Turmoil in Punjab snowballs into major crisis for Congress||The turmoil in the Punjab unit snowballed into a major crisis for the Congress on Wednesday with a group of senior leaders openly challenging the leadership of the Gandhi family, and the former Punjab Chief Minister, Capt. (retd.) Amarinder Singh, exploring an arrangement with the BJP. Capt. Singh, who was removed as the Chief Minister by the party at the instance of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, met Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Later, Capt. Singh tweeted, “Met Union Home Minister @AmitShah ji in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers agitation against #FarmLaws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. #NoFarmersNoFood.” Former Union Minister Kapil Sibal, part of a group that is demanding elections and reforms in the Congress, told a press conference, “In our party, at the moment, there is no president and one doesn’t know who is taking these decisions.” His colleague, Ghulam Nabi Azad, who is part of the group of 23 letter writers — the ‘G-23’, which is seeking internal reforms, wrote a fresh letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi to convene a meeting of the Congress Working Committee for a debate on the state of affairs in the party, including the Punjab turmoil and desertions from the party. Congress workers from Chandni Chowk, the constituency that Mr. Sibal has represented in the Lok Sabha in the past, protested outside his residence, holding placards with “Get well soon” messages, though there was no direct response from the party to the press conference. Late in the evening, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala sent out a cryptic tweet that “those in power are troubled that a Dalit has been made a Chief Minister in Punjab and Amit Shah’s residence has become a centre for anti-Dalit activities”. Earlier in the day, Mr. Sibal had questioned the decision-making process with, “We know yet we don’t know.” While Ms. Sonia Gandhi is the acting president of the party, many believe that most decisions are being taken by her children. The Gandhi siblings had backed Navjot Singh Sidhu, who campaigned for Capt. Singh’s removal but resigned as State unit president on Tuesday, plunging the party into a crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/turmoil-in-punjab-snowballs-into-major-crisis-for-congress/article36746191.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe shows use of toxic material in firecrackers: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said a preliminary enquiry by the CBI into the firecracker industry, including in Tamil Nadu, revealed rampant violation of its ban on use of toxic ingredients like barium and its salts. In an order in March 2020, the court ordered the CBI Joint Director in Chennai to conduct a “detailed” probe . The CBI was directed to examine the allegations of violation of the court ban in 2018. The CBI had filed a report in a sealed cover in the court. A Bench led by Justice M.R. Shah, referring to the contents of the report, observed that a chemical analysis of the samples of finished and semi-finished firecrackers and raw materials taken from the manufacturers showed barium content. The court stated that loose quantities of barium were purchased from the market. Firecracker covers did not show the manufacture or expiry dates. The court discussed why the manufacturers should not be asked to show cause why contempt action should not be taken against them. “Every day there is a celebration, but you should also be mindful of the people living around you... People who have asthma,” Justice Shah remarked. The court posted the case for further hearing on October 6. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court prima facie brushed aside the manufacturers’ contention that thousands of employees earned their livelihood in the industry.  Striking a balance Justice Shah retorted, “We have to balance between employment, unemployment and the right to life and health of citizens. We cannot sacrifice the lives of many for a few. Our prime focus is the right to life of innocent people.” The case gained significance with the onset of the wedding season and festivals like Dussehra and Deepawali. “Everyday, there is a violation in this regard... in religious processions, political rallies,” Justice Shah, accompanied by Justice A.S. Bopanna on the Bench, pointed out. “Sometimes, we have to fix liability. If the police commissioner is sedate about liability, only then all this will happen,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-shows-use-of-toxic-material-in-firecrackers-sc/article36746189.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,||Rape accused acquitted||Finding a case of sexual intercourse between a woman and an accused to be consensual, Sixth Additional District and Sessions Judge K.M. Radhakrishna acquitted 34-year-old Kalandar of Mangaluru taluk who had been booked for offences under Section 376 (rape) and other provisions of Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to the charge-sheet by Konaje Police, Kalandar raped the woman, who was his neighbour, in February 2013 and also in the subsequent days, after promising to marry her. When she became pregnant, her parents and other well-wishers spoke to Kalandar, who, however, refused to marry her. The woman gave birth to a male child in December 2013 and after DNA examination, Kalandar was found to be the biological father of the child. The police arrested him and filed the charge-sheet. In his order acquitting the accused on September 27, the judge said that the evidence crystallised the love affair between the woman and the accused. The love affair and frequent consensual sexual activities between the woman and the accused are quite evident and therefore, the allegations of rape, assurance of marriage, refusal and the threat are ruled out, he said. “Needless to say that the material placed before the court does not constitute the essential ingredients of offences punishable under Section 376 (rape), 417 (cheating), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC,” the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rape-accused-acquitted/article36746764.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nipah antibodies found in bat samples in Kerala||Nipah virus antibodies (IgG antibodies) were detected in bat samples collected by the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, from Kodiyathoor and Thamarassery in Kozhikode district near the panchayat where a Nipah infection was confirmed last month. The samples were collected by the NIV as part of the Nipah outbreak investigation. A sample belonging to the Pteropus species, collected from Thamarassery, was found to have Nipah antibodies, while the same was detected in another sample from the Rousettus species collected from Kodiyathoor. The results of over 50 bat samples collected as part of the outbreak investigation were still awaited, Health Minister Veena George said here on Wednesday. Given the current evidence, it would be logical to conclude that the Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode did originate from bats, even though the authorities are still in the dark as to the route of virus transmission from bats to humans, Ms. George said. More bat surveillance and epidemiological studies need to be conducted before more conclusions can be drawn, she added. Incubation period Meanwhile, the State is past the 21-day incubation period since the lone case of Nipah was reported at Kozhikode on September 4, during which time there were no fresh cases. Ms. George said that it was the systematic and proactive manner in which the Health Department took up disease surveillance and control measures as soon as the first case was detected which ensured that the virus did not spread to generate more cases. If no more cases of Nipah surface in another 21 days’ time (42 days in all after the last case), it would be safe to declare that the outbreak has been completely brought under control. Till then, the State will continue to be on vigil against Nipah, Ms. George said. Since September 4,extensive surveillance and control measures were taken up in Kozhikode district around the panchayat where the outbreak was detected. As part of the house-to-house surveillance taken up by the Health Department with the help of panchayat authorities, 16,732 houses and 76,074 persons were surveyed. The samples collected and analysed from 50 persons were negative for Nipah. Ms. George said that the State would be coming out with a comprehensive list of COVID-19 deaths by including all those deaths which occurred in the State within 30 days of an individual testing positive for COVID-19. The State will issue new guidelines in accordance with the Centre’s definition of what constitutes a COVID-19 death, and all families who lost their loved ones to COVID-19 would be given compensation. She said that the population covered by the first dose of COVID-19 vaccines had crossed 91% in the State. Though a steady number of new cases are being registered daily, the number of patients being hospitalised or entering ICUs for serious disease was less. Approximately 94% of the COVID-19 deaths in the State were among those who were unvaccinated and those who had serious co-morbidities. First dose Almost all college students and teachers had been covered by the first dose and those who are still unvaccinated should contact health workers, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nipah-antibodies-found-in-bat-samples-in-kerala/article36746186.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Don’t register Waqf Board properties based on NOCs’||The Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department has instructed the Inspector-General of Registration to not register documents alienating Waqf Board properties based on “No-Objection Certificates” issued by the staff of Tamil Nadu Waqf Board. The department has said that only Chief Executive Officer of Tamil Nadu Waqf Board can issue such a certificate after following due procedure. In a letter to M.P. Sivanarul, Inspector-General of Registration, sent on September 22, A. Karthik, Principal Secretary, Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare Department, said: “Many of the Waqf properties are under encroachment and illegally alienated” in Tamil Nadu, which had 7,452 Waqf institutions and possessed 53,834 Waqf properties. The letter said that it had been brought to the notice of the government that Waqf properties were being alienated based on the NoCs issued by the Waqf Inspector and Waqf Superintendent. The letter said “the patta to such Waqf properties also stands in the name of third parties,” which became void ab inito as per Section 51 (1-A) read with Section 104-A of the Waqf Act, 1995 that prohibits “any sale, gift, exchange, mortgage or transfer of waqf property”. Mr. Karthik underlined that if any question arises over whether a particular property is a Waqf property or not, the board is the deciding authority as per Section 40 of the Waqf Act, 1995. Jawahirullah thanks CM Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah on Wednesday thanked Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for taking cognisance of the issue of Waqf board properties being lost due to the practice of NoC being handed out by Waqf Inspector and Waqf Superintendent. “In a move that shows that the DMK has a deep interest in protecting Waqf properties, he has managed to plug the loophole that enabled Waqf properties to be sold. I thank him on behalf of Muslims of Tamil Nadu,” he said in a statement.  DMK has deep interest in protecting Waqf properties. The Chief Minister has managed to plug the loophole M.H. Jawahirullah MMK President||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-register-waqf-board-properties-based-on-nocs/article36746324.ece
30 September 2021||Thrissur,||Protection for Mayookha||A meeting of the Witness Protection Scheme here has decided to give ‘B’ category protection to Olympian Mayookha Johny, who is allegedly facing threat to her life. Ms. Johny in a press meeting recently alleged that her friend was sexually harassed by a person from Muringoor. She raised serious allegations that the police and women’s commission denied justice for the survivor. In a petition to the Witness Protection Committee, Ms. Johny alleged that the accused had been threatening her with dire consequences after she conducted the press meeting. The Witness Protection Committee chaired by Thrissur Principal District Judge P.J. Vincent ordered protection for the Olympian. The Irinjalakuda police will arrange protection. The scheme was implemented in the country on an order by the Supreme Court aimed at enabling the witness to depose fearlessly. The Aloor police have registered a case against the person who sent the threat letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protection-for-mayookha/article36746691.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Housing project for refugees sought||An appeal has been made to the Government of India to design a housing project in Sri Lanka’s Northern and Eastern Provinces for refugees who return from Tamil Nadu and for internally displaced persons. In a statement, K. Vigneswaran, who is heading Akhila Ilankai Tamil Mahasabha, a political body, and based out of Trincomalee in the Eastern Province, suggested that such a project be implemented over five years. Calling upon India to arrange for the transport of refugees by sea to the Trincomalee port, he said Sri Lanka’s Resettlement Authority should be tasked with the transport of the returnees within the country and provision of temporary accommodation. The Resettlement Authority also should carry out the rehabilitation of the Kankesanthurai port and the Talaimannar pier. Mr. Vigneswaran, who served as the Secretary to the once-unified North-eastern Province’s Chief Minister, Varadaraja Perumal, during 1988-90, wanted the Indian government to bring in investors for rehabilitation and development projects of the Resettlement Authority in the Northern and Eastern Provinces. As a priority, the investors would provide job opportunities to the refugee-returnees, depending on their skills, given that there was a large number of graduates, including engineering graduates, among them. He appreciated Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s measures to improve the lot of refugees living in the State and said this should be taken as a “signal” for the Indian and Sri Lankan governments to resolve the issues in the voluntary repatriation of refugees.  Sri Lanka’s Resettlement Authority should be tasked with the provision of temporary accommodation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sri-lankan-tamil-leader-appeals-for-housing-for-refugee-returnees/article36746322.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||4 crore doses administered so far in State||The State has reached a milestone by administering over four crore vaccine doses so far. As of 8 p.m. on Wednesday, 7.19 lakh doses were administered and those administered so far was 4.077 crore, according to Cowin portal. A total of 2.72 crore persons had received at least one dose and 1.35 crore persons were fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-crore-doses-administered-so-far-in-state/article36746185.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Sidhu vows to stick to his stance||The chaos in the Punjab Congress refused to show any sign of settling on Wednesday, as Navjot Singh Sidhu, who resigned as its chief on Tuesday, said he would firmly stick to his stance and continue the fight even if it meant losing everything. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged Mr. Sidhu to resolve his grouse by holding talks. Mr. Channi categorically said the party is supreme and the government pursued its ideology.page 9||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sidhu-vows-to-stick-to-his-stance/article36746192.ece
30 September 2021||YADGIR,||Three of family murdered at Yermarus Camp||Family strife turned into a tragedy with three being murdered at Yermarus Camp in Raichur district late on Tuesday. According to the police, Santoshi (45), Vaishnavi (20) and Arati (16) were brutally murdered with a sharp-edged weapon by Vaishnavi’s husband Sai Sourabh. The police said that the accused Sai Sourabh and the deceased Vaishnavi were married six months ago. After a rift between the couple over domestic reasons, Vaishnavi left the accused and started living with her mother and sister at Yermarus Camp on the outskirts of Raichur. They added that Vaishnavi had also filed a case seeking divorce from her husband. The police, who received information, rushed to the spot and secured it before shifting the bodies for autopsy. “Four teams of police officers have been formed to arrest the accused. A Forensics Science team from Kalaburagi has come to inspect the spot of crime,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-of-family-murdered-at-yermarus-camp/article36746469.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,||Emergency survey to identify weak buildings||Chief Commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Gaurav Gupta has directed senior officials to take up a new survey to identify structurally weak and dilapidated buildings across the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/emergency-survey-to-identify-weak-buildings/article36746225.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Firecracker ban dampens Ramlila celebrations||The biggest, oldest and most popular Ramlila events that the Capital has been hosting for decades are likely to be cancelled this year. The organisers, who had agreed to keep the celebrations low-key last year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, seem determined to call off the events, blaming the authorities for not issuing guidelines in time and imposing a total ban on the bursting of firecrackers of all makes and varieties, including ‘green crackers’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/firecracker-ban-dampens-ramlila-celebrations/article36746378.ece
30 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Kejriwal throws 5-point challenge at Punjab govt.||Aam Aadmi Party chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is on a two-day visit to Punjab, threw a five-point challenge at the ruling Congress government on Wednesday, asking it to fulfil its 2017 poll promises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-throws-5-point-challenge-at-punjab-govt/article36746380.ece
30 September 2021||Chennai,||Indira Kumari gets 5-year rigorous imprisonment||Former Social Welfare Minister R. Indira Kumari and her husband A. Babu have been convicted and sentenced by a special court to five-year rigorous imprisonment for siphoning off Rs. 15.45 lakh from a government department and parking the sum in two trusts run by him under the pretext of running schools for children with disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indira-kumari-gets-5-year-rigorous-imprisonment/article36746334.ece
30 September 2021||Chennai,||Indira Kumari gets 5-year rigorous imprisonment||Former Social Welfare Minister R. Indira Kumari and her husband A. Babu have been sentenced by a special court to five-year RI for siphoning off Rs. 15.45 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indira-kumari-gets-5-year-rigorous-imprisonment/article36746444.ece
30 September 2021||Chennai,||Indira Kumari gets 5-year rigorous imprisonment||Former Social Welfare Minister R. Indira Kumari and her husband A. Babu have been convicted and sentenced by a special court to five-year rigorous imprisonment for siphoning off Rs. 15.45 lakh from a government department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/indira-kumari-gets-5-year-rigorous-imprisonment/article36746457.ece
30 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Gurjars, Rajputs stake claim to Mihir Bhoj||Over the past week, Samrat Mihir Bhoj emerged from the pages of history books to make headlines in the vernacular newspapers of western Uttar Pradesh as Gurjars and Rajputs staked claim to the 9th century ruler of the Gurjara-Pratihara dynasty. Observers say the issue will have political consequences, particularly in west U.P., where the Gurjar vote could prove decisive in at least a dozen constituencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gurjars-rajputs-stake-claim-to-mihir-bhoj/article36746660.ece
30 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||No discrimination in Uttar Pradesh, says Adityanath||If the Dewa Sharif, a famous shrine in Barabanki, has to be developed, then even the Mahadeva, a well-known Shiva temple, would have to be developed, U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday as he stressed that “one-sided development” would not work in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-discrimination-in-uttar-pradesh-says-adityanath/article36746661.ece
30 September 2021||HUBBALLI,||Vande Bharat Express promised for Dharwad||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav has promised requisite steps for running Vande Bharat Express from Dharwad to Bengaluru, according to Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vande-bharat-express-promised-for-dharwad/article36746471.ece
30 September 2021||MYSURU,||No major Dasara works this year||With this year’s Dasara celebrations remaining a simple affair with all major events cancelled in view of the pandemic, like last year, the city beautification works will now be confined to filling the potholes on major roads, particularly in the CBD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-major-dasara-works-this-year/article36746647.ece
30 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Gurjars, Rajputs stake claim to Mihir Bhoj||Over the past week, Samrat Mihir Bhoj emerged from the pages of history books to make headlines in the vernacular newspapers of western Uttar Pradesh as Gurjars and Rajputs staked claim to the 9th century ruler of the Gurjara-Pratihara dynasty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gurjars-rajputs-stake-claim-to-mihir-bhoj/article36746579.ece
30 September 2021||Pune,||‘400 died in rain-related mishaps, floods this year’||As many as 436 people have lost their lives owing to rain-related accidents, floods and inclement weather this year, while 17 lakh hectares of cropland has been ravaged thus far owing to the extremely heavy rainfall aggravated by cyclonic storms, said the Maharashtra government on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/400-died-in-rain-related-mishaps-floods-this-year/article36746580.ece
30 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||No discrimination in Uttar Pradesh, says Adityanath||If the Dewa Sharif, a famous shrine in Barabanki, has to be developed, then even the Mahadeva, a well-known Shiva temple, would have to be developed, U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-discrimination-in-uttar-pradesh-says-adityanath/article36746582.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Army to get 25 advanced light helicopters at Rs. 3,850 crore||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, on Wednesday accorded approval to capital acquisition proposals of the three Services estimated at approximately Rs. 13,165 crore. The key proposals include helicopters, guided munitions and rocket ammunition. Of these, procurements for Rs. 11,486 crore were from domestic sources, the Defence Ministry said. “Looking into the need of the Indian Army for an Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH) squadron, to improve its integral lift capability ensuring its operational preparedness, the DAC accorded acceptance of necessity (AoN) for procurement of 25 advanced light helicopters (ALH)-Mark III helicopters from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) under Buy Indian-IDDM at an approximate cost of Rs. 3,850 crore,” a Ministry statement stated. To give a boost to indigenous design and development of ammunition, the DAC approved the procurement of terminally guided munition (TGM) and rocket ammunition under buy (Indian-IDDM) category at an approximate cost of Rs. 4,962 crore from domestic sources, the statement noted. Other proposals worth Rs. 4,353 crore were also accorded acceptance of necessity by the DAC. The DAC also approved a few amendments to the Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP), 2020, as part of business process re-engineering to ensure further ease of doing business for the industry as well as measures to enhance procurement efficiency and reduce the timelines, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/army-to-get-25-advanced-light-helicopters-at-rs-3850-crore/article36745939.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,||States’ fears over GST regime have come true: T.N. Minister||Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Wednesday said the States’ fears of losing autonomy with the Goods and Services Tax regime have come true. “One thing that is very clear to me is the fears of loss of autonomy have been fully realised. The States have now very little independence in any matters of taxation now,” he said, stressing on how many problems can be resolved to the satisfaction of the States and industry if the GST decisions are data-driven. “Given it is the law of the land, our job now is to make it as robust, as dependable, as high utility as possible. Within the constraints of the GST, I see lot of upside in terms of systems improvement, data-driven assessment and decision making, plugging of loopholes, improvement of uniform enforcement...” he told the South India GST Conclave organised virtually by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). Echoing his remarks, Kerala Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal recalled how he had moved a dissent note, as a Member of the Rajya Sabha in a parliamentary panel, stating the GST is very much against the principles of federalism. “What we apprehended about the legislation [then] is practically happening,” he said, adding that the State governments were facing financial crisis because of the GST. From July 2022, they would also not be compensated by the Centre for the loss of revenue. Blaming the Centre’s policy and attitude towards the States as the problem, he underscored the need for businesses and government to work together for a strong economy. Karnataka Industries Minister Murgesh Nirani said while there were a few pressing issues to be resolved, the GST had brought out a historic transformation to the tax structure. He thanked the Prime Minister, the Union Finance Minister and members of the GST Council for the major tax reform. FICCI Telangana chairman T. Muralidharan said the conclave was an attempt by FICCI to act as a bridge between the States and the Centre on the GST. He said the southern States were the biggest losers in the tax-sharing formula. FICCI will be submitting a report to the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-fears-over-gst-regime-have-come-true-tn-minister/article36745961.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Foreign Secretary to visit Colombo soon||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla is scheduled to visit Colombo between October 2 and 5, official sources in New Delhi told The Hindu , as India and Sri Lanka seek to engage at high levels amid a perceived strain in ties. The scheduled visit comes 10 days after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and his Sri Lankan counterpart, G.L. Peiris, met on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) session in New York. While official sources in New Delhi and Colombo indicated that Mr. Shringla would likely inaugurate key bilateral projects between October 2 and 5, the thrust of his visit was yet to be known. The high-level visit follows Mr. Jaishankar’s in January, when he told the leadership in Colombo that it was in “Sri Lanka’s own interest” that the expectations of the Tamil people — for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka — were fulfilled. However, Tamil and Muslim minorities point to continuing harassment by authorities, especially around memorialisation and threats to land owned by civilians, in addition to the Tamil leadership consistently highlighting the long-pending political solution. On the recent bilateral meeting in New York, the Sri Lankan Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Mr. Peiris briefed Mr. Jaishankar about “the pragmatic and tangible action” taken by the government to resolve “residual matters after the end of the conflict in May 2009”, referring apparently to contentious issues around truth, accountability and justice that the island nation’s civil war-affected Tamils have been demanding for over a decade. According to the Sri Lankan Foreign Ministry’s statement, Mr. Jaishankar indicated the need for a “fair and just resolution of residual issues in the aftermath of the ethnic issues is in the interest of both countries”. “The Indian Foreign Minister indicated that our relations should not be limited to a single issue,” the statement said, adding that Mr. Jaishankar emphasised the need for “for a practical conclusion of the number of projects pending implementation, indicating that it would give more confidence to New Delhi to move forward in enhancing relations”. New Delhi’s concerns over the “slow pace” of India-backed projects in the island nation and the emergence of China as a crucial player in its economy and infrastructure are well known. The visit is Mr. Shringla’s first to Sri Lanka as Foreign Secretary. He has worked closely on issues pertaining to Indo-Lanka relations in his capacity as Joint Secretary in New Delhi years ago, overseeing Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Myanmar and the Maldives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shringla-set-to-visit-colombo-next-week/article36745975.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Abducted man released in Kabul||A Hindu resident of Kabul, who was kidnapped on September 14, was released by his abductors earlier on Tuesday. A non-government organisation working with Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan said Bansri Lal Arendeh was released after a fortnight of negotiation. “Bansri lal Arendeh, aged around 50, who was abducted on September 14 at gunpoint in Kabul was released earlier today and is currently with his elder brother Ashok Lal,” said Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of Indian World Forum. On September 15, the Taliban ordered an investigation into the kidnapping, but details of the probe and the kidnappers’ identity are not yet known. Mr. Arendeh is one of the largest pharmaceutical traders in Kabul. He has been running his business despite the political disturbances. The Ministry of External Affairs did not confirm the citizenship status of Mr. Arendeh though it is known that he has family members living in the National Capital Region here. Since the arrival of the Taliban on August 15, the security situation in Kabul has seen several ups and downs. The control of the police in Kabul was initially given to the Haqqani Network of the Taliban, but it was taken over by Mullah Baradar last week. He appointed new officials in defence and intelligence wings of the outfit. In the meantime, a large number of kidnappings and robberies were reported from major cities of Afghanistan and the Taliban has blamed criminal gangs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abducted-man-released-in-kabul/article36745942.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI/CHANDIGARH,||Sidhu vows to stick to principles||The chaos in the Congress’s Punjab unit refused to show any sign of settling, as Navjot Singh Sidhu, who resigned as its chief on Tuesday, hardened his stand on Wednesday and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi urged him to resolve his grouses by holding talks. Mr. Sidhu observed that he would firmly stick to his stance and continue the fight even if it meant losing everything. Mr. Channi categorically said the party is supreme and the government pursued its ideology. “Party president is the head of the ‘family’. I have spoken to Mr. Sidhu and conveyed that the party’s ideology is supreme, and that the government follows it. I have urged him to talk and resolve the matter. We will resolve the issue,” he stated . Party insiders said the central leadership was not amused by Mr. Sidhu’s abrupt move and the manner of his quitting by displaying his resignation on a public platform. By not rushing Harish Rawat, party’s Punjab affairs in charge, to deal with the crises, the party high command is believed to have given an indication that it is in no mood to placate Mr. Sidhu by going the ‘extra mile’. All India Congress Committee appointed observer Harish Chaudhary, however, has reached Punjab to take stock of the situation. The party has tasked the Chief Minister to resolve the emerging crises and he has assigned Pargat Singh and Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, both Ministers and close associates of Mr. Sidhu, to talk to him. Acceptance dilemma It is learnt that the party is apparently in a fix over accepting Mr. Sidhu’s resignation, as the acceptance could exemplify him in the electoral battle as a ‘martyr’ who has chosen emotional and sensitive issues surrounding the Bargari sacrilege and the inclusion of ‘tainted’ leaders in the government as the basis of his quitting. While Mr. Sidhu’s close associates met him to pursue him to take back his decision and deliberate on the issues, there were other senior party leaders who hit out at him. They accused him of harming the party. On Wednesday, Mr. Sidhu remarked that during his 17 years of political journey, he had been working with a purpose to improve the life of the State people and make a difference. Taking a principled stand on issue-based politics and sticking to it had been the core of his political journey, he asserted. “My fight has always been on issues and Punjab favoured agenda; it has never been personal. There’s not going to be any compromise surrounding my struggle on Punjab’s rights... In my fight, positions have never been relevant,” he emphasised. Launching an attack on the government without naming anyone, he said the issues for which he had taken a committed stand before people were being compromised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-vows-to-stick-to-principles/article36745965.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||‘High levels of maternal, child undernutrition continue to plague India’||Arjan De Wagt , head of nutrition, UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) India speaks on how high levels of maternal and child under-nutrition continue to plague the country. He notes that for the future of children in India, controlling COVID-19 and ending malnutrition are equally important and urgent.  How has India fared on child and maternal nutrition in recent times? Overall, India has made impressive gains in economic and human development in recent decades. However, high levels of maternal and child under-nutrition continue to plague the country. Largescale surveys, like the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey (CNNS) and National Family Health Survey-4 (NFHS), show that about one-third of children under five years of age in India are stunted, a third of them are underweight, and almost two out of 10 children are nutritionally wasted; many of these children suffer from multiple anthropometric deficits. The CNNS also highlights the emerging problems of overweight, obesity and micro-nutrient deficiencies. The launch of the Poshan Abhiyan in March 2018 refocused the national development agenda on nutrition. However, with the spectre of COVID-19, there is a heightened risk of increasing malnutrition, and parts of progress made in the past may get undone. How is COVID-19 likely to affect nutritional interventions in India? Broadly, we know that the impact of COVID-19 has adversely affected access to livelihoods. The containment measures to prevent the spread of the virus threatened livelihoods, resulted in price hikes due to reduced production of goods and services, and in the disruption of supply chains for many families. Global research in 2020 on the effect of COVID-19 estimated about 14.3% increase in wasting globally. No specific data are available yet on the impact of COVID-19 on the nutritional status of the Indian population. First of all, like other infections, the COVID-19 infection negatively affects the nutritional status of a child. Second, as the period of pandemic prolongs, food insecurities and nutritional challenges will intensify too. On completion of six months, children need nutrient dense complementary foods in addition to breast milk to adequately fuel the growth of their growing bodies and brain. Food insecurity arising out of the pandemic may cause families to shift to cheap food with low nutritive value, causing long-term adverse impact on the cognitive development of children. Third, health and social services, such as anganwadi centres, nutrition rehabilitation centres, and village health sanitation and nutrition days (VHSND), were disrupted. As schools remained closed for a large part of 2020 and well into 2021, we also noticed that distribution of iron and folic acid tablets to children in schools was significantly reduced, and awareness campaigns in schools on nutrition were suspended. It was not until early 2021 that more and more States started opening anganwadi centres again, but centre-based activities soon were suspended due to the second wave of COVID-19. As COVID-19 demanded extraordinary attention, health workers were diverted from nutrition programmes. Fourth and most importantly, COVID-19 related priorities could threaten delivery and financing of nutrition and nutrition security responses. Given that the threat of subsequent COVID-19 waves looms, what do you foresee as the biggest challenge in the nutrition space? We fear double threats here. On the one hand, pandemic response services, such as COVID-19 vaccination, will need to be prioritised. This puts a tremendous strain on systems, capacity and resources earlier dedicated to deliver routine health, nutrition, and social protection interventions. On the other hand, COVID-19 may inflict repeated shocks on families and communities. As COVID-19 affects resources and priorities, how should the government address nutrition-related challenges? Six areas need immediate attention. First and foremost, strong leadership at all levels — from national to district — is essential to bring back focus to address food, income and nutritional security. Second, uninterrupted, universal, timely and high-quality coverage of essential evidence-based nutritional services must be ensured, with special focus on children below two years of age, pregnant women and adolescent girls, which are critical development periods. Thirdly, the pandemic calls for strategies adapting to COVID-19 guidelines and innovations in the service delivery mechanism. Fourthly, adequate financing is needed to ensure delivery of high impact interventions, and additional financing will be required for ensuring food and nutritional security, especially for the vulnerable population groups. Multisectoral interventions that directly or indirectly impact nutrition like health, nutrition and social protection schemes need to be delivered effectively to the same household, same woman, same child. Migrant labourers and urban poor need special focus. Finally, nutrition needs to be retained as a key indicator for development. For the future of children in India, stopping COVID-19 and stopping malnutrition are equally important and urgent.  Full interview at https://bit.ly/DeWagt   For the future of children in India, stopping COVID-19 and stopping malnutrition are equally important||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-levels-of-maternal-child-under-nutrition-continue-to-plague-india/article36745971.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bid amounts for PM’s mementoes fall||Bids on Olympians’ gear, including Neeraj Chopra’s javelin and P.V. Sindhu’s badminton racket, reduced from highs of Rs. 9 crore-Rs. 11 crore in the first week of the e-auction of mementoes gifted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to near the base prices of Rs. 80 lakh to Rs. 1 crore as on Wednesday. The auction, the proceeds of which are supposed to go to the Namami Gange Mission, started on September 17, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. 1,330 gifts A total of 1,330 mementoes gifted to him were put on auction through the website pmmementos.gov.in till October 7. The equipment used by Olympic and Paralympic athletes and medal-winners had received bids of around Rs. 10 crore on day two of the auction. However, the amounts had been reduced after the Ministry disqualified bids that were found not to be genuine, a Culture Ministry official said. On Wednesday, gold medallist Neeraj Chopra’s javelin was going for Rs. 5 crore, while it had received a bid of over Rs. 10 crore in the first week of the auction. Similarly, the badminton racket and bag of Ms. Sindhu, a bronze medal winner, had a price of Rs. 1.1 crore on Wednesday, down from Rs. 9 crore on September 18. The boxing gloves of bronze medallist Lovlina Boroghain were going for Rs. 80,00,100, or Rs. 100 over the base price of Rs. 80 lakh, on Wednesday, while it received a bid of Rs. 10 crore as on September 18. Eight days to go With eight days to go for the auction to end, Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy called on the public to participate. “Come forward to be a part of a national cause…,” he said in a tweet. The Culture Ministry, too, shared several tweets from all its Twitter accounts promoting the e-auction. In a statement, the Ministry said Rs. 15.13 crore had been received from a similar auction in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bid-amounts-for-pms-mementoes-fall/article36746231.ece
30 September 2021||LUCKNOW,||No discrimination in U.P.: Adityanath||If the Dewa Sharif, a famous shrine in Barabanki, has to be developed, then even the Mahadeva, a well-known Shiva temple, would have to be developed, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday as he stressed that “one-sided development” would not work in the State. Mr. Adityanath, who is touring districts and launching projects ahead of the 2022 Assembly poll, said there was no discrimination under his government even as he alleged that under the previous governments restrictions were put on the celebration of Hindu festivals. “The government doesn’t discriminate now. Dewa Sharif ka vikas hona hain toh Mahadeva ka bhi vikas hona hain. Ek tarfa vikas nahi chalega ,” Mr. Adityanath said. Speaking in Barabanki district, which he described as the “gateway to Ram Rajya,” as it connects Lucknow to Ayodhya, Mr. Adityanath said under the previous governments of SP and BSP, Kanwariyas who would play music during their Kanwar yatra had to face police lathicharge. “Government property would be grabbed, but nobody was there to question. The immersion of idols [ murti visarjan ] would not be held in a peaceful manner,” said Mr. Adityanath. In contrast, he said, under the BJP government, the administration provided an “atmosphere of security” to the Kanwar pilgrims who set out for the darshan of Lodeshwar Maharaj Mandir, in groups, dancing, singing bhajans and playing music. According to the Barabanki district website, people flock to the temple, situated on the banks of the Ghagra, in lakhs in the month of Phalgun every year on the occasion of Mahashivratri to worship and offer water to the famous shivling. Mr. Adityanath sought people’s support for his government and said in return he would ensure them security, respect and development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-discrimination-in-up-adityanath/article36745945.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Amarinder meets Shah, sparking off rumours||The turmoil within the Congress in Punjab washed up at the doorstep of Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday with former Chief Minister of the State Capt. Amarinder Singh (Retd.) meeting Mr. Shah at his residence, setting off speculation that his next political destination could well be the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The meeting between Mr. Shah and Mr. Singh lasted 45-50 minutes, with the latter stating via his media adviser Raveen Thukral that he had “met with Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Discussed prolonged farmers’ agitation against the farm laws and urged him to repeal of the laws and guarantee MSP (minimum support price), besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification”. The statement did not mention any political arrangements that may have been discussed but does point to the sticking point in terms of any such arrangement between Mr. Singh and the BJP. The three farm laws have been the subject of protests for the past 11 months, with Mr. Singh being one of the first Chief Ministers to fully back the agitation by farmers’ groups. For him to come to a political arrangement with the BJP without some middle ground on how to tackle the issue is difficult, and sources say that the BJP, which is quite keen on Mr. Singh joining its fold, is mindful of the same. Therefore, Mr. Singh’s resignation as Chief Minister of Punjab has come at a good time for the BJP. While firm on not withdrawing the laws, sources told The Hindu , many other means, including further amendments, or the setting up of a more expanded committee to sort out the issue, may be looked at.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-meets-shah-sparking-off-rumours/article36745959.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||24 lakh pre-primary students to get meals||The Centre has rebranded the 26-year-old national mid-day meal scheme to give a hot cooked meal to 11.8 crore government school students from classes 1 to 8, with the Cabinet approving a proposal to rename it as the PM POSHAN (Poshan Shakti Nirman) scheme on Wednesday. From the next financial year, it will also cover the 24 lakh children studying in balvatikas, the pre-primary section of government schools, Education Ministry officials said. Although this year’s budget for mid-day meals remains unchanged, an additional Rs. 266 crore is expected to be added as the Central government’s share to cater to balvatika students from 2022-23, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told journalists after the Cabinet decision. The extension of mid-day meals to pre-primary students, who are to be incorporated into the formal education system, was a key recommendation of the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020 and the population of balvatikas — which offer one year of pre-school classes — is expected to rise from the existing 24 lakh as the policy is implemented. However, there has been no progress on the NEP’s other recommendation to start offering breakfasts to school students as well. Mr. Pradhan declined to comment on the issue, but Ministry officials have previously told The Hindu that the Finance Ministry vetoed the proposal for this year, which would involve an additional budgetary allocation of Rs. 4,000 crore, due to a severe funding crunch. In fact, the School Education Department’s budget for this year has been cut by almost Rs. 5,000 crore. The PM POSHAN scheme has been approved for the next five-year period until 2025-26, with a collective outlay of Rs. 1.31 lakh crore, including Rs. 31,733 crore as the share to be borne by the State governments. It will “improve nutritional status, encourage education and learning and increase enrolments in government schools”, Mr. Pradhan said. The rebranded scheme aims to focus on “holistic nutrition” goals, Ministry officials said. Social audits have been made mandatory in all districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/24-lakh-pre-primary-students-to-get-meals/article36745950.ece
30 September 2021||Kolkata,||Faleiro says he will work to consolidate Congress family||The Congress family is now fragmented and I will work towards bringing the family together, said former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro, who joined the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday. Mr. Falerio, who had resigned as a Congress MLA earlier this week, joined the Trinamool Congress in Kolkata with nine others, including a few Congress leaders. “Today, the Congress family is fragmented into the Trinamool Congress, the YSR Congress, the Sharad Pawar Congress [Nationalist Congress Party] and the Indira [Gandhi] Congress. I will try to ensure that the Congress family is once again consolidated,” Mr. Falerio said moments after officially joining the Trinamool Congress. Earlier in the day, Mr. Falerio and others met Trinamool chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee at the State Secretariat. The entry of former Congress leaders from Goa into the Trinamool comes as a major shot in the arm for West Bengal’s ruling party, which is trying to expand its footprints beyond the State. Senior Trinamool leaders, including party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, MP Saugata Roy and Minister Subrata Mukherjee, were present at the press conference where leaders from Goa joined the party. Mr. Roy described the development as a “major milestone in Trinamool’s journey”. The party would contest alone in Goa, added Mr. Banerjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/faleiro-says-he-will-work-to-consolidate-congress-family/article36745962.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Australia sign ‘Terms of Reference’ for navy to navy talks||The Indian Navy and the Australian Navy on Wednesday signed the ‘Terms of Reference’ (ToR) for the conduct of the navy to navy talks under the framework of the ‘Joint Guidance for the India-Australia Navy to Navy Relationship’ document, signed by the two Navy Chiefs in August. This is the first such document signed by the Indian Navy with any country. The document set the navy to navy talks as the principal medium for guiding the bilateral cooperation, the Indian Navy said in a statement. “The document would be pivotal in consolidating the shared commitment to promoting peace, security, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region,” it stated. The ToR detailed the modalities for engagement at various levels between the two navies and streamlined the process, an official source said. The document provided flexibility for the implementation of separate agreements based on the specific outcomes of the talks. The highlights of the document included close cooperation in regional and multilateral fora, including Indian Ocean Naval Symposium (IONS), Western Pacific Naval Symposium (WPNS) and Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-australia-sign-terms-of-reference-for-navy-to-navy-talks/article36746182.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Bid amount for PM’s mementoes fall||The boxing gloves of bronze medallist Lovlina Boroghain were going for Rs. 80,00,100, or Rs. 100 over the base price of Rs. 80 lakh, on Wednesday, while it received a bid of Rs. 10 crore as on September 18. With eight days to go for the auction to end, Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy called on the public to participate. “Come forward to be a part of a national cause…,” he said in a tweet. The Culture Ministry, too, shared several tweets from all its Twitter accounts promoting the e-auction. In a statement, the Ministry said Rs. 15.13 crore had been received from a similar auction in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bid-amount-for-pms-mementoes-fall/article36746381.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Bid amount for PM’s mementoes fall||The boxing gloves of bronze medallist Lovlina Boroghain were going for Rs. 80,00,100, or Rs. 100 over the base price of Rs. 80 lakh, on Wednesday, while it received a bid of Rs. 10 crore as on September 18. With eight days to go for the auction to end, Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy called on the public to participate. “Come forward to be a part of a national cause…,” he said in a tweet. The Culture Ministry, too, shared several tweets from all its Twitter accounts promoting the e-auction. In a statement, the Ministry said Rs. 15.13 crore had been received from a similar auction in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bid-amount-for-pms-mementoes-fall/article36746662.ece
30 September 2021||Pune,||‘400 died in rain-related accidents, floods this year’||As many as 436 persons have lost their lives owing to rain-related accidents, floods and inclement weather this year, while 17 lakh hectares of cropland has been ravaged thus far owing to the extremely heavy rainfall aggravated by cyclonic storms, said the Maharashtra government on Wednesday. Of the deceased, a majority — around 250 persons — lost their lives in landslips and floods when heavy showers hit western Maharashtra and the Konkan region in August. As many 71 persons died in September alone, said Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar, while 196 persons died due to lightning. The follow-on effects of Cyclone Gulab continued in the Marathwada region, with relentless showers pummelling Osmanabad, Aurangabad, Parbhani, Latur and Nanded districts among other places, where more than 15 persons are said to have lost their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/400-died-in-rain-related-accidents-floods-this-year/article36745976.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Taliban urge DGCA to resume Afghan flights||The Taliban government in Afghanistan has written to India’s DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation), requesting the resumption of commercial flights between the two countries, according to a senior government official. The letter from the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan was addressed to the DGCA Director-General on September 7, 2021. “The intention of this letter is to keep the smooth passenger movements between two countries based on the signed MoU and our national carriers (Ariana Afghan Airline and Kam Air) aimed to commence their scheduled flights (sic). Therefore, Afghanisation Civil Aviation Authority requests you to facilitate their commercial flights,” Aljah Hameedullah Akhunzada, Acting Minister, Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority, said in the letter. The Indian official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The matter is being reviewed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation.” The letter followed the resumption of operations at the Kabul airport on September 4 with the help of a technical team from Qatar. It was closed due to the damage to its infrastructure following a frenzied evacuation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taliban-urge-dgca-to-resume-afghan-flights/article36745940.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Meet on ‘USA Education Loan Festival’ on Oct. 2||A webinar on the ‘USA Education Loan Festival 2022’, presented by WeMakeScholars along with The Hindu EducationPlus, will be held on October 2 at 5 p.m. WeMakeScholars is an organisation funded and supported by the IT Ministry, Government of India, with a sole motive of assisting study abroad aspirants with funding, free of cost. The webinar will be a curtain-raiser for the USA Education Loan Festival 2022, which is a 15-day event for students aspiring to study in the United States and will be useful for both parents and aspirants. The panellists will discuss all possible options included in collateral and non-collateral education loans and the webinar will have a question-and-answer session for the audience. Participating applicants will be offered discounts on bank processing fee, interest rates, and various other concessions. Those opting for unsecured education loans will get their loans sanctioned within four working days if all the required documents are submitted immediately. Damini, Co-founder and CEO, WeMakeScholars; Arjun, Co-founder and CMO, WeMakeScholars; Vijay, Manager, EliteScholars (Unsecured loans); and Archit Siddoju, Country Head, Public Banks (secured loans), will speak at the webinar. The discussion will be moderated by Pankaja Srinivasan, freelance writer. To register, visit https://bit.ly/3CW7bjN or scan the QR code given.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meet-on-usa-education-loan-festival-on-oct-2/article36745948.ece
30 September 2021||Kolkata,||Two killed as heavy rain continues in Kolkata||Two persons, including a child, were killed when a dilapidated two-storeyed house collapsed in north Kolkata on Wednesday. The city and other areas of gangetic West Bengal had been receiving heavy rainfall since Tuesday because of a low pressure area. Several parts of the city, including Bhabanipur where polling is scheduled on Thursday, were waterlogged. Disaster Response Force personnel rescued several persons from a house in Ahirlitola street in north Kolkata. The two-year-old girl and an elderly woman were declared dead later in the afternoon. Kolkata recorded nearly 100 mm of rainfall in the past 24 hours, while Diamond Harbour and Sagar in South 24 Parganas recorded 150 mm and Haldia in Purba Medinipur 220 mm in the past 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-killed-as-heavy-rain-continues-in-kolkata/article36745951.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Nipah antibodies found in bat samples in Kerala||The results of over 50 bat samples collected as part of the outbreak investigation were still awaited, Kerala Health Minister Veena George said here on Wednesday. Given the current evidence, it would be logical to conclude that the Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode did originate from bats, even though the authorities are still in the dark as to the route of virus transmission from bats to humans, Ms. George said. More bat surveillance and epidemiological studies need to be conducted before more conclusions can be drawn, Ms. George added. Meanwhile, the State is past the 21-day incubation period since the lone case of Nipah was reported at Kozhikode on September 4, during which time there were no fresh cases. Ms. George said that it was the systematic and proactive manner in which the Health Department took up disease surveillance and control measures as soon as the first case was detected which ensured that the virus did not spread to generate more cases. If no more cases of Nipah surface in another 21 days’ time (42 days in all after the last case), it would be safe to declare that the outbreak has been completely brought under control. Till then, the State will continue to be on vigil against Nipah, Ms. George said. Since September 4, extensive surveillance and control measures were taken up in Kozhikode district around the panchayat where the outbreak was detected. As part of the house-to-house surveillance taken up by the Health Department with the help of panchayat authorities, 16,732 houses and 76,074 persons were surveyed. The samples collected and analysed from 50 persons were negative for Nipah. COVID-19 deaths Ms. George said that the State would be coming out with a comprehensive list of COVID-19 deaths by including all those deaths which occurred in the State within 30 days of an individual testing positive for COVID-19. The State will issue new guidelines in accordance with the Centre’s definition of what constitutes a COVID-19 death, and all families who lost their loved ones to COVID-19 would be given compensation. She said that the population covered by the first dose of COVID-19 vaccines had crossed 91% in the State. Though a steady number of new cases are being registered daily, the number of patients being hospitalised or entering ICUs for serious disease was less. Approximately 94% of the COVID-19 deaths in the State were among those who were unvaccinated and those who had serious co-morbidities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nipah-antibodies-found-in-bat-samples-in-kerala/article36745953.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Punjab turmoil snowballs into crisis for Congress||Late in the evening, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala sent out a cryptic tweet that “those in power are troubled that a Dalit has been made a Chief Minister in Punjab and Amit Shah’s residence has become a centre for anti-Dalit activities”. Earlier in the day, Mr. Sibal had questioned the decision-making process with, “We know yet we don’t know.” While Ms. Sonia Gandhi is the acting president of the party, many believe that most decisions are being taken by her children. The Gandhi siblings had backed Navjot Singh Sidhu, who campaigned for Capt. Singh’s removal but resigned as State unit president on Tuesday, plunging the party into a crisis. Quoting Mahatma Gandhi that “no school of thought can claim a monopoly of right judgment”, Mr. Sibal argued that no monopolies can be created in the power structures of the party, and asserted that the “G-23 is certainly not ji huzoor 23”, an idiomatic expression referring to a yes-man. The former Law Minister also confirmed that one of his senior colleagues had written a letter to Ms. Gandhi but didn’t name Mr. Azad. “Some things we cannot say in public. At least a dialogue can take place in the CWC as to why we are in this state. We are the ones who can fight the BJP, and let me assure you that we are not one of those who is going to leave the ideology of the party,” Mr. Sibal said, adding, “Ironically, people close to them [the Gandhis] are leaving the party.” The reformists or ‘the G-23’, who had written to Ms. Gandhi seeking internal party reforms in August 2020, reiterated their demand for an elected CWC, Central Election Committee, and a full-time elected president. “If somebody has an issue, that is to be discussed. Consultations must take place from the seniormost members of the party and the organisational structure of the party has to be strengthened ... We need an open dialogue, conversations, and need to understand each other’s point of view,” Mr. Sibal said. The former Minister refused to answer whether or not appointing Mr. Sidhu as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief, and removing Capt. Singh as the Chief Minister were the right decisions. “I don’t want to talk about Punjab but a border State, and if this is happening to the Congress, [it] means it is [an] advantage to the ISI [Inter-Services Intelligence] and Pakistan. We know the history of Punjab and the rise of extremism there and how forces across the border try to take advantage of the situation,” he said. Reacting to Mr. Sibal, Indian Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas tweeted: “Listen Ji Huzoor . The party’s president and leader is the same who always sent you to Parliament, made you a minister when the p[a]rty had better days. In the Opposition, made you a member of the Rajya Sabha. Always gave you responsibility during good and bad times. Now, when the time has come for struggle, then ...” After Mr. Sidhu’s latest antics in quitting his post as PCC chief, the Gandhis have come under severe criticism as they had overruled a three-member committee led by Mallikarjun Kharge to appoint him. In its report to Ms. Gandhi, the panel had recommended that the cricketer-turned-politician be made the chief of the Congress Campaign Committee for the next year’s Assembly polls and accommodated as a Minister in the Amarinder Singh government. Soon after Mr. Sibal’s outburst, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken hit back on Wednesday. Mr. Maken said it was Ms. Sonia Gandhi who had made Mr. Sibal a Union Minister though he “did not have any organisational background and experience”. “My appeal to Mr. Sibal and others like him is that they should not denigrate the organisation which has given them political identity by rushing to the media every then and now,” Mr. Maken told the PTI. “Such remarks by leaders like Mr. Sibal, who have got everything from the organisation and the leadership, demoralise the party cadres and ordinary workers who continue to stand with the Congress ideology and are fighting the fundamental and fascist forces on the streets,” he said.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-turmoil-snowballs-into-crisis-for-congress/article36745955.ece
30 September 2021||Patna,||Nitish swears by Bihar’s special category status||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday clarified that his party had not dropped the demand for special category status to Bihar but it was up to the Centre to take a decision on it. Earlier, senior Cabinet colleague Bijendra Prasad Yadav had said the Nitish government was tired of demanding special category status and was no longer interested in pursuing the demand but would now demand for a special package to the State. But the senior JD(U) leader’s comment created a flutter among alliance BJP leaders. “What special package is he [Mr. Yadav] talking about? The Prime Minister has given Rs. 1.25 lakh crore to the State as special package and had also announced to stand by the State in its hour of need”, said BJP leader Prem Ranjan Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nitish-swears-by-bihars-special-category-status/article36745956.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Define exemptions from data protection law: panel||The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Data Protection has found a middle ground on the contentious clause which in the name of “sovereignty”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state”, allows any agency under the Union government exemption from all or any provisions of the law. More than 10 MPs in the panel had earlier objected to the clause, saying that it made the entire Act infructuous. In past deliberations, Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh, Manish Tewari and Gaurav Gogoi; Trinamool Congress MPs Derek O’ Brien and Mahua Moitra; Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MPs Bhartruhari Mahtab and Amar Patnaik; Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP Ritesh Pandey; Shiv Sena MP Shrikant Eknath Shinde; and BJP MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar had moved amendments to the contentious Clause 35 of the legislation. Since then, Mr. Chandrasekhar had been promoted to Minister of State and was no longer a member of the committee. ‘Subject to abuse’ Mr. Shinde had argued for deleting the clause entirely since it could be “subject to abuse”. Invoking “sovereignty and integrity of India”, “public order”, “friendly relations with foreign states” and “security of the state”, the legislation gives powers to the Union government to suspend all or any of the provisions of the Act for government agencies. Sources said the committee had largely agreed that the clause needed to be appropriately amended. The members demanded that the conditions for making the exemptions be clearly laid down without leaving scope for interpretation. No other details on how it would be worded to avoid possible abuse was forthcoming. Close to 55 clauses In a day-long meeting on Wednesday, the committee deliberated on close to 55 clauses and was nearly half-way through the Bill. The report on the Bill is long overdue. The Bill that seeks to provide protection of personal data of individuals was introduced in the Lok Sabha in December 2019 and referred to the Joint Parliamentary Committee soon after. It got its fifth extension during the monsoon session of Parliament in July this year and has now been asked to submit the report by the winter session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/define-exemptions-from-data-protection-law-panel/article36746134.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet clears 2 railway line doubling projects||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday approved the doubling of the Nimach-Ratlam (Madhya Pradesh) railway line as well as of the Rajkot-Kanalus (Gujarat) railway line, with an estimated project cost of over Rs. 1,000 crore each. The total length of doubling of the line for the Nimach-Ratlam line is 132.92 km, with an estimated project cost of Rs. 1,095.88 crore, and the estimated length for the Rajkot-Kanalus line is 111.2 km, with an estimated cost of Rs. 1,080.58 crore. Both projects are targeted for completion by 2024-25. While the Nimach-Ratlam project is expected to generate direct employment during construction for about 31.9 lakh man days, the Rajkot-Kanalus project will generate direct employment for about 26.68 lakh man days. The Railways said in a statement: “The line capacity utilisation of Nimach-Ratlam section is up to 145.6% with maintenance blocks. Project route section has become oversaturated well above optimum capacity even without a maintenance block.” The main inward freight traffic carried is coal for captive power plants of cement companies, it said. The Rajkot-Kanalus section is a part of the busy Mumbai-Ahmedabad-Viramgam-Okha section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-gives-approval-to-two-railway-line-doubling-projects/article36746135.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Antecedents of Narada||Generally most of us have momentary glimpses of divine experience which makes a deep impact with a longing to pursue it further. To attain fullness of this experience a true devotee and a jnani may have to pass through many births, says Krishna in the Gita. The sadana and the process may be long drawn but the Lord’s grace works in mysterious ways as is exemplified in the case of Narada, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. In the Bhagavata purana, Narada himself explains to Vyasa his spiritual journey through three successive births. In his first birth he was a Gandharva and then in his next birth in an earlier kalpa, he had been born as a son of servant maid who used to serve in hermitages. So, even as a boy, he got the chance to be associated with the sadhus. He too used to serve them and by listening to the Lord’s glories from them, he was able to develop love and devotion to the Lord. After his mother’s death, he wandered through dense forests and mountains and tried to meditate on the Lord as instructed by the sages. Once when in intense dyana, the Lord chose to reveal Himself in his inner being. The overwhelming experience was momentary and when the vision disappeared, he was very distraught. But soon he heard the Lord’s divine voice in the skies. The Lord said that He had revealed His form briefly so that it will instil intense longing and devotion to Him. He added that after this life all his prarabdha karma responsible for birth would be exhausted and he will gain Suddha satva sarira meant for the dedicated service of the Lord. During the next creative cycle he was born as the divine sage Narada and was blessed by the Lord to propagate bhakti. Narada continues to inspire posterity till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/antecedents-of-narada/article36745972.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||NEET-UG aspirants seek fresh exam||Several NEET-UG aspirants have moved the Supreme Court seeking the cancellation of the exam held on September 12 for alleged cheating, malpractice, impersonation and paper leak. The petitioners sought a stay on the declaration of the results during pendency, a fresh exam and a direction to the CBI and the Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh police chiefs to file fact-finding reports in a week. The petitioners asked the court to direct the government, the National Testing Agency and the National Medical Commission to enhance the standard of security protocols. This would include biometric verification of the candidates and use of jammers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/neet-ug-aspirants-seek-fresh-exam/article36745943.ece
30 September 2021||Mumbai,||Court rejects Vaze’s plea for house arrest||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday refused to grant house arrest to dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, accused in the Antilia bomb scare case. Mr. Vaze sought house arrest for three months after undergoing an open heart surgery on September 13. Special Judge A.T. Wankhede said Mr. Vaze can be in the jail’s special hospital cell and is allowed home food. The court recorded that Mr. Vaze can be taken to the State-run J.J. Hospital for check-up when needed. Mr. Vaze was on March 13 for his “role and involvement in placing explosives laden vehicle near Carmichael Road”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-rejects-vazes-plea-for-house-arrest/article36745952.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ex-Afghan women MPs fly out of India||Three women Afghan political leaders, who had taken refuge in India after the fall of Kabul, left for Europe on Wednesday. The Hindu was urged not to reveal the identity of the three former MPs who were known for their fierce criticism of the Taliban. The three former MPs were being assisted by Vital Voices, an international group also known for assisting Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai. The MPs travelled via Dubai where they boarded a flight to a European country. “Once we are settled in the west, we will restart our political campaign for freeing Afghanistan,” said one of the MPs who pointed to the heightened risk that their families continue to face under the Taliban rule. She said there are a handful of former women MPs who are eager to leave the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-afghan-women-mps-fly-out-of-india/article36745957.ece
30 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP throws 5-point challenge at Congress government in Punjab||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is on a two-day visit to Punjab, threw a five-point challenge at the ruling Congress government on Wednesday, asking it to fulfil its 2017 election promises. “I have a message for our new CM [Charanjit Singh]  Channi sahab ,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “First, there are allegations that he [Channi] inducted tainted Ministers and tainted officers. They need to be removed. Also, people are upset over the Bargari [sacrilege] case. The masterminds of the case should be punished,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said the Congress had promised to provide jobs or an unemployment allowance and that needs to be given within a week. “Fourthly, former  CM Amarinder Singh had promised to waive the loans of farmers. Lastly, the Congress is saying they know how the power purchase agreements can be cancelled, so they should do it,” he said. “Carry out these five things, the people of Punjab are demanding this. You have four months before the election. I had a government of only 49 days when I first came to power. In those 49 days, I had cut electricity bills by half and provided water for free. If I can do these things in 49 days, then CM Channi should be able to do the same in four months,” he said. The AAP leader said the ongoing political instability in Punjab was unfortunate. “Only AAP can give Punjab a stable, good and honest government,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-throws-5-point-challenge-at-congress-government-in-punjab/article36745963.ece
30 September 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata is BJP’s Trojan Horse: Adhir||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was the Trojan Horse of the BJP and should be kept out of all efforts to cobble up an opposition platform ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, senior Congress leader and State president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Wednesday. Mr. Chowdhury said the Trinamool Congress chief was an “untrustworthy ally”, trying to grow nationally at the cost of the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-is-bjps-trojan-horse-adhir/article36745966.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC dismisses appeal filed by Adani Gas||The Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal filed by Adani Gas against the authorisation given by the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) to state-run Gujarat Gas to lay and maintain a gas distribution network in rural Ahmedabad. Gujarat Gas had succeeded in securing the authorisation for setting up the network in Sanand, Bavla and Dholka in an auction held by the board. A three-judge Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, S. Ravindra Bhat and Hrishikesh Roy, in a judgment pronounced on Tuesday, directed Adani to bear the costs of Rs. 10 lakh, payable to the Union of India. “Adani’s claim is precluded by the principle of approbate-reprobate, as it accepted authorisation granted by PNGRB [including exclusion of disputed areas], furnished the performance bond and even participated in the auction for the excluded areas, and only thereafter challenged authorisation when its bid was unsuccessful,” Justice Bhat, who authored the 79-page judgment, observed. This judgment comes days after the Supreme Court issued notice in a curative petition in a case filed by Gujarat Urja Vikas Limited (GUVL) against a July 2019 judgment of the apex court upholding the termination of a power purchase agreement (PPA) by Adani Power (Mundra) Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-dismisses-appeal-filed-by-adani-gas/article36745973.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,350 impounded vehicles auctioned off by the police||The police have auctioned off about 1,350 unclaimed vehicles impounded in connection with various criminal cases. A sum of Rs. 2.60 crore earned through the auction was credited to the public exchequer. During budget grants to the Police Department in the Assembly, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced a new system under which Police Commissioners and District Superintendents of Police would be empowered to auction the discarded vehicles lying unclaimed in police stations. In pursuance of the announcement, Director General of Police (DGP) C. Sylendra Babu issued instructions to senior police officials to dispose of unclaimed vehicles impounded in connection with various criminal cases and those seized by the Enforcement and Prohibition Wing. As many as 1,222 two-wheelers, 103 four-wheelers and 26 other vehicles were auctioned off, said a press release from the DGP’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1350-impounded-vehicles-auctioned-off-by-the-police/article36746292.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fly ash still choking Buckingham Canal, backwaters, NGT told||A report submitted by a Joint Committee, appointed by the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal, stated that the fly ash generated from Stages 1 and 2 of the North Chennai Ennore Thermal Power Station (NCTPS) has greatly reduced the volume of water flowing to the sea from the Buckingham Canal and its backwaters. The waterbodies had become pools of ash, the report said. The committee found that although the leakage of fly ash was not noticed during an on-site inspection, the accumulation persisted in the backwaters and the Buckingham Canal. “This is due to the leakage of ash slurry from ageing pipes and due to plants directly discharging the slurry into waterbodies. Livelihood of fisherfolk has been affected, and this has led to the abatement of fishing activities. Mangrove patches have vanished due to the sedimentation of fly ash deposits,” the committee submitted. Fly ash contained several heavy and hazardous metals that percolate into the soil strata, altering groundwater potential and potability. Due to this, there was a drastic depletion of flora and fauna surrounding the Ennore Creek, the committee said. It further informed the NGT that the leakage from pipelines and accumulation of fly ash in the Buckingham Canal and the backwaters had become an everyday phenomenon, and the pollutant still remains at the sitesdespite orders from the NGT to clear it. The committee said the pipelines of Stage 1 were commissioned in 1994-95 and had rusted, corroded and become brittle with numerous cracks. While lines 1 and 5 were replaced with second-hand pipes brought from the Ennore Thermal Power Station in August 2020, replacement of lines 2 and 3 were in progress and 50% of the work had been completed. The timeline for replacement of all five pipelines is December 2021 as mandated by the NGT, the committee said. The committee also informed the Tribunal that the Environmental Clearance issued for the expansion project of 1 x 800 MW (Stage-III) had only granted permission for construction of certain offshore facilities and not for laying pipelines, which was a gross violation as per the Coastal Regulation Zone Rules, 2011. Kosasthalaiyar pipeline While the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) had started laying pipelines for Stage-III, the section running across the Kosasthalaiyar had not been taken up, the committee said. The Tangedco had stated in the Environmental Impact Assessment that 100% of bottom ash and fly ash generated from the project will be consumed by end users and piped to the ash dyke only in case of an emergency. “It must be ensured that new pipes be laid intact to avoid any leakage of ash into the waterbodies, thereby averting environmental damage,” the committee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fly-ash-still-choking-buckingham-canal-backwaters-ngt-told/article36746300.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M alumni plan mentoring initiatives||IIT Madras Alumni Association has proposed to launch initiatives to channelise the alumni’s energies to improve lives. The association has 53,825 members, including 22,179 undergraduates and 31,646 postgraduates. Called a mission to put a ‘million smiles’, it aims to get 10% of the alumni base to volunteer on projects that will impact at least a million people in India and abroad. Among its key initiatives is ‘Mission 5,000 Ignited Minds’, which will focus on areas such as science, technology and innovation interventions, water and sustainability, mentoring students and women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). The association is headed by a new team of office-bearers with Krishnan Narayanan as president. Association secretary Shyamala Rajaram said the alumni would work through its seven chapters in India besides those in the U.S., Singapore and Europe. To begin with, over 5,000 alumni in 15 countries will celebrate the foundation day of the institute. Short lectures on cutting-edge research and technologies, quantum computing and extraterrestrial manufacturing have been planned. The association’s flagship event Sangam will be based around ‘Restoring Balance — Women in Leadership and STEM’. The association is also anchoring the chapter for the Society of Women Engineers in South India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-alumni-plans-mentoring-initiatives/article36746316.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Will melt jewellery only if they are not necessary for temple use’||In recent days, the office of the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments at Nungambakkam has been flooded with tenants of temple properties, lessees and encroachers, who are under pressure to respond to the Department’s notice on payment default and other issues ever since the DMK returned to power. Minister P.K. Sekarbabu listens to all of them and explains the legal and department’s position even as he chalks out a plan for retrieving temple lands. “We will soon establish temples’ ownership of 4,30,000 acres,” he told The Hindu in an interview.  How far have you succeeded in reclaiming temple lands? Temples under the Department own over 5,30,000 acres. As directed by the Chief Minister, we started matching our records with those of the Department of Revenue. So far, we have established temples’ ownership of 3,30,000 acres. We have also filed over 30,000 appeals with the Department of Revenue. We have created a website, Tamilnilam, and uploaded the details of the assets of all temples. The work is also under way to upload the temple documents running to 4 crore pages. A map of temple properties is being created with the help of modern equipment used for land survey. These measures were never taken in the past. Our aim is to protect temple lands and inform people of their status. We will be able to establish temples’ ownership of four lakh acres with proper documents in six-nine months. We will fence the land and erect notice boards. Be it encroachers or lessees or tenants who have not paid rents, we will take legal action to reclaim temple assets. What is your response to the critics who have questioned the decision to melt temple jewellery to convert them into gold bars? Devotees offer gold jewellery, silverware and money in fulfilment of their wishes. After keeping what is necessary for a temple, we have decided to melt the gold at the government mint in Mumbai. The gold bars thus made will be deposited under the gold monetisation scheme in nationalised banks, and the interest thereof will be used for the upkeep of temples. It has been the practice since 1976. Sometimes the gold was used for making temple cars and paving the roof of the sanctum sanctorum . The scheme is being effectively implemented at the Tirupati temple. In the last 10 years, the jewellery that were not used had been kept in bundles. We will not melt even a bit of jewellery that were donated to temples by kings and zamindars and are used traditionally for decorating the deities. There is no plan to melt the new offerings if they meet temples requirements. What we are going to melt is broken and small pieces of jewellery that cannot be used. We have appointed D. Raju, former judge of the Supreme Court; Mala, former judge of the Madras High Court; and Justice K. Ravichandrababu of the Madras High Court to oversee the process. The entire process will be recorded. We will get crores of rupees a year through the gold monetisation scheme, and the amount could be used for the maintenance of hundreds of temples. The gold bars can be brought back if there is a need for jewellery. Our motto is temple wealth is meant only for god. But a section is raising doubts about the scheme only to prevent the government from earning the goodwill of people. How much jewellery do the temples own? There was six kg of gold when the offerings made to the Mariamman temple at Samyapuram were counted. If six kg of gold could be collected in three months, take into account the offerings made to innumerable temples in the last 10 years. There will be over 1,000 kg. You have announced 10 new arts and science colleges. Is there a need for them when there are so many arts and science colleges? Even in Chennai, every year thousands of students could not get admission to government, government-aided and private colleges. We run two colleges at Palani, one at Kanniyakumari, one at Courtallam and one at Poompuhar. At Palani, we received 8,000 applications, though the total number of seats is just 1,200. There is a need for more colleges. We will launch courses such as BBA and B.Com that are in demand. Spiritual classes are compulsory at our colleges. Depending on the demand, we will introduce various courses. The Department will dedicate itself to the economic and spiritual development of people. BJP State president Annamalai has urged the government to allow worship at temples The State government is following the guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry. The threat of a third wave of COVID-19 has not receded yet. When we came to power, there were over 36,000 active cases, and around 100 patients died every day. In Kerala, daily cases stand at 20,000; but it has come down to over 1,500 in State. When I was on a pilgrimage to Sabarimala, people told me that Kerala should learn how to control the pandemic from Tamil Nadu. It is not just Hindu temples; churches and mosques are not allowed to conduct worship on Fridays, Saturday and Sundays. But regular pujas are performed. Do not add any religious colour to the issue.  We will get crores of rupees a year through gold monetisation scheme, and the amount can be used for the maintenance of temples||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/will-melt-jewellery-only-if-they-are-not-necessary-for-temple-use/article36746279.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Monitor fuel outlets in residential areas, says HC||It cannot be denied that many retail fuel outlets are functioning very close to residential areas, schools, old age homes and such other places, the Madras High Court said and wanted the government officials concerned to inspect the bunks frequently and initiate action for violation of norms. Passing orders on a writ petition, Justice S.M. Subramaniam said the oil marketing companies fall under the definition of the term “State” and therefore, apart from pursuing their business interests, the companies should give prime importance to the right to life guaranteed to citizens under the Constitution. “While granting permission, mechanical approach is impermissible. Retail petrol bunks are creating a lot of health issues and therefore, the mitigating factors such as surrounding atmosphere, the presence of schools, old age homes and hospitals are to be taken into consideration while granting NoC by the district authorities and also the licence by the explosives department,” he said. Many complaints The judge said that people in residential areas “are complaining in many places that such petrol bunks are allowed to function very close to the residential premises and the same is causing lot of health issues among children, old and the sick people.” Though guidelines had been issued in this regard and the Central Pollution Control Board too had framed certain norms, the fuel outlet operators flout the norms and hence the authorities concerned must conduct periodic inspection and initiate appropriate action, the court said. R. Gunasekaran, a senior citizen residing in Pattalam in Chennai, had filed the writ petition in 2016. The petitioner wanted a local fuel outlet, where a fire broke out, to be closed down in the interest of the people residing in the locality. The judge directed the Indian Oil Corporation, Chennai Collector, Fire and Rescue Services department and the Greater Chennai Corporation to inspect the outlet in question, hear public grievances and then take an appropriate decision on the plea to close the petrol bunk in question. The process must be completed within eight weeks, Justice Subramaniam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitor-fuel-outlets-located-in-residential-areas-says-hc/article36746326.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC bus catches fire||People, including the passengers and the crew, escaped unhurt when a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus caught fire near the CMBT Metro station in Koyambedu on Wednesday. At 10.45 a.m., the bus from Tiruchi began smoking from the engine while it was heading towards Puratchi Thalaivar Dr. M.G.R. Bus Terminus on 100 Feet Road. The driver, Kamalakannan, of Kallakurichi, stopped the vehicle and asked the 10 passengers to exit. As soon as they left, the bus went up in flames. Police personnel reached the spot and cordoned off the area. Personnel from the Fire and Rescue station in Ashok Nagar put out the fire. However, the bus was gutted. The police and transport authorities conducted an investigation into the cause of the fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-transport-corporation-bus-catches-fire-in-koyambedu/article36746290.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Locked public toilet causes inconvenience to residents of Arunthathiyar Nagar||Meenakshi*, a senior citizen residing on Chengan Street, Arunthathiyar Nagar in Mettupalayam, has to walk three streets to access the nearest public toilet. In the last three to five months, the public toilet on Chengan Street remains locked for want of maintenance, causing difficulty to many residents. According to residents, Arunthathiyar Nagar in Mettupalayam near Thiru Vi Ka Nagar is home to nearly 5,000 families. The locality has 16 streets. About 500 families of Chengan Street, Kandan Street and Govindapuram have been utilising the public toilet complex on Chengan Street. With the toilet complex in neglect, many residents, especially women and the elderly, have to rely on the nearest facility on Govindan Street. “There are 12 toilets in the complex — six for men and six for women. There have been constant problems in the last five years, with the motor turning faulty frequently and water pipelines getting damaged. There has been no proper maintenance or cleaning. Now, it remains closed for nearly five months, causing plenty of hardship to residents,” said C.B. Paranthaman, a resident. Meenakshi, who has been residing here for nearly four decades, pointed to the hardship faced by the elderly like her, who have to walk across three streets to use the public toilets at Govindan Street. “Authorities need to fix the motor and take up minor repairs. The delay in taking up the work and poor maintenance have left us in the lurch. With the toilets locked, girls and women find it tough to manage,” she said. She pointed out two new toilets built in the facility on Chengan Street were not opened even after they were completed nearly two years ago. A cross-section of the residents said the non-functional facility had turned into an eyesore. “It is filled with garbage and liquor bottles. It has become a haven for anti-social activities. Several men consumd liquor on top of the facility and jump inside,” another resident said. Residents said repeated pleas to the MLA and officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation to repair and re-open the complex did not yield any result. An official of the Greater Chennai Corporation said there was a snag in the motor, and it was being set right. “The facility will become functional in two to three days,” he said. ( *Name changed on request )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/locked-public-toilet-causes-inconvenience-to-residents-of-arunthathiyar-nagar/article36746298.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exhibits that tell a tale of valour on display at police museum||The Indo-Saracenic building that stands now as the Tamil Nadu Police Museum was the first building of the City Police Commissionerate. This 14-acre property with a bungalow originally belonged to Arunagiri Mudaliar. Lieutenant Colonel John Carne Boulderson became the first City Police Commissioner in 1856 and the once-rented property now became the asset of the police through Boulderson after the property was purchased for Rs. 21,000. This heritage structure underwent several changes, extensions and abuse in the late 1800s and 1900s. Finally, this building has gained a high heritage value in the city with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurating the Police Museum in the presence of Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu and other senior police officers. ADGP A. Amalraj said the conservation effort, taken up at a cost of Rs. 6.47 crore, began in October 2020 and had been completed in nine months with the help of Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation. A curator was engaged on an honorary basis. All additions and changes that did not gel with the heritage value of the building had been removed. “We brought old vehicles, arms and ammunition, souvenirs and material that were seized at different times from several places and put them on display,” he said. The display includes different types of daggers and other sharp weapons used during the last century. There are also swords used by police officers on duty, for self-defence, and on ceremonious occasions during the 19th and 20th Centuries. The sub machine guns and rifles used in anti-terrorist operations and special operations and bullets which were used for firing with different weapons; the wheels that moved the police through ages; communication equipment at different periods of time and vests used by police during operation are all on display. A mortar seized by Tamil Nadu police from Sri Lankan militants in 1992, a record relating to the hanging of the legendary chieftain Veerapandia Kattabomman who resisted the British and a photograph of the assassination of late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi are the other items that are on display. Steve Borgia, honorary curator of this project, said, “The primary aspect of this project is the building which was built in 1842 by Arunagiri Mudaliar for Rs. 36,000. From him, Boulderson bought it for Rs. 21,000 and converted it as commissionerate.” Since then it had been functioning from here and it got destroyed and dilapidated. In 2013, the Commissionerate moved to a new building and in 2020 they decided to conserve this place, Mr. Borgia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exhibits-that-tell-a-tale-of-valour-on-display-at-police-museum/article36746754.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture Park in Madhavaram will get nursery, exotic plant species||The Horticulture Park at Madhavaram Milk Colony, one of the large urban lung spaces in north Chennai, may soon have exotic plant species and a nursery. The 22-acre botanical garden has been one of the few recreational spaces for residents of several localities since 2018. Coracle rides in the 2.5-acre freshwater pond in the park resumed recently, bringing cheer to the regulars. The demand for these rides increase during the weekends, with nearly 100 visitors enjoying them on Sundays. The Horticulture Department has proposed to add more greenery to the park and improve facilities for visitors. The botanical garden is home to about 800 Palmyra trees and nearly 700 species of various ornamental and medicinal plants. Sources in the department noted that the pond was also a groundwater recharge source as the rainwater harvesting system of the park was linked to it. There are plans to add flowering beds to the 10 Palmyra tree islands in the pond. The waterbody will also be used for rearing ducks. A nursery has been proposed to encourage visitors to purchase medicinal/herbal plants that they see in the park. On an average, the park receives nearly 600 visitors during the weekdays, and the number peaks to about 1,000 during weekends. Nearly 500 walkers regularly visit the park after paying a monthly fee. They said the park was a boon to them as otherwise, they would be vying for space on the roads or walk on playgrounds. The Horticulture Department also has plans to improve facilities in the children’s play area and add a green cover to the 2-acre space adjoining it. Infrastructure, already in place, to generate solar power will be operated to cater to the electricity needs of the park and the office buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/horticulture-park-in-madhavaram-will-get-nursery-exotic-plant-species/article36746302.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Product design centre to come up at Thirumudivakkam||A product design centre, catering to the MSME sector, will come up at the Sidco industrial estate Thirumudivakkam. To be implemented in Public-Private Partnership mode, the project will have Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation (Tansidco) as the nodal agency. Around 1.6 acres of land has been earmarked for this venture which would be housed inside the industrial estate as part of the mega cluster venture that was announced by the DMK government. While announcing the revised State budget for the year 2021-2022, Minister for Finance and Human Resources Management, Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, mentioned that five mega clusters in pharmaceutical, petro chemicals, precision manufacturing, defence and aerospace and smart mobility sectors would be established at a cost of Rs. 100 crore each. “There are many small and medium enterprises which develop new products but don’t have the right infrastructure to test and validate their products. The product incubation centre will support MSMEs from concept to realisation or from realised product to new concept. Support will be given to firms which have a concept design and are willing to develop their own product before they start their own facility,” said R.Selvam, secretary, Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association. He added, “The cluster will have a facility for new product development for e-vehicles, aerospace and automobile components. Help will also be extended to those who want to file product patents and trade registrations.” The main purpose of the centre would be to improve the competitiveness of MSMEs by supporting them to develop innovative products. MSME secretary V. Arun Roy said the idea was to enable our engineering industry to access next gen technology without spending individually on machinery and to help them reverse engineer products. “Apart from the product design centre, this cluster will have several other testing facilities catering to various sectors,” he added. It is learnt that a detailed project report is being prepared by Industrial and Technical Consultancy Organisation of Tamil Nadu Limited (ITCOT). A senior official off ITCOT said this mega cluster would be a hub and spoke model. “Even for basic testing, firms now come to Chennai which involves a lot of time and huge money. So the plan is to make Thirumudivakkam the hub and places including Sriperumbudur, Oragadam and Irungattukottai as the spoke,” he added. To a query on when this mega cluster would be ready, stakeholders involved in this project said that it would take 18-20 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/product-design-centre-to-come-up-at-thirumudivakkam/article36746755.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Not more than 20 students can be in a class’||A day after the Tamil Nadu government announced that schools would be allowed to hold physical classes for students from Classes I to VIII from November 1, Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi held meetings with School Education Department officials, including chief educational officers and directors, and said not more than 20 students should be seated in a classroom. Mr. Mahesh told journalists that the government had made the decision to reopen schools only after consulting with health experts and considering their recommendations. “We are reiterating that children should not be forced to return to campus. This is just a start, where we are telling parents that schools are reopening and are ready to welcome children,” he said. “The government is preparing standard operating procedures for campuses. Given the pandemic situation, and just like we had recommended for senior classes, not more than 20 students can be seated in a classroom,” he said. Mr. Mahesh said owing to safety norms, schools might have to examine calling children on campus on a rotation basis, depending on the infrastructure and space available. The Minister also spoke about why it was important to reopen schools for young children, owing to psychological reasons. He said children had been away from campuses, friends and teachers for long now. Gearing up Many schools fielded calls from parents with children going to primary and middle school, who had queries ranging from whether students would be asked to attend classes on alternate days to how to get school uniforms ready. Students from Classes I to VIII were last on campus in March, 2020. It has been nearly 19 months since they attended physical classes, and schools in Tamil Nadu have been gearing up to welcome young students back. Priyanka Ghosh, principal of Vikas Mantra School, said parents had been keen for a while to send children back to schools, and had reached out several times in the last few months regarding the same. “We have also been waiting for a government announcement. Over the last few months, we have gone over factors that we will need to consider once students are back on campus, including scheduling breaks and lunch hours, assigning corridors for student movement, ensuring cleanliness on campus and so on,” she said. Educators like her have welcomed the decision to reopen schools, owing to the fact that children can finally socialise with peers and teachers, after a long gap of being largely confined to their homes, with little to no interaction with children their age apart from online classes. “We expect SoPs similar to those issued when senior classes began functioning to be released soon. Two main aspects that schools will have to look at are implementing physical distancing norms and ensuring safe transport for students,” said Ashok Shankar, general secretary, CBSE Schools’ Management Association. He said the aspects would determine whether schools go in for an alternate-day schedule, depending on the size of campus and infrastructure available. A section of teachers of primary classes from government schools had recently appealed to the School Education Department to reopen schools at the earliest for primary and middle school students, citing learning loss over 19 months. Welcome decision “With most teachers vaccinated, and the ICMR too recommending that schools can reopen in phases, we welcome this decision. The academic welfare of students in rural areas, who have not had access to alternate modes of learning, and their mental health have been considered,” said V. Saravanan, a primary school teacher and State general secretary, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association. P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu, educationist and general secretary, SPCSS-TN, stressed the importance of the mid-day meals provided in schools and said while the government had provided dry rations to children who have been missing mid-day meals, many families would have had to share it among themselves, given the loss of livelihood owing to COVID-19. “When children are back on campus, teachers should take note of their physical and mental well being, given that they are returning after a long gap. More than straightaway addressing learning gaps, schools should focus on addressing health and nutritional aspects, as well as ensure that a system is in place where they are linked to a government health facility nearby for any emergency,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/not-more-than-20-students-can-be-seated-in-a-classroom-minister/article36746313.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,624 people test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||On a day when 1,624 people tested positive for the COVID-19 in the State, Chennai led the table with for a second day with 189 fresh infections on Wednesday. Coimbatore followed with 181 cases, while Erode and Chengalpattu saw 116 and 115 cases respectively. The remaining districts recorded under 100 cases each. While there were 89 cases in Tiruppur, Thanjavur logged 78, Tiruvallur 72 and Salem 62. Tenkasi reported the least number of cases at two. So far, the State has reported 26,62,177 cases. Twenty-four people died, taking the toll to 35,550. All 24 of the deceased had co-morbidities. There were four deaths in Chennai, and two each in Pudukottai, Ranipet, Salem, Tiruvallur and Tiruchi. As many as 22 districts did not report any fatality. As many as 1,639 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,09,435. At present, 17,192 people are under treatment in the State. A total of 1,51,678 samples were tested, taking the total count to 4,68,40,515. On Wednesday, 1,59,417 people were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1624-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/article36746276.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Why aren’t temples open when schools are reopened?’||BJP Tamil Nadu president K. Annamalai on Wednesday questioned the rationale behind the State government allowing schools to reopen for Classes I-VIII from November 1 but not allowing places of worship to be open during weekends. In a statement, he asked why there was no explanation from the government as to how it was allowing students to go back to school without being vaccinated but was not allowing citizens who had been vaccinated to visit places of worship. “Almost 4.66 crore people have been vaccinated in Tamil Nadu so far. So, why is there a ban on visiting places of worship? Instead of making arrangements to allow people to visit places of worship, especially the Hindus who visit temples in the month of ‘Purattasi’, the government has not allowed them to be open. Is it really out of concern for people’s welfare or is it to impose their atheistic views on people,” he asked. He said that with the Navaratri festival approaching, people were viewing the DMK government’s decision not to reopen temples as a continuing anti-Hindu activity. He said that even the Union Territory of Puducherry had allowed places of worship to reopen with restrictions.  Instead of making arrangements to allow people to visit places of worship, especially the Hindus who visit temples in the month of ‘Purattasi’, the government has not allowed them to be open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-arent-temples-open-when-schools-are-reopened/article36746309.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB arrests woman for cheating job aspirants||The Central Crime Branch arrested a 41-year-old woman who cheated 35 job aspirants to the tune of Rs. 1.18 crore on the promise of getting them jobs in Chennai Corporation. Police said the accused, J. Stella alias Stephi 41, a native of Poothapandi in Kanniyakumari district, deceived people by claiming that she was an advocate and that she was highly influential among bureaucrats and politicians, with photos she had taken with them. She targeted conservancy workers promising them to get their jobs regularised or get them posts of sanitary inspector and corporation supervisors. The CCB registered a case based on a complaint from E.Boopathy of Selaiyur who gave Rs. 5.10 lakh to her on a promise to get a job. She had cheated 35 persons between 2019-2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ccb-arrests-woman-for-cheating-job-aspirants/article36746310.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Habitual burglar arrested in Thiruvanmiyur||The Thiruvanmiyur police on Wednesday arrested a habitual burglar and seized 42 sovereigns of jewellery from him. The police said R. Hari, 72, of Besant Nagar lodged a complaint last month that unidentified persons broke into his residence and escaped with 42.5 sovereigns of jewellery. The police registered a case and analysed CCTV camera footage, which showed the involvement of K. Malarvannan alias Manikkam, 58, of Ponmar. The police arrested Malarvannan, who already had nine burglary cases pending against him and has been detained under the Goondas Act thrice. He was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/habitual-burglar-arrested-in-thiruvanmiyur/article36746303.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP rewards personnel for saving man’s life||Director General of Police C. Sylendra Babu on Wednesday rewarded police personnel, who acted swiftly and saved the life of a man, who attempted to end his life outside Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s residence, in CIT Colony, Alwarpet, on Monday. The man, identified as Vetrimaran, 27, tried to immolate himself outside the Chief Minister’s residence. The police personnel — inspector Lalitha, special sub-inspector Ramesh Babu, constables Gobinath, Rajasekar, Munusamy and Karthik — poured water on the man and rushed him in an ambulance to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment for injuries. Mr. Sylendra Babu said their timely action and alertness saved the life of a person. He also distributed cash rewards to the personnel. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050. )  The man, identified as Vetrimaran, 27, tried to immolate himself outside the Chief Minister’s residence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-rewards-personnel-for-saving-mans-life/article36746304.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contempt plea moved against govt. officials||The All-India Adi Saiva Sivachariyargal Seva Sangam has filed a contempt of court petition in the Madras High Court, accusing the State government of having appointed 24 “unqualified” Archakas in temples in the State, despite a status quo ordered by the court on August 5. The contempt petition has been filed against Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Secretary B. Chandra Mohan and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran, for having violated the interim order of the status quo.  The petitioner said it had filed a writ petition last month, accusing the government of sidelining traditional priests trained under gurus, and instead appointing only those who have undergone certificate course in Agamas in government training centres for people belonging to all castes. The single judge had then granted an order of status quo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contempt-plea-moved-against-govt-officials/article36746277.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opening of multi-level car parking at airport postponed to December||The opening of the multi-level car parking at the airport has been delayed again, and will be opened only in December. The primary reasons for the delay were the impact of COVID-19 and lack of resources and labourers for the construction work. Sources said the work was finished, but painting was under way, sources said. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) started constructing the parking space in March 2019 in the 4.25-acre area at a cost of Rs. 250 crore to house vehicles and commercial establishments. Since the existing parking lot can have a maximum of only 1,200 vehicles, the congestion was worsening with passenger traffic going up consistently. The new facility was planned to accommodate 2,000 vehicles. Officials of AAI said while the western wing would have the parking area and commercial establishments, the eastern wing would house another parking lot and film theatres. While PVR Cinemas will run five cinema halls, there will be two food courts, retail shops, bars and restaurants. “We had initially earmarked 3.3 lakh sqft of space, but owing to COVID-19 it has been brought down to 2.5 lakh sqft.But if there is a need later, the space can be converted for more outlets,” an official said. This parking lot will be connected to the new integrated terminal buildings and will have a walkalator for easy access.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opening-of-multi-level-car-parking-at-airport-postponed-to-december/article36746288.ece
30 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||33,000 police, 6,000 Home Guards for local body polls||Over 33,000 police personnel and 6,000 Home Guards are to be deployed for the two-phase ordinary elections scheduled in rural local bodies in nine newly carved out districts on October 6 and 9. While 17,130 police personnel and 3,405 home guard personnel would be deployed for the first phase poll on October 6, as many as 16,006 police personnel and 2,867 home guard personnel would be involved for election duty on October 9, a press release from the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission stated. The Commission has instructed election officials to ensure that political leaders, workers and outsiders should not be present in the area even a day before the respective local body is scheduled to go for the poll. In local bodies going for poll in the first phase, political leaders, workers and outsiders should not be present in the area from 5 p.m. on October 4. For those local bodies going for poll in the second phase, the time would be 5 p.m. on October 7, it said. On Wednesday, TNSEC Commissioner V. Palanikumar chaired a meeting through video conference to review the arrangements made for the two-phase rural local bodies election in these nine newly re-constituted districts. Ordinary elections are scheduled to fill up various posts in rural local bodies in Chengalpattu, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Tenkasi, Tirunelveli, Tirupattur, Vellore and Villupuram districts. A total of 79,433 candidates are in the fray contesting for 23,998 posts in these nine districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33000-police-personnel-to-be-deployed-for-local-bodies-poll/article36746314.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital conducts free cardiac check-up||Minister of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department P.K. Sekarbabu inaugurated the campaign for World Heart Day organised by Kauvery Hospital on Wednesday. The campaign, which aimed to reach out to younger population (under 50), was conducted to help identify cardiac risks and abnormalities, and also encourage people to lead a healthy lifestyle, according to a press release.  Good turnout Nearly 350 people attended the programme and underwent free check-up at the Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha in T. Nagar on Wednesday.Kauvery Hospital had plans to conduct the campaign in other districts of the State, the press release added. Mr. Sekarbabu said, “Even today, a majority of the population do not know how to handle sudden cardiac attacks or when to consult a doctor. Timely diagnosis and intervention plays a key role in saving lives, but all this can be achieved only through constant awareness.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-conducts-free-cardiac-check-up/article36746287.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conman arrested||The Cyber Crime Wing of Central Crime Branch on Wednesday arrested a 41-year-old man from Puducherry who allegedly cheated several political functionaries using the names of their party leaders. Police said the accused, S.Sivakumar alias Jacob, 41 of Villianur, was arrested following a complaint from Vijayakumar, an advocate. He complained to the police that a person by the name of Nagarajan from Thoothukudi called his senior, Joyal, and said that Vijayakumar’s child was in a critical condition. The person demanded Rs. 15,000 to meet medical expenses from Joyal, besides sending a photograph of a child. The senior advocate transferred the money through mobile wallet to the unknown person’s account, the police said. On a complaint from Mr. Vijayakumar, the police arrested Sivakumar. The investigation revealed that he had cheated several political functionaries by dropping the names of their leaders. He used the photo of his child taken in a hospital and sent it to his targets. Later he collected money under the pretext of meeting his medical expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conman-arrested/article36746311.ece
30 September 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies after being hit by motorcycle||A 16-year-old boy was killed after a speeding two-wheeler hit his bicycle in Nolambur on Tuesday evening. The victim was identified as N. Hariharan, of Chettiyar Agaram, the son of a police sub-inspector, Nithyanandam. The police said when Hariharan was returning home from school on his bicycle, a bike hit him from behind.Both Hariharan and the bike rider, identified as V. Jayaraman, 27, of Porur, were injured. They were taken to a private hospital, where the boy was declared brought dead. The Thirumangalam traffic investigation police registered a case and investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-dies-after-being-hit-by-motorcycle/article36746293.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rescind move to sack varsity staff: AMMK||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Wednesday criticised the reported move to terminate the services of employees of the Annamalai University who were on consolidated pay. In a series of tweets, he pointed out that the DMK had captured power on the promise that it would generate jobs. He wanted the government to get the move rescinded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rescind-move-to-sack-varsity-staff-ammk/article36746323.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MP urges IIT-M to redress grievances||South Chennai Member of Parliament T. Sumathy alias Thamizhachi Thangapandian has urged the Indian Institute of Technology Madras to adopt a “fair process” to redress the grievances of members of the reserved categories. She shared on social media a photo of her meeting IIT Director Bhaskar Ramamurthi on Wednesday and also a letter she submitted to him. In the letter, she highlighted the reports on caste-based discrimination against the oppressed communities and pointed to the resignation of Vipin V. Veetil, a faculty member. After Dr. Vipin Veetil resigned some months ago, alleging caste-based discrimination, the issue was taken up by the National Commission for Backward Classes. The MP called for “a fair process and active intervention for redress of grievances of the SC/ST/OBC members”. She wanted to know the measures the institute had taken to fill the reserved faculty positions in line with the Union Ministry of Education’s instruction in August to all institutions to recruit SC/ST/OBC faculty members through a special drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-urges-iit-m-to-redress-grievances/article36746305.ece
30 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Poor attendance in corporation schools worries teachers||Since the Coimbatore Corporation reopened schools for students of classes nine to Plus Two, attendance has been a cause for concern. The State Government had on August 21 said schools would reopen for students of those classes starting September 1. While issuing the safety guideline for the students’ return, the government had said that it was not compulsory for students to attend in-person classes, which was having an impact on attendance, said the corporation school teachers The Hindu spoke to. On the first day of reopening of classes – September 1 – only 69.20% of class IX students, 69.42% of class X students, 70.55% of Plus One students and 74.82% of Plus Two students attended classes. Around 10 days later, the percentage of students who turned up in classrooms stood at 70.66 for class IX and 70.99 for class X in high schools and 43.60 for class IX and 60.9 for class X in higher secondary schools. The percentage of Plus One students who attended classes stood at 54.17. As on September 29 the trend continued, notwithstanding the fact that the government had asked students to turn up for classes on alternate days for those in class IX and Plus One and put in place safety guideline, the teachers said. The students who were in Plus One had not given their class IX exam in 2020 and passed class X after a government order in 2021. In the last academic year, they had attended classes from home and, therefore, they attending classes now became imperative. Bridge courses Though the corporation school teachers taught only the basics as the government wanted bridge courses to be conducted, the students not turning up was a problem. The attendance situation in girls’ schools though marginally better was no different, said the teachers and wanted the government to make attending classes compulsory for students in classes nine to Plus Two as the choice to attend classes from home was doing the students no good. It was imperative that the government do so now, as the schools had been functioning for around a month, no large-scale COVID-19 infection spread was reported and it had announced reopening of classes for students of classes one to eight, the teachers reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-attendance-in-corporation-schools-worries-teachers/article36746340.ece
30 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Revenue, rural police fail to stop smuggling of bricks from closed units’||The Thadagam Valley Protection Committee has accused the Revenue Department and the Coimbatore District (Rural) Police of turning a blind eye to the smuggling of bricks from brick-making units which were closed by the district administration. Five villages According to the committee members, the Thadagam and Thudiyalur police were allowing trucks to carry bricks from many of the closed brick kilns in the five village panchayats in the valley namely Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Veerapandi, Pannimadai and Somaiyampalayam. Coordinator of the committee S. Ganesh said that local people found 12 trucks laden with bricks leaving Thadagam late on Tuesday. Though alerts were sent to authorities concerned, there was no response. “People managed to block one of the trucks which the Thudiyalur police took into custody. It was later handed over to the Thadagam police. A majority of the closed brick kilns are selling their stock at night which is a violation of conditions laid down by the district administration based on a direction of the Madras High Court. As per the conditions in the closure order, bricks manufactured illegally by the closed units should not be sold. The committee seeks authorities to curb the illegal sale,” he said. A senior police officer said that the driver of the truck was apprehended. The district administration served closure orders to 186 brick kilns in the valley following a direction form the High Court on April 30, this year. As per the closure proceedings, the owners of the closed brick kilns are not allowed to move any property from the compounds of the brick kilns/chambers. A senior official from the Revenue Department said that it will deploy teams to check smuggling of bricks in the valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revenue-rural-police-failed-to-stop-smuggling-of-bricks-from-closed-units/article36746344.ece
30 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tiger cub rescued near Valparai in ATR||A tiger cub that was found stranded in a tea estate near Valparai, around 120 km from Coimbatore city, was rescued by the Forest Department late on Tuesday. The male cub was weak and it had a porcupine quill lodged on its body when it was rescued from Thaimudi estate by a special team. Shifted to rescue centre The cub has been shifted to the animal rescue centre at Rottikadai near Valparai. S. Ramasubramanian, Field Director of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), said that the cub was found roaming in Thaimudi area of Manombolly forest range of ATR for about two days. A Forest team that observed the cub found that it was weak and stranded. “The situation was briefed to the Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj, who directed to form a special team based on the standard operating procedure of the National Tiger Conservation Authority. The team combed the estate area from 3 p.m. Tuesday and the forest staff managed to capture the cub around 9.30 p.m. using net. We did not use tranquilliser or a cage for the capture,” he said. Veterinarian Manoharan, Prof. Muthukrishnan of Veterinary College and Research Institute, Tirunelveli, and N.S. Manoharan, Regional Joint Director of Veterinary Services (retired), were part of the operation. Special team Deputy Director of ATR M.G. Ganesan, Manombolly Forest Range Officer A. Manikandan, NTCA nominated expert Ganesh Ragunathan from the Nature Conservation Foundation, D. Boominathan from the WWF-India, honorary wildlife warden Nandhini Raveendran and ATR staff carried out the operation. Mr. Manikandan said that the tiger cub was active on Wednesday morning after it was given food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-cub-captured-near-valparai-in-atr/article36746349.ece
30 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘IAF forced rape survivor to withdraw complaint’||The Commandant of the Air Force Administrative College (AFAC), Coimbatore, and senior officers forced the woman officer, who was allegedly raped by a Flight Lieutenant, to withdraw the charges against the perpetrator, according to the First Information Report registered by the police. The rape survivor has also alleged in her police complaint that she was subjected to the two-finger test at the Air Force Hospital (AFH). The woman officer said she found out only later that the test should not be done to ascertain rape. The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore central, registered the FIR on September 20. The accused, Amitesh Harmukh, was arrested on the charge of rape on September 25. The alleged incident took place in the room of the woman officer between 12.30 a.m. and 3 a.m. on September 10. The accused trespassed into her room and committed the crime, allegedly under the influence of alcohol. The woman officer and the accused, who had come to the AFAC for a training course, had attended a party at the officers’ mess bar on the evening of September 9. She had taken a painkiller following an injury in the ankle while playing earlier in the day. According to the FIR, the accused, whose marriage was fixed, met two friends of the survivor on the evening of September 10 and narrated what happened the previous night. The two batch-mates also recorded the conversation they had with the accused, said the FIR. As suggested by one of the friends, the matter was conveyed to a Wing Commander who came to her room. A woman Wing Commander also came to the room later and told the survivor that she needed to think of all aspects, including herself and her family’s name. Later, the two senior officers suggested that she go ahead with a complaint and asked her to convey her decision the next morning. Afraid that her identity would be revealed, the survivor told the woman Wing Commander through a friend on September 11 that she did not want to make any complaint. In the afternoon, she was asked by the two Wing Commanders to either file a complaint or give in writing that the incident was consensual. The survivor chose to go ahead with the complaint, said the FIR. The two officers told her to undergo a medical examination at the AFH where the two-finger test was done in the evening. The survivor said in her complaint that she handed over the bed sheet she used on the day of the incident to the two women doctors at the hospital and asked the hospital authorities to collect the mattress cover which had semen stains, said the FIR. The complainant and her room-mate were shifted to another room later at night and they were informed the next morning that the medical test was negative. According to her, two women officers — a Group Captain (the presiding officer for inquiry) and a Wing Commander — talked to her later that day and asked her to convey her decision in haste. She called on the Commandant the next day and asked when the accused would leave the campus. If that was not possible, she wanted to leave the course. However, according to the FIR, the Commandant asked her to give her withdrawal of complaint in writing. It said she gathered courage and went to the Coimbatore City Police Commissioner’s office on September 20 and filed a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iaf-forced-rape-survivor-to-withdraw-complaint/article36746274.ece
30 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Truck owners not to bear loading and unloading charges from Oct.15||Truck owners will not bear the loading and unloading charges for consignments across the State from October 15, the State Lorry Owners Federation announced here on Wednesday. The decision was taken at the meeting organised by the Coimbatore Lorry Owners’ Association. State Lorry Owners’ Federation M.R. Kumarasamy told reporters that so far the truck owners bore these expenses and they could not continue to do so now as their financial condition was adversely impacted during the COVID-19 pandemic. The State government must allow truck owners to purchase reflective tapes from 11 authorised firms instead of only two companies, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/truck-owners-not-to-bear-loading-and-unloading-charges-from-oct15/article36746336.ece
30 September 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Art exhibition to be held till October 6||Lalit Kalakshetra Raviraj College of Fine Arts in Coimbatore will conduct an art exhibition till October 6. 18 artists A press release said that the exhibition will feature works of 18 artists from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry and will be open for visitors from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/art-exhibition-to-be-held-till-october-6/article36746335.ece
30 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Court attaches TNSTC bus||The Principal Labour Court, Coimbatore, on Wednesday attached a bus belonging to the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) after the latter failed to comply with an order given earlier this month. Sources said that S. Sivakadatcham, Presiding Officer, Principal Labour Court, made the order on a petition filed by M. Subramaniamm, who worked as a TNSTC driver. The Corporation had suspended Subramaniam from service in January 2015, citing that he did not come for duty on January 26, Republic Day. He was dismissed from service in December 2016. The court on September 7 ordered TNSTC to give back his job and return a portion of his salary from the date of dismissal. However, the TNSTC did not comply with the order. The court on Wednesday delivered the final order, based on which a bus of the TNSTC was attached.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-attaches-tnstc-bus/article36746337.ece
30 September 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU conducts refresher course for officers||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University conducted a refresher course for agricultural officers directly involved in production of biocontrol agents to control pests using biological agents. A press release said the role of the officers was critical as their functioning in the 23 district biocontrol and parasitoids breeding centres helped implement the Integrated Pest and Disease Management Programmes. New technologies In the five-day refresher course on ‘Hands-on training on the production technologies of biocontrol agents of crop pests, diseases and nematodes’, the university created awareness on the new technologies in use in production of biocontrol agents, the release said. The release added that the university conducted the programme with support from the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-conducts-refresher-course-for-officers/article36746341.ece
30 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Short film competitions for students||The Forest Department will conduct various competitions for students as part of the Wildlife Week from October 2 to 9. The competitions will be held under different categories. According to a release, a short film competition on the themes of marine wildlife, mammal ecology, water birds, nesting behaviour, urban wildlife, climate change and wildlife, man-animal conflict, wetland wildlife and reptilian life history will be held. The short film competition would be organised under two categories — under 18 years of age (3 minutes) and above 18 (5 and 10 minutes). Enthusiasts can mail their short films to wildlifeweekcud2021@gmail.com. Soft copies of the entries should reach the Forest Range Office, Cuddalore, on or before October 3. While the first prize winner will win a department-sponsored trip to Kaziranga National Park, the second prize will be a trip to Jungle Lodges, Karnataka. The third prize will be a trip to Mudumalai Tiger Reserve. The prize-winning short films will be screened at the Tamil Nadu Forest Academy in Coimbatore on October 7. The department will be conducting a drawing and essay competition as part of the celebrations. Drawing competition will be held under the theme ‘Save Wildlife’ while the theme for essay writing will be ‘Forest/Wildlife conservation’. For details, call the Forest Range Office on 8838144098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/short-film-competitions-for-students/article36746709.ece
30 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held on graft charges||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Wednesday arrested a clerk and a loadman at the Direct Purchase Centre of the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation on charges of demanding and accepting bribe from a farmer. According to the police, clerk R. Balamurugan and loadman N. Kalaimani attached to the DPC at Alapakkam, were trapped by a team when they received Rs. 15,000 from the complainant for procuring 250 bags of paddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-on-graft-charges/article36746713.ece
30 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||No deaths in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district recorded nil deaths due to COVID-19 on Wednesday. As many as 31 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the overall tally to 63,367. In Villupuram district, 23 persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases to 45,437. Kallakurichi district reported one death and 32 positive cases, taking the district’s tally to 30,927. The death toll stood at 209.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-deaths-in-cuddalore/article36746712.ece
30 September 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Two sentenced to life until death for rape of minor||The Cuddalore Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act Court on Wednesday convicted and sentenced two persons to life imprisonment until death for kidnapping and raping a 14-year-old girl in 2019. The POCSO court judge, M. Ezhilarasi, also sentenced the accused B. Thilagar, 34, and D. Kattamaniyar alias Jaishankar, 49, of Kumarakudi, to one year imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 1,000 under Section 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 10 years imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 5,000 under Section 366 (kidnapping). The sentences would run concurrently. Compensation The court also directed the district administration to provide a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh to the victim under a scheme of the government within 30 days of receipt of the order. According to Public Prosecutor T. Kalaiselvi, the victim, studying in Class VIII, was returning home after meeting a relative on February 12, 2019, when the accused gagged the girl and took her to a nearby place where they raped her. The girl narrated the incident to her parents who then lodged a complaint with the Sethiathoppu All Women Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-get-life-term-till-death-for-rape-of-minor/article36746329.ece
30 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault on minor girl||A 74-year-old man was arrested by the police on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl. According to the police, Pachiyappan from Narasaiyarkulam here allegedly lured a seven-year-old girl from the neighbourhood with chocolates and sexually assaulted her. The accused had been assaulting the girl for over two months, the police said. Recently, the girl complained of severe stomach ache and her parents came to know of the incident. Based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother, Dharmapuri All Women Police registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Pachiyappan was arrested on Wednesday and further inquiries are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl/article36746462.ece
30 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin pays a surprise visit to police station||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin made a surprise visit to the Adhiyamankottai police station in Dharmapuri district on Wednesday and undertook an inspection. He travelled to Dharmapuri from Salem in the evening to attend official programmes scheduled for Thursday. Mr. Stalin checked the registers and interacted with police personnel about the petitions received and the action taken. He enquired with them about the action being taken on petitions received under the ‘Ungal Thokuthiyil Mudhalamaichar’ scheme. The Chief Minister also enquired about the well-being of the police personnel. P. Thamaraikannan, ADGP; R. Sudhakar, IG, West Zone; S. Davidson Devasirvatham, ADGP, Intelligence; and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-pays-a-surprise-visit-to-police-station/article36746282.ece
30 September 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘Regularise jobs of nurses, ASHA workers’||Communist Party of India State secretary R.Mutharasan, on Wednesday, said that the State government should regularise the jobs of nurses and ASHA workers hired during the COVID-19 pandemic period. He told presspersons that the party had submitted a petition to the State government in this regard. Mr. Mutharasan said that the Varum mun Kappom scheme would hugely benefit the poor and underprivileged. ‘Increase pay days’ He wanted the work days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme increased to 200 days a year and the workers must be paid Rs. 600 a day. Terming the PM CARES Fund a huge scam, Mr.Mutharasan demanded that the transaction details should be made public and the funds should be transferred to the public exchequer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regularise-jobs-of-nurses-asha-workers/article36746460.ece
30 September 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul gears up to face northeast monsoon||The Dindigul district administration is all set to face the northeast monsoon with men and materials being kept ready at vantage points in ghat sections to clear debris in case of landslides and removal of uprooted trees. The district administration has been closely monitoring the works of local bodies in cleaning the drainage channels. “Dindigul Corporation, all municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats are involved in clearing blockades in the stormwater drainage channels and irrigation channels so that waterlogging and inundation are prevented by ensuring free flow of rain water,” Collector S. Visakan said. The works were going on in full swing and would be completed by October 2, the Collector said. He further said the district faced landslides and falling of trees during the monsoon especially in the ghat sections of Kodaikanal and Palani. “We have kept ready teams from the departments of Forests, Fire and Rescue Services and Rural Development with adequate manpower and equipment to remove fallen trees and debris,” Mr. Visakan said. The officials of each department have been instructed to restore vehicular traffic at the earliest. “Our response time to clear any fallen tree will be 30 minutes and road traffic will not held up for longer duration,” he added. The Collector, along with Additional Collector C. Dinesh Kumar and Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan, and District Fire Officer Venkatraman, inspected a drill performed by the officials and men from Departments of Revenue and Disaster Management and District Fire and Rescue Services at Kottai Mariamman Temple. “This demonstration was only to keep the people informed about the state of preparedness of the district administration. The firemen displayed various techniques of rescuing people and also equipment and tools available with them for the rescue,” the Collector said. They also have mechanised boats for rescuing people, he added. The administration has asked people to stock adequate foodgrains, dry food, drinking water and dresses to face the possibility of flooding. Similarly, they should keep adequate fodder for cattle which should be taken to safe places. People should not venture into waterbodies and disconnect power supply and cooking gas connections if there was heavy rain and lightening. Personal Assistant to Collector (General) Maran, Tahsildar (Disaster Management) Santhanamary Geetha, Assistant Fire Officer N. Suresh Kannan were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-administration-gears-up-to-face-northeast-monsoon/article36746455.ece
30 September 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Bhavanisagar dam||The water level in Bhavanisagar Dam reached 100.97ft, against the total scale of 105ft, on Wednesday. While the stored capacity was 29,491 mcft, the dam received an inflow of 1,494 cusecs. About 500 cusecs was discharged through Bhavani River and 2,300 cusecs through Kalingarayan canal. The water level in Mettur Dam was 73.44ft, against a total scale of 120ft, on Wednesday. About 12,000 causecs was discharged in to River Cauvery and the discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 800 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-in-bhavanisagar-dam/article36746463.ece
30 September 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Control rooms set up in Kallakurichi for poll||The district administration has set up control rooms for complaints regarding the upcoming rural local bodies election. According to Collector P.N. Sridhar, a dedicated election control room has been established at the Collectorate to enable the public lodge poll-related complaints on toll free number 1800 425 8510. Complaints may be lodged in Rishivandhiyam panchayat union on 04151 - 239223; Tirukovilur panchayat union on 04153 - 252650; Thirunavalur panchayat union on 04149 - 224221; Ulundurpet panchayat union on 04149 - 222238; Kallakurichi panchayat union on 04151 - 222 371; Chinna Salem panchayat union on 04151 - 236235; Sankarapuram panchayat union on 04151 - 235 223; Thiyagadurgam panchayat union on 04151 - 233212 and Kalvarayan hills panchayat union on 04151 - 242229.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/control-rooms-set-up-in-kallakurichi-for-poll/article36746711.ece
30 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,TAMIL NADU||Fraudsters back in business with job offers in U.K., Canada||With several large-scale employers bouncing back to the usual pace of international recruitments, fraudsters who had earlier flourished in illegal recruitment business through fake job offers are back. Forging appointment letters from professional recruiters offering attractive pay packages and liberal terms and conditions, they mostly target young graduates and skilled workers who are keen on working in the United Kingdom (UK). Biggest bait The low-cost technical procedures and minimal service charges have turned out to be the biggest bait for low-income aspirants. In addition, fake offer letter creators promise easy migration and appointment without clearing mandatory language proficiency tests like IELTS or OET. Noticing the trend, professionals from Kerala in the UK are making aspirants aware of the scam through social media. “I was shocked to see a fraudulent appointment letter received by a friend recently. Whatever details in the letter appeared wrong to me. Those who respond to such offers without proper verification are sure to lose their money,” said Nirish Antony, a former Childline coordinator who recently secured placement as a psychiatric social worker in London. He pointed out that the spurt in new job openings subsequent to the diminishing pandemic scare has turned out to be an opportunity for fraudsters. A few who identified fake appointment letters said fraudsters who secured bio-data and email addresses from various sources were cunning enough to behave professionally and demand a meagre amount initially. Many a time, the tendency among aspirants to bypass standard procedures for convenience lands them in traps, they said. “For qualified professionals, there is no shortcut to reach UK. Also, there are no big expenses involved in securing a job the legal way,” said M. Manoj, a registered nurse from Kannur who works under the National Health Service, UK. According to him, many youths are even disinclined to contact their relatives or friends abroad for a personal verification ahead of proceeding with fake offers. Verify authenticity Ajith Kolassery, General Manager, NoRKA Roots, said he had come across several candidates who had earlier received fake offer letters from Canada and East European countries, as the trickery had been in place for a long time in various forms.  “We have a lot of options to check the authenticity of such letters. Basically, one should reject offers that prompt aspirants to evade recruitment procedures approved by the government,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fraudsters-back-in-business-with-job-offers-in-uk-canada/article36746147.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea for cancellation of tender-cum-open auction||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday sought a response from the State in a public interest litigation petition that alleged that a tender-cum-open auction was held in Tirunelveli district in violation of the model code of conduct. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response to the petition filed by T. Balaji Krishnaswamy of Tirunelveli, State secretary of the Advocate Wing of BJP. The petitioner said elections to the rural local bodies were announced for nine districts in the State and the model code of conduct came into operation on September 13. It applied to the rural areas and the adjacent areas of the rural local bodies within a radius of five km. Under these circumstances, the tenders that were already floated may be evaluated but not finalised without the approval of the State Election Commission. If they are not floated, then without approval they cannot be floated, he said. The Tamil Nadu Housing Board’s Tirunelveli Housing Unit issued a notification for a tender-cum-open auction in the last week of August of commercial plots. It was held in places such as Kulavanigarpuram, Palai and V.M. Chatram. It was said that these places came under the Corporation limits, while for the other places, the auction was postponed. No doubt, some of these places came within the Corporation limits, but Kulavanigarpuram project site was situated close to Reddiarpatti village. Local body election was going to be held in this village and the model code of conduct was in place. Even the project site in other areas came within the zone where the model code of conduct was in operation, the petitioner said. Mr. Balaji Krishnaswamysought a direction to the State government to take appropriate action against the Tamil Nadu Housing Board’s Tirunelveli Unit for violation of model code of conduct and cancel the tender-cum-auction that was held on September 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-cancellation-of-tender-cum-open-auction-in-tirunelveli/article36746638.ece
30 September 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||New traffic system planned around Periyar bus stand||Ahead of commissioning the renovated Periyar Bus Stand, Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan on Wednesday held meetings with police, highways and transport officials about proposed changes in the traffic system around the bus stand. Two separate meetings were held with the officials to discuss the proposed partial one-way to be introduced on Ellis Nagar Road Over Bridge. The officials had planned to ban entry of vehicles from West Veli Street to the ROB to reach Ellis Nagar. Instead, the vehicles would go through Tirupparankundram Road, Hayath Khan Road and go through the road on Periyar bus stand premises to reach the ROB. To make this hassle-free, Hayath Khan Road would be widened and a centre median installed to allow two-way traffic. However, a change in traffic flow had also been planned on the ROB to allow right turn from Periyar Bus stand arm that helped vehicles climbup the ROB. “Design change on the bridge has been taken up. Both right and left turn will be allowed in this portion of the bridge,” an official said. Meanwhile, the officials also discussed the location of different bays for buses bound for different destinations. “No other vehicle, except buses, will be allowed inside the bus stand,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-traffic-system-planned-around-periyar-bus-stand/article36746640.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Former Minister Sellur Raju complains of poor roads, drainage system in city||Former Minister and AIADMK MLA, Sellur K. Raju, on Wednesday, September 29, 2021, appealed to Madurai Corporation Commissioner, K.P. Karthikeyan, to expedite the works of relaying roads on arterial roads and important junctions to make them motorable ahead of northeast monsoon. Mr. Raju handed over a petition to the Corporation Commissioner at the Corporation office. Later talking to reporters, he said that many important roads, streets and junctions had roads with lot of potholes posing danger to the road users. These roads are bound to become worse with the monsoon rains. “The AIADMK government had floated tenders for relaying roads in the city. However, the DMK on coming to power have cancelled them,” Mr. Raju said. He said that the DMK government should now call for fresh tenders and expedite the road re-laying work. Similarly, he complained about sewage from underground drainage mixing with drinking water in many parts of the city. The former Minister claimed that the motors used for pumping the sewage have lost their utility with the increasing quantum of sewage let into the system due to increased population. Such motors should be replaced with high-power motors to avoid mixing of sewage with drinking water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-minister-sellur-raju-complains-of-poor-roads-drainage-system-in-city/article36746642.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea against Tamil Nadu Lokayukta Act||A petition was filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday seeking a direction to declare the Tamil Nadu Lokayukta Act, 2018 as ultra vires the Constitution and Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013. In his petition, K. Gurunathan of Tiruchi district said Lokpal for the Centre and Lokayuktas for the States were constituted as a mechanism to receive complaints regarding allegations of corruption made against public servants including ministers. While Lokpal had jurisdiction to inquire into allegations of corruption against anyone who was or had been a Prime Minister and other Union Ministers, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu did not come within the purview of the Tamil Nadu Lokayukta Act. The petitioner said that under the Central Act, there was a separate inquiry wing in order to conduct preliminary inquiry, but there was no such agency under the State Act. There was no provision to prosecute corrupt officials under the State Act. The Lokayukta constituted under the Tamil Nadu Lokayukta Act was powerless and against the Constitution. It also went against the policy of ‘zero tolerance against corruption’, he said and sought a direction to declare the Tamil Nadu Lokayukta Act ultra vires the Constitution. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought a response from the State. The court ordered notice to the State and directed the government to file a counter affidavit to the petition. The case was adjourned by 12 weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-against-tamil-nadu-lokayukta-act/article36746439.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SI Woman of the Year Award to LDC Principal||In the centenary year of Soroptimist International (SI), the Madurai Chapter bestowed the Woman of the Year Award on Principal of Lady Doak College (LDC) Christianna Singh on Tuesday. Also to mark its 12-year journey, the local chapter honored four other women achievers. The SI-Madurai is India’s 12th Soroptimist Club founded in 2009 by Anitha Rajarajan. Receiving the award from chapter president Manju Anilkumar, Ms. Singh said, she — like several other women — was blessed beyond measure to do what she was doing. The other recipients of the special award were Geetha Bharathi for community service, Kanthimathi for philanthropy and Shanthini Arunagiri, director of Madurai Natya Kalalaya. LDC student Revathi Veeramani, also a recipient, could not attend the function. The past projects of SI (Madurai chapter) include providing scholarship funds to needy college girls, minimising the use and responsible disposal of hazardous plastics, solid waste management and waste segregation, establishing and renovating neighbourhood parks and creating green lungs and miyawaki forests in different parts of the city. In this short period, SI Madurai has also won four awards and their founder president Ms.Anitha was named as one among 100 women selected across the world for #WhoIsShe campaign in the centenary year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/si-woman-of-the-year-award-to-ldc-principal/article36746636.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||File detailed report: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to file a detailed report on the steps taken on the recommendations made to appoint legal aid counsel or prosecutor in Central Prisons in the State. Justice G. Ilangovan on Tuesday sought a response on the petition filed by Rathinam of Andipatti in Theni district. He complained that his son Chokkar was kept in illegal custody for over nine months in Madurai Central Prison even after he was acquitted in a murder case. Chokkar and Mayilraj were convicted in a murder case by a trial court. Mayilraj, the first accused in the case, had preferred an appeal against the conviction. Chokkar did not file an appeal. The High Court acquitted both accused in the case and the prison authorities were informed of the acquittal. However, the communication said Mayiraj, who preferred the appeal, had been acquitted and the acquittal of Chokkar was not properly conveyed. This resulted in Chokkar having to remain in prison for nine more months even after acquittal till a legal aid counsel took up his issue. He was released from Madurai Central Prison in 2020. The petitioner sought compensation from the State. In order to avoid incarceration after acquittal, the State said it was considering the appointment of legal aid counsel in central prisons. Advocate Henri Tiphagne suggested appointment of senior duty counsel and installation of information kiosks to help prisoners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-details-on-recommendations-made-to-avoid-incarceration-after-acquittal/article36746449.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Qualification criteria for TNAU Vice-Chancellor post challenged||An academician moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday challenging the notification issued by the State government prescribing certain qualifications for appointment to the post of Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The petitioner, K.K. Suresh of Thanjavur district, challenged clauses (d) and (e) of the said notification. As per the two clauses, a candidate should have published 10 research papers after Ph.D and must have guided at least five successful Ph.D candidates, he said. The government had the power to notify the qualification required regarding education and experience. But, the qualification prescribed as per the two clauses did not qualify either as education or experience, he said. The qualification prescribed would exclude academicians from cities other than that of Coimbatore and Madurai. The research for Ph.D could be pursued only in Coimbatore and Madurai. There were a number of agricultural and allied sciences colleges and various other research institutions across the State. People working in these institutions also contributed to the development of the agricultural community. The tenure of the present Vice-Chancellor would end in November and the process to appoint the Vice-Chancellor would commence soon. If the criteria as per the notification were followed, it would seriously prejudice the chances of capable candidates, he said. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice and sought a counter affidavit from the State. The State told the court that the applications were not called for yet and the process would take time to complete. The case was adjourned till October 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/qualification-criteria-for-v-c-post-opposed/article36746327.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Petition to maintain two tanks in Madurai||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered notice and directed the State to file a counter affidavit on a public interest litigation petition seeking direction for removal of encroachments from Athikulam and Periya Puliyankulam tanks in Madurai. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response to the public interest litigation petition filed by J. Kanakaraj of Madurai. The petitioner said the two waterbodies must be restored and maintained regularly by the authorities concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petition-to-maintain-two-tanks-in-madurai/article36746637.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC closes plea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday closed a petition filed in 2019 that sought a direction to the State Election Commission to conduct urban local body polls in the State after taking note of the fact that the Supreme Court had granted four months to conduct the elections. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar observed that since the Supreme Court had already granted time to conduct the local body election there was no need to issue any further directions and closed the petition filed by K.K. Ramesh of Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/local-body-polls-high-court-closes-petition/article36746431.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 128 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,060 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 53.99 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 923 cusecs and a discharge of 1,819 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 5,647 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36746450.ece
30 September 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 85.30 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1662.85 cusecs and a discharge of 504.75 cusecs. In Manimuthar dam, the level was 63.25 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 160 cusecs and nil discharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article36746747.ece
30 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G hints at resuming offline classes for primary students||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday hinted that the Union Territory will probably follow Tamil Nadu’s decision to resume offline classes for primary school students in Standards I to VIII from November 1. As Puducherry does not have a separate School Board, it follows the Tamil Nadu State Board of School Examinations and has replicated its decisions regarding reopening of schools during the pandemic in the Union Territory. After inspecting the COVID-19 vaccination camp at Mudaliarpet, the Lt. Governor told mediapersons that the issue (resumption of offline classes) was under active consideration now that Tamil Nadu government had decided to restart physical classes in primary schools from November 1. Consultations had taken place with Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and Education Minister A. Namassivayam and a decision was expected soon, she said. Stressing on vaccination for all, the Lt. Governor pointed out that several people were only getting their first dose now. If the pandemic was into its third and fourth wave in some countries, while the situation was relatively under control in India, it was owing to the thrust on vaccination, she said. No shortage of vaccines Since the roll out of the COVID-19 vaccination programme in January, there has been no shortage of vaccines in the Union Territory, the Lt. Governor said. She urged everyone who was yet to get a jab, to do so utilising the extensive facilities set up by the administration as there was empirical evidence that inoculation provided protection from the worst consequence of infection. While the Union Territory is targeting inoculation of 10 lakh eligible persons, vaccination data showed that so far 6.89 lakh first doses and 3 lakh second doses have been administered. Of the unvaccinated population, an estimated one lakh persons were unable to take the vaccine after getting infected and 50,000 have not taken the shot for medical reasons. All efforts were on to administer the first dose to an estimated 2 lakh eligible population. The Union Territory would soon be able to cover its entire population with at least a single dose, she also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/l-g-hints-at-resuming-offline-classes-for-primary-students/article36746706.ece
30 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SDPA passes resolution to fight local bodies poll together||A meeting of the Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance in Puducherry, comprising mainly Congress, DMK, Left parties and VCK, on Wednesday decided to fight the upcoming local bodies poll together. The meeting held at the office of the Communist Party of India passed a resolution to fight the election as a block to take on the “challenges” posed by the Bharatiya Janata Party and its allies in the Union Territory, said CPI Puducherry secretary A. M Saleem. “The number of seats each parties will contest will be decided later,” he said. An 11-member core committee, including three each from the Congress and the DMK, has been formed to discuss the seat sharing arrangements for the poll, he said. The meeting was convened after the preliminary rounds of talks were held at the DMK office on Tuesday evening. Wednesday’s meeting was attended by Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam, PCC chief A. V. Subramanian, Opposition leader R. Siva, CPI (M) Puducherry secretary R. Rajangam and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sdpa-passes-resolution-to-fight-local-bodies-poll-together/article36746704.ece
30 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Filing of nominations from today||The filing of nominations for the first phase of local bodies poll will commence on Thursday. Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam regions of the Union Territory will go to poll in the first phase. In this phase, elections will be held to the posts of three chairmen, 47 councillors, 27 village panchayat presidents and 178 village panchayat ward members. Polling will be held on October 21 to fill 276 posts in the three enclaves. The last date for filing of nomination papers will be October 7 and scrutiny of the nominations will be held on October 8. Last date for withdrawal of candidature is October 11. In Karaikal, voting will be held to elect the representatives for Karaikal Municipality and five commune panchayats of Kottucherry, Nedungadu, Neravy, Thirumalairanpattinam and Tirunallar. In the other enclaves, election will be held for the municipalities alone. A total number of 2,305,02 voters will exercise their franchise in the first phase. Local bodies elections are being held in the Union Territory after 10 years following the intervention of the Supreme Court. The tenure of municipalities and panchayats came to an end in 2011. When the government dragged the conduct of polls citing various reasons, an advocate from Mahe approached the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the government to conduct the election. The Supreme Court in April this year directed the government to complete the process in six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/filing-of-nominations-from-today/article36746702.ece
30 September 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs one death and adds 93 new cases to tally||The Union Territory logged one COVID-19 death and 93 new cases on Wednesday. Puducherry recorded the fatality to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,840. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,443), Karaikal (247), Yanam (106) and Mahe (44). Puducherry reported 45 of the new cases, which were detected from 5,927 tests, followed by Karaikal (30), Yanam (3) and Mahe (15). The test positivity rate was 1.57%, case fatality rate 1.46% and recovery rate 97.89%. With 75 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 828. Of this, 118 patients were in hospital and 710 in home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded 1,26,308 cases against 1,23,640 recovered patients. Of an estimated 17.85 lakh tests administered so far, over 15.16 lakh samples returned negative. Meanwhile, 8,119 persons took the shot against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-one-death-and-adds-93-new-cases-to-tally/article36746707.ece
30 September 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||DVAC searches properties of govt. staff||Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) officials on Wednesday carried out searches on premises linked to an employee of the Rural Development Department, his wife and two brothers, said to be government contractors, in Pudukkotai. Split into different groups, DVAC teams from Tiruchi, Pudukkotai and Sivaganga began searching the houses of V. Muruganandam, 47, an assistant with the Rural Development Department, his wife M. Gandhimathi, 37, president, Mullankurichi panchayat. The houses of his brothers Ravichandran and Palanivel were also brought under DVAC radar. A few commercial complexes, reportedly owned by Muruganandam, were also searched. The simultaneous raids at six places in the district began around 6 a.m., and continued beyond 6 p.m. It is alleged that the contractor brothers executed many projects during the previous AIADMK regime. Based on the inputs collected from various sources, the DVAC has registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1998, against Muruganandam and Gandhimathi. In the FIR, the DVAC said Muruganandam and Gandhimathi had amassed Rs. 15.73 crore worth of assets, disproportionate to their known sources of income.  The simultaneous raids held at least six places, in different parts of the district, began around 6 a.m., and continued beyond 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-searches-properties-of-govt-staff/article36746280.ece
30 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram police restore 110 stolen mobile phones to owners||Ramanathapuram district police on Wednesday handed over 110 mobile phones that were stolen and recovered by the Cyber Crime police to the owners. “Some of the recovered phones had been stolen as early as 2019 and some of them were stolen in recent months,” Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police, E. Karthik said. The SP said a dedicated team from Cyber Crime along with one or two police personnel in each sub-division pursued the cases continuously. “They have put in continuous efforts for more than one and a half months through digital monitoring of the IMEI numbers of the stolen mobile phones,” the SP said. After tracking the phones, the police personnel revealed to the present owners that the mobile phones they were using were stolen ones and asked them to return the same to the police. Some of the phones were being used in other districts too. “We got as many as 25 phones that were being used by people in other districts through courier,” he added. Stating that another 200 cases of stolen phones were being pursued by the police, Mr. Karthik said that all the police stations were instructed to issue community service register receipts for all stolen mobile phones. Additional Superintendent of Police (Cyber Crime), A. Arun, Inspector of Police, D. Vetrivelrajan and Sub-Inspector of Police, Diwakar, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramanathapuram-police-restore-110-stolen-mobile-phones-to-owners/article36746453.ece
30 September 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Locations of 26 polling booths to be changed in Ramanathapuram||As part of rationalization of polling booths, Ramanathapuram district administration has decided to increase the number of polling booths by an additional booth. After chairing a meeting with representatives of recognised political parties, Collector J. U. Chandrakala said that the draft list of polling booths were released and suggestions were sought from political parties and members of public for rationalisation of the booths till September 25. The district has 1,369 booths for the four Assembly constituencies. Based on the suggestion the number of booths will be increased to 1,370. Similarly, based on the number of voters some parts in six polling booths would be changed. Besides, considering the stability of the buildings of polling booths and the demands of people the location of 26 booths would be changed and the names of 12 booths will be changed. The proposal will be sent to the State Government for its consent. District Revenue officer A. M. Kamatchi Ganesan, Revenue Divisional Officers M. Sheik Mohammed and R. Murugan, Personal Assistant to Collector R. Palanikumar, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/locations-of-26-polling-booths-to-be-changed-in-ramanathapuram/article36746446.ece
30 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM relaunches Kalaignar’s scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin relaunched ‘ Kalaignarin varum mun kappom’ health scheme in Vazhapadi, Salem, on Wednesday. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said the scheme was launched in 2006 by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi as ‘ Varum mun kappom ' scheme, and “it was sabotaged” by the previous regime for political reasons. As soon as Mr. Stalin assumed charge as Chief Minister, he ordered the Health Department to enhance the scheme and add more specialities to it, Mr. Subramanian said. Now, 17 specialities and departments have been included under the scheme, including the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive health scheme and Siddha  treatment, he added. He said 1,250 health camps would be held under the scheme over the year. Three camps will be conducted in each taluk. Four camps will be held each year in the 20 Corporations. In Chennai, 15 camps will be held in each of its 15 zones. Mr. Subramanian said 12.5 lakh people had benefitted under the ‘ Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme until Wednesday, and the ‘ Varum mun kappom ’ scheme would be linked with it later. Those diagnosed with diseases would be referred to government hospitals and government medical college hospitals, he said. Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan, Collector S. Karmegham, MPs Gouthama Sigamani and S.R. Parthibhan and senior officials were present. Mr. Stalin distributed welfare aid among people and felicitated villages that had achieved 100% vaccination. He also visited an exhibition set up by various departments. The Chief Minister later inaugurated a newly constructed regional transport office near Attur. He also laid the foundation stone for projects worth Rs. 23.28 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-relaunches-kalaignars-scheme/article36746285.ece
30 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Govt. will raise sago production to global standards, says CM||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said the State government aimed to raise sago production in Salem, a pioneer in the segment in the country, to global standards. Mr. Stalin interacted with sago manufacturers and tapioca farmers at a private sago manufacturing unit in Attur, and visited the unit’s premises. He also inaugurated new infrastructure works completed under Sagoserve. Stating that the State government had created history by tabling a separate Budget for agriculture, he said it was not prepared unilaterally, but after holding discussions with farmers and farmers’ associations. Mr. Stalin said demands by sago producers and farmers would be fulfiled in a phased manner. He said the government had begun works to step up the State’s infrastructure to global standards to attract investments. He said two conclaves were organised by the State government after it came to power. He said through investors’ conclave, MoUs were signed with 35 companies, and the State had attracted investments to the tune of Rs. 17,141 crore, and these would generate 55,000 jobs. Likewise, at the Tamil Nadu Exports’ Conclave, MoUs were signed for 25 new projects worth Rs. 2,150 crore to create 42,145 jobs. Mr. Stalin said Tamil Nadu stood third in the nation in terms of exports and the government aimed to take it to the first position. Interacting with MSME association representatives, he listed the various schemes for MSMEs, including a proposal to establish an agri-industrial corridor in the delta region, and set up five new industrial parks. Minister for Rural Industries T.M. Anbarasan, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian, MPs and other senior officials took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-raise-sago-production-to-global-standards-says-cm/article36746286.ece
30 September 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem division revises train timings||The Salem Railway Division has announced changes in arrival and departureof certain trains that would come into effect from October 1, a release said. According to a release, train no.02602 Mangalore Central – Chennai Central daily special train would arrive at Podanur Jn. at 9.38 p.m. and depart at 9.40 p.m. Train no.02601 Chennai Central – Mangalore Central daily special train would arrive at Podanur Jn. 3.39 a.m and depart at 3.40 a.m. Train no.06315 Mysore – Kochuveli daily special train would arrive at Coimbatore Jn. at 12.12 a.m and depart at 12.15 a.m .  Train no.07230 Secunderabad – Thiruvananthapuram daily special train would arrive at Coimbatore Jn. at 8.02 a.m and depart at 8.05 a.m. Train No.02671 Chennai Central – Mettupalayam daily special train would arrive at Coimbatore North Railway Station 4.29 a.m and depart at 4.30 a.m . Train no.02680 Coimbatore – Chennai Central ‘Intercity’ daily special train would arrive at Tiruppur Railway Station at 6.58 a.m and depart at 7 a.m. Train No.01014 Coimbatore – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus daily special train would arrive at Tiruppur Railway Station at 9.33 a.m and depart at 9.35 a.m. Train No.01014 Coimbatore – Lokmanya Tilak Terminus daily special train would arrive at Erode Jn. at 10.20 a.m and depart at 10.25 a.m. Train No.02083 Mayiladuturai – Coimbatore Jn. JanShatabdi special train would arrive at Erode Jn. – 7.18 p.m and depart at 7.20 p.m. Train no.02084 Coimbatore – Mayiladuturai JanShatabdi special train would arrive at Erode Jn. 8.38 a.m and depart at 8.40 a.m. Train no.06628 Mangalore Central – Chennai Central ‘West Coast’ daily special train would arrive at Morappur Railway Station at 11.19 a.m and depart at 11.20 a.m. Train No.02083 Mayiladuturai – Coimbatore Jn. JanShatabdi Special Train would arrive at Karur Jn at 6.23 p.m and depart at 6.25 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-division-revises-train-timings/article36746338.ece
30 September 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 116 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Wednesday reported 116 new cases of COVID-19. According to the health bulletin, all cases were indigenous and the district had 1,197 active cases. Salem district reported 62 fresh cases and two deaths. While Namakkal reported 52 new cases, Krishnagiri and Dhamapuri reported 35 and 28 cases respectively. Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported 181 new cases. The Health Department said that the district had 2,036 active cases. Tiruppur district reported 89 fresh cases, which took the overall tally to 92,941.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-116-fresh-covid-19-cases/article36746461.ece
30 September 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Man, daughter killed in road accident at Sivakasi||A man and his daughter were killed and his wife and son injured when a speeding motorbike collided against the moped on which they were proceeding on Srivilliputtur-Sivakasi highway on Wednesday. The police said that a fireworks worker, K. Murugan (40) of A. Lakshmiyapuram was proceeding to a bank with his wife Venkateswarai (32), son Munipandi (7) and daughter, Muthulakshmi (8). A motorbike hit the moped near the old DSP Office near Reserve Line, at around 9 a.m. While Muthulakshmi was killed on the spot, Murugan died at the Government Hospital in Sivakasi. An MBA student, S. Harishnath, of Sitharajapuram, who was riding the bike also sustained head injuries and was taken to a private hospital in Madurai after getting first-aid at the GH. Venkateswarai and Munipandi were referred to the Government Rajaji Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-daughter-killed-in-road-accident-at-sivakasi/article36746451.ece
30 September 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||VAOs oppose e-DPC system||The e-DPC system to be implemented by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation from October 1 for purchase of paddy is likely to witness a troubled start with opposition emerging from a different quarter this time. Inquiries reveal that when corporation switched over to digital payment method from ‘spot cash disbursement’ to the farmers who have measured their paddy at the direct purchase centres (DPCs) a few years ago, the change over instantly evoked fear among farmers. However, such fear died down subsequently as the digital payment method proved to be a safe and secured method. This time, the uneasiness had emerged from the village administrative officers as they feared that the new procedure would lead to delay in issue of the required documents to measure the paddy at the DPCs. Participating in the taluk-level training-cum-awareness programmes conducted by the Corporation in Thanjavur district on Wednesday, some VAOs said that the request for necessary documents - ‘chitta’ / ‘adangal’ - had to be attended within a time frame after inspecting survey numbers mentioned in the e-DPC application. This process would result in a delay in clearing the ‘e-requests’ since the VAOs were expected to cover additional revenue villages in view of several VAO posts lying vacant. The Internet connectivity problems would also result in delay in issue of these documents leading to misunderstanding between them and farmers. Meanwhile, a section of farmers has registered their protests by seeking on what would happen if the DPC staff refuse to procure the grains citing moisture content. There was no clarity as to whether the seniority in registration would be carried over to subsequent days if the paddy brought to the DPC was rejected on the ground of moisture content and brought to the centre again after drying the grains. As per the new system, farmers could harvest paddy only after getting the clearance from the ‘procurement officer’ who would visit the field to inspect the standing crop. G.Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam near Ayyampettai said it was essential to ensure accessibility to paddy driers across the district so that the farmers could bring the grains complying with the 17 % moisture content rule to the DPCs. V.Jeevakumar of Rayamundanpatti near Budalur, V.Dharmarajan of Nedar and R.Baskar of Pachchur criticised the officials for not taking them into confidence before deciding to switch over to the new method of procurement. For, not all farmers were adept in the use of smartphones. TNCSC officials clarified that a mere mobile handset with the short message service (SMS) facility would be enough as farmers would receive the OTP and other information as SMS. There could not be any delay in processing the applications by VAOs since VAOs were stationed at the respective revenue village domains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaos-oppose-e-dpc-system/article36746420.ece
30 September 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Changing lifestyle, food habits cause heart ailments: Dean||Lifestyle changes, laziness and reduced physical exercise were the root cause of cardiovascular diseases, according to Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital Dean D. Nehru. Addressing a function organised in connection with the World Heart Day here on Wednesday, Dr. Nehru said people had started to ape the western lifestyle and were increasingly consuming fast food. With the passion for luxurious lifestyle, people were used to riding two-wheelers or driving four-wheelers even to next streets and sedentary lifestyle had only increased the risk of heart diseases among them. “The Thoothukudi hospital alone is treating 8,000 to 9,000 outpatients for heart ailments every year. Among them 60 to 70 patients were undergoing Echo Cardiogram and 40 to 50 are getting treatment in intensive care units,” he said. The hospital had set up a Cath Lab to perform angiogram and angioplasty. The treatments that would cost around Rs. 2 lakh in private hospital were being provided free of cost under the Chief Minister’s Health Insurance Scheme at the hospital. The Dean said good eating habits, regular physical exercises, including walking and cycling, avoiding fast food, smoking and liquor consumption would reduce the risk of heart attack. Yoga and meditation could reduce stress and keeping diabetes and hypertension under check would help in a great way. Senior Assistant Professor of Cardiology R. Balamurugan, Professor and HOD of Medicine C. Elango, Associate Professor J. Bharat and Senior Assistant Professor S. Ganesan were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changing-lifestyle-food-habits-cause-heart-ailments-dean/article36746749.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents sore over delay in land acquisition for service lanes||Residents are sore over an “inordinate delay” in acquisition of land for building service lanes along the 14.5-km-long city stretch of the Tiruchi-Thanjavur National Highway. In October 2019, the residents had heaved a sigh of relief after Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to take expeditious steps to build service lanes along the 14.5-km city stretch of the highway between Thuvakudi and Palpannai in Tiruchi. It also ordered the NHAI to proceed with the land acquisition process. “Considering the fact that the matter has unnecessarily dragged on from 2014, which in our considered opinion, without any valid cause, it is a high time the NHAI took expeditious steps to complete the exercise and we hope and trust that the service road will be formed within a period of six months from October 15,” the court had said while disposing of a batch of petitions on the matter. Subsequently, property owners and traders who face displacement due to land acquisition, organised as Tiruchi-Thanjai NH67 Salai Virivakka Panikalal Bathikapaduvor Kootammaippu, had mooted the construction of an elevated corridor as an alternative so as to protect the livelihood of a large number of people who would be affected by the project. The property owners and the residents had staged protests and demonstrations to press for their respective demands. In February this year, Collector S. Sivarasu told reporters that the land acquisition is likely to be completed by May-end. He had claimed that the land acquisition for the service lanes was completed in four out of the nine villages and the process in the remaining five villages would most probably be completed by May 31. However, the process is yet to be completed, complain residents. “There does not seem to be much progress and the process is dragging on. Meanwhile, fatal accidents continue on the highway stretch in the absence of service lanes. Over the past 15 days, six fatal accidents had taken place on the stretch, including two near Kailash Nagar,” claimed S. Subramaniyan, organiser, the Federation for Retrieval of Tiruchi-Palpannai-Thuvakudi Service Roads. One of the residents is said to have filed a contempt petition before the court and a similar petition moved by the federation is being clubbed with the other one, Mr.Subramaniyan said. “Our MLA and Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi had also taken up the matter with the Chief Minister. But we do not why the matter is still dragging on,” he added. When contacted, Mr. Sivarasu said that valuation of buildings (situated on the lands to be acquired) was under way and the land acquisition process would be completed by January.  In the absence of service lanes. six fatal accidents have taken place on this stretch recently S. Subramaniyan organiser of a forum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-sore-over-delay-in-land-acquisition-for-service-lanes/article36746430.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Construction sector hit by steep rise in prices of raw materials||A steep increase in the prices of raw materials has shot up the construction cost in Tiruchi. According to industry sources, most of the construction materials, including cement, electric cables, steel, PVC pipes, M-sand and P-sand, have gone up by 20%. The prices have been increased with the ease of second lockdown measures in July and August. Due to the closure of most of the sand quarries, the construction industry in Tiruchi mainly depends upon the manufactured sand (M-sand) and plastering sand (P-Sand) from Karur. Until the imposition of the second lockdown, the M-sand suppliers charged Rs. 14,000 a load (four units). The rate of P-sand was Rs. 16,000 a load. It has gone up by Rs. 2,000 a load. Similarly, depending upon the brands, the rates of PVC pipes and electric cables went up by 15% to 20%. A bag of cement, which was sold between Rs. 370 and Rs. 390 before the lockdown, has shot up to Rs. 430 to Rs. 470. Besides the increase in the cost of raw materials, it is said that constant rise in fuel prices was the main reason for the increase in the cost of construction materials. The suppliers and transporters have passed on the additional fuel cost on the construction materials. “If the upward revision is in the range of 3% to 5%, we can manage the situation. But most of the construction materials have gone up by 15% to 20%. It is really posing challenges to builders, promoters and individual home constructors,” says P. Ravichandran, a flat promoter in Tiruchi. It has also hit the contractors who have undertaken government projects such as bridges, culverts and buildings. S. Selvakumar, a contractor in Srirangam, said that the steep price rise had affected stakeholders like him. Many had been facing problems in completing the projects within the stipulated estimate. The high prices have had an impact on the overall cost of flats. The average construction cost said to have gone up by Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 per square feet. The builders have correspondingly increased the cost of flats too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/construction-sector-hit-by-steep-rise-in-prices-of-raw-materials/article36746437.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Institutions hold events on hybrid mode||Prompted by the drop in COVID infection rate, higher educational institutions in the region have started conducting annual events on hybrid mode, raising hope in the minds of the teaching community that resumption of offline classes may not be postponed indefinitely. After 18 months of the obstruction caused to teaching-learning process and examinations, teachers, in general, are not convinced that the online classes will serve the interests of the student community in the long run. Last week, the National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi conducted its annual convocation for the class of 2021 on hybrid mode. The Jamal Mohamed College also conducted its College Day in the same way. Likewise, the J.J. College of Education conducted the Graduation Day. Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College conducted the investiture ceremony for its Students Union this year as an online event, apparently with the intent that a thrust could be accorded to extra and co-curricular activities in the campus later on during the course of the year. There is, of course, an element of fear in the minds of college heads that a sense of complacency could turn out to be counterproductive. ‘The second wave of the pandemic was indeed destructive, and it is not still the right time for shedding the fear. On the other hand, teachers hold the view that much needs to be done to shake off students from the stagnancy caused by the inordinate postponement of offline classes,’ S. Ismail Mohideen, Principal, Jamal Mohamed College, said. Like other college heads, Prof. Ismail thinks it is good to conduct some events like Graduation Day and College Day to motivate students. Graduation Day being a memorable occasion in the lives of the students, higher educational institutions usually follow the practice of conducting the event twice a year: for students of aided courses and those in self-financing stream separately. Cancelling Graduation Day ceremony for the second year in a row does not seem appropriate for many college heads. Teachers hope the prevailing confidence of herd immunity would pave way for measured resumption of offline classes. At present, the classes are being conducted online for first year students, and offline on alternate days for intermediate and final year students. ‘We do come across first-year students desirous of attending offline classes at the earliest. The students who had not seen the portals of educational institutions for over 18 months seem to think that they have waited enough,’ K.T. Tamilmani, Dean-Academic Affairs and Associate Professor of English, Nehru Memorial College, Puthanampatti, said. College managements are understood to motivate teachers to be in a state of readiness to conduct offline classes, and anticipate clear-cut directions from the higher education department, on the lines of the steps being taken by the School Education Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/institutions-hold-events-on-hybrid-mode/article36746440.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Relay speed breakers: road users||A section of city residents have demanded the relaying of speed breakers, especially in school and hospital zones in the city. The speed breakers were removed prior to the Tamil Nadu Assembly Elections earlier this year when politicians visited the city. The ones laid in front of the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, all and all along Thillai Nagar Main Road and other arterial roads in that locality have no speed breakers as it was removed during the visit of the former chief minister. The work, under the aegis of the Tiruchi City Corporation, is yet to commence, residents rue. The roads where the speed breakers were removed are ones with heavy traffic flow, and they help in the control of traffic. "Vehicles slow down outside the school or even outside the Tiruchi GH. However, these days there is no control," Saravanan Natesan, a road safety activist said. The residents are not asking for additional speed breakers, but are asking that the existing ones be relayed, he added. The civic body is lax and is not following the Indian Road Congress guidelines, said P. Ayyarappan, President, Road Users' Welfare Organisation. "The civic body must seek the advice of the city traffic police, who will identify accident-prone zones. Following the report, speed breakers can be laid according to the norms," he said. With schools, colleges and workplaces reopening, traffic flow will increase and the speed breakers would be important in regulating traffic flow, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relay-speed-breakers-say-road-users/article36746435.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Scheme to develop Poompuhar||A major tourism development scheme will be implemented soon in the ancient port city of Poompuhar, Minister for Tourism, M.Mathiventhan, said on Wednesday. “Special attention will be paid to Poompuhar and a major scheme is being drawn up as announced in the Assembly. The scheme will be implemented without affecting the heritage of Poompuhar,” he said after inspecting some of the ongoing development works at the seashore tourism complex. Accompanied by Nivedha M.Murugan and M.Paneerselvam, MLAs representing Poompuhar and Sirkazhi respectively, Sandeep Nanduri, Director of Tourism, and R.Lalitha, Collector, Mayiladuthurai, he visited the Ilanchi Mandram, Silapathikara Art Gallery, Paavai Mandram, Nedungal Mandram and other attractions in Poompuhar. He told reporters that the tourism complex at Poompuhar had been lying in neglect over the past 10 years. Currently, a tourist information centre, handicrafts sales counter, canteen and an overhead water tank were being established at a cost of Rs. 2.57 crore, he said and added that he had directed the officials to expedite the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scheme-to-develop-poompuhar/article36746425.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for halt of express trains at Tiruverumbur||The business community and the travelling public in Thuvakudi, Tiruverumbur and Ariyamangalam along the Tiruchi-Thanjavur National Highway are a disappointed lot over what they perceive as the “neglect” of Tiruverumbur Station by the Railways. Their hope that the revised time table will factor in their long-felt demand for halt of express trains at the upgraded station have been belied time and again. After the station was upgraded with Adarsh status, there was hope among the business community that the railways will experiment with one-minute halt for numerous express trains passing through the station. Tiruverumbur being one of the Tiruchi city’s suburbs that has been witnessing exponential growth over the last decade, rail travellers have been eeking halt of express trains to avoid travelling up to Tiruchi Junction to board the express trains. “There will be enormous patronage for the express trains from the residents living in BHEL Township, Ordnance Factory, and several other large residential areas. There will be substantial economic development in the suburb,” said Karunanidhi, correspondent, Mukkalathor Higher Secondary School, Tiruverumbur. According to N. Anbazhagan, president of Tiruverumbur-based Tamil Nadu Makkal Valarchi Kuzhu, the Railway Board must fulfil the requirement. The kuzhu had recently submitted a request to the sitting MLA and Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi to prevail upon the Railway Board to announce halt of express trains . There will be enormous saving of time, money and energy for the people if the express trains are stopped at Tiruverumbur Station, says Nizam, a footwear trader in Tiruverumbur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-halt-of-express-trains-at-tiruverumbur/article36746415.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Continue to take steps to set up defence corridor’||Industry associations in Tiruchi are eagerly looking forward to sustaining the pro-active steps by the State Government for expeditious implementation of defence corridor Project in Tamil Nadu. The meeting Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu had with Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi earlier this week to seek the Centre’s support for various proposals in the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor has generated hope among representatives of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA) and BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA) that there will be positive outcome similar to the ground-level progress of the Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor. Tamil Nadu government has sought the early announcement of a Central scheme to support and promote investment in the defence industrial corridor and has proposed that funding may be shared between the State and Central governments in the ratio of 25:75 instead of 50:50. A delegation of BHESIA led by its president Rajappa Rajkumar had called on the Industries Minister at Coimbatore last week and mooted constant pursuance of the Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor Scheme by a team of pro-active officials, and for formation of a committee to hold fortnightly sittings of stake-holders including industry representatives to keep updating the progress made. ‘The TN Defence Industrial Corridor will pave way for utilisation of the large-scale capacities created by BHEL’s ancillaries,’ Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. Senior officials of MSME and Industry departments have agreed to the BHELSIA's request for conduct of a seminar in Tiruchi in this regard,’ he said. ‘The expectations from the defence projects are high since the work orders from the BHEL have dried up. Industrial units in Tiruchi have the capacity to undertake heavy fabrication for manufacture of components for defence armaments as well as for components of ships, and battle tanks,’ P. Rajappa, president of TIDITSSIA said. The TIDITSSIA would advocate manufacture of defence components by BHEL for the sustenance of its ancillaries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/continue-to-take-steps-to-set-up-defence-corridor/article36746433.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CUTN to establish off-campus in Tiruchi||The Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), Tiruvarur, has made progress in its effort to establish an off-campus in Tiruchi. CUTN Vice-Chancellor M. Krishan recently called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin seeking land at an appropriate location in Tiruchi district. The Chief Minister evinced interest and sought a formal proposal. Three years back, the district administration had identified a land parcel along Thuraiyur Road but the proposal was kept in abeyance by CUTN. The CUTN was one among the 16 Central Universities were established by the Central Universities Act, 2009, in the 11th five-year plan. In a letter to the Chief Minister, State president of Tamil Nadu Consumer Rights Council, N. Jamaluddin, said Tiruchi, which has central institutions including National Institute of Technology, Indian Institute of Management, Indian Institute of Information Technology, and Tamil Nadu National Law University, would be an ideal location for the off-campus of CUTN, Tiruvarur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cutn-to-establish-off-campus-in-tiruchi/article36746418.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||298 cases in central region||The central region reported 298 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Eight patients succumbed to the illness in the region, an increase compared to the previous day. Among them, two each hailed from Pudukottai and Tiruchi, and one each from Tiruvarur, Karur, Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam. In Thanjavur district, 78 patients tested positive for COVID-19. Tiruchi recorded 58 fresh cases. Meanwhile, 11 people who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital recovered from the infection and were discharged. Tiruvarur, where over 70 fresh cases were being reported for a few days recorded 49 cases, a slight dip. Nagapattinam recorded 30 fresh cases and Mayiladuthurai, 22. The number of cases in Karur witnessed a slight increase with 21 patients reporting COVID-19 positive. Pudukottai, meanwhile, registered a dip with 19 fresh cases reported. Perambalur district registered 14 fresh cases- a sudden increase, while Ariyalur reported a significant dip and reported seven, the lowest in the region. Students test positive A private school in Sangupettai in Perambalur has been closed after seven students tested positive for COVID-19. The school will reopen only on Monday. One class 12 student at the girls school had reported positive a few days ago. Officials tested her classmates. The result showed that six more students had contracted COVID-19. Officials disinfected the premises of the school. RT-PCR tests were done for 62 people at the school who had been in contact with the students. The department will conduct contact tracing and test the students’ primary contacts. Tiruvarur A batch of 372 students studying in a school at Koradacherry has undergone RT-PCR test after four tested positive recently. Four students and a teacher of the higher secondary school who suffered from the symptoms of novel coronavirus underwent the test and the results confirmed that they have been infected with the virus. A holiday was declared to the school till October 1 and all other students have been subjected to the test. The school would start functioning again from October 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/298-cases-in-central-region/article36746428.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Student gets UNESCO recognition||Sushmita Krishnan, a student of Bharathidasan University, has been selected as a game-changer at the digital games for peace challenge by United Nations Educational Scientific Cultural Organization – Mahatma Gandhi Institute for Education and peace (UNESCO – MGIEP), United Nations Alliance Of Civilization (UNAOC) and United Nations Office of Counter-terrorism (UNOCT). The student in the fifth year of Integrated MSc Life Sciences figures among the top 22 game-changers at the peace challenge that seeks to harness the social and emotional competencies to initiate inter-cultural dialogue spaces for a diverse world. The youth are put at the centre to ideate, design and develop innovative projects on the use of games for peace building. Fifty three participants from across South and Southeast Asia were selected to take part in the first phase. They had undergone rigorous training in the formative phase through boot camps, master class and mentorship from industry experts. Twenty two game-changers have been shortlisted to the final phase after the preliminary challenge in early September. The selected game changers are inducted as consultants on contract to participate in the final phase of the programme. In the final phase from September, 2021, the fellows will have the opportunity to meet and interact with experts from the fields of social emotional learning, game-design, and prevention of extremism to elevate their game design. Exposure to ambitious ventures right after high school had paved way for the international recognition, Ms. Sushmita Krishnan said. The student was felicitated by Vice-Chancellor M. Selvam, Registrar Gopinath Ganapathy, and Coordinator of M.Sc. Life Sciences Programme N. Thajuddin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/student-gets-unesco-recognition/article36746417.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Consultant to be appointed for preparing DPR for bus stand||The Tiruchi Corporation, which has proposed to build an integrated bus stand along with a wholesale vegetable, fruits and flower market at Panchapur on the outskirts of the city on Tiruchi-Madurai highway, has begun the process of appointing a consultant for preparing the Detailed Project Reports (DPR). Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman said that a number of major projects including the integrated bus stand and a wholesale market had been proposed on the Corporation’s land at Panchappur. They were likely to be divided into two phases. In the first phase, it had been decided to take up the bus stand and wholesale market projects. The vegetable market would come up at Pasumai Park in Panchappur. According to a preliminary estimate, it might cost Rs.400 crore for the bus stand project and the wholesale market. Consultant had to be appointed for preparing the DPR. Tender had been floated to appoint the consultant. The last date for submitting the tender documents was November 16. Mr. Rahuman said that the exact cost, design, amenities and other details of the projects for constructing the integrated bus stand and the market would be known only after the preparation of the DPR. However, it would be one of the model bus stands in these parts of the country. A clear picture would emerge in two to three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consultant-soon-for-preparing-dpr-for-bus-stand/article36746441.ece
30 September 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Why can’t temples be open on weekends, asks Annamalai||When the State government was planning to open schools for children who had not been vaccinated against COVID-19, why was it not ready to allow temples to open to vaccinated adults on Fridays and weekends, asked Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Annamalai. While campaigning for party candidates here on Wednesday, Mr. Annamalai said he welcomed the State government’s decision to open schools for classes 1 to 8 from November 1. “The children have undergone sufferings like obesity and by playing online games in the last one and a half years. It is the need of the hour,” he said. The teaching and non-teaching staff of all schools should be vaccinated, he said. However, he was quick to add that whether the decision was good or bad would be known only after a month. Mr. Annamalai wondered why the State government was showing partiality in implementation of COVID-19 restrictions by not allowing devotees to temples on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. To a question about several State Ministers camping in the districts where rural local body elections are being held, Mr. Annamalai said the ruling party had taken the local body polls as a prestige issue and taking all-out efforts to win them. However, people would vote only for honest and simple persons who could be easily approached to express their needs. The Centre had been implementing all its schemes like housing scheme, health insurance and Jal Jeevan Mission drinking water scheme through the local bodies. “We have several complaints about local body representatives fleecing people to provide drinking water taps. If people elect the right people, they will not face such issues,” he added. Earlier, speaking at Thoothukudi airport, Mr. Annamalai said the DMK government was not giving credit to the Centre for its schemes and was trying to make them look like State government schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-cant-temples-be-open-on-weekends-asks-annamalai/article36746448.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUNELVELI/TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||333 polling booths in Tirunelveli, 277 in Tenkasi vulnerable||A total of 333 polling booths in Tirunelveli district have been identified as vulnerable and they would have additional police protection and a micro observer. After inspecting the second phase of training for polling officials here on Wednesday, Collector V. Vishnu said the vulnerable polling booths would be brought under video coverage or live webstreaming with closed circuit television cameras. Polling for rural local bodies would be held in two phases – first phase for Ambasamudram, Cheranmadevi, Manur, Palayamkottai and Pappakudi panchayat unions on October 6, and the second phase for Kalakkad, Nanguneri, Radhapuram and Valliyoor unions on October 9. A total of 9,567 polling officials would be deployed in 1,188 polling booths. A total of 5,522 candidates are in the fray for 2,069 rural local body posts. The first phase of training was held on September 24. In the second phase of training on Wednesday polling officials were trained in their various aspects of polling duties. Along with Poll Observer J. Jayakanthan, the Collector inspected the training session held at Government Law College, Palayamkottai. Tenkasi District Poll Observer P. Sankar inspected the second phase of training for polling officials in Kadayam. A total of 10,678 polling officials would be deployed for the two-phase polling for 10 panchayat unions in the district. While Kadayam, Keezhappavoor, Melaneelithanallur, Alangulam and Vasudevanallur unions will go for polls on October 6, polling in Tenkasi, Sengottai, Sankarankoil, Kadayanallur and Kuruvikulam unions will be held on October 9. A total of 277 of the 1,328 polling booths have been identified as vulnerable. Meanwhile, Collector S. Gopala Sundara Raj said candidates should get permission for campaign vehicles at the Collectorate for district-level campaigns and at the panchayat union offices for the union-level propaganda. Similarly, for the election meetings and procession, the permission should be obtained from the respective panchayat union offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/333-polling-booths-in-tirunelveli-277-in-tenkasi-vulnerable/article36746752.ece
30 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Sainik School entrance exam||Sainik School, Amaravathinagar in Tiruppur district has announced that All India Sainik Schools Entrance Exam (AISSEE) will be held on January 9, 2022 for admissions to Class VI and Class IX for the academic year 2022-23. A release said that admissions for Class VI are open for boys and girls. Candidates should be between 10 and 12 years as on March 31, 2022 (date of birth between April 1, 2010 and March 31, 2012). The admissions for Class IX for the academic year 2022-23 are open only for boys. Candidates must be between 13 and 15 years as on March 31, 2022 (date of birth between April 1, 2007 and March 31, 2009) and must have passed Class VIII from a recognised school at the time of admission. Candidates must apply online for AISSEE 2022 athttps://aissee.nta.nic.inby 5 p.m. on October 26, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sainik-school-entrance-exam-on-january-9/article36746328.ece
30 September 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Cyclothon for women in Tiruppur||Tiruppur Corporation will conduct a bicycle rally for women on Friday to promote fitness and as a part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations to mark the 75th anniversary of Independence. A release said the ‘women cyclothon’ will commence at 6 a.m. from the Corporation headquarters on Mangalam Road. The participants will be carrying placards containing awareness slogans in COVID-19 prevention. The cyclothon will cover Avinashi Road and Perumanallur Road and after completing a distance of eight km, the participants will return to the Corporation headquarters. The corporation will also organise ‘Veedhi Vizha’ celebrations on Avinashi Road at 4 p.m. on Friday, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-cyclothon-to-be-held/article36746342.ece
30 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tiger evades capture in Gudalur for sixth day||The operation to capture a 10-year-old tiger that is believed to have killed three persons in Gudalur and surrounding areas was suspended for the sixth day on Wednesday, as the animal managed to evade capture. The tiger, known as T23, was seen in Mayfield Estate on Tuesday, but had made its way back into Devan Estate, where it is believed to have killed a 56-year-old man on September 24. Officials said the animal could now be far from human habitations. To be tranquillised Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, Deputy Director of Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (Core Area), and in-charge of Gudalur division, said the forest department staff had spotted the tiger for three consecutive days and veterinarians had prepared to tranquillise it. Officials said the operation to capture the tiger would continue on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiger-evades-capture-for-sixth-day-in-gudalur/article36746330.ece
30 September 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Municipality serves notice on shopping complex for rule violation||A recently-opened commercial building in the town was served with a “lock and seal” notice for flouting building norms by the Udhagamandalam Municipality. The building complex, which currently has a clothing store operating on one floor, is located near the St. Stephen’s Church and the Collectorate, adjoining the Davis Park. When contacted, Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya confirmed that a “lock and seal” notice was issued to the owners of the building since it was opened a few weeks ago. She said that they had been given a few days time to respond to the notice. R. Saraswati, Municipal Commissioner, said the owners had appealed to the Directorate of Municipal Administration against the notice. Officials added that local residents as well as the CSI Coimbatore diocese which manages the St. Stephen’s Church had also complained against the owners of the complex as their land was being encroached upon by the business owners, who were allowing customers to park their vehicles there by the side of the Udhagamandalam to Gudalur Road. Since then, the municipality has granted permission for the church to install a fence along the side of the road to prevent illegal parking. G. Janardhanan, president of the Ooty Public Awareness Association said that buildings which were built without proper permissions should not be allowed to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/municipality-serves-notice-on-shopping-complex-for-rule-violation/article36746347.ece
30 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||With policemen redeployed, illicit arrack may return to Jawadhu hamlets||The hillocks near Anaicut in Vellore could once again become a haven for brewing illicit arrack with the district police removing their pickets recently to redeploy manpower for local bodies poll duty between October 6 and 9. Alleri, Kurumalai, Palampattu, Pichaimalli and Mullvadi hills are part of the Jawadhu Hills bordering Tiruvannamalai. Each of these hills, on an average, has around five hamlets with a population of 400. Some of the tribal hamlets include Kurumalai, Vellakaal Malai, Nachimedu, Pallakollai and Veppangkuppam. Two-wheelers and tractors are the only mode of transport for the people living in the hamlets to reach the foothills. Most of these habitations have only a village health nurse (VHN) and a ration shop. Tribal people, including women, have to trek 4 km to the foothills to buy essentials and sell their produce such as paddy, vegetables and honey at the weekly market. “Police pickets gave us much needed security and prevented resumption of illegal activities in the hills,” said 62-year-old K. Padavaiammal of Kurumalai. Rough terrain, dry weather and lack of basic facilities, including transport, made these remote tribal hamlets ideal sites for brewing illicit arrack for many years, away from the police surveillance. The Prohibition Wing of the Vellore police have filed at least 45 cases in Alleri since May this year. These were a result of surprise checks. In June, the police raided thatched houses at Nachimedu hamlet in Alleri where they destroyed a huge quantity of illicit arrack and its ingredients. 11 pickets set up Following the raid, Vellore Superintendent of Police S. Selvakumar inspected these tribal hamlets and set up 11 police pickets with 44 personnel at strategic spots for round-the-clock surveillance in August. The police said that apart from shortage of manpower, difficult terrain and hot weather with inadequate transport caused fatigue among policemen. As a result, many of them preferred to do duty at places like the office of the Superintendent of Police or in police stations. “We will redeploy our men to the tribal hamlets once local body elections are over,” Mr. Selvakumar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-policemen-redeployed-illicit-arrack-may-return-to-jawadhu-hamlets/article36746757.ece
30 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Dive deep into subject, students told||Students should dive deep into subjects and learn how to get to the core of the concepts, said Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT Madras, at the 36th annual convocation of Vellore Institute of Technology on Tuesday. “All of you who are graduating today are entering the workforce in an India that is poised at a very unique moment in its history. The next 30 years are going to be one of great transformation. This period is going to be like no other from the past, and therefore, you will need to be alert to the unbelievable opportunities that are going to come your way,” Mr. Ramamurthi said while delivering the convocation address. He said it would be challenging for the students to find a path that is aligned with the growth of the country. “The challenge will be in retaining that which is worthwhile from our poorer, but in some ways more fulfilling, past, such as our strong family bonds and cultural moorings, and our willingness to help and look after each other, even while we create materially wealthier lives,” he added. Founder and chancellor of Vellore Institute of Technology, Dr. G. Viswanathan, said that of the eligible 14 crore youth in India, only around 4 crore people got the opportunity to pursue higher education. The shortage of teachers, low input for research, and inadequate industry linkages had made India lag behind countries like Japan, China and South Korea. The Chancellor said that last year, 844 companies took part in VIT’s campus placement. Students should become employers rather than employees. “We have ample opportunity to manufacture and export to other countries. Our Prime Minister’s slogan Make in India can be fulfilled if there is cooperation among the Centre, State government, private sector and capable individuals. In the next 10 years, India should double its GDP and compete with other developed Asian countries,” he said. A total of 7,569 students, and research scholars graduated this year. VIT vice-presidents Sankar Viswanathan, Sekar Viswanathan and G.V. Selvam, vice-chancellor Rambabu Kodali, pro-vice-chancellor S. Narayanan and registrar K. Sathiyanarayanan took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dive-deep-into-subject-students-told/article36746320.ece
30 September 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||20 new cases in Vellore, 14 in Ranipet district||Vellore district recorded 20 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 49,377. While 48,014 patients have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 242 and the toll is 1,121. Ranipet district recorded 14 new cases and the tally rose to 43,028. In Tirupattur district, 16 persons tested positive and the total number of positive cases rose to 28,970. In Tiruvannamalai district, the tally rose to 54,313 with 29 persons testing positive. So far, 53,297 patients have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 353.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-new-cases-in-vellore-14-in-ranipet-district/article36746759.ece
30 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||7,200 IMFL bottles seized||In a major haul, a special team of the Kottakuppam police seized 7,200 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) smuggled from Puducherry and arrested two persons in this connection. Acting on a tip-off, a team intercepted a pick-up van from Puducherry, while checking the vehicles at Pallithennal on Tuesday night. About 150 cartons with 7,200 bottles of IMFL brought from Puducherry were found in the vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7200-imfl-bottles-seized/article36746708.ece
30 September 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for cheating||The District Crime Branch police on Tuesday arrested a 49-year-old man on charges of cheating a job-seeker by offering placement at the Chennai Airport. According to the police, Uthirakumar of Pennagar village near Gingee, had collected Rs. 10 lakh from R. Shanthi, 53, of Melmalayanur, promising employment for her son Avinash at Chennai Airport. Uthirakumar allegedly took cash from Shanthi in instalments. When she contacted Uthirakumar demanding that he return the money, he allegedly issued a fake appointment letter. When Avinash and his mother subsequently approached Airports Authority of India, they realised that the letter was fake and lodged a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-cheating/article36746710.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 181 new cases||Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported 181 new cases of COVID-19. The Health Department said that the district had 2,036 active cases on Wednesday and 186 persons recovered. It said that an 86-year-old man from the district died of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the official death toll to 2,338. Coimbatore district’s test positivity rate stood at 1.7 % on Tuesday when it reported 183 cases. Tiruppur district reported 89 fresh cases on Wednesday, which took the tally to 92,941. The overall toll remained at 954 as no new deaths were reported. The district had 907 active cases and 97 patients recovered on Wednesday. Positivity rate of Tiruppur district, according to Tuesday’s data, was 2%. In the Nilgiris, 31 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 32,705. The number of deaths in the district increased from 200 to 201 on Wednesday while 341 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-181-new-cases/article36746346.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Indira Kumari gets 5-year rigorous imprisonment||The CB-CID filed a charge sheet on February 4, 2004, against Indira Kumari and four others — former Social Welfare Secretary R. Kirubakaran, Shanmugam, Babu and Venkatakrishnan. The charge sheet said the accused hatched a criminal conspiracy during 1992-1996 and committed a criminal breach of trust under the pretext of establishing and running schools for children with disabilities in Vellore and Chennai. They committed a criminal misconduct as public servants and obtained pecuniary advantage, by illegal means and abusing official position, to the two trusts — Mercy Mother India Charitable Trust and Bharani Swathi Educational Trust — in which Babu was the managing trustee. The charge against Kirubakaran had abated since he died during the trial. In 2019, the case was transferred to the Additional Special Court for Trial of Cases related to MPs and MLAs. Special court judge N. Alicia held Indira Kumari, Babu and Shanmugam guilty of the offences they had been charged with. Venkatakrishnan was acquitted because the prosecution failed to establish the offences beyond reasonable doubt. While the warrant procedure was under way, Indira Kumari was sitting on a chair near the court hall. She was removing her jewellery as she was about to be taken to prison. Suddenly, she complained of breathing difficulty and swooned. She was taken in an ambulance to a private hospital before being shifted to the Stanley Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indira-kumari-gets-5-year-rigorous-imprisonment/article36746283.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Toiling to make a living||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toiling-to-make-a-living/article36746761.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Online Workshop on soap making, 10 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Webinar on Emotional Intelligence, 5 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Alumni talk on ‘IIoT using Lorawan Technology’, 3 p.m.  VLB Janakiammal College of Arts and Science: Webinar on ‘Japanese Language and Career Opportunities’, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article36746343.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||30-09-2021-city cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Kartik Fine Arts 24997788 / 9840928049 Today 46th Anniversary celebrations at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Main Hall, Mylapore. 5.30pm Award function. Chief Guest Shri K.N. Ramaswamy, Director, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chennai, releases the Souvenir, presents the awards and felicitates. Shri K.M. Narasimhan, President, Kartik Fine Arts, Presides. Kartik Lifetime Achievement Awardees are S/Shri Subbu Arumugam, Udaiyalur K. Kalyanaraman, Priyadarsini Govind, theatre artiste Thambi K. Parthasarathy. Kartik Award of Excellence awardees are S/Shri Violinist M.A. Krishnaswamy, Dance choreographer Madurai R. Muralidaran, Dance accompanist(mridangist) G.V. Guru Bharadwaaj, Theatre artistes V.P.S. Sriraman, Nanjil Revathi and Theatre technician Padma Stage R. Kannan. 6.45pm 'Maha Periyava Mahimai' Upanyasam by Brahmasri S. Ganesa Sarma. All are welcome. Limited Seats (First Come First Served Basis) Covid 19 SOPs to be strictly followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-09-2021-city-cinema/article36746295.ece
30 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Umesh Reddy: A saga of brutality and escape plans||Back in 1998, Basalingappa Nandeppa Nyamagouda, now retired, was Circle Inspector at Peenya station in Bengaluru when a brutal rape and murder of a woman was reported in his jurisdiction. The culprit had entered the house seeking drinking water and then raped and murdered the housewife. The victim’s son had caught a glimpse of him as he left home. Though he was convicted in several cases, the case in which the stage was set for Umesh Reddy’s execution is this 1998 incident. The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday rejected his plea for commutation of death penalty to life imprisonment. He has been in solitary confinement at Hindalga jail in Belagavi for 15 years. Escape and chase Back in 1998, after the crime in Peenya, a detailed investigation had followed, including finger print recovery and a dog squad chase. The police zeroed in on a two wheeler used by the accused. While he eluded the plain clothes policemen who followed the bike around the area, he was caught later with the help of public when he tried to assault another lone woman in her home a few months later the same year. During the interrogation, Umesh Reddy admitted to the body offences, but did not reveal about the robberies. Investigators finally traced the house he had taken on rent and found two kilograms of gold and other stolen property. But what revealed the psychotic mind of the killer were bags full of women’s inner clothing. The accused seemed to enjoy wearing the clothes of his victims. He had been caught earlier and escaped and continued, taking on a different identity, recalls Mr. Nyamagouda. Interrogation also revealed his modus operadi of targeting single women, widows and housewives, after watching them for sometime. He entered their houses on the pretext of seeking drinking water or rooms for rent. He chose the time of 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., when men were out working and children were in school. He threatened them with weapons, or choked them, raped them, while unconscious or dead, and made away with valuables and their inner clothing.  “Umesh Reddy must have committed 20-22 rapes and a few murders. But a lot of the victims did not complain about the rapes due to social stigma. They only complained about the theft of properties,” recalled Mr Nyamagouda. He had committed offences in Karnataka, Maharashtra and Gujarat. The police officer filed the complaint, investigated and cracked the Peenya case and filed the relevant charge sheet in the court. He also appeared as a witness in a case filed in Baroda against Umesh Reddy and his associates. Mr Nyamagouda travelled to Baroda and other places in connection with the investigation. In all, Umesh Reddy was caught but escaped police custody five times, finally to be caught in 2002 in Yeshwantpur in Bengaluru. Once a constable “He was a police constable before he was dismissed on charges of rape. He is also a fugitive former employee of a central police organisation. This gave him an understanding of the working of the police department,” said another police officer who has worked on some of the cases. “He knew how to cover his tracks, making it difficult for the police to catch him. But his luck ran out every time. He has been in jail for a large part of his life. Now he is headed to the gallows,’’ said the officer.  Crime and punishment  B.A. Umesh alias Umesh Reddy, born in 1969 at Basappana Malige near Chitradurga, used several identities and aliases. He joined CRPF after PU and was posted to Jammu and Kashmir. He ran away from his camp after facing a charge of attempt to rape and remained a fugitive. He joined the Chitradurga Armed Reserve Police force in 1996. He was arrested and dismissed from service after committing another attempt to rape in 1997. He escaped from custody. He shifted to Bengaluru and took odd jobs. He worked as a waiter in a hotel in Maharashtra. He committed offences of murder, dacoity, armed robbery, sexual assault, rape, and attempt to rape, between 1996-2002 in Karnataka, Maharashtra, and Gujarat. Of his 20-22 victims, at least five were minor girls. He was arrested by the Bengaluru police in 1997, but escaped, and continued to commit crimes. In all he escaped from custody five times. He was finally arrested in Yeshwanthpur railway station, where an auto driver identified him from a newspaper photograph, in 2002. He has been convicted in nine cases. First capital punishment in 2006 for the murder in Peenya in 1998. High Court upheld death sentence in 2007 and Supreme Court in 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-saga-of-brutality-and-escape-plans/article36746245.ece
30 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two farmers arrested for opening fire in Belagavi||The police arrested two farmers on the charge of opening fire at a relative in Rajankatti village near Belagavi on Wednesday, in what appears to be an accident. Shivaraya Muchchandi and his son Balappa Muchchandi were taken to Kakati Police Station after they shot at their relative, Shankarappa, while trying to kill a wild boar that was damaging crops in their field. The bullet grazed through Shankarappa’s leg. He is admitted to the district hospital. He is out of danger, doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-farmers-arrested-for-opening-fire-in-belagavi/article36746472.ece
30 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ex-serviceman stabs wife multiple times||An ex-service man attacked his estranged wife within a court premises in Bailhongal on Wednesday. The hapless woman, who was grievously injured, is undergoing treatment in the government hospital. Shivanand Adaki (36) stabbed his wife Jayamala (34) multiple times on her hands and legs. The accused attacked the victim when they came out of the court after a hearing related to their divorce. The woman, who had not anticipated the attack, collapsed immediately. Some advocates and their clients shifted the woman to the hospital, with the help of the police. The accused later surrendered before the Bailhongal Police. The police said that the accused had carried a machete hidden in his shirt, to the court hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-serviceman-stabs-wife-multiple-times/article36746473.ece
30 September 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police seek information on torture of minor||Police have sought information from the general public about a two-year-old girl who was rescued from a farm in Halyal village, near Athani, after alleged torture, four days ago. Farmers had found the girl, unconscious and wrapped in a cloth, thrown in a sugarcane field near the river bank, on September 24. She had suffered burns, made with cigarette butts on her face, chin, neck, back and private parts. Her painful cries alerted the farmers who then sounded Pradeep Nandagaon, a social worker, who shifted her to a private hospital and alerted the police. The police shifted her to the district hospital and registered a case. The girl regained consciousness after treatment. She is too young to speak or make a statement, doctors told the police. An investigating officer told The Hindu that medical tests and preliminary investigation have revealed that the girl did not suffer sexual assault. Another investigating officer said that they suspected that the girl could be a victim of black magic. Medical tests have revealed that camphor and almond oil was used to cause the burns. These material are used by black magicians on their victims. There is also a pattern in the location of the burns. That made us suspicious, said the officer. It is possible that the parents of the girl or other relatives were involved in the offence, he said. The District Police released a set of photographs of the rescued girl. Copies of the image have been sent to police in Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “We are asking officers in those States for cases of missing children. We have not got any information so far,’’ Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-seek-information-on-torture-of-minor/article36746481.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to undertake emergency survey, identify weak buildings||The collapse of two buildings in the city on two consecutive days has spurred the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) into action. Following a meeting with senior officials, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta directed them to take up a new survey to identify structurally weak and dilapidated structures across the city. Incidentally, during a similar exercise conducted two years ago in 2019, neither the building in Lakkasandra that collapsed on September 27 nor the KMF quarters near Dairy Circle which tumbled down on September 28 featured on the list. “This itself underscores the need for a fresh survey. Civic officials have been directed to complete it in 15 days,” said Mr. Gupta on Wednesday. In the 2019 survey, the BBMP had identified 185 weak and dilapidated structures. While 10 identified buildings were demolished, notices were issued to owners of the remaining 175. “However, no other action was initiated,” he admitted. A new survey is essential as there may be many more buildings that may be structurally weak. “Since the two buildings that collapsed were not identified in the old survey, it appears that it was not as comprehensive. Many buildings may have weakened further and become unsafe for habitation, putting public life at risk,” Mr. Gupta said, adding that perhaps, government buildings and quarters were not included in the earlier survey. “This time around, officials have been asked to include all structures including government buildings and quarters,” he said. Special teams to demolish structures At the zonal level, the survey will be taken up by jurisdictional executive engineers and assistant executive engineers with the assistance of technically competent agencies. To demolish structures that have already been identified, special teams would be constituted at the zonal level. Zonal joint commissioners have also been directed to ensure that contractors not only demolish weak and dilapidated structures, but also encroachments and other illegal structures. Contractors finalised Mr. Gupta said that contractors have been finalised for two zones. The tender process to finalise contractors in other zones is yet to be completed. Civic officials have been given 15 days to complete the process, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-undertake-emergency-survey-identify-weak-buildings/article36746235.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Recognise breastfeeding as inalienable right of mother: HC||Breastfeeding needs to be recognised as an inalienable right of lactating mother, and similarly, the right of the suckling infant for being breastfed has to be assimilated with the mother’s right as these are concurrent rights protected under right to life guaranteed under the umbrella fundamental rights as per Article 21 of the Constitution, the High Court of Karnataka has said. Justice Krishna S. Dixit made these observations while hearing a peculiar case in which a genetic mother knocked the doors of the court for custody of child which landed on the lap of a foster mother after being lifted from the cradle by some unscrupulous persons a year ago from a maternity home in the city. “It is unfortunate that this pretty child for no fault remained without being breastfed, its lactating mother having had no access to it till now; in a civilised society such things should never happen,” the court said, while referring to International Convention on Rights of Child, Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act. The foster mother, Anupama Desai of Koppal, sought to retain the child which she took care for over a year while citing the episodes from Bhaagavatam in which Devaki, the genetic mother of Lord Krishna, permitting Yashoda, the foster mother, to retain custody of infant Krishna. She had also pointed out that she does not have any children but the genetic mother had two at home. Husna Banu, the DNA-tested genetic mother of the child, who was able to trace her lost toddler through the police after filing a habeas corpus writ petition in the High Court last year, affirmed her right over child citing difficulties of a lactating mother from whom the suckling infant is kept away. ‘Children not chattel’ Terming the foster mother’s contention as “abhorrent to the very notion of motherhood”, the court observed that “children are not chattel for being apportioned between their genetic mother and a stranger, on the basis of their numerical abundance; the principle of distributive justice which intends to bridge the gap between haves and have nots is not invocable, at least in this case.” It is a matter of common knowledge consistent without experience that a genetic mother treats all her children as being an integral part of her body and soul, regardless of what the children do to her,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recognise-breastfeeding-as-inalienable-right-of-mother-hc/article36746258.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No increase in engineering college fees this academic year||Citing the impact of COVID-19 on students and their families, the State government has decided that there will be no hike in engineering college fees for the current 2021-2022 academic year. But that does not mean that all students will incur no additional expenditure. The government has allowed some engineering colleges to charge up to Rs. 20,000 as skill development fees. This is applicable to those colleges that have skill development laboratories. Skill fees will be categorised into three slabs, based on which managements can charge students Rs. 10,000, Rs. 15,000, or Rs. 20,000. Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said a team from Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will inspect colleges and categorise them based on the standard of training facilities and quality. Students will have to pay the skill development fees directly to the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA). The decision to not hike fees was taken at a meeting convened on Wednesday by Dr. Narayan with representatives from the Karnataka Unaided Private Engineering Colleges’ Association (KUPECA) and the Karnataka Religious and Linguistic Minorities Professional Colleges’ Association (KRLMPCA). While students and parents are relieved, it has come as a setback to private college managements who had been demanding that fees be increased by 30%. A committee, headed by VTU Vice-Chancellor Karisiddappa, to look into this had recommended a hike of 15%-25%. But in view of the COVID-19 situation, representatives of private colleges were convinced not to hike their fees, the Minister said in a release. Fee structures from the previous academic year will continue to be applicable this year. Last year, government quota students paid Rs. 65,360, while COMED-K students shelled out Rs. 1,43,748. However, in some other colleges, it was Rs. 58,806 for government quota students and Rs. 2,01,960 for COMED-K students. While engineering colleges were allowed to charge only Rs. 20,000 as ‘miscellaneous fees’, many would increase the rates to as much as Rs. 70,000. To avoid this, the department this year has taken a decision that the fees should be paid to the KEA. The colleges that charge extra fee should notify the purposes for which this is being collected and the information needs to be provided to KEA, the Department of Technical Education, and VTU and published on the website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-increase-in-engineering-college-fees-this-academic-year/article36746251.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, be ready to pay more to travel by autorickshaw||After nearly eight years, auto-rickshaws fare in the city is all set to be hiked next week. The minimum fare is likely to be hiked to Rs. 30 from the present Rs. 25, and the fare per km will likely be hiked to Rs. 15 from Rs. 13, said sources. However, J. Manjunath, DC, Bengaluru Urban, and chairman of Road Transport Authority, while confirming the hike, did not divulge the quantum by which it will be hiked. “We have held stakeholder meetings on the proposed hike and decided on the fare increase,” he said. Transport Minister B. Sriramulu on Wednesday told mediapersons that he would discuss it with the CM and announce the hike in a week. “It has been eight years since the fare was hiked. Autorickshaw unions have requested it. But I need to consider the interest of commuters as well,” he said. The last time auto fare was hiked in the city was in 2013. C.N. Sreenivas, general secretary, Autorickshaw Driver’s Union (CITU), said the pandemic had been very tough on the sector and inflation had skyrocketed in the last few years, making an autorickshaw driver’s business ‘unviable’. “We had initially demanded a hike to a minimum fare of Rs. 36 and Rs. 18/km fare. However, keeping in view the pandemic, the economy taking a hit and joblessness in the society, we revised our demands recently to a minimum fare of Rs. 30 for 1.8 km and Rs. 16/km later on,” he said. The rising cost of fuel is only adding to the woes of this sector. “In the last two years alone, auto gas price has shot up by over Rs. 20, now sold at Rs. 57.88/kg. Another increase in price is expected on October 1, so an auto fare hike is inevitable,” said M. Manjunath, President, Adarsha Auto and Taxi Drivers’ Union. “The government has assured us that they will hike the minimum fare to Rs. 30 for 2 km and Rs. 15/km later on,” he claimed.  It has been eight years since the fare was increased. Autorickshaw unions have requested for a hike. But I need to consider the interest of commuters as well. B. Sriramulu Transport Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-be-ready-to-pay-more-to-travel-by-autorickshaw/article36746233.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gandhi seva award announced||The State government on Wednesday announced the Mahatma Gandhi Seva Award for 2020 and 2021 to freedom fighter Meera Bai Koppikar from Mudhol of Bagalkot district, and Sri Siddaganga Institute of Education and Sri Siddaganga Mutt, Tumakuru district, respectively. The award is given to people or institutions in recognition of service to society based on Gandhi’s ideals. The selection committee was headed by retired High Court judge Ashok B. Hinchageri. Ms. Koppikar, a nonagenarian, is currently living in Vatsalya Dhama in Mudhola. A Gandhian, she participated in the freedom struggle and lived in Sabarmati Ashram. She participated in the Bhoodan movement of Vinobha Bhave and inspired people to donate about 40,000 acres of land in Karnataka for the cause. Sri Siddaganga Education Institute and Sri Siddaganga Mutt have been providing education with free food and shelter to thousands of poor children without discrimination of caste and creed, said a release. The award carrying Rs. 5 lakh each along with citation will be presented on October 2 at Gandhi Bhavan in Bengaluru. The award was not announced last year in view of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gandhi-seva-award-announced/article36746257.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM promises Rs. 100 cr. initial capital if KMF starts own bank||Suggesting that the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) should start its own cooperative sector bank for milk producers, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday announced that the State government will provide the initial capital of Rs. 100 crore if it comes up with a proposal. “You have a revenue model and if you choose to open a bank, you will get investment,” Mr. Bommai told KMF directors at a function here, where he inaugurated 10 infrastructure created by KMF, and launched new milk products. “By launching a bank, KMF will not be dependent on doles or financial assistance from the State government. To handhold KMF, the government will commit Rs. 100 crore as initial investment to the bank,” he added. His comments came after KMF chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi requested the government among others to increase financial assistance to farmers from the current Rs. 5 a litre, increase in price of milk, and restarting of financial assistance of 20 paise per litre of milk to about 40,000 testers, helpers, and secretaries working at village-level milk societies. Mr. Jarkiholi also requested government permission to turn to solar power in the district milk unions, and stated that about Rs. 30 crore could be saved annually from the current power bill of about Rs. 110 crore if solar power is adopted. Assuring the KMF that the milk societies employees, who are crucial in milk collection, will be given 20 paise per litre to restart the incentive, Mr. Bommai asked: “Why should the State government give that money? To restart the incentive, we will set aside Rs. 50 crore in the Budget. But after that, it is your responsibility to continue the payment,” he said. Setting a target of procuring 100 lakh kg of milk in the next flush season from the current high of 91.2 lakh kg, the Chief Minister also said that the market should be expanded to meet increasing procurement. “If milk from Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra can come to Karnataka, why cannot the market be expanded. You should be aggressive in marketing because you have good products,” he said. Currently, the the 46-year-old KMF reports an annual turnover of about Rs. 17,000 crore and milk procurement has peaked to about 91.2 lakh kg a day from its 25 lakh farmers. With over 150 milk products under its fold, the federation has also exported Rs. 300 crore-worth products to about 50 countries. It also supplied over 77 lakh litres of UHT milk to the Indian military annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-promises-rs-100-cr-initial-capital-if-kmf-starts-own-bank/article36746263.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mujawar to appeal against HC order||Following the High Court of Karnataka quashing the Government Order appointing a Mujawar to perform religious practices at Sree Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah in Chikkamagaluru taluk, Syed Ghouse Mohiuddin Shah Khadri, the hereditary administrator of the shrine, has resolved to file a writ appeal challenging the High Court order. Shah Khadri contended: “I am sure we have strong points to argue. The Supreme Court had accepted the 2018 Government Order and directed the government to notify it in the gazette.” His advocate Mohammed Ahmed said that the Supreme Court had accepted the Government Order in the contempt petition filed by Shah Khadri. “The same was notified in the gazette. The High Court has quashed the order.” The High Court, citing Article 25 of the Constitution, said that the “State had infringed upon the right of Hindu community to have the puja and archana done in the manner as per their faith” while also imposing upon the Mujawar to perform ‘paduka pooja’ and to light ‘nanda deepa’ “contrary to his faith.” This observation does not go with the nature of the shrine, opined Shivasundar, convener of Komu Souhrada Vedike, which has been in favour of retaining the syncretic nature of the shrine. “In all Sufi shrines, the Mujawar performs religious practices. The recorded historic practices performed at the shrine also clearly show that it was Mujawar who performed the rituals. If a priest (archaka) is appointed, he performs rituals as per Agama sytem, then it amounts to changing the nature of the shrine,” he said. “Let us see what system the present government adopts. The respondents will have an option to move court if not happy with the government’s decision.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mujawar-to-appeal-against-hc-order/article36746255.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 10 lakh doses administered on Lasika Utsava day in Karnataka||On the fifth ‘Lasika Utsava’ Wednesday, Karnataka administered 10,26,548 doses of COVID-19 vaccines till 9 p.m. With this, Karnataka has administered 5,61,68,962 doses so far of which 1,70,17,719 are second doses. The State had set a target of administering 23,08,000 doses on Wednesday. On September 17, during the mega vaccination mela, the State was able to administer 31,43,598 doses as against a target of 31,75,000 doses. According to data from the CoWIN portal till 9 p.m., the highest number of doses (1,08,930) was administered in BBMP limits. Belagavi and Shivamogga followed with 79,102 and 50,568 doses, respectively. The lowest number of doses was administered in Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, and Bengaluru Rural where 4,688, 11,709, and 15,184 doses were administered, respectively. In terms of covering the targeted population, Chickballapur and Gadag achieved the highest coverage — 93% and 84%, respectively. While Chamarajanagar and BBMP limits achieved the lowest coverage — 26% and 27%, respectively, of the targeted population. Men have outnumbered women in overall vaccinations with 2,83,36,300 of the total 5,61,68,962 doses administered so far being given to men. More than half (3,02,33,228) of the total doses administered in the State is to those in the 18-44 years age group. As many as 1,57,73,780 people in the 45-60 years age group and 1,01,61,954 people aged above 60 have been jabbed so far. Meanwhile, Karnataka on Wednesday reported 539 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,75,067. Bengaluru Urban reported 239 cases and seven deaths. With 17 deaths, the toll rose to 37,780. This is apart from 28 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 591 people were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,24,693. The State now has 12,565 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.67%, the case fatality rate (CFR) touched 2.70%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-10-lakh-doses-administered-on-lasika-utsava-day-in-karnataka/article36746248.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Karnataka keen to strengthen connection with Sweden’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said his government is keen to strengthen its collaboration with Sweden through technology, innovation, research and development, and investments. Addressing a delegation of Swedish companies at an investment facilitation seminar organised by the Industries Department of Karnataka in Bengaluru on Wednesday, Mr. Bommai said the partnership of Sweden and India has withstood the test of time and can be strengthened further. Employment, investment and innovation were the three guiding principles of this government, he said. The State government has prioritised sustainable growth and investments, and is exploring collaborations in emerging technologies, said the Chief Minister. “R&D will be prioritised in the future, and incentives for industries to invest in R&D will be introduced,” he said. Sweden’s ambassador Klas Molin said, “From Swedish brand names like ABB and Volvo to H&M and IKEA to several startups, including Truecaller, Swedish companies continue to thrive in Karnataka.” Over 200 Swedish companies are operating in India employing 2,00,000 persons, of which 96 firms are in Karnataka employing 42,000 persons. Fourteen Swedish firms have manufacturing facilities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-keen-to-strengthen-connection-with-sweden/article36746260.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TAC: NK districts more susceptible to third wave due to poor vaccination||With several north Karnataka districts continuing to lag in vaccination, the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has warned that the third wave, as and if it happens, is likely to hit this region the most. Expressing concern over the poor vaccination coverage in NK districts, especially Bidar, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Haveri, and others adjoining Maharashtra, the TAC has recommended that vaccination in these districts needs to be ramped up on a war-footing through special outreach community campaigns. At its 126th meeting on September 26, the TAC discussed the poor vaccination in these districts adjoining Maharashtra from where there is a possibility of infection spillover into Karnataka. On the variants of concern (VoC), the TAC report said: “Delta is infectious but not virulent. The sub-lineages of Delta have not shown any serious public health consequences. The absence of a surge post Ganesha Chaturthi could be largely due to good vaccination progress (78% for first dose and 33% for the second).” According to data from the State Health Department, the highest first dose administration has happened in Bengaluru Urban (110%), Kodagu (93%), Udupi (90%), Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada (86% each), and BBMP (81%). NK districts, Kalaburagi (60%), Raichur (62%), Yadgir (63%), Chitradurga (68%), and Bidar (70%), have recorded the lowest first dose administration. In terms of full inoculation (both doses), Bengaluru Urban (48%), BBMP (44%), Kodagu (42%), Udupi, Ramanagaram (41% each), and Dakshina Kannada, Chickballapur (37% each) have recorded the highest coverage. Here again, NK districts have recorded the lowest coverage with Haveri being at the bottom at 19%. While Kalaburagi, Raichur have recorded 22% each, Vijayapura, Belagavi, and Bagalkot have recorded 23%, 24%, and 25% respectively. Incidentally, NK districts have recorded a low seroprevalence rate (in the second sero survey) and are also consistently showing a low rate of infection over the last one month. But, public health experts warned that the low vaccination rate and low seroprevalence in these districts could prove costly if and when a third wave hits the State. Last week, Chief Minister Basvaraj Bommai, who chaired a high-level pandemic review meeting with experts, said that Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhkar will visit north Karnataka districts and monitor measures on ramping up vaccination coverage there on a campaign mode. Dr. Sudhakar admitted that the region of concern is Kalyana Karnataka. “Half the districts in Karnataka have vaccinated more than 80% of the people with the first dose. Majority of the remaining districts have coverage of over 70%. However, the region of concern is Kalyana Karnataka. Three districts in the region are lagging in vaccination coverage with less than 65% coverage,” he said. Stating that the district health officials attribute it to vaccine hesitancy, the Minister said: “We are trying to understand reasons for vaccine hesitancy and address them.” District Health Officers (DHOs) of the districts with poor coverage said the vaccine hesitancy is mainly because the people are worried that they will lose out on their daily wages if they develop fever, pain at the injection site, or any other adverse event following immunisation. Some believe that they may not be able to consume alcohol after vaccination, the officials said. “Most people in this region are farm labourers and are away at work during the day. With the harvesting season beginning, their main worry is they may not be able to work for two-three days after vaccination. We are even visiting homes for evening sessions but they refuse. Most of them become violent under the influence of alcohol. We are doing our best and are involving community leaders to convince them,” said H.S. Raghavendra Swamy, Haveri DHO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tac-nk-districts-more-susceptible-to-third-wave-due-to-poor-vaccination/article36746247.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bangalore Milk Union seeks Rs. 5 per litre hike||At a time when economically-weaker sections in the State are reeling under price rise of essential commodities, the State government is under intense pressure from the district milk unions to allow them to hike the price of milk and milk products. The Bangalore Milk Union has sought a hike by Rs. 5 per litre to overcome a steep increase in input cost for dairy farming. On Wednesday, KMF chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to increase the price of milk. “Karnataka at Rs. 37/Rs. 38 a litre has the cheapest milk rate in the country. The price of all other commodities have increased,” he pointed out. The Chief Minister, however, refused to give any concrete assurances. “The issue of milk price hike has come to my notice. But I will not give any assurances here,” he added. Meanwhile, Bangalore Milk Union president Narasimhamurthy, in a memorandum submitted to Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan, sought milk price hike citing fuel price hike had led to an increase by 30% to 40% of milk production cost. Providing an example of Bamul, he said of the 20 lakh kg procured from farmers, 10 to 12 kg goes into milk and curd sale. “The rest have to be converted to milk powder. The COVID-19 situation has brought down the demand for milk products. Bamul alone has reported loss to a tune of Rs. 95 crore by the end of August,” he said. He urged the Minister to allow unions to hike the price by Rs. 5 a litre immediately so that farmers and milk unions don’t suffer further losses. ‘Maintain goshalas’ Mr. Bommai asked KMF to look after cows that have been brought to goshalas across the State after the Anti-Cow Slaughter Act has come into force. “Protection of cow even after it stops yielding is very important. It is our moral responsibility. The government will construct a goshala in every district. The capital investment will be made by the government and the KMF can manage the cows with feed and medicine, among other things. It should be done on no loss and no profit basis,” the Chief Minister said. Earlier, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Bhavan also urged the KMF to contribute towards maintenance of goshalas. “KMF should set aside funds to look after goshalas in every district,” he said. There could be about 6,000 to 7,000 cows in the goshalas. “Give Rs. 10 crore for cow protection,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bangalore-milk-union-seeks-rs-5-per-litre-hike/article36746264.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP served notice on plea to mandate use of biodegradable dog poop bags||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday ordered issue of notice to the State government and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike on a plea to enforce norms on dog owners to carry biodegradable poop bags in public parks, and permit pets in public parks if pet owners leash th dogs and carry poop bags with them. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on a PIL petition filed by M/s Compassion Unlimited Plus Action, an animal welfare organisation. Lack of responsibility The petitioner has pointed out that there is an increasing lack of responsibility displayed by some pet owners, who refuse to carry disposable poop bags or other appropriate arrangements to pick up the litter caused by their pets’ excretion. This has resulted in animosity between the public and pet parents in general, thereby resulting in certain public parks imposing an absolute pet ban on entry of pets on the park premises. It has been pointed out in the petition that the BBMP has failed to enforce guidelines issued on August 24, 2020, by the Government for Resident Welfare Associations and Apartment Owners’ Associations, pet owners and those who feed stray dogs, mandating that pets are always on least when outside home/in a public place; and clean up place of pet defecates on lawns, outside someone’s home, on public street/park. The petitioner sought direction to the authorities to enforce the guidelines by imposing penalties under the provisions of BBMP’s Sold Waste Management Bylaw, 2020, which imposes responsibilities on owners of pet to clean up the littering by pets in public places. Designated park Pointing out that the city has only one unofficially designated ‘dog park’ inside Cubbon Park where dogs can be walked with exclusion of general public that too only on Sundays for a few hours, the petitioner has contended that imposing a total ban on taking dogs into all public parks will not be practical as dogs need to be walked for their overall health, and the solution would be to discipline the pet owners instead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-served-notice-on-plea-to-mandate-use-of-biodegradable-dog-poop-bags/article36746241.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Happy ending to legal battle||The foster mother in the case finally agreed to hand over custody of the child to the genetic mother, who with equal grace offered that the foster mother could see the child whenever her heart so desires. The court said: “Such kind gestures coming from two women hailing from different religious backgrounds are marked by their rarity, nowadays.” This led to the legal battle for custody of the child being closed on a happy note. The court freed the foster mother from all civil and criminal liabilities on accepting her claim that she was “only a victim of circumstance”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/happy-ending-to-legal-battle/article36746265.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4 colleges to teach in Kannada||Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan announced that four engineering colleges will begin teaching courses in Kannada from this academic year itself. Bheemanna Khandre Institute of Technology, Bhalki (Civil); BLDEA’s VP Dr. P.G.Halakatti College of Engineering, Vijayapura (Civil); SJC Institute of Technology, Chickballapur (Mechanical), and Maharaja Institute of Technology, Mysuru (Mechanical) will start teaching in Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-colleges-to-teach-in-kannada/article36746252.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conman held||The Bellandur police have registered a cheating and impersonation case against a man who not only posed as a police officer and checked vehicles, but also ‘fined’ motorists. His scam unravelled when he cheated a motorist of Rs. 80,000 by promising him to get seized vehicles for a cheaper rate. Based on a complaint from Nagaraj, 27, the police on Tuesday, arrested the man identified as Harish. In his complaint, Nagaraj said that Harish, dressed as a police officer, was often seen checking vehicles near a petrol bunk in Haraluru since April. Over the months, he stopped Nagaraj a few times and in the process the two became friends. The accused introduced himself as Harish, a sub-inspector with Parappana Agrahara station. During one of their conversations, he offered to procure vehicles that had been seized by the police at throwaway prices. Nagaraj agreed to purchase a car, and paid him Rs. 80,000 to book one for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conman-held/article36746236.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bad road claims another life||The pathetic condition of the city roads has claimed the life of another motorist, this time in Anekal. Shopkeeper Madesha, 50, was returning home after visiting his daughter in Sarjapur on his motorcycle on Tuesday night. While approaching Submangala, where he lived, he hit a heap of mud in the middle of the road. Madesha fell from his bike and sustained severe head injuries. The staff of a dhaba nearby rushed to his aid and shifted him to Anekal government hospital from where he was transferred to a private hospital. He succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday. The Anekal police have registered an FIR against Public Works Department officials and contractors charging them under death due to negligence. The brother of the deceased, Chandrashekhar, in his complaint alleged that as part of road widening, the PWD had dug pits around trees along stretches in Hosur and Anekal, and piled the mud haphazardly. He blamed PWD engineers and the contractor for the death. Pothole deaths So far this month, within BBMP limits, two motorists, both riding two-wheelers, died in accidents allegedly caused by potholes and bad stretches. Following the death of a physically challenged senior citizen, and protests from pedestrians and motorists in different parts of the city, the civic body undertook an exercise to fill potholes in arterial roads and other stretches by September 30. However, the road where Tuesday’s accident occurred, is not under the purview of the BBMP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bad-road-claims-another-life/article36746240.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools and colleges asked to be alert and follow SOPs||A day after a COVID-19 cluster was reported in a private CBSE School at Electronics City, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has said that they will urge school and PU college managements to ensure that the SOPs are implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-and-colleges-asked-to-be-alert-and-follow-sops/article36746250.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nigerian actor arrested for selling drugs||The K.G. Halli police on Wednesday arrested a Nigerian national who works as an actor in the Indian film industry for allegedly peddling drugs in the city. The actor, Chekwume Malvin, 45, was caught red-handed near the BDA Complex in HRBR Layout. The police seized 15 grams of MDMA, 250 ml of hashish oil, Rs. 2,500 in cash and a mobile phone. The total value of the seized items is estimated to be around Rs. 8 lakh. Inquiries revealed that Malvin had come to India on a medical visa but then enrolled in the New York Film Academy in Mumbai to learn acting. According to the police, he had completed a six-month course in acting from the same academy in Abuja in Nigeria. After completing the course in Mumbai, Malvin joined the film industry and acted in over 20 Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada films. Some of the more well-known films he had roles in include Vishwaroopam, Singham, Anna Bond, Dilwale and Paramathma. He allegedly confessed that he wanted to make quick money and used his network to peddle drugs. The police have arrested him under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, and are analysing his phone details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nigerian-actor-arrested-for-selling-drugs/article36746239.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three Bescom engineers booked after lineman is electocuted on duty||Three Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom) employees – an assistant executive engineer, an assistant engineer and a junior engineer – have been booked for death due to negligence after a lineman died of electrocution while repairing a faulty line on Hesaraghatta Main Road on September 23. All three personnel were attached to Bescom’s Dasarahalli Zone. The lineman, Srinivas T., 47, died while on duty. He, and two colleagues, were attending to a faulty line near the Hyundai showroom on Hesaraghatta Main Road. Srinivas climbed up the pole, but was electrocuted while climbing down. His colleagues took him to a hospital in the area where he succumbed to his injuries two hours later. His wife Triveni S. lodged a complaint with the police, following which the three Bescom officials were booked. “The Bescom officials have not provided any safety gear to ensure the safety of the workers on the ground,” said Ms. Triveni in her complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-bescom-engineers-booked-after-lineman-is-electocuted-on-duty/article36746237.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bribery case: Head constable gets four years imprisonment||The City Civil and Sessions court convicted a head constable under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, sentenced him to undergo four years of imprisonment and slapped him with a fine of Rs. 1 lakh. The head constable Manjanna M.K. had demanded and accepted Rs. 10,000 from an accused in a criminal case to release his seized vehicle. This took place while he was serving in Bagalagunte police station in June 2017. The bribery came to light after Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials trapped him and filed a chargesheet in 2018 before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bribery-case-head-constable-gets-four-years-imprisonment/article36746242.ece
30 September 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||S.M. Krishna thanks Bommai, Somashekhar||BJP leader S.M. Krishna thanked Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Mysuru district in charge Minister S.T. Somashekhar for choosing him to inaugurate Mysuru Dasara festivities. In a statement, Mr. Krishna said Mysuru Dasara, commenced by kings of Yadu dynasty to propagate greatness of the region, had not lost its glory though 400 years had passed. He said: “Hailing from Mandya district, which is dominantly represented by the farming community and carved by Krishnaraja Wodeyar IV, I am fortunate to be able to inaugurate this year’s Dasara.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sm-krishna-thanks-bommai-somashekhar/article36746261.ece
30 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Inauguration||The inauguration of Devaraj Urs Bhavan and Ambedkar Bhavan will be held in Chikkamagaluru townon Friday. Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra, Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary and others will attend the programmes organised by the district administration. In a communiqué to media on Wednesday, the district administration said the programme would be held at Zilla Panchayat building at noon. Deputy Chairman of Legislative Council M.K. Pranesh, Chikkamagaluru MLA C.T. Ravi and others will attend the programme, the communiqué said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inauguration/article36746649.ece
30 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Body found||The partially burnt body of a man aged about 45 years was found near Mageri in Sakleshpur taluk on Wednesday. The local people noticed a bag dumped near the road. Sakaleshpur Rural Police visited the spot and took the body for post-mortem. Unknown people are suspected to have murdered the person and dumped the body in a bag. The accused also attempted to burn the body. Sakleshpur Rural Police have registered a case. The police are making efforts to ascertain the identity of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-found/article36746650.ece
30 September 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||21 fresh cases||Hassan reported 21 fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death on Wednesday. With that, the number of cases increased to 1,10,879 and so far 1,359 people have died due to the infection in the district. Among the fresh cases, one each were from Alur and Arkalgud, four in Arsikere, 10 in Belur, two in Channarayapatna and three in Hassan. As many as 283 people are under treatment in the district. Shivamogga reported six fresh cases of COVID-19 on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/21-fresh-cases/article36746651.ece
30 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vande Bharat Express promised for Dharwad||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav has promised requisite steps for running Vande Bharat Express from Dharwad to Bengaluru, according to Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi. In a press release here, Mr. Joshi has said that the Railway Minister gave this assurance during his meeting with him in New Delhi on Tuesday. Mr. Joshi has said that he had discussions with the Railway Minister on various railway projects related to the State and urged Mr. Vaishnav to take steps to resolve pending issues pertaining to some projects. Mr. Joshi told the Minister that Dharwad district housed prestigious medical and engineering colleges, IIT and IIIT, zonal office of the South Western Railway and launching the Vande Bharat Express will facilitate further growth of the region. On his request for a Vande Bharat train, the Minister responded positively and assured him of taking the requisite steps soon. The first indigenous train under Vande Bharat has completed a year now. “Mr. Vaishnav said that the 100% indigenously built Vande Bharat Express is an outcome of the Atma Nirbhar initiative of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It has been built according to global standards,” Mr. Joshi has said in the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vande-bharat-express-promised-for-dharwad/article36746478.ece
30 September 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Now, medical students can do PG course at Central Hospital||Medical students from the region, who want to pursue post-graduation in medical sciences, now have an option in the form of Central Hospital (Railway) in Hubballi. The Central Hospital (Railway) located on Gadag Road, Hubballi, has been accredited by the National Board of Examinations in Medical Sciences (NBEMS) in the specialty of DNB General Medicine (two seats per year). DNB is a post-graduation course after MBBS, (of three years duration). Through NEET, during all-India level counselling, candidates can now apply for seats in the Central Hospital Hubballi also, Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railway Aneesh Hegde has said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-medical-students-can-do-pg-course-at-central-hospital/article36746477.ece
30 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Boy electrocuted while playing in garden||A seven-year-old boy was electrocuted while he accidentally touched a live electricity wire lying close to the ground at a garden in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. According to the boy’s family members and residents in the area, the boy was out playing with his friends in the garden at NGO Colony, off Sedam Road. His friends said that he accidentally touched the live electricity wire connected to a switchboard of a high-mast light which is at the bottom of the electricity pole on the ground. Residents around the park gathered immediately after the incident and expressed their anger against the City Municipal Corporation and GESCOM. A shocked mother of the child fell unconscious twice and was inconsolable. The deceased child was one of the twin sons of building painters Suresh Kambar and Mahadevi. They are from Mugilnagaon in Shahabad taluk and migrated to Kalaburagi a few years ago in search of a living. The deceased child was studying at Sunrise School, Anne Marie Nagar, off Kusnur Road in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-electrocuted-while-playing-in-garden/article36746474.ece
30 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Take steps to improve literacy rate among SC/ ST women’||Minister of Social Welfare and Backward Classes Development Kota Srinivas Poojary warned officials against any lapses in the utilisation of funds allocated for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC, ST). He was chairing a meeting to review the progress and implementation of the programmes meant for SC, ST in Kalaburagi on Tuesday. Mr. Poojary directed officials to effectively utilise funds under the Special Component Plan (SCP) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP). Expressing displeasure over literacy rate among Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the district, Mr. Poojary directed officials to focus on improving the literacy rate of women from these communities. The male literacy rate is 74.38%, while the female literacy rate is 55.09% among these communities, he said. Officials gave details that there are 116 sanctioned residential hostels for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (86 for boys and 23 for girls) of which, 104 hostels are functioning in their own buildings and 12 are in rented buildings. At present, the construction of 11 hostels (eight post-matriculation and three pre-matriculation) is in various stages. Of the 11 hostels, eight are in Kalaburagi, two in Jewargi and one in Chittapur taluk. The officials said that all the construction works will be completed by November-end. During 2019-20, Rs. 5.13 crore was given as incentive to 247 beneficiaries in the district under several heads, including inter-caste marriage, widow remarriage and marriage of Devadasi children. And, Rs. 7.66 crore was given as incentive to 344 beneficiaries under the scheme in 2021-22. Officials said that two group B posts, 67 group C posts and 389 group D posts reserved for Scheduled Castes in various departments are vacant. For Scheduled Tribes, two group C posts and 15 group D posts are vacant. Graveyard Officials of the Social Welfare Department provided details stating that 515 villages across the district do not have burial grounds for the oppressed castes. As per data (number of villages in bracket) Afzalpur taluk (111 villages) Chincholi taluk (107 villages), Jewargi taluk (101 villages), Aland taluk (90 villages), Sedam taluk (47 villages), Kalaburagi taluk (38 villages) and Chittapur taluk (21 villages) do not have burial land for the oppressed sections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-steps-to-improve-literacy-rate-among-sc-st-women/article36746483.ece
30 September 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rain causes damage to 36 houses||As many as 36 houses and nine cowsheds have suffered damage in Aland taluk of Kalaburagi district in incessant rain in the last two days. Aland Tahsildar Yellappa Subedar, who assessed loss caused to property, said that the 36 houses in 18 villages across the taluk have suffered partial damage due to incessant rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-causes-damage-to-36-houses/article36746475.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Problems galore for motorists, pedestrians alike||Ranganath H., who rides daily on his scooter to his office near Hamilton Circle in the city, has been facing problems with city buses on the Clock Tower loop road when they make stops for passengers to alight. “If buses stop on the extreme left side of the road, passengers can straight away step onto the footpath. But many buses stop in the middle of the road to drop passengers off, as the road has become wide now after the removal of the median. This is not only posing problems to other vehicle users trailing city buses but also to passengers as well,” he said. “Once getting off the buses that stop in the middle of the road, especially during the peak hours, passengers find it difficult to walk to either the left or the right side due to approaching vehicles. They have to strive to reach the safety of the footpath. And, obviously, drivers of approaching vehicles think that people standing in the middle of the road, after being dropped off by city buses, are an obstacle,” Mr. Ranganath said and added that the particular problem is more pronounced between the Clock Tower and RTO stretch. This is a new woe of pedestrians and drivers since the Clock Tower to Clock Tower loop road was officially made one-way for traffic on September 23. “Stopping buses in the middle of the road has exposed commuters to the risk of being hit by other approaching vehicles,” Mr. Ranganath said. “It is now necessary for the police, the district administration and bus owners to discipline city bus drivers,” he said. Mumtaz S. is among the many daily commuters who stand in the sun near the Town Hall to catch buses. They no longer use the bus shelter adjoining the Lady Goschen Hospital as buses do not come on that lane. The absence of markings has led to motorists switching lanes as per their wish, said autorickshaw driver Ravi. He said that there is a need to make bus drivers follow lane discipline on the stretch which is dotted by colleges, Commercial Tax, RTO and other government offices. The problem is more acute at the Hamilton (State Bank of India) Circle where motorists coming from Azizuddin Road on the narrow stretch adjoining State Bank, drive straight towards the Police Commissioner’s Office and hinder movement of the approaching vehicles. Commuters getting off from buses on the stretch between Hamilton Circle and Rao and Rao Circle are finding it hard to cross the road and reach the fish market. “Pedestrians, especially seniors like me, run the risk of being hit by vehicles while crossing the road,” said an elderly Vijay Bhandary. “We had problems earlier too, but now it’s aggravated,” he said. Except for the pedestrian underpass that is under construction between Mini Vidhana Soudha and Lady Goschen Hospital, there are no facilities on the circular route for pedestrians to cross the road, he said. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that the new circular movement has been enforced to ensure smooth movement of traffic in the central part of the city. Among the problems the police have noticed include traffic jam near the Town Hall where buses violate lane discipline. “We are aware of the problems of motorists and also pedestrians. Efforts are on to address them in consultation with the city corporation, even as road works are under way there,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/problems-galore-for-motorists-pedestrians-alike/article36746778.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Leopardess rescued in Udupi district||Forest Department officials in Udupi rescued a leopardess near Chantaru and later released it into deep forests on Wednesday. Udupi Range Forest Officer Subrahmanya Achar said that the leopardess, aged about three, had fallen into an open well in the house of Devibail Krishnamurthy Kadlaya probably in the early hours of Wednesday. Noticing the animal in the well in the morning, the family members dropped a large bamboo basket after tying it with a rope. The animal somehow jumped out as the well was not very deep. Later, it hid itself under a staircase of the house. The family members called the department at about 9 a.m. The animal was caught using a net. It must have come from the nearby forest area, Mr. Achar said.  It had fallen into an open well in the house of Devibail Krishnamurthy Kadlaya probably in the early hours of Wednesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopardess-rescued-in-udupi-district/article36746775.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Murder accused is now arrested in PoCSO case||The Woman Police here have arrested Mohammad Naushad (25) of Mannabettu near Kinnigoli on the charge of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl. Naushad was among 13 persons who had been arrested in connection with the murder of BJP activist Deepak Rao in Krishnapura Katipalla, near Surathkal, on January 3, 2018. After his release on bail, Naushad lived with the 17-year-old girl in a house. In a complaint filed with the police on Tuesday, the girl accused Naushad of sexually assaulting her. She is now two months pregnant. The police arrested him for an offence punishable under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murder-accused-is-now-arrested-in-pocso-case/article36746776.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Officials told to complete pending works on national highways||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Wednesday asked the officials of both National Highways Authority of India and National Highways under the Public Works Department to complete pending and allied works on National Highway 66 and National Highway 169A in Udupi district without any delay. Chairing a review meeting on the progress made in national highway projects in the district, the Deputy Commissioner said that the NHAI officials should consult the local people for their cooperation when taking up projects. Pointing out specific cases such as rainwater clogging at Sangam Junction in Kundapur, pending asphalting works near Kundapur flyover, pending installation of signboards, he said that amenities for pedestrians cannot be neglected. Mr. Rao assured the NHAI officials of the district administration’s cooperation wherever required. He said that the officials should make sure that no potholes are left without being filled on the National Highways. Regarding the highway widening work in Parkala coming to a halt, Mr. Rao said that officials should resume the work in such places where there is no legal issue. He asked officials to take up temporary repair works at Indrali Railway Bridge as the road condition has worsened. The Deputy Commissioner asked the officials to repair the pothole-riddled road stretch from Karavali Junction to Malpe. Udupi Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan and Kundapur Sub-divisional Assistant Commissioner Raju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-told-to-complete-pending-works-on-national-highways/article36746768.ece
30 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress threatens to stage dharna seeking arrest of all involved in ‘moral policing’ incident||The Congress threatened on Wednesday that it will sit on dharna in front of the Surathkal police station from Thursday if the police did not arrest all those involved in Sunday’s ‘moral policing’ incident which took place at Surathkal toll plaza and invoke stringent provisions against the accused. Addressing presspersons, MLC and Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee president K. Harish Kumar said that a city police officer, who was in civilian dress, was a witness to the assault on medical students by Bajarang Dal activists. The police should have booked the accused under harsher sections for which bail is not easily available as the accused had assaulted and abused the students. But by invoking “light” provisions, the police have enabled the accused to get bail at the police station soon after the arrest. “Obviously the police have done this under political pressure,” he said. The police have also failed to book the activists under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant for discharge of his duty), he said. The assault was an organised act by Bajrang Dal activists to disturb peace and help Bharatiya Janata Party gain voters’ sympathy for the upcoming Assembly elections. The law and order in the State has collapsed, he said. Mangaluru MLA and former district in-charge Minister U.T. Khader said it was sad to see police and the district administration allowing the persons who have assaulted students to go scot free. “Such an action does not go well with the image of Dakshina Kannada, which has taken a severe beating,” he said and added that students from other States and industrial units are not willing to come to Mangaluru fearing attacks. The activists do not respect law and they do not have any fear of law, he added. Meanwhile, ruling out pressure for invoking “light” sections against the accused, Police Commissioner N. Shahi Kumar told reporters that the police went by the complaint and the related statements given by students. Hence the accused were booked for offences punishable under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and Section 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-threatens-to-stage-dharna-seeking-arrest-of-all-involved-in-moral-policing-incident/article36746783.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Oil paintings on display||The ninth episode of Art of the Week series presented by Art Kanara Trust at Kodialguthu Centre for Art and Culture, G.G. Road, Ballalbagh, will showcase a collection of oil on canvas paintings by Pramila Salian, artist and researcher. The display, which started in the evening on Monday, will be on till Saturday. It is open from 11 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. The series is presented jointly with S Cube Gallery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oil-paintings-on-display/article36746779.ece
30 September 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Change in timings of some trains at Mangaluru Central and Junction||There will be a change in the arrival and departure timings of some trains both in Mangaluru Central and Mangaluru Junction stations from October 1. The following are the changes made at Mangaluru Central. Train No 6531 Bengaluru Mangaluru operating on Tuesdays and Thursdays will arrive at 9.05 a.m. from October 2. Train No 6347 Thiruvananthapuram-Mangaluru Central daily will arrive at 11.30 a.m. from October 1. Train No 6323 Coimbatore-Mangaluru Central Special daily will arrive at 6.40 p.m. from Friday. Train No. 6516 Kannur-Bengaluru Special daily will arrive at 7.50 p.m. and depart at 8.10 p.m. from October 1. The changes at Mangaluru Junction are as follows. Train No 6539 Yeswantpur-Mangaluru Junction Weekly Special operated on Saturdays will arrive at 4.40 p.m. from October 2. Train No 6575 Yeswantpur-Mangaluru Junction Tri-Weekly Special running on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays will arrive at 4.40 p.m. from October 3. Train No 6211 Yeswantpur-Karwar Tri Weekly Special operated on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays will arrive at 4.40 p.m. and depart at 5 p.m. from October 1. Train No 6515 Bengaluru-Kannur Speical daily will arrive at 7.28 a.m. and depart at 7.30 a.m. from Friday. Train No 6516 Kannur-Bengaluru Special daily will arrive at 8.25 p.m. and depart at 8.27 p.m. from October 1, according to a press release issued by the Palakkad Division of the Southern Railway on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-in-timings-of-some-trains-at-mangaluru-central-and-junction/article36746781.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination in Udupi today||Vaccination against COVID-19 will be administered at three sites in Udupi city on Thursday. The sites are Ddistrict Junior Women Health Assistants Training Centre, behind the District Hospital at Ajjarakadu, Madhava Krupa School in Manipal and at BRS Hospital. First and second doses will be given to those aged above 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-in-udupi-today/article36746780.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||President to visit Sringeri on October 8||President Ram Nath Kovind will stay for the night in the city on October 7 and October 8 during his four-day State visit starting on October 6. The President will arrive at the international airport here from Mysuru at 6.10 p.m. on October 7. He will stay for the night either at the Circuit House or at Hotel Ocean Pearl. Mr. Kovind will leave for Sringeri on October 8 from the airport at 10.55 a.m. He will return from Sringeri at 3.45 p.m. the same day and will stay for the night in the city. The President will leave here for Delhi at 11.25 a.m. on October 9, according to the tour planned by the President's Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/president-to-visit-sringeri-on-october-8/article36746770.ece
30 September 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Moral policing: CFI protests against station bail to accused||The Campus Front of India (CFI) staged a protest near the Clock Tower in the city on Tuesday opposing the police granting station bail to the five persons arrested in Surathkal “moral policing” incident which took place on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, CFI activist Afshfaq Bantwal said that the police are acting like puppets in the hands of the Sangh Parivar. The police have stood by the Sangh Parivar. The student community will be organised against the action of the police. Another activist Ghousia said that the Sangh Parivar was disturbing peace in Dakshina Kannada frequently. The police not booking the accused under stringent laws is the reason for the thriving of such activities. An atmosphere has been created in the district where students fear to roam around freely. District unit president of CFI Sarfuddin, secretary Ashraf Porkodi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-told-to-ensure-effective-implementation-of-scp-tsp/article36746479.ece
30 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Banks warned against harassing farmers||Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham has warned banks against harassing farmers by forcing them to mortgage their lands despite the waiver of such a requirement for crop loans less than Rs. 2 lakh. A meeting of farmers and bank representatives was convened by Deputy Commissioner at his office in Mysuru on Wednesday following an assurance given to the farmers during an agitation they held about three weeks ago. During the agitation, the Karnataka Sugarcane Farmers Association led by its President Kurubur Shanthakumar had protested against the banks for not only forcing farmers to mortgage their lands for crop loans as well as education loans despite a waiver, but also adjusting their wages earned under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) against their pending loan dues. At the meeting in the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Wednesday, Mr. Shanthakumar said the farmers were forced to stand outside the sub-registrar’s office before sanctioning of loans while touts collect a fee from them and complete the formalities for mortgaging their land. Mr. Shanthakumar alleged that the banks were harassing the farmers by even denying them the option of One Time Settlement (OTS) of outstanding loan dues. While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) policy asks banks to provide collateral-free crop loans upto Rs. 1.6 lakh in the agriculture sector, Karnataka Grameena Bank’s Manager Ninge Gowda said there was a provision in their bank to provide mortgage-free agriculture loan upto Rs. 2 lakh. With regard to the option of OTS, Mr. Gowda said he will discuss the issue with the bank’s managing committee and finalise the guidelines. The Deputy Commissioner warned the banks against adjusting the wages earned by farmers to their outstanding loan amount as the government had already cautioned the banks against such a practice. Mr. Shanthakumar said Mr. Bagadi Gautham claimed that he too had experienced harassment at the hands of banks for an educational loan during his student days. The farmers’ leader claimed that several children of farmers were being denied an opportunity for higher studies due to the harassment by banks even when University Grants Commission (UGC) had made it amply clear that education loans upto Rs. 4 lakh do not require collateral. Representatives of several banks including Lead Bank Manager Gopinath Shastri, farmers’ leaders P. Somashekar, Hallikerehundi Bhagyaraj and Hethalli Devaraj also participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/banks-warned-against-harassing-farmers/article36746656.ece
30 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cannon firing practice at palace today||Even as the training for Dasara elephants has been stepped up with only a few days left for the start of the festivities here, the cannon firing practice to familiarise the elephants to the booming sound from the artillery will be held on Thursday. This is the first such practice being conducted as part of this year’s Jamboo Savari training. Deputy Conservator of Forest K. Karikalan said the practice will be conducted at the parking lot of the palace premises at 11 a.m. Personnel from the City Armed Reserve will conduct the firing test to acquaint the jumbos to the loud noise. The 21-gun salute is accorded soon after the inauguration of the Jamboo Savari during the finale. The practice is done to ensure that the jumbos don’t get sidetracked to the sound and hence the rehearsal is done at least two times. Meanwhile, with palace illumination on all days of the festivities being the key attraction of the Dasara season, the replacement of fused bulbs at the palace was underway. The Palace Board is overseeing the works which included the replacement of fused bulbs, painting of palace surroundings, and beautification of gardens. A heavy-duty crane was being used to help the workers reach the heights of the palace for changing the bulbs. Usually, the fused bulbs are replaced only once a year when the festivities approach and this has been practised since decades. The work is expected to be done by October 5 or 6, as the festivities will get off to a start on October 7. Former Chief Minister S.M. Krishna will be inaugurating this year’s Nada Habba atop the Chamundi Hills. The Mysore Palace Board spends about Rs. 90 lakh every year on palace illumination. It pays an estimated Rs. 80,000 to the electricity supply company for illuminating the palace for an hour. Although 40 W bulbs were used in the past, the authorities made a switch to 15 W bulbs — a lakh of them — to overcome circuit burnout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cannon-firing-practice-at-palace-today/article36746654.ece
30 September 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Essay competition on technologies in disaster management||The Centre for Disaster Management at the Administrative Training Institute (ATI) in Mysuru has invited entries for a State-level essay competition on ‘Uses and Application of Technologies in Disaster Management’ to mark the International Day of Disaster Reduction. Though the day is observed on October 13, participants should send entries in both English and Kannada before November 15. The competition is open to persons aged 18 years and above. The minimum number of words in the essay should be 1,000 while the maximum should be 1,500. Handwritten essays , which should be legible, written in blue or black ink pen, should be sent by post to Director General, Administrative Training Institute, Lalitha Mahal Palace Road, Mysuru 570011. Participants can also send their essays to email: atiessaycompetition@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/essay-competition-on-technologies-in-disaster-management/article36746648.ece
30 September 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Temple demolition: Nanjangud MLA upset by transfer of tahsildar||Nanjangud MLA B. Harshavardhan is unhappy with the transfer of Nanjangud tahsildar Mohan Kumari in connection with the demolition of Mahadevamma temple in Huchchagini. The demolition has been criticised by devotees and all major political parties. Mr. Harshavardhan told reporters that he and the tahsildar had tried to protect the temple. The BJP MLA claims that they managed to save 13 out of 15 temples in the taluk identified for demolition. “We could have saved this temple too. I told the tahsildar about it, and accordingly a report to protect the temple from demolition had been sent to Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham,” he said. “But, when the Deputy Commissioner asked why this particular temple should be saved, the tahsildar did not have an answer. So, citing the demolition of other temples, the Deputy Commissioner ordered that the temple be razed,” Mr. Harshavardhan explained. The district administration, as part of a Statewide drive, had begun taking action against places of worship that had come up in public places illegally, on the directions of the Supreme Court. Rapport He said the tahsildar enjoyed a good rapport with farmers and other sections of society in Nanjangud. The MLA was hurt by the transfer of the official as well as demolition of the temple. Though he had discussed the transfer with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on September 28, the MLA said he will abide by the decision of the State government. He has urged the Chief Minister to sanction Rs. 20 lakh for the temple reconstruction. On September 27, he visited Huchchagini and promised to donate Rs. 5 lakh for the purpose. He asked residents to form a trust for the reconstruction on a plot of 5 guntas that a resident had promised to donate.He promised to stand by residents of the village and facilitate construction of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-demolition-nanjangud-mla-upset-by-transfer-of-tahsildar/article36746653.ece
30 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Sub-Inspector transferred pending inquiry||Yadgir Police have landed in an embarrassing situation after a video showing a Sub-Inspector of Police attached to the Gurmitkal Police Station pushing a farmer down went viral. The incident occurred at a Raita Sampark Kendra in Gurmitkal on Tuesday. Manemma Gaddimani, farmer from Siddapur (B) village in Gurmitkal taluk, had gone to the Raita Sampark Kendra to buy groundnut seeds for rabi sowing. There was a long queue and Sub-Inspector Gangamma Bhadrapur, who was standing near the entrance of the kendra, is seen in the video telling Manemma Gaddimani something, after which she pushes the farmer down. Meanwhile, others on the spot demanded action against the police officer for what they said was rude behaviour. On Wednesday, Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy released a video saying that it [the act of the Sub-Inspector] was an accident and not intentional. “The old woman fell down accidentally when the Sub-Inspector asked her to stand in queue,” Dr. Vedamurthy said. Later, in the evening, he released a note saying that the Sub-Inspector has been transferred to Narayanpur Police Station from Gurmitkal pending inquiry into the charge of misbehaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sub-inspector-transferred-pending-inquiry/article36746476.ece
30 September 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Assess crop loss and ensure relief reaches farmers: DC||Deputy Commissioner of Raichur B.C. Satish has said that officials of the departments concerned should attend to grievances of farmers and implement schemes meant for them effectively. He was addressing a meeting in Raichur on Tuesday. Dr. Satish said that most of the farmers suffer crop loss during both kharif and rabi seasons for various reasons, mainly natural disasters. “Officers of the Revenue, Horticulture and Agriculture departments should conduct surveys and assess loss incurred and ensure that compensation reaches the affected farmers,” he added. The Deputy Commissioner advised the officials of GESCOM to conduct grievance meetings for farmers on Saturdays to ascertain the problems related to electricity supply, damage to transformers and poles and attend to them without any delay. “Farmers may face another crop loss without power supply for their pumpsets if there is a delay in restoration work,” he said. On the role of the Irrigation Department, he said that the officials concerned should take steps to reach water to the beneficiary farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assess-crop-loss-and-ensure-relief-reaches-farmers-dc/article36746657.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Getting ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/getting-ready/article36746766.ece
30 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Attack on health worker: two arrested||The police on Wednesday arrested two persons in connection with the attack on a female health staff at Pallana, near Thrikkunnappuzha, in Alappuzha last week. The arrested have been identified as Nishanth, 29, of Kadinamkulam in Thiruvananthapuram and Roy, 26, of Kadakkavoor in Thiruvananthapuram. Both were arrested by the Chavara police in Kollam. “Nishanth was taken into custody from a bus. Based on the information provided by him, we nabbed the second accused. Both have several cases registered against them in Chavara and other parts of the State,” said a Chavara police officer, adding the duo would be produced before a local court there soon. Seeking custody Officials in Alappuzha said the Thrikkunnappuzha police would soon move court to get the custody of the accused. The accused allegedly attacked and tried to abduct the 35-year-old woman on September 20. According to the Thrikkunnapuzha police, the woman, a native of Pallana, was returning home from work when she was attacked around 11.30 p.m. The police said it was a case of attempted robbery. The victim, a nursing assistant at the COVID-19 ward in the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, was on a scooter when two motorcycle-borne men followed her and hit her with a helmet. She lost control of her vehicle and it hit an electric pole. According to her statements, the assailants asked her to hand over her ornaments and then tried to kidnap her. Around the same time, a police patrolling team reached the spot and seeing the police vehicle, the two men escaped on their motorbike. The woman sustained minor injuries in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-health-worker-two-arrested/article36746611.ece
30 September 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Police issue lookout notice for Sessy Xavier||The Alappuzha North police have issued a lookout notice for Sessy Xavier, 27, who is accused of practising law in the Alappuzha District Court without proper qualification. The High Court had dismissed her anticipatory bail plea and directed her to surrender before the police. Officials said here on Wednesday that the lookout notice was issued as she was still absconding. The police have registered a case against her based on a complaint filed by the Alappuzha Bar Association under Sections 417 (punishment for cheating), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code. Explanation sought The Alappuzha Bar Association, in June 2021, launched a probe after receiving an anonymous letter regarding her qualification. Although the association demanded an explanation from her, she failed to provide one. Later, Ms. Xavier, a native of Ramankary in Kuttanad, was expelled from the association before a police complaint was lodged against her. Council membership As per the complaint, she was working with the association since March 2018 and was given a membership in March 2019. She allegedly provided a roll number of an advocate based in Thiruvananthapuram and fake certificates to get the membership. In the last two-and-a-half years, Ms. Xavier had appeared in court in various cases. Besides, she worked as an advocate commission in a number of cases. Police appeal Anyone with information about her should contact the police in the following numbers 0477 2245541 (Alappuzha North police station), 9497990041 (Dy.SP, Alappuzha), 9497987058 (Circle Inspector, Alappuzha North) and 9497980298 (Sub-Inspector, Alappuzha North).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-issue-lookout-notice-for-sessy-xavier/article36746610.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||BJP seeks EC intervention||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has lodged a complaint with the Election Commission’s TS Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel against alleged violation of the election code by ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) consequent to the announcement of byelection to the Huzurabad Assembly constituency including threatening voters and continuing official advertisements and others on Wednesday. A delegation of senior leaders including N. Indrasena Reddy, G. Premender Reddy, S. Prakash Reddy and Anthony Reddy gave a written representation charging that the Government has failed to remove the signboards and advertisements showing their schemes along with photos of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his ministerial colleagues to influence voters. Many RTC buses are moving on the roads with such advertisements. The police are hand in glove with the ruling party and “helping” the TRS candidate in conducting caste meetings with the former even serving the food in them. TRS workers are “grossly violating” the above provisions of law by paying money to voters through GooglePay, PayTm etc., as they did in earlier elections. The EC should deploy police observer, other than general observer to conduct free and fair election, stop ‘corrupt’ practices of paying money through mobile pay and direct the authorities concerned to remove the official advertisements on buses as well as at Government properties to ensure free and fair election in bypoll. In a separate representation, the party sought permission for its State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar to continue his ongoing ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ which began from Aug.28 and scheduled to culminate on Oct.2 at Huzurabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-seeks-ec-intervention/article36746525.ece
30 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Neelakurinji could be casting a wider spell||Is neelakurinji  ( Strobilanthes kunthiana ), considered the pride of Munnar, spreading its sheen over the hills in Idukki bordering Kottayam too? Neelakurinji blossomed on the hills of Alunkapara, part of the Chakkikavu hills, near Elaveezhapoonchira. Though it cannot be termed a massive flowering, it has attracted local people. Alunkapara is at an altitude of 900 metres and can be accessed through difficult terrain from Choondikulam Nirappu on Mechal route from Chakkikavu. A former official at the Munnar Forest Division says flowering of neelakurinji is witnessed in other areas also. It is a splendid sight when an entire hill is in bloom, giving it a purple-blue hue, he says. In low-altitude areas neelakurinji cannot be seen, he says, adding that it is possible to sow its seeds on high altitude hills and wait for flowering. There are many species of it, ranging to one with a blooming period of 42 years. The common one that attracts visitors with massive flowering in Munnar is the one that blooms in 12 years. Munnar hills, where it blooms, are at an altitude of 1,200 metres. It was Rahul, a Class IX student and a local resident, who took the photograph of neelakurinji at Alunkapara and brought it to public attention. The official says the species should be studied to find out whether it was seen only there or on the nearby hills too. “It needs to be protected. It is unlikely that human intervention resulted in its presence there as the area is difficult to access. Let it spread to an even wider area next time,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neelakurinji-could-be-casting-a-wider-spell/article36746605.ece
30 September 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Sexual abuse of minor: POCSO case registered||The Rajakkad police have registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the relative of a 14-year-old girl for sexually abusing her. According to the police, the girl gave birth to a baby boy at the Adimaly taluk hospital on Tuesday. District Child Protection Officer Geetha M.G. said the girl was staying at the relative’s house for the past one year. The girl’s mother was working as a housemaid at Kottayam after her husband’s death. Police informed Preliminary report said the relative had sexually abused the girl. The issue came to light after the hospital authorities informed the police, she said. The district child welfare committee would take over the protection of the girl and the baby, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sexual-abuse-of-minor-pocso-case-registered/article36746613.ece
30 September 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Jharkhand girl found dead||A 14-year-old daughter of a migrant worker was found hanging on a tree at Mettukuzhi, near Kattappana, on Wednesday. Preethi Basra allegedly committed suicide after she was scolded for overuse of mobile phone, her father, Basra, said. The girl was a Class 7 student at a school in Jharkhand and had arrived here 20 days ago. Suicide prevention helpline: Disha 1056, 0417-2552056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jharkhand-girl-found-dead/article36746612.ece
30 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Three more surprises from Western Ghats||A team of scientists of the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) have discovered three new plant species from the evergreen forest patches of the southern Western Ghats in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The new lianas (woody climbing plants) Hiptage laxiflora and Argyreia lakshminarasimhanii have been discovered from the Kanyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary in Tamil Nadu and Phanera murthyi from the Kakkayam region of the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. The exploration was led by BSI scientist K.A. Sujana.  Phanera murthyi has small reddish flowers and medium-sized inflorescence compared to its relatives. Hiptage laxiflora has unique leaf characters and inflorescence compared to other Hiptage species. Argyreia lakshminara- simhanii differs from its relatives in the family of Convolvulaceae by its peculiar features in habit, shape, and texture of leaves. “The close relatives of all these species have medici- nal and aromatic properties; hence, the newly discovered ones may also have such properties and it should be validated,” says Dr. Sujana. “Woody climbing plants have a significant role in the ecosystem as they form 40% of the forest biomass. These plants also ensure food for the wildlife, during the lean season,” says S. Shalini, a BSI researcher. D. Maity, assistant professor, Department of Botany, Calcutta University, W. Arisdason, J.H. Franklin Benjamin, and Rakesh G. Vadhyar of the BSI were the other members of the team. While the discovery of Hiptage laxiflora has been published in Annales Botanici Fennici , Finland, the discovery of Phanera murthyi has been published in Phytotaxa , New Zealand. The discovery of Argyreia lakshminarasimhanii was published in the Rheedea Journal of the Indian Association for Angiosperm Taxonomy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-surprises-from-western-ghats/article36746535.ece
30 September 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Manimuttam’ project to rejuvenate tourism sector||The Tourism Department has launched “Manimuttam” project to rejuvenate the tourism sector in the district, an emerging tourism destination in the State. The project, to be executed with the support of the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) and Kerala Home Stay and Tourism Society, is aimed at beautifying home-stays and service villas and ensure quality services to tourists. Fresh and clean surroundings would be set up around the tourism properties and quality service ensured under the project. District Development Commissioner G. Priyanka inaugurated the project on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manimuttam-project-to-rejuvenate-tourism-sector/article36746540.ece
30 September 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Woman attacked by robber gang dies||A 75-year-old woman, who was attacked by robbers at Varam in Kannur, died of injuries at a private hospital here on Wednesday. According to the police, Ayesha, who was living alone in a house at Varam in Kannur, was hit on the head by robbers when she came out of the house after hearing the sound of water flowing from the tap. Three-member gang She was attacked by a three-member gang shortly after 4.30 a.m. on Thursday last week. They also prised away her gold jewellery from the neck and ears, which left deep wounds. The gang fled as soon as the neighbours arrived on the spot. Ayesha,who was admitted to hospital, told the police that she was attacked by a group consisting of Hindi speakers. CCTV visuals The Kannur Town Police have registered a case. They are analysing the visuals from CCTVs in the area. The police said that opening taps outside the house was a method used by robber gangs. The police said it was dangerous to go out without precaution in such cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-attacked-by-robber-gang-dies/article36746552.ece
30 September 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Special task force chases elephants into forest||A special task force has chased away wild elephants, which entered human habitation, into the forest in Kasaragod. Six of the nine elephants were forced to move back into the jungles from Bedakam, Karaduka, Muliyar, and Delampady panchayats. Karaduka block panchayat came up with a plan in collaboration with the Forest Department to prevent animal attacks. The special task force comprised local people and personnel of the Forest Department. The plan was prepared by Forest officials and local body heads. In the first phase, the jungles in Iriyanni forest were cleared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-task-force-chases-elephants-into-forest/article36746543.ece
30 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rapid switch to RT-PCR may not be practical, say experts||Rapid antigen tests have a significant role in the management of the pandemic and replacing it with 100% RT-PCR tests may result in delay in diagnosis and treatment, according to health experts. An order issued by Jafar Malik, District Collector, on September 27 had directed government and private hospitals to conduct antigen tests for patients in emergency cases only and under the directions of doctors. No antigen tests should be conducted for entry criteria to hospitals and for bystanders of patients. If required, RT-PCR may be done and provide results in six hours for bystanders, it said. The order, which quoted the government decision to stop antigen tests in private labs and government/private hospitals, said that RT-PCR results must be provided within 12 hours of sample collections in all other cases. The test results should be uploaded on the online portal (Labsys), it said. Dr. Rajeev Jayadevan, vice chairman, Research Cell, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Kerala, said that rapid antigen tests have a key role in controlling the disease, particularly in a clinical or hospital setting where you need to quickly triage people who are coming in with symptoms. “These people will not have the time or patience to wait around for several hours for results of RT-PCR tests. However, RT-PCR test have its own role as its a confirmatory test. If antigen tests are being used, the kits used should be of higher standards and benchmarked according to international standards,” he said. Dr. Sunny P. Orathel, Medical Superintendent at Rajagiri Hospital here, said that an average 100 to 125 patients will be turning up at the hospital daily for admission. “Rapid antigen tests would fast-track the process of evaluation and provide swifter treatment to patients. While opting for RT-PCR tests, the chances of patients and their bystanders crowding at the lobby are higher. They may also move to various other locations in the hospital or outside and mix with others while waiting for the results of the RT-PCR test,” he said. Dr. Sunny Orathel pointed out that the government could ensure that only high-quality kits are used for rapid antigen tests. “It would not be practical to stop rapid antigen tests fully,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rapid-switch-to-rt-pcr-may-not-be-practical-say-experts/article36746562.ece
30 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||New Corporation building to be ready by next Onam: Mayor||The new office complex of the Kochi Corporation will be inaugurated during next Onam, said Mayor M. Anilkumar on Wednesday. The project cost of the building was revised as Rs. 24 crore earlier and it would require another Rs. 40 crore for the completion of the building. The construction of the building, which is spread over seven floors and 1.7 lakh sq.ft., began way back in 2005, said Mr. Anilkumar after reviewing the progress of the work. “The UDF-led regimes, which were in power during the past 10 years, could not complete the work. Steps for making the building a disabled-friendly and green one have been initiated. Jana Seva Kendram, the public amenity centre, and the council hall will be set up on the ground floor. The council hall will have an area of 3583 sq.ft. There will be 100 seats for accommodating councillors. Galleries for the media and the general public and space for accommodating officials of the civic body will be there in the council hall,” he said. “The local body has got the support of German agency GIZ for obtaining green certification for the building. A schedule has been drawn up for the completion of the remaining works and the progress of the construction is reviewed every fortnight. Three architects from the Indian Institute of Architects are supporting the corporation in the project. The outbreak of the pandemic had slowed down the pace of the work. The civic administration hopes to complete the constriction of the buildings by August 5 next year,” he said. Deputy Mayor K.A. Ansiya, standing committee chairpersons of the civic body T.K. Ashraf, Sheeba Lal, Priya Prasanth, Sunitha Dixson, Sanilmon and V. A. Sreejith were among those who attended the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-corporation-building-to-be-ready-by-next-onam-mayor/article36746566.ece
30 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Health dept. nod for KEIL to process biomedical waste in five districts||The Health Department has ratified the recommendation by the Kerala State Pollution Control Board to permit Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL) at Ambalamedu here to collect and process biomedical waste generated in government and private healthcare institutions across five districts that include Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki. The rest of the biomedical waste generated in government and private healthcare institutions in nine districts, which include Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Thrissur, Malappuram, Palakkad, Wayanad, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod, will be collected and processed at the common facility of the Indian Medical Association Goes Eco Friendly (IMAGE) in Palakkad. The Principal Secretary of the Department of Health and Family Welfare made the government position clear in the report submitted before the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal that had taken suo motu notice of the poor compliance in the implementation of Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016 in the State. Quoting the order issued by the State Pollution Control Board, the report stated that KEIL can collect and process biomedical waste from government and private healthcare institutions in the five districts going by the guideline prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board that a common treatment facility shall be allowed to cater for the healthcare institutions located within a radius of 75 kilometres. KEIL was initially permitted to process biomedical waste generated in three districts including Ernakulam, Malappuram and Pathanamthitta. The company had pointed out that the operation of the plant, having the capacity to treat 16 tonnes daily, was not viable with the reduced quantity of waste obtained from government healthcare institutions in three districts. The data uploaded on the Central Pollution Control Board’s tracking app for COVID-19 biomedical waste showed that the Ambalamedu plant was getting only 3 to 4 tonnes of both COVID-19 and non-COVID biomedical waste from government hospitals in Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Malappuram. The board’s order extending the purview of the facility to five districts came into effect from September 1. The Southern Bench of the tribunal had asked the government to examine whether more hospitals can be connected with the facility of KEIL. The Palakkad facility of IMAGE was the only common facility in the State until the KEIL’s plant received the consent to operate on May 11.  KEIL was initially permitted to process refuse generated in Ernakulam, Malappuram and Pathanamthitta The order extending the purview of the facility came into effect from September 1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-dept-nod-for-keil-to-process-biomedical-waste-in-five-districts/article36746574.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC slams police for not obeying order||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday slammed the police for visiting the residence of a father and son in Kollam at midnight despite the court’s directive not to arrest them in connection with an attack case. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the order on a petition filed by O. Udayakumar and his wife and two sons alleging police harassment. Allegation He alleged that the Ezhukone police had entered his house at midnight and threatened the residents. He and his two sons were arraigned as accused in an attack case filed by their neighbours. In fact, he had obtained an order from the High Court directing the police not to arrest him. Court directive The court also directed the Superintendent of Police, Kollam, to inform the court regarding the allegation. One could not even comprehend why the police officers went to the house of the petitioner on September 9 and that too late in the evening, despite the High Court directive not to arrest the petitioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-slams-police-for-not-obeying-order/article36746557.ece
30 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||UDF to move no-confidence motion against panel chairman||The United Democratic Front (UDF) councillors in the Town Planning Standing Committee of the Kochi Corporation have issued a notice for a no-confidence motion against its chairman Sanilmon. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the UDF have four members each in the nine-member committee and one seat remains vacant following the death of councillor K.K. Sivan. It was following the shifting of loyalty of M.H.M. Ashraf, who won the corporation council election from Kochangadi division as a CPI(M) candidate, to the UDF that prompted the Congress-led front to give the notice for the no-confidence motion. Incidentally, Mr. Ashraf had severed his relationship with the CPI(M) and resigned his party membership protesting against the decision of the party not to consider him for the chairperson post. With Mr. Ashraf shifting his allegiance, the ruling LDF lost its majority in the committee. Currently, Mr. Sanilmon, who won the contest as a Congress rebel, is heading the committee with the backing of the LDF. Addressing mediapersons this afternoon, Mr. Ashraf said the civic administration lacked transparency. The Mayor had cleared the files of several projects without placing them in the Kochi Corporation council, he alleged. Congress councillors Antony Kureethara, A.R. Padmadas, Sakkir Thammanam, Mini Dileep and Suja Lonappan attended the press conference. Responding to the developments, Mayor M. Anilkumar said more councillors from the opposition benches would support the ruling dispensation in the coming days. He also denied the allegations raised by Mr. Ashraf. The CPI(M) will issue a whip to Mr. Ashraf who contested and won the election in the party symbol. He may invite disqualification as a member of the council if he violates the party whip, Mr. Anilkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-panel-chairman/article36746567.ece
30 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tussle for Secretary’s chair continues||The drama continues in Thrikkakara with two officials claiming the position of the municipal Secretary. Krishna Kumar, who was transferred out of the municipality but got a stay order on the transfer and the newly-appointed secretary Anil Kumar continued to attend to office affairs on Wednesday. Urban affairs department sources said that the situation was being looked into, and a decision would be taken immediately though no decision was taken on Wednesday. The issue arose a fortnight ago when Mr. Krishna Kumar was transferred out of the municipality and Mr. Anil Kumar was appointed the new Secretary. The tussle between the officials has added to the developments in the municipality, which had seen a no-confidence motion against Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan of the Congress party on September 23. The discussion on the motion could not be taken up as there were not enough councillors for discussions to fill the quorum as both Congress and Muslim League councillors as well as four rebel members stayed away from joining the council meeting.  Mediation attempt It is learnt that the Chairperson had tried to mediate on the tussle over the Secretary’s position, which had failed to achieve a solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tussle-for-secretarys-chair-continues/article36746575.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,526 new cases in Ernakulam||As many as 1,526 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. A total of 1,491 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 28 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate was 12.6%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 40 included Varapetti (51), Thripunithura (46), Thrikkakara (44), Kavalangad (43), and Puthenvelikkara (42). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Amballoor, Aarakuzha, Edavanakad, Thammanam, Kalady, Chellanam, Panampilly Nagar, Elamkulam, Koothattukulam, Edakochi, and Mundamveli, according to an official release. Around 12,080 tests were conducted on Wednesday. About 22,523 persons are under treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1526-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article36746560.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Modified order in the pipeline, govt. tells HC||The State government has informed the Kerala High Court that it has decided to issue a modified order for conducting higher investigations and tests on custodial persons brought by the police for medical examinations based on the recommendations of the medical officers who examine such persons. The submission was made on Wednesday when a writ petition filed by Parathibha seeking to allow doctors, who conduct medical examination of the accused brought by the police, to prescribe tests as the doctors deemed fit and proper came up for hearing. The petition was filed in the context of the recommendations made by the K. Narayayana Kurup Commission which had inquired into the custodial death of Rajkumar of Idukki. The commission had recommended that the Director of Health Services and the Director of Medical Education be directed to ensure that all persons brought by the police for medical examination are subjected to an initial screening to unearth the "iceberg phenomenon" by directing the medical officer to order tests such as renal profile, urine myoglobin, creatine phosphokinase (CPK), and C-reactive protein (CRP) tests besides ultrasound scanning of the abdomen to rule out any internal injury. Accordingly, the Health Department had issued an order directing to conduct the tests as suggested by the commission. The government submitted that the order had created confusion among the police and medical practitioners. The State Police Chief had also reported that the order might force the police not to arrest any accused person. Besides, the prison authorities had started demanding screening certificates in accordance with the new circular before admitting the accused persons in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modified-order-in-the-pipeline-govt-tells-hc/article36746625.ece
30 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Couple arrested on charge of cheating||The Maradu police on Wednesday arrested a couple on the charge of cheating a businessman by promising to secure agreement for trading sugar between Brazil and Ghana. The arrested were identified as Mrunal Divedya, 35, of Surat in Gujarat, and wife Kajal Mrunal Divedya, 26. They were nabbed from Surat. The accused allegedly cheated a Thripunithura-based businessman engaged in import-export trade, by promising to secure him a trade agreement for dealing in sugar. Subsequently, the businessman was approached by a Surat-based firm named Kajal Agro Foods, which claimed an advance of Rs. 1 crore after detaching him what was claimed to be the bill of lading documents for the said trade. The businessman duly complied and sent the money to the account of the accused. Later, he was told that the order had been dispatched by ship and given relevant documents. As he grew suspicious, the businessman checked the veracity of the documents, including that of the bill of lading, shipping and other documents and found them to be forged. Following his petition, the Maradu police registered a case and launched a probe on September 9. The police traced them back to Surat based on their mobile phone call records. The accused were produced before the court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-arrested-on-charge-of-cheating/article36746568.ece
30 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Samooh to bring out complete works of Sanoo||The Samoohya Samrambhaka Co-operative Society (Samooh), which has played a role in the conceptualisation and execution of the Krithi International Book Fair in the city, is now stepping into the publishing sector by bringing out the complete works of critic and writer M.K. Sanoo. “The first-of-its-kind work compiles all the books written by Sanoo Master in his literary career spanning over 70 years. The ‘Complete Collection of Prof. M.K. Sanoo’ covers over 60 books and will be launched in a single edition, having several volumes,” said S. Ramesan, its editor, here on Wednesday. The prepublication scheme will be rolled out next month when book enthusiasts can place the order. The book will be released by December 2022. Mr. Ramesan said many works of the eminent writer were currently unavailable in the market after their publishers went out of business. “Also, readers no longer have access to his early critical essays, prefaces written for books, articles that he wrote for dailies, magazines as well as his speeches, and literary notes. This single book comprises all of that and will be a priceless collection to book enthusiasts,” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/samooh-to-bring-out-complete-works-of-sanoo/article36746570.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||College to celebrate ruby jubilee||The year-long ruby jubilee celebrations of Aquinas College, Kochi, will begin on October 1. R. Bindu, Minister for Higher Education, will inaugurate the programme marking 40 years of the college at its auditorium at 3 p.m.. Joseph Kariyil, Bishop of Cochin, will preside over the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-to-celebrate-ruby-jubilee/article36746558.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Nurse killed in road accident||A nurse on her way to duty died after her scooter rammed a speeding tipper at Mookkannoor near Angamaly on Wednesday around 6.45 a.m. The deceased was identified as Sunitha, 37, of Ayyampilly in Thuravur. Reportedly, the tipper that was speeding along suddenly applied brakes, following which the victim’s scooter rammed it from the back. Though she was rushed to a nearby hospital, she died of the injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nurse-killed-in-road-accident/article36746571.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Special drive to nab absconding accused||In a special drive, the Ernakulam rural police have arrested 107 absconding persons, who have been evading courts. Among these, 13 had long-pending warrants against them while 94 had non-bailable warrants issued against them by various courts. The special drive is being conducted by forming special teams in all 34 police stations within the rural limits. K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), said that the drive would continue in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-drive-to-nab-absconding-accused/article36746572.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Transwoman found dead||A transwoman was found hanging in her rented accommodation at Ponekkara in the early morning hours on Wednesday. The deceased person was identified as Shradha, 22, of Veliyan in Kollam district. The victim was sharing the facility with two other transwomen. The Elamakkara police suspect it to be a case of suicide. The body was found when one of the room-mates returned around 2 a.m. The transwoman found the door locked and the victim’s mobile phone switched off. On further search through an open window, the room-mate found the victim hanging. The police brought down the body after breaking into the room in the presence of the victim’s family. “We have no idea what prompted the victim to take the extreme action. Even the room-mates were found to have no clue. We will have to look into the mobile phone call details as well,” said the police. The body is being kept at the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, where a post mortem will be conducted on Thursday. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal - 0495-2760000 and DISHA - 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transwoman-found-dead-in-room/article36746573.ece
30 September 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Boat seized for using banned net||The Fisheries Department seized a boat for allegedly using the banned pelagic fishing net during the course of a drive conducted in the wake of widespread complaints about fishing using the banned gear. The boat named Prosper based in Beypore was slapped with a fine of Rs. 2.50 lakh and the banned fishing net worth around Rs. 2 lakh was also seized. The proceeds worth Rs. 62,000 from the sale of the catch were also attached to the government. The boat operator was issued a strict warning since the pelagic fishing method is considered destructive of marine wealth. Special squad The department has formed a special squad to strictly deal with violation of marine fishing regulations. The drive will continue in the coming days as well. Violations will be strictly fined, and the fine will be doubled for repeated offence. More stringent measures like cancellation of boat registration and licence will also be adopted. A team led by Vypeen Fisheries Assistant Director P. Aneesh, Inspector of Guard Rajeev Kumar, marine enforcement officials Manoj, Subheesh, Krishnakumar, Surat, and Vinu seized the boat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boat-seized-for-using-banned-pelagic-net/article36746569.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KCBC flays critics of pastoral warnings||The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) on Wednesday issued a statement aimed at critics of the Pala Bishop for his “narcotics jihad” statement, maintaining that the council “rejects in unison all forms of interpretations which undermine religious harmony and weaken healthy co-existence in the society by mischievously twisting the warnings of the pastors of this church.” A statement issued by Fr, Jacob G. Palackappilly, spokesperson, said that when a social evil was pointed out, a deeper study and serious inquiry should be conducted on that “without giving a different hue to the matters, diverting them to unintended directions”. The KCBC, it said, disapproved of any covert attempts to show that there was disunity among the churches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcbc-flays-critics-of-pastoral-warnings/article36746541.ece
30 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Gandhi Jayanti celebrations||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal will inaugurate the district-level Gandhi Jayanti celebrations at the Gandhi Park on the Kollam beach on October 2. Mayor Prasanna Earnest will preside. N.K. Premachandran and K. Somaprasad, MPs, will be the guests of honour. M. Mukesh, MLA, will deliver the Gandhi Jayanti message and M. Naushad, MLA, the memorial lecture. Collector Afsana Parveen, district panchayat president Sam K. Daniel and deputy mayor Kollam Madhu will attend the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gandhi-jayanti-celebrations/article36746614.ece
30 September 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Online training on dairy products||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training programme on manufacturing value-added products from milk. The session will be held from 11 a.m. on September 30. Those who want to attend the programme can WhatsApp their name and details to 9947775978 or call 04762698550 till 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-training-on-dairy-products/article36746615.ece
30 September 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||886 new cases, 1,240 recoveries in Kottayam||The number of new COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kottayam with 886 persons testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. Of the cases, 868 persons, including four health workers, contracted the virus through local transmission. With 97 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Manjoor, which recorded 46 cases . As many as 1,240 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 5,901. Meanwhile, 55,890 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Kollam reported 841 new cases of COVID-19 and 125 recoveries on Wednesday. While 826 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include three persons from other States and 12 health workers. At present the district has 39,176 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 24,35,613. While 3,289 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 3,76,783 primary and 20,751 secondary contacts of the cases. The test positivity rate in Kollam is 13.84 %. In Pathanamthitta, 458 persons tested positive during the day. Of this, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of two cases were yet to be ascertained. With 43 cases, Kalanjoor reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamthitta, which reported 33 cases. The disease also claimed seven lives in the district. With 991 recoveries on the day, the number of active cases stood at 7,224.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/886-new-cases-1240-recoveries-in-kottayam/article36746619.ece
30 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corporation to take private land on lease to set up mini MCFs||The Kozhikode Corporation has decided to take private land on lease to set up mini material collection facilities (MCFs) in all wards. At present, only four of the 75 wards have their own mini MCFs. In a submission at the corporation council meeting on Tuesday, Edakkad councillor T. Muralidharan said the absence of mini MCFs affected the functioning of the Haritha Karma Sena (HKS). It also affected the income of its members. There are 564 HKS members in the corporation. They are recruited locally. But there is scarcity of HKS members in a few wards, as they are reluctant to come forward owing to lack of basic facilities. “What the HKS collects from houses and establishments is not necessarily waste. There could be certain things that could be reused or sold off to scrap dealers. However, in the absence of mini MCFs, HKS members are unable to segregate waste collected locally and thus are missing out on their additional income,” Mr. Muralidharan said. He added that a few HKS units had earned up to Rs. 1 lakh in some months from the sale of such materials. The councillor requested the corporation to set up mini MCFs in all wards. If corporation land is not available, private land could be taken on lease, and the civic body could pay the lease amount, he suggested. Mr. Muralidharan also demanded that the corporation issue an order making monthly payment from houses and establishments to HKS members mandatory, as a step to ensure minimum wages for them. “The Rs. 60 per bag of non-biodegradable waste collected from each house per month is the only income for HKS at present. But some residents combine the bags to minimise the amount payable to HKS. This takes a toll on the income of HKS members,” he said. Mr. Muralidharan also suggested that the fees paid to HKS be linked to building tax in such a way that the receipt issued by HKS is mandatory to pay tax. Mayor Beena Philip accepted Mr. Muralidharan’s suggestions and said steps would be taken soon to open mini MCFs in all wards and to ensure minimum wages for HKS members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-to-take-private-land-on-lease-to-set-up-mini-mcfs/article36746551.ece
30 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Twenty-one IT firms from Kozhikode for global tech expo||As many as 21 out of a total of 30 companies from Kozhikode will take part in the five-day global technology exhibition (GITEX) to be held in Dubai from October 17. GITEX is an annual technology event attended by hundreds of IT companies from across the world. This is the first international tech event where the participating companies will have an opportunity to attend directly after a gap of one-and-a-half years due to the emergence of COVID-19, a press release said here on Wednesday. In addition to opportunities to present products and services, the companies can discover new markets and partners during the event. The event is a gateway to the international market for smaller IT companies from Kerala. Incidentally, a majority of the participants are from the government-run Cyber Park, Kozhikode. Besides, 19 start-ups from the State are participating, the release added. John M. Thomas, Chief Executive Officer, Kerala IT Parks, too will be participating in the event. Vijith Sivadasan, a participant and co-founder and promoter of Codelattice, said it was an excellent opportunity for tech companies from Kerala, primarily because of its geographical attributes and proximity to West Asia. “GITEX will be a perfect avenue for Kerala start-ups seeking funds to scale or meet potential customers for their services and products,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twenty-one-it-firms-from-kozhikode-for-global-tech-expo/article36746545.ece
30 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||MLA apprehensive of ecosystem disruption at Thusharagiri||P.T. Thomas, MLA, has expressed apprehension over the possible disruption of ecosystem at Thusharagiri if the disputed 24 acres are handed back to the original owners based on the recent Supreme Court order. Speaking after visiting Thusharagiri in Kozhikode district as part of a mass tour to the location under the aegis of the All Kerala River Protection Committee (AKRPC) on Wednesday, the MLA said maintaining the three waterfalls here in pristine state was key to ensuring the continuation of the Thusharagiri Eco Tourism Project, which earns the Tourism Department a sizeable revenue. Mr. Thomas said he would present the issue in the forthcoming Assembly session on October 5 and demand that no steps that resulted in the loss of the pristine forest land be taken by the government. He added that the land should remain in the custody of the Forest Department. Members of the administrative panel of Kodenchery grama panchayat who accompanied him to Thusharagiri also expressed a similar opinion. Panchayat president Alex Thomas said the land should be retained even if the original owners had to be compensated. The land in question, which was agricultural land 20 years ago, was acquired by the State under the Ecologically Fragile Land Act after widespread tree felling was reported and environmentalist created an uproar. The land has, over the years, developed into a dense forest and has two major waterfalls, which are the greatest attractions of Thusharagiri and are the key components of the Thusharagiri Eco Tourism Project. Waterfalls AKRPC had earlier expressed apprehension that the waterfalls might get affected if the land is handed back to the original owners and in turn the very existence of Chalipuzha, the river that originates from the waterfalls. The team comprised AKRPC vice presidents Gopalakrishna Murthy and K. Rajan and General Secretary T.V.Rajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-apprehensive-of-ecosystem-disruption-at-thusharagiri/article36746534.ece
30 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||More women-led micro enterprises to come up in Kozhikode||The Society for Assistance to Fisherwoman (SAF) under the Fisheries Department has decided to facilitate the opening of more micro enterprises led by women’s groups in Kozhikode district with attractive grants and loan schemes. To ensure the participation of youngsters, help will be offered to set up modern business ventures in tourism, fashion design, and boutique management. The supportive scheme, which aims to back conventional business ventures in the fisheries sector, offers 75% of the total working capital as grant. A group will have to find only 5% of the total cost, as the rest will be arranged as bank loan. The products and services will have to be branded as Theeramythri. Self-employment Woman entrepreneurs associated with micro enterprises in the district said they had been getting alternative self-employment opportunities through the scheme with a satisfactory income. According to Fisheries Department officials, interested women’s groups comprising members aged between 20 and 40 can choose any of the suitable ventures from the approved options. There should be at least two to five members in a group to meet the eligibility criteria, they said. SAF district coordinator N.P. Shyama said there were 139 successful micro enterprises managed by women in Kozhikode district alone at present. “Many such units are functioning in garment and furnishing sectors. This year, we are planning to support 80 more entrepreneurs after screening,” she added.  There are 139 successful micro enterprises managed by women in Kozhikode district, and many such units are functioning in garment and furnishing sectors. N.P. Shyama SAF district coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-women-led-micro-enterprises-to-come-up-in-kozhikode/article36746555.ece
30 September 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut varsity students yet to get grace marks updated||The Calicut University authorities have been urged to extend the last date of application for postgraduate and B.Ed courses, as students are yet to get their grace marks updated in their grade card. P. Rasheed Ahammed, Syndicate member, said in a letter to Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj that many students had complained that they were not able to include grace marks before the last date for filing applications. For PG courses in Calicut University, the last date is October 4 and for B.Ed courses, it was September 21. It has been over a month since the university declared results of the undergraduate courses. The delay in getting grace marks added denies the students a chance to apply for courses of their choice in other universities or even Calicut University itself. It is learnt that both the University of Kerala and Mahatma Gandhi University had already provided grace marks to students. “A student may get grace marks for participating in National Cadet Corps, National Service Scheme, arts festivals, and sports meets. The marks can go up to 100. This means that if they are not included in the grade card, the student will miss out a chance to get a course of choice,” Mr. Ahammed pointed out. According to sources, the delay in uploading marks is caused by the software, as officials will have to manually add details and cross-check facts. “It will take at least 15 minutes to complete the process. It can be delayed up to a day,” an official said. Mr. Ahammed urged the Vice Chancellor to extend the last date of application for PG and B.Ed programmes till the completion of distribution of updated grace cards to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-students-yet-to-get-grace-marks-updated/article36746544.ece
30 September 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIM-K students bag 100% internship placements||Despite the COVID-19 scenario, the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode (IIM-K), has successfully wrapped up the summer placements drive with 100% internship placements for its 25th batch of Postgraduate Programme (PGP), the second batches of PGP Liberal Studies and Management, and PGP Finance by the third day of the recruitment week. The cohort comprised 39% women candidates and 40% non-engineering candidates with an average 26 months of pre-MBA work experience, a news release said here on Wednesday. The season attracted participation from 132 recruiters, including 64 new recruiters, who offered internships to 559 students, at an average stipend of Rs. 2 lakh per annum, a 6.4% increase in the last year’s figures. The highest stipend was pegged at Rs. 3.74 lakh. The median stipend was recorded at Rs. 2 lakh with the top 50% of students securing an average stipend of Rs. 2.57 lakh. Debashis Chatterjee, Director, IIM-K, said the ability to secure a broad mandate of offers amidst a challenging economic and business environment was possible due to an encouraging participation from recruiters and the support of the alumni. Qambar Abidi, Placements Chairperson, thanked the recruiters for their continued confidence in IIM-K’s talent pool. “I am grateful to the IIM-K alumni, who have been a pillar of enduring support to the institute, particularly in this pandemic-affected time,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-students-bag-100-internship-placements/article36746549.ece
30 September 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Rahul accuses Modi of dividing people||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP of Wayanad constituency, lashed out at the Centre and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of destroying the bond that existed among the people. He said the current government had scant regard for the great history of the country, and warned that the government would not go far without respecting India’s diversity. “If the Prime Minister is breaking the relationships between the people of India, then he is shattering the very idea of India,” said Mr. Gandhi. He was speaking after inaugurating a dialysis centre launched by the Haven of Intimacy and Meaningful Atmosphere (HIMA), an educational charitable trust with Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal as its chief patron, at Adakkakundu, Kalikavu, on Wednesday. Presenting the A.P. Bapu Haji Memorial HIMA-Thanal Dialysis Centre, which he inaugurated, as a classic example of communal harmony, Mr. Gandhi lashed out at Mr. Modi. “How can I go to the people of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, who have a history of thousands of years, and claim to know them? I have to go there with humility. Otherwise, how can I define what India is?” he said. Mr. Gandhi also interacted with the inmates of the HIMA Care Home and attended a board meeting of the HIMA, presided over by Sayed Sadikali Shihab Thangal. Mr. Thangal sought Mr. Gandhi’s help for an ambitious project aimed at providing care and treatment for the mentally challenged. Abdussamad Samadani, MP, translated Mr. Gandhi’s speech. Opposition Leader V.D. Satheesan, P.V. Abdul Wahab, MP, Congress leaders K.C. Venugopal, A.P. Anil Kumar, MLA, Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama general secretary Alikutty Musliar, Kozhikode Kazi Sayed Mohammed Koya Jamalullaili, and HIMA general secretary Fareed Rahmani were among those who spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-accuses-modi-of-dividing-people/article36746537.ece
30 September 2021||MYSURU,KERALA||No major Dasara works this year||With this year’s Dasara celebrations remaining a simple affair with all major events cancelled over the pandemic situation, like last year, the city beautification works will now be confined to filling up the potholes on major roads, particularly in the central business district. The Mysuru City Corporation has no plans of relaying roads even in the city centre as tenders to the tune of only Rs. 2 crore had been approved. The work primarily includes filling up the potholes. Tourist footfall may not be on the expected lines this year. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy said the pothole filling works are expected to begin in full pace in the next couple of days as the respective tenders had been approved. “We hope to fill up potholes on all major roads before the inauguration.” As of now, there are no plans of blacktopping roads which have turned bad in most places with no works taking place since last year. To a query, the Commissioner said, “We have plans of asphalting roads using some grants. If we get approvals for the city improvement works, we will blacktop the key roads and this work may be done before the year-end.” Mr. Reddy also said that 180 workers have been roped in for 10 days for working in the night shifts for cleaning up the city roads during the festivities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-major-dasara-works-this-year/article36746624.ece
30 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad’s plummeting CD ratio causes concern||A district-level banking review meeting here on Wednesday raised concern at the sharp fall in Palakkad’s credit-deposit (CD) ratio. Several banks were pulled up for failing to disburse loans in the first quarter ending June. Reviewing the banking statistics, Lead District Officer and Assistant General Manager of the Reserve Bank of India V.V. Visakh urged the banks to raise the CD ratio to an ideal 75%. “You should spend a minimum of three-fourths as loans,” Mr. Visakh said. He warned that Kerala had become the State with the lowest CD ratio in the country. “This is a matter of serious concern. You are making deposits; and other States are giving in loans,” he said. The meeting suggested that an action plan be formulated for public sector banks to improve their credits. The banks in the district could achieve only 15% of the target in the last quarter. When public sector banks attained only 9%, private sector banks 12%, and cooperative banks 25%. Banks such as Axis Bank, CSB Bank, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, Karur Vysya Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, Yes Bank, and ESAF Bank were found to have performed abysmally, especially in disbursing educational and industrial loans. The meeting underscored that the district had immense potential for industrial loans. Be humane Addressing the meeting, Ramya Haridas, MP, urged the banks to treat the requests for educational loans in a humane manner. “Use your knowledge and expertise that you gained from elsewhere for the development of this district. And show a human face while dealing with educational loan requests, because that will be an investment of much larger value,” she said. Mr. Visakh too urged the banks to be empathetic when dealing with educational loans. Appoint nodal officer He also suggested that all banks appoint a nodal officer for improved communication with the Lead Bank. “The district development officer is the single point of contact for the people and their representatives. Communication with the banks will become easier only if they have a nodal officer,” he said. Kavitha Ram, assistant general manager of NABARD, urged the banks to promote long-term lending in agriculture. Non-farm sector She also asked them to focus on non-farming sector lending. The district’s credit in non-farming sector was found low. Deputy Collector for Revenue Recovery Abbas V.E., citing a particular example in an SBI loan recovery, raised the government’s concern at the failure of the bank in paying 7.5% due to the Revenue Department. SBI regional manager Anandanarayanan K.R. said he would examine the case in question.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkads-plummeting-cd-ratio-causes-concern/article36746694.ece
30 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Banking review resumes offline||The district-level review committee (DLRC) meeting of the banks in Palakkad resumed offline here on Wednesday after a long period of uncertainties because of the COVID-19 lockdown. Additional District Magistrate Manikandan K. presided over the meeting. Ramya Haridas, V.K. Sreekandan, MPs, and district panchayat president K. Binumol reviewed the performance of banks in the first quarter ending June. The banks in the district had disbursed Rs. 2,383 crore in the quarter, covering only 15.23% of the Annual Credit Plan. Lending details When Rs. 959 crore was given to agriculture, Rs. 186 crore went to micro small and medium scale enterprises, and Rs. 672 crore to other priority sectors, including education and housing. Lead District Divisional Manager Sreenath R.P. said Rs. 1,818 crore had been given to the priority sector. Deposits of Rs. 56,647 cr. The total deposits in the banks stood at Rs. 56,647 crore compared to Rs. 48,317 crore in the last year’s first quarter. Loans given to Kudumbashree units won special appreciation at the meeting as the Kudumbashree ayalkoottams were found to have taken an exceptional initiative in ensuring timely repayment. Canara Bank regional head and assistant general manager Govind Hari Narayanan, Reserve Bank of India assistant general manager and lead district officer V.V. Visakh, NABARD assistant general manager Kavitha Ram supervised the review. Representatives of 34 banks and 23 government departments attended the meeting through offline and online modes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/banking-review-resumes-offline/article36746695.ece
30 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Nehru Group to ink pact with Ramco Cements||The Nehru Group of Institutions will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Ramco Cements on Wednesday as part of strengthening the industry-academy linkage. The agreement will open up opportunities for students studying in various technical institutions under the Nehru Group to do internship in Ramco plants and to conduct studies by associating with the engineers of the company. Mutually beneficial Anil Kumar Pillai, general manager of Ramco Cements Technical Services, said here on Tuesday that the agreement would be mutually beneficial and that Ramco’s experts would frequently lead workshops and seminars for the students. K. Radhakrishnan, advisor to the Nehru Group, said that strengthening the academia-industry linkage had become the need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nehru-group-to-ink-pact-with-ramco-cements/article36746692.ece
30 September 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad rail division hails new goods train||A special type of goods train carrying various heavy-duty equipment used for road construction reached Palakkad Junction on Tuesday. Railway authorities received the train with enthusiasm as it was the first such train to reach the Palakkad Railway Division in recent years. Officials said the train with 31 flat wagons carrying Torres trucks, excavators, blue metal crusher units, bitumen mixing plants, ready-mix units was an indicator for the increasing goods traffic after the lockdown. Railways have been promoting goods traffic in different forms, including Ro-Ro (roll on-and-roll off), trucks. The train carrying the equipment had started from Jabalpur and was bound for Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-rail-division-hails-new-goods-train/article36746693.ece
30 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||47 doctors from GH posted to Konni MCH||In a significant move, the State government has posted 47 of the 50 medical doctors attached to the Pathanamthitta General Hospital (GH) to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Konni, on a ‘deemed deputation basis.’ The move comes just days ahead of a proposed visit of the National Medical Commission (NMC) to the medical college. The list of doctors posted on deputation also include hospital superintendent Taj Paul and deputy superintendent C.R. Jayasankar, besides the resident medical officer. While the move has raised concerns over the functioning of the General Hospital, the authorities have clarified that the deputation did not warrant a relocation of these doctors. “The move is in line with an order in 2015 which renamed the Pathanamthitta General Hospital as Government Medical College and envisages a deemed deputation to the employees there. This is being implemented as part of an attempt to obtain recognition for the MCH as per provisions of the NMC Act,” explained Veena George, Health Minister. The order in 2015 stipulated that those with postgraduate degree or diploma will be redesignated as assistant professors and senior residents respectively while the assistant surgeons will be redesignated as jor residents. 100 students first According to the Minister, facilities have been provided for admission of students starting from the academic year 2022-23 in accordance with the regulations of the Kerala University of Health Sciences. Following an approval from the varsity, it has now been submitted to the NMC. The authorities intend to admit as many as 100 students in the first year. In addition to the recruitments to 394 posts created in the medical college, the National Health Mission too has recruited staff for treatment of COVID-19 and related activities.  ‘Deemed deputation’ does not warrant doctors’ relocation, say authorities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/47-doctors-from-gh-posted-to-konni-mch/article36746616.ece
30 September 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pandalam municipality in deep crisis||Amidst wrangling between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led ruling council and the rival fronts, the Pandalam municipality appears to be sinking into a deeper crisis with no official ready to hold charge as secretary of the civic body. Municipal secretary S. Jayakumar has been on leave since September 9 soon after handing over a letter to the Department of Local Self-Government, seeking a dissolution of the administrative council for its failure to get the annual Budget passed before March 31. According to the letter, the Budget presented on March 22 did not comply with various sections of the Kerala Municipalities Act of 1994. Alternative too fails It further pointed to violations in the functioning of a sanitation committee in the civic body as the ground for seeking the dissolution. With the official on leave for a longer period, the government handed over charge to S.S. Binil Kumar, an assistant engineer (AE) with the civic body. The arrangement has fallen flat with the official too abstaining from duty. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have launched a scathing attack on the council chaired by Susheela Santosh, accusing her of triggering the administrative impasse. The BJP has refused to concede an inch, turning the council meetings into damp squibs. Police intervention The stand-off reached a flash point on Tuesday when a meeting of the municipal council ended on an intervention by the police. As both the AE and his standby were on leave, the meeting began with a second-grade overseer holding the secretary’s charge. With the ruling council and the Opposition sticking to their stances, the meeting turned into a shouting match. The police intervened and dispersed the crowd. BJP stance While the UDF and the LDF blamed the municipal chairperson for the impasse, the BJP accused the Opposition of putting the public in distress for political advantage. “The Opposition are forcing the officials to keep offf and create troubles in administration,” said Ms. Santhosh. The BJP on Wednesday staged a day-long protest in front of the municipal office, while the UDF took out a police station march.  Municipal secretary wanted administrative council dissolved LDF, UDF blame ruling BJP for impasse||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pandalam-municipality-in-deep-crisis/article36746617.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New initiative to put paid to child marriages||In its attempts to curb child marriages, the government has decided to sensitise the public on the ill-effects of such alliances and publicise the Ponvakk project for preventing them. Worried by the failure to report child marriages, the government had earlier decided to incentivise tip-offs by the public to the Women and Child Development Department that will help prevent such marriages. As part of Ponvakk, a reward of Rs. 2,500 will be given to those who inform the department of such marriages before they are solemnised. An amount of Rs. 5 lakh has been already sanctioned by the State government for granting the incentive to the informers, and funds were handed over to the District Women and Child Development Officers for implementing the project this year. All 258 child marriage prohibition officers in the State have been directed to inform people’s representatives, officials of local self-government institutions, and the public about the Ponvakk project and on receiving information about such marriages, take immediate steps to prevent them. Identity secret Steps have also taken to ensure that the identity of informers is kept a secret. The District Women and Child Development Officer will hand over the reward only if details are provided in advance of the marriage and proven true. Those who provide information after the marriage will not be eligible for the reward. If there is more than one informant, those who provide the details first will be given the incentive. Directions have also been given to set up an e-mail address in each district on which information can be provided. The e-mail id and phone number should be displayed in anganwadis, besides being widely disseminated. Each complaint should be allotted a special case number that will be used as a reference number. Last month, the department had directed all child marriage prohibition officers to take action if they got information from authorities or owners of wedding halls or mandapams that a child marriage was taking place. The action against child marriages comes in the wake of the department receiving 266 complaints of child marriage during the period from January 2019 to July 2020. As many as 220 marriages were prevented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-initiative-to-end-child-marriages/article36746539.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||High drama at Corpn. council||The city Corporation council witnessed unruly scenes for the second time in a week, with councillors of the Opposition BJP disrupting the proceedings, demanding a discussion on issues related to revenue collection. Mayor Arya Rajendran suspended BJP councillor V.G. Girikumar for alleged attempt to heckle Deputy Mayor P.K. Raju during the protests in the well of the council hall. Early on in the council meet, BJP councillor M.R. Gopan demanded that time should be allocated for a discussion on the recent cases of alleged corruption in the Corporation's zonal offices. He demanded that the Corporation should open a help desk for the public to check whether they have lost any money due to fund misappropriation by officials in the zonal offices. Refusing permission for the discussion, the Mayor said it was the Corporation administration itself that had unearthed the corruption carried out by some officials in zonal offices, and it was not right for others to claim credit for the same and blame the administration. "As soon as the case of corruption was reported in the Sreekaryam zonal office, we wrote to the local fund audit director, requesting for inspection in all zonal offices. Two officials were suspended in the Sreekaryam zonal office, while the superintendent and the cashier of the Nemom zonal office were suspended. Today, an office attendant from the Attipra zonal office was suspended. The report from four more zones are awaited, based on which action will be taken. A police case has also been registered over fund misappropriation," said the Mayor. Blame game However, the BJP councillors continued their sloganeering, accusing the ruling LDF of aiding corruption, prompting the LDF councillors to accuse the BJP of coming prepared for a protest and refusing to take part in any discussion. Mr. Girikumar refused to leave the council hall despite repeated reminders from the Mayor. As the sloganeering continued, the agenda items were passed without any discussion. After the meeting, the LDF councillors staged a protest in front of the Corporation office.  Mayor suspends BJP councillor Girikumar for ‘heckling’ Deputy Mayor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-drama-at-corpn-council/article36746798.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Call to use digital facilities for treating cardiac ailments||Digital facilities should be used more for treating cardiac ailments, especially in COVID times, so that patients can access cardiac treatment with ease. Cardiologists in the city who met here on Wednesday on the occasion of World Heart Day, said that innovative treatment methods rooted in technology can help reach medical care to people without delays. Digital Health Platform, Telemedicine and online consultation should be popularised, to help people access care easily. In most developing nations, these digital facilities have come to the aid of cardiac patients during COVID. Amenable to cure Even during the pandemic, majority of deaths happening across nations were more due to heart attacks and stroke. Almost 80% of the cardiac ailments are amenable to cure, doctors said. Cosmopolitan hospital in the city was one hospital which never allowed the pandemic to disrupt the cardiac care treatments it were offering. Primary angioplasty continued to be performed here for heart attack emergencies during the pandemic and doctors were willing to treat patients without waiting for COVID test results. This benefited many heart patients during the pandemic, doctors pointed out. Digital means of offering care will continue even when the pandemic has abated, they said Senior consultant cardiologists at Cosmopolitan hospital, George Koshy, Thomas Titus, R. Biju, R. Ajayakumar, P. Mangalanandan, B. Sunil and Aneesh John Padiyara took part in the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-use-digital-facilities-for-treating-cardiac-ailments/article36746786.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keltron’s 100 AI cameras set up for MVD’s ‘Safe Kerala’||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on Wednesday inaugurated the 100 artificial intelligence (AI) cameras developed by Keltron for the Motor Vehicle Department's (MVD) Safe Kerala project. Transport Minister Antony Raju said that the MVD had chosen Keltron for the project to develop a total of 700 AI cameras and allied instruments as it is known to possess the capability to develop such systems in a timely manner. Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, presided over the function. Other projects In addition to the 700 AI cameras, Keltron is also developing four speed violation cameras, 18 red light violation detection cameras and four mobile speed enforcement systems. The project cost is Rs. 235 crore. Keltron will also be doing the system management for five years as well as providing complete warranty.  Transport Minister Antony Raju says Keltron will develop a total of 700 AI cameras for the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keltrons-100-ai-cameras-for-mvd/article36746542.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hospital admissions down||The State reported 12,161 new cases on Wednesday when 90,394 samples were tested. The active case pool now has 1,43,500 patients, with 17,862 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. The Health Department states that only 12.7% of the active cases are admitted in hospitals or field hospitals. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality now stands at 24, 965 with the State adding 155 deaths to the official list of deaths. The ICU occupancy is also showing a consistent downward trend. The present ICU occupancy in both public and private hospitals went below the 2,000 mark after weeks and on Wednesday stood at 1,965. The number of patients requiring ventilator support was 832, sources said. The number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID came down to 1,284. Among districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of new cases at 1,541, followed by Ernakulam 1,526, Thiruvananthapuram 1,282, Kozhikode 1,275, Malappuram 1,017, Kottayam 886, Kollam 841, Palakkad 831, Kannur 666, Alappuzha 647, Idukki 606, Pathanamthitta 458, Wayanad 457 and Kasaragod 128.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospital-admissions-down/article36746627.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Priority ration card for 1.2 lakh families by Oct. 15||The State government on Wednesday kicked off the distribution of priority category ration cards to 1.2 lakh eligible families in the State. The distribution is expected to be completed by October 15. Inaugurating the distribution, Finance Minister K. N. Balagopal said the cards were part of the 1,42,187 priority category cards voluntarily surrendered to the government. The Civil Supplies Department had announced a grace period during which ineligible card holders could voluntarily return the cards without penalties. Mr. Balagopal said a sizeable number of cards are still in ineligible hands. The government will initiate action against individuals who continue to hold priority category cards without being eligible for it. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G. R. Anil said the distribution of the 1.2 lakh cards will be carried out through taluk supply offices. The priority cards will be distributed at public functions as the public need to know who the recipients are, he said. Transport Minister Antony Raju was the chief guest at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/priority-ration-card-for-12-lakh-families-by-oct-15/article36746632.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Bank records Rs. 61.99-cr. net profit in first full fiscal||The Kerala Bank has recorded a net profit of Rs. 61.99 crore in the first full financial year after its formation, Minister for Cooperation V.N. Vasavan has said. Speaking at a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Vasavan said that the bank posted an increase of 9.27% in deposits from Rs. 61,027 crore to Rs. 66,731 crore. The bank has a total business of Rs. 1,06,396 crore as on March 31, 2021. Mr. Vasavan said the bank had been able to bring down its non-performing assets (NPA) from over 25% during the time of merger to 14.40%, now at Rs. 5,738 crore. IT integration “Despite the first financial year of the bank coinciding with the COVID-19 pandemic, which was marked by economic devastation, Kerala Bank was able to achieve this. The majority of the customers are from the economically weaker sections. The information-technology integration processes will be completed within three months, which will lead to more NRI deposits and also help it compete with new-generation banks,” he said. The refinance loan through the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), which stood at Rs. 4,315 crore in 2019-20, rose to Rs. 6,058 crore in 2020-21, posting an increase of 40.39%. The accumulated loss of the bank stood at Rs. 1,151 crore during the merger of 13 district cooperative banks with the Kerala State Cooperative Bank to form Kerala Bank. This has been brought down to Rs. 714 crore. The capital-to-risk weighted assets ratio (CRAR), which was 6.26% at the time of formation of the bank, has touched 10.18% now. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had stipulated only 9% CRAR. The Rs. 400 crore that the Kerala government had pumped in is the main support that helped the bank to push up the CRAR. Focus areas The bank is focused on priority sectors of agriculture, service, trade, MSME, micro finance and rural housing. Its main focus is on disbursal of retail loans. It has disbursed a total of Rs. 18,200 crore loans directly and through Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) during the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-bank-records-rs-6199-cr-net-profit/article36746698.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Brother-in-law sets woman on fire||A 30-year-old woman sustained serious burns in an alleged attack by her brother-in-law who had set her ablaze after dousing her in petrol near Pothencode here on Wednesday noon. Police said the victim, identified as Vrinda, a native of Panimoola, has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital with 75% burns. Her condition is said to be critical. According to the Pothencode police, the accused, Subinlal, arrived in a car near a tailoring shop where Vrinda was working around noon. He barged into the shop, pulled out a bottle of petrol that was kept concealed and poured on her. As she ran out of the shop, he chased and hurled a lighted torch at her, setting her ablaze. Though the residents of a nearby house managed to put out the fire, Vrinda had sustained serious burns by then. She was rushed to the hospital. Family issues Meanwhile, Subinlal, who sped away from the spot in a car, was apprehended by the police near Muttathara in the city. When the police took him into custody, he claimed that he had consumed poison. His condition is said to be stable. The police said that as per preliminary investigations, family issues had led to the violent attack on Vrinda. She and her children have been living separately from her husband in recent months owing to the husband’s drinking problem. The immediate reason for the attack is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brother-in-law-sets-woman-on-fire/article36746799.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fisheries dept. seeks tips on rescue vessels||The Fisheries Department has sought suggestions from the Coast Guard for purchasing boats suitable for maritime search and rescue operations. Minister’s visit Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, during a visit to the Vizhinjam Station of the Coast Guard on Wednesday, requested suggestions in this regard for equipping the department with vessels capable of carrying out search and rescue within 20 nautical miles. According to the Minister, majority of the accidents reported at sea during the past five months had occurred within five nautical miles from the coast. The Coast Guard also made a detailed presentation on maritime search and rescue vessels on the occasion. Mr. Cherian said a coastal protection movement will be launched in the State with the help of the Coast Guard. He also commended the efforts taken by the Coast Guard to ensure the safety of fishers. The Minister also went on a sortie aboard a Coast Guard vessel as part of his visit. M. Vincent, MLA, and other government officials were present.  Minister requests suggestions from Coast Guard to equip department with capable vessels||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fisheries-dept-seeks-tips-on-rescue-vessels/article36746793.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Register antiquities with dept.: Devarkovil||Those in possession of antiquities that are over 100 years old should register the items with the Union Archaeology Department’s antiquity registration office to ensure these are antiquities and the persons have the right to possess them legally, Minister for Archaeology Ahammad Devarkovil has said. In a Facebook post on Wednesday, the Minister said that in Kerala, such an office functioned under the Archaeology Department’s Thrissur office, and the antiquity registration certificate issued by it was the authoritative document that permitted one to possess the antiquities. Testimonials The Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972, contained provisions for exchange of antiquities within India. Ownership of an object registered under the Act could change hands. Any antiquities, registered or not, could not be taken by individuals or organisations to countries outside India. Only the Union government had the right to export an antiquity from the country. In fact, a non-antiquity certificate was needed to sell or export objects that were not antiquities but appeared to be so. The Act had provisions for issuing testimonials that an object did not fall under the antiquities category. Only the Archaeology Department could issue such a testimonial. The certificate was issued after scrutiny by an expert committee, the Minister said. The Act also had provisions for issuing licence to traders of antiquities and non-antiquities. It was important for the public to get clarity on the right to possess antiquities, and take steps accordingly, the Minister said.  Only the Union govt. has the right to export an antiquity from the country, he says in a Facebook post||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/register-antiquities-with-department-devarkovil/article36746603.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Survey to identify economically weak||The Cabinet on Wednesday decided to conduct a socio-economic survey to identify the economically backward among forward community members. The decision has immense political import. Several influential social organisations, notably the Nair Service Society, had felt the reservation policy had bypassed the poorest among forward castes. The NSS had demanded at least a minimum quota for the economically disadvantaged among forward caste communities in government jobs and public-funded educational institutions. It felt the affirmative action for the poorest among forward caste communities would lift hundreds of people outside the current reservation system from poverty. The government has tasked the Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes Among Forward Communities to conduct the survey. Kudumbhashree workers, the State’s poverty eradication mission run exclusively by women, would lead the social survey. The survey would identify the most economically backward families from forward caste communities at the local self-government level. The government has sanctioned an initial amount of Rs. 80 lakh for the survey. The Cabinet also made police verification mandatory for appointments to government aided schools and colleges, public sector undertakings, welfare boards, development authorities, cooperative and Devasom institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-to-identify-economically-weak/article36746628.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Revenue Assemblies’ to be held every year||‘Revenue Assemblies,’ where MLAs get an opportunity to discuss and highlight important Revenue Department-related matters, will be held every year, Revenue Minister K. Rajan said on Wednesday. The Minister was addressing a function where Speaker M. B. Rajesh launched the ‘Revenue Dashboard’ where legislators can access Revenue Department-related information on their constituencies at the click of a mouse. As part of the efforts to turn services offered by the department’'smart,’ the department had organised the first of the district-level ‘Revenue Assemblies’ at the Institute of Land and Disaster Management (ILDM) in Thiruvananthapuram earlier this year. Suggestions and recommendations made by the MLAs in these sessions have been compiled and carried on the Revenue Dashboard. By logging into the dashboard using user IDs and passwords, the MLAs or their representatives can track the status and progress of schemes, files, applications, land acquisition programmes, and recommendations pertaining to individual constituencies. “'The dashboard serves to guarantee accountability and transparency in the department. Department officials will be more careful when handling issues and it also reduces opportunities for corruption,” Speaker Mr. Rajesh, said inaugurating the IT-based platform. At the district level, committees headed by Deputy Collectors (Revenue Recovery) have been formed to monitor the progress of works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revenue-assemblies-to-be-held-every-year/article36746630.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Uniform vernacular sign language alphabet out||The first uniform sign language alphabet in Malayalam will bring about a qualitative change in the lives of the hearing impaired, Minister for Social Justice R. Bindu has said. Releasing the alphabet developed by the National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH), in collaboration with the All Kerala Association of the Deaf, here on Wednesday, the Minister promised to look into its use in special schools. “Discussions will be initiated with the General Education Department regarding the use of Malayalam alphabet in sign language in special schools across the State,” Ms. Bindu said. The event coincided with the International Week of the Deaf observed in the last week of September. “This is a proud achievement of the Social Justice Department and NISH. It is the result of the dedicated effort of NISH, taking into account the difficulties of the hearing impaired in communication. Currently, English and Hindi have alphabets in sign language. The newly developed alphabet in Malayalam will open up immense possibilities for the hearing impaired community,” the Minister said.  The alphabet, consisting of vowels and consonants, is finger-spelled in sign language. It will lessen the challenge of teachers in conveying messages through lip movement. Its primary phase has been designed exclusively for deaf schools across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uniform-vernacular-sign-language-alphabet-out/article36746787.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Taiwanese delegation visits Chief Minister||Ben Wang, Director-General of Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre in Chennai, called on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at his office here on Tuesday. Praise for progress Mr. Wang expressed interest in boosting ties between Taiwan and Kerala in the information technology (IT) and tourism sectors, an official release said. Praising the State’s progress in several avenues, including Information Technology and electric vehicles, the delegation assured steps to study the feasibility of collaborations in traditional industries, including coir, cashew and handloom. Mr. Vijayan said that further talks would be held to formalise tie-ups in the fields of Ayurveda and food processing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taiwanese-delegation-visits-chief-minister/article36746796.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plea to provide relief for COVID-stricken workers||Kerala Congress working chairman P.C. Thomas has urged the government to take urgent steps to provide relief for workers in the catering, light and sound and film industries stricken by the pandemic-induced restrictions. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Ms. Thomas said many of the workers in these sectors had lost their jobs and were unable to fend for themselves and their families. He called on the government to consider relaxing pandemic restrictions and allowing public programmes and cinema, subject to observing COVID-19 protocols.  He calls on the government to consider relaxing pandemic restrictions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-provide-relief-for-covid-stricken-workers/article36746803.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fellowship in memory of Anil Radhakrishnan||Kesari Memorial Journalists Trust has invited submissions for the Anil Radhakrishnan Development Journalism Fellowship instituted in memory of S. Anil Radhakrishnan, former Chief of Bureau, The Hindu , Thiruvananthapuram. Launched in collaboration with the family of the late journalist, the fellowship comprises an amount of Rs. 50,000 and is meant for investigative studies in the fields of tourism, transportation, finance and infrastructural development of Kerala. Each year one person will be awarded the fellowship and publish a book of high academic quality in the selected field in Malayalam on English. Entries must be submitted to kuwjtvm@gmail.com. The deadline for submission is October 18. Anil Radhakrishnan’s wife S.S. Sindhu and office-bearers of the trust said the book would be formally released on June 23 on the occasion of his remembrance day. Further details can be obtained from http://kmjt.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fellowship-in-memory-of-anil-radhakrishnan/article36746538.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Team to prevent delay in moving bodies to morgue||A task team has been set up at the level of Superintendent of Government Medical College Hospital to ensure that there is no delay in transferring bodies to mortuaries, the college Principal has informed the State Human Rights Commission. This follows an intervention from the commission. A report from the Principal said the team’s responsibility had been entrusted with the nursing superintendent. After reviewing if the task team was fulfilling its responsibilities, the nursing superintendent should submit a report daily to the hospital superintendent. The nodal officers of the COVID-19 cell has been directed to ensure that COVID patients received proper care and treatment, the report said. The case The report was submitted by the medical college Principal on a case registered by commission chairperson Antony Dominic after a 52-year-old who died of COVID-19 was left in the ward for 15 hours without being moved to the mortuary. The commission sought that the Principal and the superintendent must ensure that such incidents were not repeated. The action comes on a complaint by human rights activist Ragam Rahim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/team-to-prevent-delay-in-moving-bodies-to-morgue/article36746788.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||QIP meeting today to look into reopening of schools||Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty will convene a meeting of the Quality Improvement Programme (QIP) monitoring committee on Thursday in connection with the the arrangements for school reopening. Representatives of teachers’ organisations such as the KSTA, KPSTA, AKSTU, KSTU, KSTF, KSTC, KPTA, KAMA, and NTU will take part in the meeting, to be held at 10.30 a.m. A meeting with other teachers’ organisations will be held at 2.30 p.m. The Minister will meet youth organisations at 4 p.m. On October 2, a meeting will be held with student organisations at 2 p.m., followed by one with labour organisations at 3.30 p.m. The Minister will hold discussions with Mayors and district panchayat presidents at 5 p.m. He will then meet Deputy Directors of Education, Regional Deputy Directors, and Assistant Directors at 6 p.m. On October 3, a meeting with District Educational Officers and Assistant Educational Officers will be held at 11.30 a.m. Talks will be held with District Collectors on October 4 or 5. All the meetings will be held online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/qip-meeting-today-to-look-into-reopening-of-schools/article36746789.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tax waived for school vehicles||The State government has decided to waive off the taxes for vehicles owned by educational institutions. Transport Minister Antony Raju said in a press release on Wednesday that the Chief Minister has cleared a proposal to waive off vehicles taxes for the period from October 2020 to September 2021. The proposal had come up at a meeting between Mr. Raju and General Education Minister V. Sivankutty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tax-waived-for-school-vehicles/article36746629.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||46.62 ha for Ayurveda institute||The State Cabinet meeting on Wednesday decided to hand over 46.62 hectares of land for the project to set up an International Ayurveda Research Institute at Kallyad village in Iritty, Kannur. The land includes 41.76 hectares of alienated land and 4.86 hectares of excess land identified by the Land Board. The Revenue Department will retain ownership of the land while handing over possession to the Ayurveda Medical Education Department. It was on February 22 that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had laid the foundation stone for the institute to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 300 crore on 311 acres at Kallyad Thattil in Padiyoor-Kalyat grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4662-ha-for-ayurveda-institute/article36746633.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Theft at temples: man arrested||The Balaramapuram police arrested a man on the charge of stealing from donation boxes placed outside temples. The accused has been identified as Shijin, 32, from Kottappuram. The police said he stole from two temples early Wednesday. The first theft was at Palachalkonam Devi Temple around 1 a.m., from where he allegedly took away Rs. 10,000. Around 3 a.m., he stole donation box from the Mangalathukonam Devi temple. But, he was unable to open it and abandoned it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theft-at-temples-man-arrested/article36746790.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teen goes missing in backwaters||A 17-year-old went missing in the backwaters near Pozhiyoor, while he was swimming with his friends around 5.30 p.m on Wednesday. The missing boy has been identified as Moinudeen from Poovar. Police said he was swimming with his two friends towards the Pozhiyoor beach. Midway, all three began to drown. The local people managed to rescue his friends, but Moinudeen remained missing even after a search operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/teen-goes-missing-in-backwaters/article36746791.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District logs 1,282 cases||The capital district reported 1,282 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, while the test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 11.9%. At present, 14,535 people are under treatment for the infection in the district. The number of recoveries on Wednesday stood at 743. At present, 42,988 people are in quarantine in the district. The district administration on Wednesday declared Kannampally, Valiyara and Melamcode wards of Vellanad panchayat as containment zones following an increase in the spread of COVID-19. In these wards, shops selling provisions, fruits and vegetables, milk and milk products, fish and meat, and bakeries will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Ration shops, Maveli stores, Milma booths and Supplyco outlets will be open till 5 p.m. Restaurants can function from 7 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. for home delivery. The following wards were excluded from the list of containment zones: Perumala and Poovathur wards in Nedumangad municipality; Karett in Pulimath panchayat and Kappamvila in Navayikulam panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-logs-1282-cases/article36746801.ece
30 September 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vacancies in JNTBGRI project||The Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI) has announced vacancies of project positions in a Department of Biotechnology (DBT)-funded project on micro-propagation and cultivation of orchids and hybrids for on-farm conservation and income generation. For details, visit www.jntbgri.res.in .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancies-in-jntbgri-project/article36746802.ece
30 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Poultry farmers in a spot of bother||Escalating cost of production has landed poultry farmers in the State in a soup. The price of poultry feed has increased manifold in the post COVID-19 phase. The price of raw materials required for poultry feed production, including soya meal, maize and rice bran oil, has showed a quantum jump. The State is relying on neighbouring States such as Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra for poultry feed and the raw materials for feed production. State’s requirement Price of soya meal increased from Rs. 35 to Rs. 105 a kg, rice bran oil from Rs. 62 to Rs. 135 and maize from Rs. 15 to Rs. 23 a kg. The price of 50 kg of broiler and layer feed increased from Rs. 1,350 and Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 1,580 respectively. The cost of a day-old broiler chick is Rs. 35 in the State. “Kerala requires 40,000 tonnes of chicken meat a month. Of this, 10,000 tonnes come from nearby States like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Public sector contributes nearly 1% of production through market interventions. State requires nearly 1.75 crores of chicks a month. Due to the increase in production cost, more than 25% of broiler growers are on the verge of dropping out,” says T.P. Sethumadhavan, former Director of Entrepreneurship, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU). Currently the cost of production of 1 kg of live chicken is Rs. 108-Rs. 110. Wholesale and retail prices are Rs. 122 and Rs. 142 a kg respectively. Appropriate relief measures were required to sustain the poultry industry and to improve the livelihood of more than five lakh poultry farmers, says T.S. Pramod, secretary, Poultry Farmers and Traders’ Association. Subsidies “Like agriculture sector, poultry sector too should be given subsidies in electricity tariff. Broiler growers should be given subsidy for poultry feed and chicks too. The government needs to fix the benchmark price for poultry meat and egg in the State,” he says. Plan for a platform The traders’ association is in touch with other south Indian States to create a platform for sustainable poultry production. Moreover, the poultry sector requires structured insurance protection, interest-free loans, and grants in aid to support processing and marketing infrastructure, he adds. “There are umpteen opportunities for protein rich ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook food products. Chicken meat and eggs assume more significance in this context. Appropriate interventions can create a lot of employment and entrepreneurship opportunities in the poultry-production sector,” says B. Sunil, Professor & Head, Meat Technology unit of KVASU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poultry-farmers-in-hot-water/article36746607.ece
30 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||CSB employees’ stir begins||A three-day agitation of employees of the Thrissur-based Catholic Syrian Bank began here on Wednesday. The Samyuktha Samara Samiti has called for the strike demanding implementation of the bilateral contract on wages and services; withdrawal of disciplinary action against agitating workers; and protection of the customer-friendly culture of the bank. Dharnas and processions were organised in all districts in the State, the samiti said. “We cannot give the control of the 100-year-old CSB to the foreign monopolies,” said T.N. Prathapan, MP, inaugurating the protest. “The protest will be strengthened if the management fails to recognise the legitimate demands of the employees,” he said. United Forum of Bank Unions State convener C.D. Joson presided over the agitation held in front of the headquarters of the bank. The agreement signed between the Indian Bank Association and the unions in November 2020 for the revision of salary and services of officers and workers has not been implemented in Catholic Syrian Bank yet. The bank has been taking illegal punishment steps against workers protesting against anti-worker policies, allege the protesting employees. As October 2 and 3 are closed holidays, the bank will remain closed for five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csb-employees-stir-begins/article36746742.ece
30 September 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Fake antique case: probe may extend to Thrissur||The investigation in the fake antique case may be extended to Thrissur. It is alleged that K.H. George, who runs a financial institution at Ollur, near Thrissur, was in charge of selling antiques in foreign countries. Links with Monson The police found that George had close links with Monson Mavunkal, the accused in the case. It was Monson, who inaugurated George’s financial institution recently. The police may question George soon. It is suspected that he also got a share of profit from the fake antique deals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fake-antique-case-probe-may-extend-to-thrissur/article36746743.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The show must begin||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-show-must-begin/article36746547.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stir against Centre||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-against-centre/article36746564.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ride to a healthy heart||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ride-to-a-healthy-heart/article36746621.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Granary opens||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/granary-opens/article36746697.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Treatment options||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treatment-options/article36746795.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Vaccine drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-drive/article36746805.ece
30 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||High security number plates on vehicles compulsory from Nov. 15||All transport and non-transport vehicles registered in Andhra Pradesh from 2015 will need to have High-Security Registration Plates(HSRPs) for two-wheelers and four-wheelers from November 15. Anantapur and Kurnool Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Shiva Rama Prasad also said people should get their old vehicles fixed at the DTC/RTO by paying Rs. 250 for two-wheelers, Rs. 519 for four-wheelers and Rs. 640 for 10-wheelers. There is only one agency in the district, currently functioning from the RTC garage, that supplies the plates to the vehicle dealers who then generate the Temporary and Permanent Registration numbers at the time of purchase of a vehicle (including the cost of the HSRP). The Transport Department has not yet decided on where the plates would be fixed, or which agencies will do it, and how will be the mode of payment for the HSRPs for the vehicles that were already running without such plates from 2015. The DTC has appealed to people not to display anything other than the registration number on the number plate otherwise penalty would be levied on the vehicle owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-security-number-plates-on-vehicles-compulsory-from-nov-15/article36746197.ece
30 September 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI ‘dupes’ chit fund depositors of Rs. 8 crore||An Armed Reserve Sub-Inspector of Police D. Nazeer Basha, was arrested on Wednesday on charges of running a chit fund unauthorisedly since 2005 in Anantapur and duping 115 depositors of Rs. 8 crore. The accused has been remanded to judicial custody for 14 days. Anantapur II Town Circle Inspector S. Jakeer Hussain Khan said that the accused reportedly had not spent a single rupee from his salary for the past several years. “Associated with many other businesses, Nazeer Basha has four properties registered in the name of his wife. The police have sought permission from the court to attach the properties against the amount due to the depositors. The SI has Rs. 35 lakh in bank accounts. Around 70% of the depositors are employees of the Police Department,” he said. In a similar case, another person Ramanaiah, a resident of Bhagyanagar, who had been allegedly running chit fund unauthorisedly for the past 20 years, reportedly thrown up his hands when the depositors sought their money back. I Town Circle Inspector Prathap Reddy said that the accused had pay about Rs. 3 crore to depositors who had been given promissory notes. The police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-si-dupes-chit-fund-depositors-of-rs-8-crore/article36746674.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC rejects plea to commute death penalty||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday rejected the plea of B.A. Umesh alias Umesh Reddy, who was sentenced to death in a rape and murder case, for commutation of death penalty to life imprisonment, claiming “compelling supervening circumstances”. However, the High Court extended for six weeks the stay granted against his execution on October 20, 2016, on a plea made by his advocate seeking time to file an appeal before the Supreme Court challenging Wednesday’s order. A Division Bench comprising Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice Pradeep Singh Yerur passed the order while dismissing Reddy’s plea filed in 2016. He had filed the petition on October 17, 2016, when the prison authorities were preparing for execution of the death sentence and were awaiting orders from the jurisdictional court as the Supreme Court on October 3, 2016, had rejected his review plea against its order of confirming the death penalty. It was claimed in Reddy’s petition that the death sentence had become “non-executable” due to delay of over two years in disposal of the mercy petition filed by his mother, by the President of India, resulting in his confinement to solitary imprisonment for 10 years. Reddy had suffered mental illness due to prolonged solitary imprisonment and all these circumstances fall under the “compelling supervening circumstances” defined by the apex court for commuting death penalty to life imprisonment, it was stated in the petition. It was argued on behalf of Reddy that he had filed this petition “not as an accused” but as a “victim of violation of fundamental rights” for injustice caused to him due to delay in disposal of mercy petition. Umesh, a former reserve police constable, was involved in a series of rape and murder cases in Karnataka and other States. The police described him a “psychopath serial killer” who raped women before killing them and sexually abused the victims even after murdering them. Though he was convicted in several cases, the case in which the stage was set for his execution in 2016 was related to 1998 incident of rape and murder of a widow at her house in Peenya in Bengaluru. The trial court in 2006 sentenced him to death and it was confirmed by the High Court in February 2009. The apex court on February 1, 2011, upheld the death penalty imposed on him, and his mother, Gowramma, filed a mercy petition before the President, who rejected it in May 2013.  The court extends stay on his execution for six weeks to enable him to approach apex court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-rejects-plea-to-commute-death-penalty/article36746139.ece
30 September 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||No legal bar on minor being initiated into sanyasa: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday rejected a petition against anointment of a minor boy as the 31st seer of Udupi Shiroor Mutt while holding that there is no statutory or constitutional bar on a person aged below 18 being initiated into sanyasa. “The petition has not been able to make out violation of any statutory provisions or any violation of constitutional rights guaranteed to respondent Aniruddha Saralathaya (now named Vedavardhana Titrtha) as the peetadhipathi of Shiroor Mutt. The essential religious practice has been going on for 800 years and the appointment of pontiff is a practice for the last 800 years indicative of the philosophy and teaching of Sri Madhvacharya,” the court said. A Division Bench comprising acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shnkar Magadum delivered the verdict while dismissing the petition filed by P. Lathavya Acharya, secretary and managing trustee of Sri Shiroor Mutt Bhaktha Samiti, Udupi, along with three other officebearers of the samiti. All the petitioners are close relatives of Lakshmivara Tirtha swami, former seer of Shiroor Mutt, who had passed away in July 2018 without appointing a successor. “The courts are certainly not meant to write the religious text, however, they are under an obligation to follow the religious text in the matter of cases dealing with religious dispute and to follow the old practices which are prevalent in religion so long as they do not violate constitutional rights of an individual,” the Bench said. “In religions like Buddhism, children of tender age have become monks. There is no rule as to the age when sanyasa diksha can be given. Also, there is no statutory much less constitutional bar on a person less than 18 years being initiated into sanyasa,” the Bench observed. Quoting from the arguments of senior advocate S.S. Naganand, who was appointed as amicus curiae to assist the court in the matter, the Bench said that religious text quoted by the amicus curie makes it very clear that “religion permits a person to become a sanyasi before attaining the age of 18.”  Essential practices The seer of Sode Vadiraja Mutt, one of the Ashta Mutts of Udupi was certainly empowered, keeping in view the essential religious practices of Ashta Mutts, to appoint peetadhipathi for Shiroor mutt, the Bench held. “This court is not a theological wizard and shall be transgressing its role as a constitutionalist authority by interfering with the essential religious practice, which is certainly not at all opposed to public order, morality, health or any other fundamental right” the Bench quoted from the verdict of High Court of Madhya Pradesh, which had declined to interfere in the religious practice in which women devotees who are Digambar Jain were not being allowed to perform ‘abhishek’ in respect of god Bawangajaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-legal-bar-on-minor-being-initiated-into-sanyasa-hc/article36746137.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indira Kumari gets 5-year rigorous imprisonment||Former Social Welfare Minister R. Indira Kumari and her husband A. Babu have been convicted and sentenced by a special court to five-year rigorous imprisonment for siphoning off Rs. 15.45 lakh from a government department and parking the sum in two trusts run by him under the pretext of running schools for children with disabilities. P. Shanmugam, former Director of Rehabilitation of the Disabled, has been sentenced to three-year rigorous imprisonment. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on each of them. R. Venkatakrishnan, a personal assistant to Indira Kumari, was acquitted. Ms. Indira Kumari held the portfolio of Social Welfare in the AIADMK government headed by Jayalalithaa between 1991 and 1996. She joined the DMK in 2006, and has been the State secretary of the party’s literary wing. The case was booked by the Crime Branch-CID 15 years ago on a complaint from the then Social Welfare Secretary. The CB-CID filed a charge sheet on February 4, 2004, against Indira Kumari and four others — former Social Welfare Secretary R. Kirubakaran, Shanmugam, Babu and Venkatakrishnan. The charge sheet said the accused hatched a criminal conspiracy during 1992-1996 and committed a criminal breach of trust under the pretext of establishing and running schools for children with disabilities in Vellore and Chennai. They committed a criminal misconduct as public servants and obtained pecuniary advantage, by illegal means and abusing official position, to the two trusts — Mercy Mother India Charitable Trust and Bharani Swathi Educational Trust — in which Babu was the managing trustee. They were all charged with offences under Sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The charge against Kirubakaran had abated since he died during the trial. In 2019, the case was transferred to the Additional Special Court for Trial of Cases related to MPs and MLAs. More than 60 witnesses, including the Chief Secretary, deposed and over 100 pieces of documentary evidence were produced by the prosecution. Special court judge N. Alicia held Indira Kumari, Babu and Shanmugam guilty of the offences they had been charged with. Venkatakrishnan was acquitted because the prosecution failed to establish the offences beyond reasonable doubt. Indira Kumari was visibly upset at the verdict. While the warrant procedure was under way, she was sitting on a chair near the court hall. She was removing her jewellery as she was about to be taken to prison. Suddenly, she complained of breathing difficulty and swooned. She was taken in an ambulance to a private hospital before being shifted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tn-ex-minister-gets-5-year-rigorous-imprisonment/article36746254.ece
30 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor seized, 1 held||The Chittoor taluq police on Wednesday seized liquor bottles allegedly being smuggled from Karnataka and a truck, all worth Rs. 12 lakh, during a flash raid at Cherlopalle Cross on the Chittoor-Bengaluru bypass road. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that acting on reliable information about the movement of two youth from Bengaluru towards Chittoor, carrying the contraband, a police team rushed to the spot, and laid in wait for the vehicle. When the truck was intercepted, the duo allegedly tried to flee, abandoning the vehicle. However, one of the accused Sashank (25) of Bangarupalem mandal was nabbed, while the second one, identified as Rajesh (30) of Karveti Nagaram mandal, escaped. The Deputy SP said that a search was searching for the elusive accused. “During the last six months, there has been a spurt in the smuggling of liquor from Karnataka. Due to round the clock surveillance and highway patrolling, the activity is being controlled to a large extent and many accused have been arrested in recent weeks,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-seized-1-held/article36746200.ece
30 September 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||B.Com question paper leak creates a flutter||The B.Com final year question paper (Accounts Managing/Accounting) leak at Sri Venkateswara University has created a flutter among students in Chittoor district on Wednesday. According to information, examination for the final year paper was scheduled at 2 p.m., but the paper was leaked and circulated in the social media groups from 11.42 a.m. in Madanapalle, and in a few minutes it went viral all over the district. The students had at first thought that the question paper was a prank, but they were surprised on receiving the same in the examination halls. The papers were kept in the Government Women’s Degree College in Madanapalle from where they were distributed to as many as 14 centres in the region. It is observed that as against the practice of dispatching the question papers to the respective centres an hour before the examination schedule, the papers were alleged to have been dispatched to centres in B. Kothakota and Tamballapalle mandals in the morning hours. Responding to the development, a police officer in Madanapalle said that unlike class X examination papers, the degree question papers would be left to custodians at the colleges in the respective division. “We have nothing to do with the information pertaining to the reports of the paper leak unless a complaint is lodged with us by the university authorities,” he said. Inquiry to be launched Meanwhile, senior officials of SV University are expected to launch an inquiry into the paper leak on Thursday. It is estimated that about 25,000 students had taken the leaked paper all over Chittoor district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/svus-bcom-question-paper-leak-creates-flutter-in-chittoor/article36746201.ece
30 September 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Godavari inches closer to first flood warning level||The flood level in Godavari river reached 41.30 feet at 9 p.m. on Wednesday, and the water level may reach the first warning level (43 feet) on Thursday morning at Bhadrachalam, Central Water Commission (CWC) officials have said. Irrigation officials released 8.05 lakh cusecs at Bhadrachalam, and the discharge was about 6.5 lakh cusecs at Polavaram project on Wednesday. Due to heavy rainfall in the upstream areas, water level is rising in the river and the streams. West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra reviewed the situation with Sub-Collector, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer and the Revenue Divisional Officers on floods. Mr. Misra said that 28 villages in six mandals were affected due to Gulab cyclone and the floods. Crops in about 43,761 hectares were damaged, four relief camps were arranged at Kovvur, Narsapuram and Bhimavaram areas. Officials arranged 36 health camps, and about 58 houses were damaged and roads in several villages were washed away due to heavy rains, the Collector said. He directed the Panchayat Raj, Medical and Health, Revenue and other departments officials to take measures to prevent the outbreak of diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/godavari-inches-closer-to-first-flood-warning-level/article36746808.ece
30 September 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student secures internship at Amazon||A B.Tech (Information Technology) student of RVR and JC College of Engineering in Guntur has secured an internship with Amazon with a package of Rs. 80,000 per month. Principal K. Ravindra said that the student, G. Sai Lakshmi Manisha, also secured an internship with IIT, Kharagpur, and congratulated her on her achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-secures-internship-at-amazon/article36746810.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Afghan students hit as ICCR stipends end||Students from Afghanistan who have recently graduated are facing a dilemma as the Indian Council for Cultural Relations scholarships, of which these students were beneficiaries, have come to and end. This, they say, has given rise to financial concerns. And what has compounded the problem, students opine, is the fact that their student visas do not permit them to work. ICCR’s special scholarship scheme for Afghan nationals provides for stipends of up to Rs. 25,000, and house rent allowance of up to Rs. 6,500 per student per month, to those pursuing undergraduate degrees and are post-doctoral fellows. Khanullah Behrooz is one such student. Upon completion of his MBA from Osmania University recently, he received the last of this ICCR stipend instalment – Rs. 26,500 – in September. He is on his own now. ‘Govt. undecided’ “We sent a list of about 70 students, of which 10 or 15 had financed education themselves, to the ICCR. We requested the government if they can extend our scholarship. It seems they have not decided anything yet. The problem is that we are on student visas and cannot work here. We are waiting for scholarships to be extended so that we can pursue a PhD. If they grant us permission to get a job here, we will work,” he says. Mr Behrooz points out that the situation in Afghanistan has made it difficult, if not impossible, for their families to send funds to India. Yousaf Khanmirzai, who has been living in the city for three years, shares a similar story. After completing his BBA from Nizam College, his scholarship of Rs. 24,500 per month ended. His family, he shares, is not in a position to support him at this juncture. “The situation is critical. And it is difficult to go back [to Afghanistan],” he says. While Mr Behrooz has received a visa extension, there are others such as Ahmad Rashad Rawnaq, who is pursuing a degree in engineering from Osmania University, who are all set to apply. “We have to submit a bonafide certificate from the university, along with other documents. I plan to apply for an extension tomorrow,” he says.  We are waiting for scholarships to be extended so that we can pursue a PhD. If they grant us permission to get a job here, we will work. Khanullah Behrooz, A fresh graduate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/afghan-students-hit-as-iccr-stipends-end/article36746148.ece
30 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP asks MLA to reveal purpose of foreign visit||Former TDP legislator Vanamadi Kondababu on Wednesday asked YSRCP MLA Dwarampudi Chandrasekhar Reddy to reveal the purpose and details of his foreign tour in August. Addressing the media here, Mr. Kondababu alleged that Mr. Reddy had some connection with the case in which the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence had seized heroin at Mundra Port on September 16. “What was the purpose of his (Mr. Reddy’s) secret foreign trip in August? He should reveal the details of the trip,” Mr. Kondababu demanded. The State government had launched a verbal attack on Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan only to divert the attention of people from the State’s link to the case, Mr. Kondababu alleged. “Kakinada city, which is known as Andhra’s Madras for its peaceful environment, has lost its sheen after YSRCP came to power,” Mr. Kannababu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-to-mla-reveal-purpose-of-foreign-visit-in-august/article36746667.ece
30 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA denies drug links||YSRCP Kakinada City MLA Dwarampudi Chandrasekhar Reddy on Wednesday asserted that there was no connection of the case pertaining to seizure of heroine from the Mundra port in Gujarat with the Kakinada deep seaport. Responding to the allegations made by the TDP and the Congress leaders, Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy said, “In August, I was on a foreign tour and it was a personal one, not for any business purpose”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-denies-allegations/article36746668.ece
30 September 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held with 1,050 kg ganja||The police on Wednesday arrested two persons belonging to Madhya Pradesh and seized 1,050 kg of ganja, near Donkarayi village in East Godavari Agency. The total worth of ganja is about Rs. 31 lakh. The police arrested Toofan Singh and Dinesh, while they were allegedly transporting the ganja in a lorry. The ganja was reportedly procured by the accused from the Andhra-Odisha border region. Case registered According to East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu, the kingpin in the case, identified as Mohammad Ameen of Rajasthan, is yet to be arrested. The police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1050-kg-ganja-seized-two-from-mp-held/article36746669.ece
30 September 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kannur University approves revised syllabus following row||Kannur University has decided to approve the revised syllabus prepared by the Board of Studies in Political Science for the third semester M.A. Governance and Politics course. An external expert committee looked into the syllabus after it stirred a controversy over the inclusion of texts by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh ideologue M.S. Golwalkar, V.D. Savarkar, Balraj Madhok, and Deendayal Upadhyay. The committee had studied the syllabus and recommended revisions, and its report had been sent to the Board of Studies in Political Science for consideration. The Academic Council, which met on Wednesday, resolved to approve the revised syllabus prepared by the Board of Studies, and this will be taught in the third semester. ‘Not comprehensive’ The experts concluded that the M.A. Governance and Politics syllabus was not comprehensive. The committee, it is learnt, suggested that the texts of Deendayal Upadhyay and Balraj Madhok be omitted from the syllabus. Lessons on Savarkar and Golwalkar will continue in the syllabus. However, it has been proposed to combine the books of both and teach them only in connection with the idea of Hindutva. The committee further recommended the inclusion of Islamic, Dravidian, Socialist and Gandhian ideas in the syllabus. It was also decided to include the ideas of leaders such as Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Periyar. The Academic Council decided to constitute a review committee with the Pro Vice-Chancellor as chairman to have more clarity on recognising various faculties and schools of the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kannur-university-approves-revised-syllabus-following-row/article36746144.ece
30 September 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police begin interrogation of Monson||The Crime Branch (CB) on Wednesday began its interrogation of Monson Mavunkal, a self-styled antique dealer and confidence trickster, even as his houses at Kaloor and Cherthala were again searched. Four petitioners in the case arrived to give their statements. The CB was given three days’ custody of Monson, allowing it to interrogate him while confronting him with the petitioners who had raised an avalanche of allegations against him. Digital evidence On their way to depose before the CB, the petitioners told reporters that digital evidence pertaining to the scam and information received from similar victims who had reached out to them since they had gone public about Monson would be handed over to the investigation team. M.T. Shameer, one of the petitioners, said email exchanges in which Monson claimed about his frozen funds in a private bank and documents attached therewith would be given to the CB. Yakoob, another complainant, alleged that Monson had strong connections with senior police officers and had even organised meetings to substantiate his claims and convince them. He said an analysis of the accused’s phone calls would expose the transaction details, money trail, and his connections. The investigation team, however, is yet to confirm it. Visuals released Anoop, one of the six who petitioned Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and Rajeev, who was duped in connection with a land deal, also appeared before the CB. Meanwhile, the Forest Department probing the authenticity of ivory in Monson’s possession seemed to have reached the primary conclusion that it was fake though the probe would continued. Monson, who was arrested last Sunday, remains charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 471(using forged documents as genuine) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property). He was arrested after six petitioners who were allegedly duped by him to the tune of Rs. 10 crore collectively petitioned the Chief Minister. He had cheated them by showing allegedly forged documents as proof that Rs. 2.62 lakh crore he raised through the sale of antiques remained frozen under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-begin-interrogation-of-monson/article36746140.ece
30 September 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Whiff of antiseptic to make way for bibliosmia||Hospital libraries with their wide range of biomedical literature usually cater to healthcare professionals. But now, inpatients and caregivers at the Government Victoria Hospital, Kollam, will have access to a spectrum of recreational reading material following an initiative of the Kollam district panchayat. Perhaps the first-of-its-kind initiative started by a local body, the project will be extended to more government hospitals in the future. “In the initial phase, we will be setting up libraries in Victoria Hospital, District Hospital, District Ayurveda Hospital, and Homoeo Hospital. Inpatients and their caregivers can grab books from the library during their stay and return them before or on the day of discharge. We are also planning to arrange ‘Pushthakakoodu’ for other visitors, including outpatients. Apart from providing an extra facility, we want to promote reading among the visitors,” says K. Prasad, district panchayat secretary. While the library at the Victoria Hospital will be inaugurated by writer K.R. Meera on Friday, the next one will be opened at the District Hospital in a couple of weeks. To provide infra “After identifying a suitable space for the library, the district panchayat will provide the infrastructure and the books required. The project cost for each unit is Rs. 2.5 lakh,” says Mr. Prasad. The library at the Victoria Hospital has books worth Rs. 1.5 lakh, along with periodicals and dailies. Books of all major publishers will be available in the library. The current stock includes many recently released titles and nearly 15 periodicals. “Some staff members have offered to sponsor dailies and periodicals while books from all streams will be made available. You will find many titles of renowned authors such as O.V. Vijayan and Madhavikutty, while latest books such as K.R. Meera’s Ghatakan are also part of the collection,” says P.K. Gopal, health-education standing committee chairman, who is also the executive member of the State Library Council. Since the hospital has COVID-19 patients too, all protocols will be followed while issuing books. “The library will be functioning as a normal facility during the post-pandemic times and right now we are trying to establish the system in all major hospitals,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/whiff-of-antiseptic-to-make-way-for-bibliosmia/article36746142.ece
30 September 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) is targeting me: Sudhakaran||Reiterating that he had no financial dealings with the alleged fake antique dealer Monson Mavunkal, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president and MP K. Sudhakaran has said he would initiate legal action against the “fraudster” if he is propagating such lies. Addressing a news conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Sudhakaran admitted that he had met Monson and had sought treatment at his house. It was a five-day treatment, he said, adding he had no deal with Anoop, one of the complainants in the multi-crore fraud case. Govt. protection The KPCC chief alleged that Monson was a “government-protected fraud.” “Why is the government not investigating the links between him and officials," Mr. Sudhakaran asked. He said no evidence would be obtained against him. “I visited a place where a lot of people went. None has a problem when Ministers and officials go there,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. He accused the CPI(M) leadership of trying to frame him by linking him to Monson. “The rampant changes taking place in the Congress have already frightened the CPI(M),”he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-is-targeting-me-sudhakaran/article36746136.ece
30 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-MLA dies of COVID complications||Former Proddutur MLA Mallela Venkata Ramana Reddy died of complications related to coronavirus infection at a private hospital in Kurnool on Wednesday morning. He was 78. He had been on oxygen support for the past 10 months and was admitted to Kurnool hospital a week ago. His body was shifted from the hospital to Proddutur for the funeral. He is survived by his wife Lakshmikantamma, two sons —Rajaramireddy and Muralidhar Reddy—and a daughter Kavita. Ramana Reddy, a Rayalaseema Vimochana Samithi leader, is known for his struggles for the water rights of people in the parched region. A noted writer and Virasam member, Ramana Reddy had written nine books and translated seven more. Expressing condolences, Rayalaseema Sanskrutika Vedika president Harnadh Reddy said Ramana Reddy remained in politics for the sake of people’s rights. Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samithi president Bojja Dasaratharami Reddy, Rayalaseema Vidyarthi Federation president Ramineni Rajunaidu and MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy expressed grief. Special Correspondent from Kadapa adds: Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy recalled his association with Ramana Reddy in the fight for the development of Rayalaseema.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-mla-dies-of-covid-complications/article36746682.ece
30 September 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSP will come to power in A.P., TS: Praveen Kumar||Indian Police Service officer R.S. Praveen, who recently quit his job to join politics, said the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) will form a government in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The former Telangana IPS officer criticised the present political parties for not doing anything for the upliftment of Dalits and alleged that power concentrated in the hands of a few families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bsp-will-come-to-power-in-ap-ts-praveen-kumar/article36746198.ece
30 September 2021||MALAPPURAM/KOZHIKODE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge difference in how BJP-RSS, Congress view India, says Rahul||The Bharatiya Janata Party and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh view India as a geographical territory or a map, but the Congress views the country as the people here and the relationships they have with others here and globally, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi said on Wednesday. "Some people view India as a map. They see it as the space bordered by lines. That is the vision of the BJP. Our (Congress) vision is different. Our vision of India is the people here and the relationships they have with others," he said. "We carry India inside us and it evolves every day. That is the difference between how the RSS and BJP view India and how the Congress views India," Mr. Gandhi said. He was speaking at the inauguration of a recreation centre for senior citizens in Kozhikode district. He further said that "some people confuse the idea of India with hatred, anger, distrust and violence", but "we do not do so". Mr. Gandhi surprised autorickshaw drivers of Wandoor when he gracefully accepted their on-the-spot invitation for a tea and snacks with them. Mr. Gandhi was returning after attending a function at Kalikavu when the drivers at Wandoor town held out their hands at his vehicle. Mr. Gandhi got off the car and walked up to the men in khakhi shirts. “Sir, shall we have a tea together,” one of them asked Mr. Gandhi. “Oh, with pleasure,” Mr. Gandhi replied, as they walked to a nearby bakery-cum-tea parlour. There was no formality as they seated around a table and ordered tea and snacks. Mr. Gandhi was all ears as the autorickshaw drivers spoke about their poor living conditions in the wake of COVID-19. He offered them help, and reassured them with pats on their back. The drivers did not hide their excitement and they waved bye-bye to Mr. Gandhi as he resumed his journey. “That’s a gem,” said Mohammed Mustafa in excitement.  (With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-difference-in-how-bjp-rss-congress-view-india-says-rahul/article36746146.ece
30 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Somasila - Swarnamukhi link canal work will be expedited’||Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has said the long-awaited Somasila-Swarnamukhi link canal project will be expedited. Addressing the Nellore District Development Review Committee (DDRC) meeting at the Zilla Parishad council hall on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivasa Reddy, who is also Minister in-charge of the district, said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had given his approval for the project that would put an end to the water woes of the farmers in and around Rapur in the district on a permanent basis. In keeping with the party’s poll promise made at the time of the Tirupati Lok Sabha byelection, a detailed project report was being prepared, he said. Financial clearance could be expected in the next 10 days, he added. The project mooted by former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in undivided Andhra Pradesh had been pending for long, he observed. He directed the officials, including district Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, to prepare an action plan by the time of next DDRC meeting and also brace up for the possible third wave of COVID-19. He promised to take up with the Chief Minister various issues raised by the legislators and ensure financial allocation early for the same. Pending bills Former Minister Anam Ramanarayana Reddy raised the issue of pending bills for contractors of Rs. 60 crore and sought clearance for the completion of ongoing works relating to housing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/somasila-swarnamukhi-link-canal-work-will-be-expedited/article36746684.ece
30 September 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 4 lives in South Coastal Andhra||Four persons, one in SPSR Nellore district and three in Prakasam, succumbed to COVID-19 in the last 24 hours in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh, taking the toll to 2,130 in the region. So far, Prakasam district accounted for 1,093 casualties and SPSR Nellore district for 1,037 fatalities, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Meanwhile, recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by 74 bringing down the active caseload to a little over 3,400 in the region in the 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. Fresh cases went up by 62 to 237 when compared to the previous day’s figures as 122 persons in Prakasam district and 115 in SPSR Nellore district tested positive for the disease. With this, the cumulative count crossed the 2.82 lakh mark. Recovery rate 98.03% The positive trend continued as 331 persons in the region, including 192 in Prakasam district, recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases declined to 1,776 in SPSR Nellore district and 1,643 in Prakasam district. The recovery rate improved to 98.03%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-4-lives-in-south-coastal-andhra/article36746203.ece
30 September 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP promises help to kin of personnel who died of virus||Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg has assured all possible support to the families of serving and retired police officers and personnel who died of coronavirus. On the occasion of Police Welfare Day on Wednesday, the SP addressed pending issues concerning each and every bereaved family member with the department. She would provide appointment to eligible family members on compassionate grounds and arrange for exgratia to those not availing it, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-promises-help-to-kin-of-personnel-who-died-of-virus/article36746202.ece
30 September 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man falls into river, saved||Srikakulam District Fire Service wing saved a man who reportedly accidentally fell into Nagavali river near the Ponnada bridge, on the outskirts of Srikakulam, on Wednesday evening. Locals found the person, Bantupalli Umamaheswara Rao(33), clinging to a rock and screaming for help and immediately informed the authorities. The personnel reached the man by a boat and saved him. Srikaulam District Fire Officer Ch. Krupavaram patted Assistant District Fire Officer K. Srinu Babu and his team for quickly responding to the distress call and saving the man despite low visibility and flood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-falls-into-river-saved/article36746719.ece
30 September 2021||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dr. YSRHU comes second in JRF exams||Dr. YSR Horticultural University (Dr. YSRHU) at Venkataramannagudem in West Godavari district has bagged the second position at the national level in Junior Research Fellowship examinations conducted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi. ICAR Director General Trilochan Mohapatra handed over mementos to Dr. YSR Horticultural University Vice-Chancellor Tolety Janakiram at a meeting of the Vice-Chancellors, convened by Indian Agricultural Universities Association, in New Delhi on September 28. Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Janakiram said Dr. YSRHU got the second position for the third consecutive year and efforts would be made to occupy first place. The Vice-Chancellor said the institution had achieved success with the collective efforts of the university governing body, academic council, researchers, faculty, non-teaching staff and students and congratulated them on the achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/for-the-third-time-dr-ysrhu-comes-second-in-jrf-exams/article36746194.ece
30 September 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to open Alipiri footpath in October||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has said that the devotees will be allowed to trek the Alipiri footpath to the Lord Venkateswara temple during the annual Brahmotsavams in October. Mr. Reddy, who inspected the trekking route along with TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy on Wednesday said the footpath would be opened for the devotees as the ongoing over-roof concrete works would be completed before the the annual festival. “Plans are afoot to take up developmental works such as landscaping and augmentation of greenery along the trekking route,” he said and instructed the engineering wing officials to clear the concrete debris that remained accumulated along the footpath. Mr. Reddy walked down the trekking route from Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple till the Namala Gopuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-open-alipiri-footpath-in-october/article36746675.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Umbrellas arrive from Chennai for Srivari Brahmotsavams||As is the customary practice every year, devotees brought a set of new umbrellas from Chennai for use during the Tirumala Srivari Brahmotsavams beginning by the first week of October. The practice is to carry the set in a procession from the TTD-run Sri Kodandarama temple to the nearby Anantha Street, where special prayers are offered. The umbrellas were brought under the aegis of Poonamallee-based Sri Alamelu Manga Trust by its founder L. Gopalakrishnan on Wednesday. Local devotees, who are currently following the norms of the auspicious Purattasi month, joined the proceedings in large numbers and prayed to the umbrellas, which will guard the processional deity of Lord Malayappa during the Brahmotsavams. Tirupati Mayor R. Sireesha formally received the umbrellas on behalf of the denizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/umbrellas-arrive-from-chennai-for-srivari-brahmotsavams/article36746670.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blue Star sets foot in Sri City||Blue Star Climatech Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Blue Star Limited, has set foot in Sri City industrial zone of Chittoor district, with a plan to invest Rs. 540 crore in phases and provide employment to 1,500 people. Blue Star Managing Director B. Thiagarajan performed the groundbreaking ceremony for its plant on Wednesday, where air conditioners and components will be manufactured as part of the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme recently announced by the Union government. Mr. Thiagarajan called the plant a ‘strategic initiative’ to significantly scale up manufacturing operations by investing in world-class, Industry 4.0 manufacturing facilities. Welcoming the company’s decision to establish a unit in Sri City, which is its sixth in the country and the first in southern India, Sri City Founder and Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy saw the creation of a new ecosystem centred on white goods, with the recent establishment of a plant by Daikin air-conditioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blue-star-sets-foot-in-sri-city/article36746205.ece
30 September 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||One held for theft in dargah||The Pakala police have arrested a person, B. Pratap (21), hailing from Paradarami in the neighbouring district of Vellore in Tamil Nadu, for his alleged involvement in the theft of cash from a dargah in Pakala town recently. Decamped with hundi Pakala Circle Inspector K. Aseervadam told the media that the accused had reportedly stealthily entered the Hazarat Shaik Sharif Mastan Aulali Dargah on Pakala main road on Monday night and decamped with cash from the Hundi. Sent for remand He was nabbed near the Anjaneya Swamy temple on Damalcheruvu main road on Wednesday and the stolen money of Rs. 13,300 recovered from him, said Mr, K. Aseervadam. The accused was sent to remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-held-for-theft-in-dargah/article36746665.ece
30 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online ticketing not new to film industry, says Minister||Minister for Information and Public Relations Perni Venkataramaiah has said the film industry is in favour of the Online Ticketing System (OTS) and that it is not a new practice. Addressing the media after a fresh round of deliberations with a delegation of Telugu film directors and producers on the issue at Machilipatnam on Wednesday, Mr. Venkataramaiah insisted that it was not something that the YSRCP government sought to introduce. The Minister further said that actor Chiranjeevi had spoken to him and clarified that what had transpired at the ‘Republic’ movie pre-release event in Hyderabad had nothing to do with the film industry’s stand on the matter. The producers also expressed their dissatisfaction over the serious comments made by JSP president Pawan Kalyan, the Minister said. COVID-19 impact Mr. Venkataramaiah said there was a consensus on it, and the producers told him that the industry would go deeper into the crisis if the ticket rates continued to be low, as the production costs had escalated steeply. The producers also expressed their concern on the severe impact of COVID-19, which had resulted in poor occupancies in the theatres for most part of the last two years. This necessitated permission to allow cent percent occupancy to recover from the unprecedented crisis. A request for it was made by the film industry delegates, the Minister said. Mr. Venkataramaiah said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was sympathetic to the desperate situation faced by Tollywood and was willing to resolve the issues. “Unfortunately, what should have been a smooth process of consultation has been vitiated by the JSP chief. The producers are willing to follow the government’s advice and cooperate with it to ensure the survival of the industry,” he said. Producer Dil Raju, who led the delegation, said that Mr. Chiranjeevi, actor Nagarjuna and director Rajamouli and other industry bigwigs had met the Chief Minister last year and apprised him of the steps needed to bail the stakeholders out of the crisis, but “some discordant voices had came out of the discussions that took place at the time of release of ‘Vakeel Saab’ movie.” After the latest meeting with Mr. Venkataramaiah earlier this month, the government’s views could not be properly conveyed to the film industry at large. “This resulted in one incident after another,” Mr. Raju said, requesting those raking up controversies to not mix up politics and issues concerning Tollywood. The delegation comprised Bunny Vasu, Sunil Narang, Vamsi Reddy and ‘Mythri’ Naveen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-ticketing-not-new-to-film-industry-says-minister/article36746680.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness about heart ailments and treatment stressed||Experts at the Andhra Hospitals stressed the need for awareness about heart ailments and treatment and other facilities available to mitigate the loss of life due to heart attacks, which has been the most common cause of deaths across the world. The Hindu’s Future India Club in association with Andhra Hospitals conducted an awareness programme on the occasion of “World Heart Day” on the premises of the hospital's Heart and Brain Institute here. The theme of the day this year was “Harnessing the power of digital health to improve awareness, prevention and management of Cardio Vascular Diseases”. Speaking on the occasion, Andhra Hospitals chief of children’s services P.V. Rama Rao said the hospital had performed over 2,000 heart surgeries and interventions on children with a success rate of 98%, which is a record, with the cooperation of many NGOs. He explained symptoms and signs of heart diseases in children and said most of them could be cured if detected early. Senior cardiologist J. Sreemannarayana said that 18 million people die due to heart issues in the world every year. “In India, 50% of the deaths due to heart issues were of people aged below 50 and 25% of them were aged below 40,” he said. Dr. Sreemannarayana said that many heart patients died during the COVID pandemic not because of COVID infection, but due to lack of awareness that hospitals were open and hesitation to venture out during lockdown. “Telehealth is the need of the hour and the WHD theme promotes the same. People should learn to contact hospitals whenever needed without any hesitation,” he said. Every person should undergo a health checkup once a year after crossing 30 years of age, he added. Paediatric cardiologist K. Vikram said around 7,000 children were born with heart ailments in the State as per a study, and only 10% of them got treated. “Children can develop heart ailments even after birth. We have seen children coming up with heart issues post-COVID infection. However, treatment in time will help 99% of cases,” he said. Cardiothoracic surgeon R. Dileep said that changing lifestyle had a huge impact on the health of the heart and good diet and food habits right from childhood are important. “Instead of changing food habits after falling ill, one should make it a habit to have a balanced diet by avoiding processed food since childhood. Parents should encourage children to buy fruits, engage them in cooking and explain to them what is bad and good,” he said. Cardiac interventionist Krishna Prasad, anesthetist J. Ramesh, Andhra Hospitals chief marketing officer A. Nagendra Babu and others were present. Participants interacted with the doctors and got their doubts cleared in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/awareness-about-heart-ailments-and-treatment-stressed/article36746196.ece
30 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Creating awareness on need to consume nutritious diet||Children studying in various anganwadi centres performed playlets on how to prevent child marriage and the need to take nutritious diet during the ‘Poshakahara Masotsavalu’ organised here on Wednesday. Women Development and Child Welfare Minister T. Vanitha, Endowments Minister V. Srinivas, MLA M. Vishnu, Mayor Rayana Bhagya Lakshmi, Child Rights Advocacy Foundation State programme director P. Francis Thambi, World Vision district manager N. Joshi Babu, anganwadi teachers and others participated in the programme. The students explained the consequences of child marriages, the role of the Police, Revenue and Women Development and Child Welfare departments, and the people in preventing child marriages, and the Child Marriage Prohibition Act. The children narrated the need to take nutritious for a healthy life. They also appealed to the people to consume millets, fruits and leafy vegetables to avoid diseases. The Ministers went round the diet exhibition arranged by the anganwadi teachers. They stressed the need to have nutritious, especially by pregnant women. Ms. Vanitha said the government had allocated Rs. 1,800 crore for supplying nutritious diet to mothers and children. “The government is implementing Sampoorna Poshana and Sampoorna Plus schemes for providing healthy diet to mothers and children,” she said. Later, the Ministers, along with the officials, planted saplings and enquired about the supply of diet in the anganwadi centres. Mr. Srinivas said awareness on the need to take nutritious diet was being created by organising rallies and exhibitions. Deputy Mayor B. Durga, Women Development and Child Welfare Krishna district Project Director K. Uma Rani, and District Child Protection Officer Ch. Vijay Kumar participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/creating-awareness-on-need-to-consume-nutritious-diet/article36746666.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civet sighted in a residential colony in city||Valluri Ashok and his family members were taken by surprise at the sight of an unexpected visitor to their home on Wednesday. A civet had walked into a cage that was placed to capture the nocturnal mammal, believed to have landed in a residential colony in Vijayawada from Seshachalam forest area. Also called “toddycat” in English, a civet has broadly cat-like general appearance, though the muzzle is extended and often pointed, rather like that of an otter, mongoose or even possibly a ferret. The rare sight of the civet invited curious glances of people gathered at Mr. Ashok’s house at Brindavan Colony from the neighbourhood. Mr. Ashok, who has been donating vegetables for the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam’s Annadanam programme for many years now, feels that the animal would have landed here in one of the lorries that the TTD officials sent for carrying the vegetables to the temple shrine at regular intervals. “It must have come in one of those empty containers from its home, the Seshachalam forest area,” said Mr. Ashok. It is said that the musk produced by a civet, which is highly valued as a fragrance and stabilising agent for perfume, is used in the ‘seva’ programme of Lord Venkateswara at the temple on every Thursday. “We feel lucky that the animal which is so close to the ‘swamy’ has today walked into our home,” said Mr. Ashok and his family members. He said he had informed the Forest Department officials who would hand over the animal to the TTD authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civet-sighted-in-a-residential-colony-in-city/article36746819.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notification for admission to polytechnic colleges released||Commissioner for Technical Education Pola Bhaskar on Wednesday said the government was making all efforts to ensure quality in technical education imparted through the polytechnic colleges. New courses of skill development to enhance job opportunities for students was also a priority area, he told the media here. Mr. Bhaskar, who is also Convener of AP POLYCET-2021, released the notification for admissions to polytechnic colleges. Certificate verification He said admissions to the 70,427 seats would be done through web-counselling and students could pay the processing fee in the online mode from October 1 to 6. Certificate verification would be taken up from October 3 to 7 and students would be given time to register their options with regard to selection of courses from October 3 to 8. Any changes to the options could be made on October 9, said Mr. Bhaskar. He said allotment of seats would be made on October 11. Students should report at the allotted college either in the online mode or in person between October 12 and 18, and classes would commence from October 18, he said. Mr. Bhaskar said through web-counselling, students would be allotted 17,004 seats in 84 government and 53,423 seats in the 173 aided and private colleges. Of the total 68,137 candidates who wrote the POLYCET-2021, 64,187 passed the test, he informed. Mr. Bhaskar said there were many job opportunities for polytechnic graduates, adding that besides the three-year diploma course, other technical courses of three or four years duration had been included in the academic calendar. To equip students with the skills relevant to the industry, partnerships were being forged with a few government agencies, and the focus was on upskilling the students and making them industry-ready by the time they completed their courses, he said. Helpdesk Informing that 31 helpline centres had been set up to enable the students to get their doubts regarding the online admission process clarified, he said students could approach the help desk in their nearest polytechnic college. Those seeking more details could mail toconvenerappolycet2021@ gmail.com, or dial 8106876345, 810575234 or 7995865456. They could even personally visit the office in Vijayawada, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notification-for-admission-to-polytechnic-colleges-released/article36746688.ece
30 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Time to drive away YSRCP, says Pawan||JSP president Pawan Kalyan has exhorted people to vote for his party to power if they want to see what development really means and how it can be achieved without talking much. “I would have fought against privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) had I been elected at least from Gajuwaka in the 2019 elections. How is it fair to vote for some other party and expect me to work (without the desired mandate)? Nevertheless, I will continue to strive for the development and welfare of the masses for 25 years as I promised in 2014,” Mr. Pawan Kalyan said. Addressing the party’s general body meeting near Mangalagiri on Wednesday, Mr. Pawan Kalyan alleged that the YSRCP was playing caste politics by provoking people from his community (Kapu) to launch a verbal assault on him. “I will not wage a war on my own, but will strike back and not leave at that if dragged into it,” he said. The YSRCP would lose the 2024 elections , he said. About the speculation that the JSP might extend an olive branch to the TDP, he said whatever direction the party took would be in the people’s interest. Mr. Pawan Kalyan said there would be a tit-for-tat for the YSRCP’s attacks and alleged that the government targeted the Kamma community and Dalits as well by implicating them in false cases. “It is time to drive away the YSRCP,” he told the cadres. Referring to “objectionable comments” purportedly made by the YSRCP leaders on his family, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said he would not stoop to such a level . “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke about my family matters. I will not resort to such cheap tactics,” he asserted. Online tickets The JSP chief said the YSRCP leaders “unleashed a vituperative campaign” against him for questioning the alleged attempts by the government to rob the film industry’s revenue in the name of the proposed Online Ticketing System (OTS). “I don’t own any theatres, but the YSRC leaders have. They don’t have proper answers to my questions, which is the reason for their attacking me. The YSRCP government has failed on all fronts. It is the JSP’s responsibility to hold the government accountable for what it promised to the people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/time-to-drive-away-ysrcp-says-pawan/article36746678.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many beneficiaries left out of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana in State: study||About 29% of the farmer beneficiaries of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana in the State have not received their full benefits that account for Rs. 1,168 crore. “Our data analysis show that a good number of bank rejection cases and ‘State action required’ cases are unresolved for three to 18 months due to lack of dissemination of information among officials in the rural sector and absence of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to resolve the payment issues,” says Chakradhar Buddha, Director, Liberation Technology India (LibTech India) for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The organisation comprises a team of engineers, social workers and social scientists who work to improve transparency, accountability and democratic engagement in rural public services delivery. Of the 56,37,105 farmers registered since the inception of the scheme in December 2018 and eligible to receive Rs. 8,082.9 crore, 90,193 (1.6%) of them have been declared ineligible either by citing ‘Beneficiary is dead’ or ‘Beneficiary is an income tax payee’. However, 39,75,374 farmers have received all the due instalments amounting to Rs. 6,915 crore, while 16,61,731 (29%) are yet to receive at least one instalment amounting to Rs. 1,168 crore. He says an estimated 7,67,940 (46%) farmers are missing the benefits due to bank rejections and 4,89,480 (29%) are pending for State action. Mr. Buddha says to understand the ‘exclusions’ LibTech researchers Venkata Krishna Kagga and Ajay Palle Swearo have analysed the PM Kisan data for more than 56 lakh registered farmers and a random sample of 5% transactional level data for villages in each district of the State covering 2.85 lakh beneficiaries, using the data available as on June 26 for the 8th instalment of the financial benefit, from December 2018 to June 2021. “Five months of field research in Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam, East Godavari, Chittoor and Anantapur districts, combined with interviews of officials and analysis of PM Kisan data in the public domain, helped us draw these conclusion,” he explains. While the objective of the scheme is to supplement the farmers’ income by extending them Rs. 6,000 annually, about 4,17,212 farmers registered from the State have not received even a single payment. Some of them have registered as early as February 2019. ‘Most exclusions in Nellore’ The most ‘exclusions’ are seen in Nellore district, where farmers have received Rs. 365.3 crore, while their counterparts in Anantapur received Rs. 750 crore. “Kadapa and Vizianagaram have least amount of dues with Rs. 58.2 crore and Rs. 62.7 crore respectively, while Anantapur, Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur and Prakasam have more than Rs. 100 crore due each ,” says Mr. Buddha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-beneficiaries-left-out-of-pm-kisan-samman-nidhi-yojana-in-state-study/article36746686.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safai Karamcharis’ services during pandemic hailed||National Commission for Safai Karamcharis Chairman M. Venkatesan has hailed the services of sanitation workers during the COVID pandemic. He said they rendered priceless service to society during the difficult times by keeping the surroundings clean. Mr. Venkatesan reviewed the schemes being implemented for the welfare of Safai Karamacharis in a meeting with officials and sanitation workers in the city. He asked the officials concerned to book anyone, including government employees, under SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act if they mistreated sanitation workers. Several sanitation workers poured out their woes before Mr. Venkatesan. Responding to a woman’s plea Mr. Venkatesan asked the State government to pay special incentive of Rs. 15,000 to sanitation workers for their services in during pandemic in April, May and June this year. Earlier, Mr. Venkatesan interacted with sanitation workers residing in the VMC Colony in Dr. K.L. Rao Nagar of the city on Wednesday. Mr. Venkatesan spoke to the sanitation workers and took note of the issues being faced by them. Mr. Prasanna Venkatesh told Mr. Venkatesan said that the State government had granted them house pattas to 62 families and sanitation workers and soon registration process will be completed. Later, Mr. Venkatesan sought the help of Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan in setting up a State-level commission. Mr. Venkatesan met Governor at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday and explained to him the need for establishing the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safai-karamcharis-services-during-pandemic-hailed/article36746817.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP plans ‘Matsyakara Garjana’ against move to auction fish tanks||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will organise ‘Matsyakara Garjana’ in Nellore on October 7 to protest against the government’s refusal to cancel the G.O. No.217, which was issued to auction the fish tanks. “Union Minister of State for Fisheries L. Murugan will participate in the protest to mount pressure on the State government to rescind the G.O. being opposed by the fishermen,” BJP State president Somu Veerraju told the media on Wednesday. Mr. Veerraju said Nellore was chosen as the venue for the protest as fish tanks in the district had been proposed to be auctioned as a pilot project that would cover the other districts depending on the results. He pointed out that a letter written by him on the issue to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on September 12 evoked no response. The BJP held protests on September 22, but to no avail. While this is so, Fisheries Minister S. Appala Raju maintained that the auction system would benefit the fisherfolks, while accusing the opposition parties of misleading them. “As the government kept quiet, the BJP has planned the protest on behalf of the lakhs of fishermen and women in the State,” said Mr. Veerraju. Mr. Veerraju said the State government was unable to do even the patchwork on the damaged roads whereas the Central government was getting cement roads laid under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana. He alleged that tenders for road works costing Rs. 2,000 crore floated by the State government found no takers  Mr. Veerraju further said that the BJP and the JSP were in the process of identifying a candidate for the Badvel bypoll.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-plans-matsyakara-garjana-against-move-to-auction-fish-tanks/article36746690.ece
30 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor invited to Dasara festival at Durga temple||Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devasthanam officials invited Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to the Dasara Navaratri Utsavams. Temple Trust Board Chairman Paila Somi Naidu, Executive Officer D. Bhramaramba and other officers presented the invitation to the Governor at the Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday. Mr. Somi Naidu explained that the Dasara Utsavams would be celebrated from October 7 to 15 atop Indrakeeladri. He said that all arrangements had been made for the devotees. The devotees will be allowed for darshan 4 a.m. onwards during the festival. Special arrangements have been made for the ‘Mula Nakshatram Day’. The temple management has taken steps to ensure strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocols during the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-invited-to-dasara-festival-at-durga-temple/article36746807.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Hospitals launches tele-emergency room facility at 11 places across the State||Ramesh Hospitals launched Tele-Emergency Room (TeleER) facility in 11 locations in the State on the occasion of World Heart Day on Wednesday, and would be extended to 100 places in a phased manner, said the hospital medical director Pavuluri Srinivasa Rao. Speaking to media persons here, the medical director said the hospital would deploy drones for delivering medicines and added that they were the first to introduce TeleER facility in the State. TeleER facility was launched at Jangareddygudem, Gudivada, Hanuman Junction, Machilipatnam, Mangalagiri among other places. The aim of TeleER is to provide emergency equipment and drugs to patients in their locality in time. If necessary, the patient would be shifted to the nearby hospital, said Ramesh Cardiac and Multi Speciality Hospitals managing director P. Ramesh Babu. “We are focusing on providing emergency medical services to the patients in rural areas. The hospital management has rendered one lakh free tele medicine services in the last ten years,” said patient care department head Vasundhara. Ramesh Hospitals IT Department technical head Shaik Jahangir, central command unit head Dr. Dharanidhar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramesh-hospitals-launches-tele-emergency-room-facility-at-11-places-across-the-state/article36746812.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two rowdy-sheeters expelled||The police on Wednesday issued orders expelling two rowdy-sheeters, Madiri Arun Kumar alias Pedda Raja and his brother, M. Varun Kumar alias Chinna Raja, from Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits. They were expelled for six months from the city, Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said. ‘Involved in many cases’ The siblings, against whom rowdy sheets were opened by the Machavaram police, were allegedly involved in several cases and were creating law and order problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-rowdy-sheeters-expelled/article36746813.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Welfare Day observed||Police officers observed ‘Police Welfare Day’ in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate on Wednesday. Following the directions of DGP D. Gautam Sawang, the police personnel met the family members of officers who died due to COVID, in accidents and due to ill health. DCP (Administration) Mary Prasanthi and other officers enquired about the welfare of the families of personnel. “Family of personnel may call the officers and can meet him during ‘Prathi Roju Spandana’ programme, in case of any grievances,” Krishna SP Siddharth Kaushal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-welfare-day-observed/article36746814.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yoga programme conducted||Manipal Hospital conducted a yoga and fitness awareness programme at KL deemed to be University on Wednesday on the occasion of World Heart Day. Speaking on the occasion, Hospital director Sudhakar Kantipudi said that considering the growing incidence and higher morbidity of heart failure patients, there was a need for spreading awareness and educating people on heart care. Senior cardiologist N. Murali Krishna said heart failures had become common in all age groups and there had been a significant increase in the cases of heart attacks among the people of the 30-40 age group. Lack of physical exercise, increase in stress levels and unhealthy food habits are the major causes for heart problems, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yoga-programme-conducted/article36746815.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 13 more lives||The coronavirus claimed 13 more lives in the State in the 24 hours, ending Wednesday morning. During the same period, 1,084 infections were confirmed, taking the cumulative tally to 20,49,314. The total fatalities reached 14,163. The number of active cases came down to 11,655 as 1,328 patients recovered . The total recoveries and recovery rate stood at 20,23,496 and 98.74% respectively. The daily test positivity rate of the 57,345 samples tested in the past day was put at 1.89%. The figure has remained below 2% since the past three days. Chittoor reported five deaths. Krishna and Prakasam reported three deaths each, while East Godavari and Nellore reported one each. East Godavari reported 244 infections, followed by Chittoor (147), Prakasam (122), Nellore (115), Krishna (113), Guntur (111), West Godavari (96), Kadapa (71), Visakhapatnam (28), Srikakulam (18), Anantapur (14), and Vizianagaram (5). Kurnool reported zero cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-13-more-lives/article36746676.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Final phase of Inter admissions begins||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) on Wednesday started the second and final phase of admissions into Intermediate colleges in the State. In a statement, BIE Secretary Ramakrishna V. Said the admission process would be completed by October 8. He said the Principals of all Intermediate colleges in the State should take special care in enrolment of students for the 2021-22 academic year, in adherence to the rules and instructions issued earlier. After the completion of the admissions into the first year by October 8, no further extension the schedule would be given, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/final-phase-of-inter-admissions-begins/article36746685.ece
30 September 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children’s Park to be inaugurated on October 2||The renovated Children’s Park on Gandhi Hill here will be inaugurated on October 2. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, along with officials, inspected the works atop the hill on Wednesday. He inspected the works pertaining to the installation of play equipment, lighting, and auditorium. Additional Commissioner U. Sarada Devi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/childrens-park-to-be-inaugurated-on-october-2/article36746809.ece
30 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maintain good lifestyle: Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has appealed to the people to adopt a balanced lifestyle with regular exercise to reduce the risk of cardiovascular diseases. On the occasion of World Heart Day on Wednesday, the Governor tweeted that people should make it a habit to consume good diet to avoid heart diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maintain-good-lifestyle-governor/article36746811.ece
30 September 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State-level panel sought for ‘safai karamcharis’||National Safai Karamchari Commission Chairman M. Venkatesan has sought the help of Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan in setting up a State-level commission. Mr. Venkatesan met Governor at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday and explained to him the need for establishing the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-level-panel-sought-for-safai-karamcharis/article36746193.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reservoirs brimming with heavy inflows||Reservoirs in the district are brimming with heavy inflows, thanks to copious rains in the last few days under the impact of Cyclone Gulab, GVMC Superintendent Engineer (Water Supply) K.V.N. Ravi said on Wednesday. According to statistics obtained from the GVMC on Wednesday, the present water levels at Meghadrigedda reservoir is 60 feet as against the Maximum Water Level of 61 feet. The MWL of Yeleru reservoir is 86.56 m, and its present level is 82.14 m. The Godavari reservoir’s max level is 18 m and its present level is 15 m. Raiwada is standing at 112.68 m as against the max water level of 114 m. Similarly, the Thatipudi reservoir’s max water level is 297 feet, and as on Wednesday evening, its level stood at 294.40 feet. Similarly, Gambheeram Gedda’s present level is 123.9 feet as against its full level of 126 feet. Water levels in Mudasarlova reservoir, which also received good inflows, stands at 168.60 feet as against its max water level of 169 feet. The Gosthani reservoir’s preset water level is 32 feet while its full level is 35 feet. Due to heavy inflows, some of the reservoirs had to open gates to release surplus water, which led to flooding of several low-lying areas in the district. The situation of water levels at all reservoirs is being closely monitored, Mr. Ravi said. “There has been no dearth of water supply in the last couple of years due to rains at regular intervals. These rains have not only swelled local reservoirs, but also have increased underground water levels, which is a good sign. The city may not see any dearth of water in the near future,” a senior official from the GVMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reservoirs-brimming-with-heavy-inflows/article36746831.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scouting for a place to house special needs school: GVMC||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana said on Wednesday that the civic body is searching for an alternative place to house the Hidden Sprouts Special Needs School. The school found itself in the news after it was made to vacate its premises by the GVMC in June this year. The civic body also demolished several portions of the school building citing that the management had illegally occupied public space. The closure of the school, however, came as a rude shock to the parents of dozens of mentally challenged children who were enrolled at the institution. Parents and children, along with the staff of the special needs school, staged protests in MVP Colony demanding that the school be either allowed to resume functioning from the same premises or be given alternative accommodation at the earliest. Ms. Srijana said that the civic body initially tried to accommodate the school at a community hall in MVP Colony, but had to drop the proposal after resistance from locals. Later, it was planned to utilise the GVMC School at Peda Waltair, but the school committee and parents of the students enrolled there objected to it. “The GVMC is searching for accommodation. In the meantime, the management of the special needs school can also try to look for an alternative location,” Ms. Srijana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scouting-for-a-place-to-house-special-needs-school-gvmc/article36746829.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poor planning to blame for inundation, says CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy on Wednesday alleged that some areas in the city were vulnerable to frequent flooding because of poor planning on the part of authorities despite crores of rupees being spent on planning and development works. The city received 33 cm of rain in less than 24 hours during Cyclone Gulab. Low-lying areas were inundated as usual. Though crores of rupees were spent a few years ago on diversion of water released from the Meghadrigedda Reservoir, in order to prevent flooding of the airport, the road leading to the airport was submerged and water had also entered the airport. Though flight operations were unaffected, passengers had to wade through water to reach the taxi stand, Mr. Murthy said. Similarly, several areas between H.B. Colony and Swatantranagar were inundated due to the torrential rains. Mr. Murthy wondered how H.B. Colony, which was developed by the government some years ago, could be inundated. “This indicates a lack of planning. Remedial measures are not being taken to prevent future submersion,” he said.  State-level workshop Mr. Murthy said that the State-level workshop of the party would be held in the city on October 8 and 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/poor-planning-to-blame-for-inundation-says-cpi/article36746821.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP bags award||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant bagged the first prize under the category ‘Manufacturing-Public-Mega’  at the 17th National Awards for Excellence in Cost Management-2019, conducted virtually by The Institute of Cost Accountants of India. RINL CMD Atul Bhatt and Director (Finance) V.V. Venugopala Rao congratulated RINL staff for the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-bags-award/article36746822.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSNL, DIET College sign MoU for skill training||A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was reached between Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. (BSNL) and Dadi Institute of Engineering and Technology (DIET) at Anakapalle for providing skill development training to students of the college. M. Satya Prasad, Assistant General Manager, BSNL, and Ch. Narasimham, Principal, DIET College, signed the MoU on Wednesday. N. Kranti Kumar, SDE (Trainings), BSNL, HoD of ECE Poorna Priya, HODs of CSE, EEE and MBA and faculty members of the college were present on the occasion. Mr. Satya Prasad gave details of the training programme to be offered to engineering students and the facilities and infra available in Visakhapatnam city and also about the benefits the students would get on undergoing internship/project works with BSNL as part of the Skill Development Programme. He said that BSNL was offering skill development as per the New Education Policy 2020 of the Government of India. Faculty training would also be provided in addition to the student programme, to bridge the gap between the academics and industry. He also gave a lecture on ‘Emerging Technologies in Telecommunications’. Mr. Kranti Kumar briefed about the various internship courses offered by BSNL and their benefits. The DIET Principal spoke on the importance of skill development and advised all the students to undergo the training programme to improve their job prospects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bsnl-diet-college-sign-mou-for-skill-training/article36746824.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students take part in ECoR competitions||Drawing, painting and debate competitions were organised for schoolchildren at Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Wednesday as part of Swachhta Pakhwada, being observed by the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway. Over 50 children participated in the competitions, held in two categories for children aged below 10 and above 10. The competition was held on subjects like: ‘Our Environment’, ‘India and Cleanliness’ and ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’. The motto of the Swachh competitions is to share experiences of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and invite young minds to accept the challenge and join hands in the cleanliness drive. ECoRWWO president Parijat Satpathy, who participated as chief guest, gave away merit certificates and prizes to the winners. Vice-President of ECoRWWO, Kalpana Gupta, Member R. Shyamala Rajgopal, Station Director Rajgopal, and Dr. Bhashini, Medical Officer, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-take-part-in-ecor-competitions/article36746826.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel workers to organise blockade today||The Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee has announced its decision to organise a blockade at all the seven gates of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) on Thursday to oppose the decision of the Centre to open the bids for appointment of ‘Transaction Adviser’ and ‘Legal Adviser’ to proceed with VSP’s strategic sale. Committee leaders N. Rama Rao, Gandham Venkata Rao and Mantri Rajasekhar recalled that as no one came forward to participate in the bidding, it was postponed several times. They said that they would not allow any one to come and inspect the plant or prepare an estimate. The blockade was announced to stop any such moves by the Centre. They called upon all workers to participate in the blockade. Meanwhile, the relay hunger strike by the workers at the Steel Plant arch, near Kurmannapalem, continued for the 230th day on Wednesday. Employees of SMS-I participated in the hunger strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-workers-to-organise-blockade-today/article36746827.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inspects rain-affected areas||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna inspected areas affected by heavy rains under the impact of Cyclone Gulab in the district on Wednesday. Mr. Mallikarjuna visited Munagapaka and Kasimkota mandals in Anakapalle Parliamentary constituency along with Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi. He directed Irrigation officials to undertake temporary repairs of the Sarada riverbund, which breached at Ganaparthi village of Munagapaka mandal. He later inspected ongoing work at Jagananna Colony at Tegada village of Kasimkota mandal. He interacted with beneficiaries and asked whether they were getting construction material on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-inspects-rain-affected-areas/article36746828.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||World Heart Day observed||The World Heart Day was celebrated at Care Hospital on Wednesday. Renowned cardiologists G. S. R. Murty, P.V.V.N.M. Kumar and cardiac surgeon Giridhar Hariprasad inaugurated the event by cutting a cake. Dr.G. S. R. Murty and Dr.P.V.V.N.M. Kumar spoke on the theme for World Heart Day ‘Use Heart To Connect’. The main objective of the theme was to highlight the power of digital health to improve awareness, management and prevention of Cardio Vascular Diseases (CVD) globally. Dr. Kumar said the theme was about using one’s knowledge, influence and compassion to make sure that people have the best chance to live heart-healthy lives. Moreover, the day was also about making sure to fuel and nurture them to the best extent possible. He also impressed upon the people to make use of teleconsultation facility during the COVID-19 pandemic and emphasised on the importance of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/world-heart-day-observed-in-vizag/article36746721.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing boy found dead||The body of 14-year-old Krishna Vamsi Reddy. who was swept away in heavy rains at Sundarayya Colony under Steel Plant Police Station limits two days ago, was traced near Kanithi area on Wednesday. Vamsihad ventured into the waters to catch fish on Sept. 27 and had reportedly gone missing ever since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/missing-boy-found-dead/article36746673.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag bags tourism award||Visakhapatnam city bagged the ‘Best Civic Management of a Tourist Destination in India’ award while Rajat Bhargava, Principal Secretary (Tourism), Government of A.P., picked up the Best Tourism Policy award at the Tourism Awards instituted by The Tours & Travels Association of Andhra. The awards were given away virtually by Pydah Krishna Prasad, Sambasiva Rao, Mullagada Sudhir and Kumar Raja, in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. The other awards were: Travel Legendary Award - won by Subash Goel, MD of Stic Travels; Most Influential Person - Rupinder Brar, Additional D.G. of Tourism, Govt of India; Changing a State’s Dimension on Tourism - Jenu Devan, Managing Director, Gujarat Tourism; Best International Tourism Board - Malaysia Tourism Board; and Most Friendly State Tourism Board - Odisha Tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-bags-tourism-award/article36746820.ece
30 September 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lowest COVID tally in months||The district recorded 28 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,57,095. This is the lowest number of cases recorded in a day in the last six months, ever since the second wave broke out in the district in March this year. The death toll remained at 1,088 with no COVID-19 deaths being reported in the last three days. As many as 52 persons undergoing treatment for the virus had recovered from the infection during the last 24 hours. The number of recoveries increased to 1,55,137, while active cases decreased to 870.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lowest-covid-tally-in-months/article36746832.ece
30 September 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be physically fit and shun bad habits, urges SP||Superintendent of Police Deepika M. Patil on Wednesday urged people to give top priority to physical fitness and shun bad habits such as smoking and consumption of alcohol. She was speaking after flagging off a rally organised by Tirumala Hospitals on the occasion of World Heart Day. “Many youngsters are suffering heart attack due to lack of health discipline,” she said. Tirumala Hospitals managing director K. Tirumala Prasad said many cardiac problems could be prevented by undergoing periodic health check-ups. Later, a free medical camp and awareness programmes were held on the hospital premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/be-physically-fit-and-shun-bad-habits-urges-sp/article36746717.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In full swing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-full-swing/article36746672.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health is where the heart is||Heart diseases are no longer restricted to the elderly. Cardiac health is a cause for concern among young Indians too, given their hectic lifestyles and high stress levels that come with it. Even the seemingly fit people are not risk-free. On World Heart Day, which is celebrated annually on September 29 to spread awareness about the importance of keeping the heart fit, The Hindu connected with well known cardiologists in Telangana who offered simple, low-cost measures that one can adopt to prevent heart attacks. They all stressed the importance of strictly incorporating preventive and precautionary measures in their lifestyle to avoid complications that can lower the quality of life, or worse, lead to death. Amaresh Rao Malempati, unit head at NIMS cardiothoracic surgery department, made a remarkable statement: “Genetics load the gun but our lifestyle factors pull the trigger”. Explaining it further, he said, “Loading the gun is non-modifiable. The modifiable factors are abstinence form tobacco, controlling diabetes and hypertension (high blood pressure). Mental health has to be taken care of too; stress has to be reduced. Avoid any form of white food — rice, salt, sugar, refined flour and processed food. It is always better to go back to traditional Indian foods such as millets, along with including green vegetables and fresh fruits in one’s diet.” Head of cardiology department at AIG Hospitals, Rajeev Menon advised that anybody above the age of 30 must undergo regular health check-ups to monitor blood pressure and diabetes risk. “If everything is alright, then get checked after five years. Smoking is an absolute no-no. Follow a healthy lifestyle — exercise for 30 minutes, five days a week. Walk, swim or cycle. Strength training and stretching should be included too. Yoga is a comprehensive workout,” he said. He also echoed Dr Malempati about the need to reduce stress. “Don’t sit before the computer continuously. The idea is to include mild exercises within your work schedule,” he added. President of Cardiology Society of India-Telangana State, K. Narsa Raju kept it simple by stating, “Look after your heart by eating a healthy diet, saying no to tobacco and getting plenty of exercise. Digital tools, like phone apps and wearables, can really help you to get motivated and stay on track.” Daily exercise, conscious efforts to minimise saturated fats and increasing protein intake hold the key, according to assistant professor of Medicine department and assistant medical superintendent at AIIMS-Bibinagar, Vishakha Jain. “If one has hypertension, diabetes, or has weight issues, they have to be controlled meticulously. Smoking has to be avoided since it is considered a slow poison, leading to heart attacks,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/health-is-where-the-heart-is/article36746490.ece
30 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Technology of little use in pre-empting vigilantism||Despite having the latest surveillance systems and high-end patrol vehicles, Hyderabad City Police have practically realised that they are no guarantee to yielding requisite intel insights. With lakhs of CCTV cameras, thousands of officers and hundreds of patrol vehicles, Hyderabad ranks as one of the safest cities in the world, but surprisingly two ‘communally sensitive incidents’ at Golconda and Nampally on last Friday and Sunday, respectively, wherein two youngsters were abused and roughed by vigilantes for travelling on two-wheelers with girls belonging to a different faith, came to the notice of the law enforcers only after the videos of the incidents went viral on the social media. The recent incidents have also raised questions on the functioning of police patrol teams and whether they have any knowledge about what happens in their absence under their jurisdiction? It has also shown that there is no constant monitoring of CCTV cameras and human intelligence, even if such incidents take place on the busy roads in the heart of the city. The incidents have proved that until videos taken by the passers-by goes viral on social media, the unruly elements have a free hand . In the sensational rape and murder of a six-year-old girl at Saidabad, police claimed that they had failed to nab the accused as there were insufficient CCTV footages, besides the accused not using any mobile phone. At Nampally, even after the video footage made rounds on social media, it took more than half a day for the police to conclude and confirm that the incident happened at Nampally, let alone arresting the accused, a senior officer said. When asked about the alleged lack of human intelligence in the recent incidents, Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar had redirected this correspondent to contact Joint Commissioners of Police of West and Central Zones, A.R. Srinivas and P. Viswaprasad, respectively. “I am under the impression that in both the cases, the accused persons have been arrested and remanded to judicial custody,” he said. “Under Nampally police station limits there is only one patrol vehicle and in many cases, many a time such incidents do not get reported as both the parties leave the area after a few minutes of the scuffle,” Mr. Vishwaprasad said. He said that the inter-faith friends who were stopped by vigilantes were not interested in approaching the police. Similar was the situation at Golconda, when a girl and a boy of different communities, both residents of Gajwel in Siddipet district, were stopped by a group of people after they noticed a religious cloth tied to the scooter on Toli Chowki road, and assaulted the boy. “In both the cases, the youngsters were not ready to approach us. However, we insisted that they lodge the complaints, based on which cases were registered and four persons were arrested in two cases,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/technology-of-little-use-in-pre-empting-vigilantism/article36746503.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High-level probe ordered into Telugu Akademi affairs||Alarmed by the reports of misappropriation of funds in Telugu Akademi, the State government has ordered an inquiry into the misuse of funds allotted to the academy. The decision comes in the light of reports that the Rs. 43 crore deposited in the Karvan branch of the Union Bank of India in the name of Telugu Akademi had been misappropriated. The Akademi had filed a complaint with the Central Crime Station and the CCS was investigating the case. Complaint filed The Akademi on its part had also informed that it had filed a complaint with the CCS and the CCS had been investigating into the issue. The Higher Education department said it was necessary to conduct an inquiry simultaneously to bring out the facts. Accordingly, it has been decided to constitute a committee to inquire into the matter. Intermediate Education Commissioner Omer Jaleel will head the committee which will have representatives of the Board of Intermediate Education and Commissioner of Collegiate Education as its members. The Committee had been directed to inquire into the matter and submit its detailed report within a week, October 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-level-probe-ordered-into-telugu-akademi-affairs/article36746512.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cong. Huzurabad candidate in 2 days||Congress is set to announce its candidate for the ensuing bypoll to Huzurabad Assembly constituency in the next two-three days. With the TRS and the BJP in thick of campaign in Huzurabad, the Congress leadership had not yet announced its candidate so far. At a press conference here on Wednesday, TPCC chief A. Revanth Reddy along with TPCC Political Affairs Committee Convener Mohammed Ali Shabbir and other senior leaders said: “We have a strategy for Huzurabad. There is a committee of CLP members to finalise the candidate. We are going to contest bypoll in Huzurabad and will take on board all the parties and leaders, who wish to sail with us.” He announced that a 65-day-long agitation ‘Vidyarthi Nirudyodgula Jung Siren' (Students, Jobless War Bugle) from October 2 to December 9 demanding fee reimbursement for students, filling up of over 1.91 lakh vacancies and unemployment allowance of Rs. 3,016 (as promised in the TRS manifesto for 2018 elections) to 60 lakh unemployed people. Addressing a press conference, at Gandhi Bhavan on Wednesday, Revanth Reddy demanded that the State Government immediately clear dues of over Rs. 4,000 crore towards the Fee Reimbursement scheme to protect the careers of lakhs of students. He said all 1.91 lakh vacancies in various government departments, as identified by the Biswal Committee in its second PRC report, must be filled immediately. Further, nearly 60 lakh jobless youth must be paid Rs. 3,016 monthly Unemployment Allowance with retrospective effect from December 2018. Revanth Reddy informed that the 'Vidyarthi Nirudyodgula Jung Siren' would be launched on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi's Jayanthi, 2nd October, at Rajiv Chowk, Dilsukhnagar at 3 PM. After that, padayatra will be taken out up to LB Nagar crossroads where thousands of students and youth would take a pledge for waging a battle against unemployment and other injustices. Later in the day, Mr. Reddy called on MRPS founder president Manda Krishna Madiga, who is recuperating after brief illness. He said the Congress party supports categorisation of Scheduled Castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-huzurabad-candidate-in-2-days/article36746523.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Lake protection should not be only on paper’||Observing that protection of lakes “should not be only on paper” - the Telangana High Court on Tuesday instructed Nirmal district Collector and Municipal Commissioner to file a comprehensive report on the status of encroachments of tanks and lakes in their respective jurisdictions. A bench of justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and T. Vinod Kumar, hearing a PIL plea on encroachments of tanks in Nirmal, instructed the two officials to ensure that the report is presented by next date of hearing without fail. The bench made it clear to Collector Musharraf Faruqui that there must be a mechanism for continuous monitoring of encroachments of tanks/lakes even after removal of illegal structures. Initially when the government counsel told the bench that the Collector had logged in virtually to explain to the court about the measures taken for protection of lakes, Justice A. Rajasheker Goud said, “We don’t need presence of officials ... we need action.” After the Collector explained that illegally raised private structures raised on buffer zones of lakes having an estimated commercial value of Rs. 30 crore were demolished, the judge said: action should not be confined to papers. “How many lakes were there? How many of them are extinct now? What action was taken to clear illegal occupation of tanks?”, the judge asked the government counsel. The petitioner’s counsel Chinnolla Naresh Reddy, differing with the Collector’s contentions, stated that fencing of the lakes in Nirmal town was namesake. Presenting photographs to the bench, he charged that fresh encroachments are on the buffer zone and full tank level lands of the lakes and tanks in Nirmal town. He told the bench that some persons illegally breached the bund of Ibrahim tank to clear water that drowned their illegal structures built on tank’s buffer zone. The bench asked the government counsel if the areas coming under buffer zone and full tank level of the lakes were identified and the same information was passed onto the Registration authorities not to permit registration of such lands on names of private persons. “Warangal was a live example” of what would happen to urban areas if lakes and tanks were not protected, Justice T. Vinod Kumar said recalling how floods devastated and drowned residential areas in Warangal during last year’s rainy season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lake-protection-should-not-be-only-on-paper/article36746507.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||ERC rejects discoms’ plea on tariff||Renewable Power Generators (RPGs) – Individual farmers, group of farmers, farmers cooperatives, gram panchayats, farmer producer organisations (FPOs) and water users’ associations (WUAs) – who either have or plans to have their solar power units with capacity of 500 kilowatt (kw) to 2 megawatt (mw) would continue to get a tariff of Rs. 3.13 per unit of energy injected to the grid. Telangana State Electricity Regulator Commission (TSERC) has recently rejected a petition filed by the two power distribution companies (discoms) in the State with a plea to review the tariff and revise it to Rs. 2.80 per unit, as arrived at the norms of Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) regulation. The TSERC felt that the petition of the discoms for tariff under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Surakshan Utthan Mahabhiyan (PMKUSUM) was devoid of merits. The levelised tariff of Rs. 3.13 per unit injected to the grid by the PRGs in the State was determined by the TSERC in January this year. However, in a review petition filed on the January 2021 tariff order, the discoms pointed out that the tariff fixed for procurement of energy from RPGs under PMKUSUM was comparatively higher. They mentioned that tariff determined by the ERC of Punjab was Rs. 2.75 per unit, Rs. 3.07 (Madhya Pradesh) and Rs. 3.05 (Jharkhand) under the scheme and that the cost of solar energy available in the market was considerably reduced over the past few years due to advancement of technology, improvement of efficiency and other factors. Further, they argued that the applicability period of tariff was not taken into consideration. Besides, the discoms argued that the Commission did not consider the prevailing capital cost (considered cost at Rs. 3.6 crore per megawatt against Rs. 3.4 crore as per the prevailing market conditions), interest on term loans (proposed 10% per annum as against 9% as per CERC regulation), interest on working capital (proposed 11% as against 10.5% as per CERC norms), did not financial principles laid out by CERC in the matter of working capital component and discount rate. However, the Commission, while rejecting the review petition, made it clear that it had considered all parameters with reliance on CERC regulation and tariffs. Pooled cost Meanwhile, in another order, the Commission has fixed the average pooled power purchase cost for 2021-22 at Rs. 4.32 per unit including Rs. 4.236 for TS-Genco, Rs. 4.308 for Central Generating Stations and Rs. 4.448 for others. The cost fixed for Singareni Thermal at Rs. 4.687 per unit, Rs. 3.914 (Chhattisgarh), Rs. 5.884 (Bhadradri), Rs. 4.069 (KTPS-VII) and Rs. 3.158 (Genco-Hydel).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/erc-rejects-discoms-plea-on-tariff/article36746516.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR freight high in six months||South Central Railway (SCR) has recorded highest ever parcel earnings of Rs. 109.06 crore by loading 2.56 lakh tonnes during the first six months in the current financial year 2021-2022 duly surpassing previous year’s entire parcel revenue of Rs. 108.30 crore. Customer friendly initiatives like advance booking facility of parcel space, luggage rooms on passenger carrying trains, parcel vans attached to the regular trains and time-tabled parcel trains helped traders, cargo aggregators and farmers, especially those who are handling small quantities for transporting their consignments in a safe, secure, economical and fastest mode. About 343 Kisan rails transporting onions, mangoes and other agricultural commodities carrying 1,08,388 tonnes generated revenue of Rs. 49.43 crore, milk specials or ‘Doodh Duronto’s carrying 3.78 crore litres got Rs. 17.85 crore, 37,199 tonnes of fish and 19,570 tonnes of eggs got Rs. 8.91 crore and Rs. 3.88 crore, respectively. Cent per cent bar coding for tracking of parcel packages has been achieved. New products such as diapers from Renigunta and MRF Tyres from Sadashivpet to North Western Railway got Rs. 52 lakh each, said a press release by GM Gajanan Mallya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-freight-high-in-six-months/article36746519.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mapmygenome donates 1L COVID testing kits to TS||Mapmygenome India handed over 1 lakh COVID test kits to the Telangana government on Wednesday, as part of their initiative with Zymo Research to donate one million such kits across the country. These kits include the new DNA/RNA shield - DirectDetect™ reagent and collection devices to make sample handling safer and also reduce the testing time. The testing kit contains DNA/RNA Shield - DirectDetect reagent with swab collection devices. The reagent safeguards viral RNA from degradation for safe, ambient temperature collection and transportation of samples without the need for nucleic acid extraction. Removing the nucleic acid extraction step reduces the time to get PCR test results. “DNA/RNA Shield - DirectDetect™ enables countries seeing an increase in COVID-19 cases to perform testing without extraction, therefore removing the barrier of limited extraction resources. It’s our way of providing humanitarian support to people in need,” said Zymo Research VP Marc Van Eden. “We teamed up with Mapmygenome because of their ability to rapidly deploy and facilitate RT-PCR testing,” he added. Zymo Research is a privately owned company serving the scientific and diagnostics community with state-of-the-art molecular biology tools since 1994. Mapmygenome CEO Anu Acharya said, “We have always been at the forefront of the fight against COVID, in terms of testing and prevention. We are thrilled to be part of this next step in the fight against COVID”. Mapmygenome® founded in 2013 offers personalised health solutions based on genetic tests that help people get to understand their genetic selves, by combining genetic health profiles, health history, and genetic counselling. It was among the first private diagnostic labs to receive approval from the government for COVID-19 testing and the lab analyses samples for SARS-CoV-2 from walk-in customers, healthcare partners, home collections, and corporate clients with a testing lab approved at the Hyderabad International Airport too since November last year, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1-lakh-covid-testing-tests-donated-to-ts/article36746495.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sri Lankan diplomat visits AgHub, PJTSAU facilities||Deputy High Commissioner of Sri Lanka to India Dr. D. Venkateswaran visited Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) here on Wednesday, including AgHub on the university campus, to understand the agritech innovation ecosystem being nurtured from the platform. Registrar of the university S. Sudheer Kumar and Director (Research) of the university R. Jagadeeshwar welcome the Sri Lankan diplomat and explained about the university activities. He also visited several wings of the university on the Rajendranagar campus. Later, Dr. Venkateswaran visited the recently inaugurated AgHub – Agri Innovation Hub – of PJTSAU to understand the agritech innovation ecosystem that is being nurtured through the platform. Impressed with the model and functioning of the innovation hub, the Deputy High Commissioner said a similar model would be established in Sri Lanka to elevate the already booming innovation and entrepreneurial environment there. Further, he suggested a collaboration to adapt ideas and models of AgHub and successful ventures of PJTSAU, exchange of faculty and students of PJTSAU for optimal utilisation of resources, propagation of technology, strengthening the relationship between the two nations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sri-lankan-diplomat-visits-aghub-pjtsau-facilities/article36746510.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||63 GPs in Mahabubnagar achieve 100% vaccination||A special initiative taken up by the administration of Mahabubnagar district with the help of door-to-door survey and formation of committees from mandal level has helped 63 gram panchayats in the district achieve 100% vaccination of the eligible population – all those above 18 years of age. The 63 villages in 14 mandals have achieved the distinction of getting all their eligible population inoculated on September 27. According to the officials, several other gram panchayats and municipal wards were engaged in stepping up inoculation to achieve 100% vaccination to fight COVID-19 virus effectively. District Collector S. Venkata Rao stated that the special drive was being taken up in a campaign mode. Efforts were being made to identify the eligible persons who were yet to get their first jab with door-to-door survey in villages and municipal wards. Based on the information gathered through the door-to-door survey, Asha and Anganwadi workers and Self-Help Group women were visiting door-to-door to bring all uncovered persons to the vaccination centres for inoculation. After vaccination of all eligible persons in a house, the teams were pasting stickers of 100% vaccination. Involvement of gram panchayat ward members, sarpanches and other elected representatives till mandal level and participation of all government staff had made 100% vaccination in 63 gram panchayats and one ward of Bhoothpur municipality possible so far. Two gram panchayats of Addakal mandal, two in Bhoothpur, six in Balanagar, four in C.C. Kunta, five in Devarakadra, fourin Gandeed, ninein Hanwada, three in Jadcherla, five in Koilkonda, five in Mahabubnagar, five in Midjil, four in Musapet, five in Nawabpet and four in Rajapur mandal achieved 100% vaccination so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/63-gps-in-mahabubnagar-achieve-100-vaccination/article36746517.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS urges KRMB to rectify unequal drawal||Telangana Government has requested the Krishna River Management Board to rectify the disproportionate water drawal capacity of the Nagarjunasagar Right Canal and allow increase the vent way of the Left Canal so that both the canals could draw equal quantity of 11,000 cusecs at minimum drawdown level of the reservoir. In a letter addressed to Chairman of the KRMB M.P. Singh, Engineer-in-Chief (General-Irrigation) of Telangana C. Muralidhar has also requested the river board to permit drawal of designed capacity of water at MDDL of the reservoir (+510 feet) by allowing provision of an additional vent way at the Left Canal head regulator. Mr. Muralidhar explained to theKrishna River Management Board Chairman that the then Hyderabad State had finalised the Lower Krishna multi-purpose at Nandikonda in 1952 with a dam across the Krishna river along with a power house on its left side and also a left bank canal. The State Planning Commission had approved the proposal and submitted to the (Union) Planning Commission for its inclusion in the first five-year plan and for release of budget for 1952-53. The Khosla Committee (1952) had rejected Krishna-Pennar Project (proposed for the Andhra region of the Madras State) and recommended addition of a canal on the right side of the Nandikonda project. “It’s pertinent to mention here that in response to the Khosla Committee recommendations, the then Hyderabad State had asserted that in-basin utilisations be given preference while and only un-utilised water from Krishna be diverted to Madras”, the ENC explained in the letter to the KRMB Chairman on Wednesday. “Unfortunately, though the sill level of both the Left Canal and Right Canal head regulators are same at +490 feet, the drawal capacity of Left canal at MDDL is 7,899 cusecs, while its 24,606 cusecs for the Right Canal or Telangana and Andhra Pradesh side, respectively, and are highly disproportionate”, the ENC said adding that the Right Canal could draw the required 11,000 cusecs at +500 feet level, whereas the Left Canal could draw the same quantity only at 520 feet level. He requested the river board to modify the vent way of the Left Canal head regulator to draw 11,000 cusecs at MDDL and also reduce the vent way of Right Canal head regulator so that the maximum discharge was only 11,000 cusecs at MDDL instead of its existing capacity to draw 24,606 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-urges-krmb-to-rectify-unequal-drawal/article36746520.ece
30 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five arrested for ‘gang-rape’||Five people were arrested by the Nizamabad police on Wednesday in connection with the alleged gang-rape of a woman at an abandoned private hospital in the town. According to police, a case under Section 376 (D) of the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act was registered against the five accused. Surprisingly, Nizamabad Commissioner of Police Kartikeya claimed that they had not received any complaint from the alleged victim or her family members, her statement was not recorded and no case was registered. “Around midnight, the alleged victim was rescued and was taken to a hospital in the town, where she is undergoing treatment and is unable to give a statement,” he said. However, One Town police said that around 9 p.m. on Tuesday a group of three men took the victim to the closed hospital on their bike, where they consumed alcohol along with the latter. “Later, three of them sexually assaulted her in the presence of two others in the security guard’s room. After a few hours, around 2 a.m. on Wednesday, we received a Dial 100 call and soon a team along with night duty officer rushed to the spot and rescued the victim,” they said. Based on the complaint lodged by the alleged victim, a case was registered, accused persons were arrested and a probe was on to know more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-arrested-for-gang-rape/article36746527.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSIC invites entries from innovators||The Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is inviting applications for the second cohort of i2E Lab, a 14-week pre-incubation programme designed to nurture early stage ideas. A world-class curriculum, access to mentors and funds, prototyping facilities and a platform focused on experimenting solutions are among features of the programme that TSIC offers in partnership with Makeroom India, a release from IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao’s office said. Chief Innovation Officer to Telangana government Shanta Thoutam said, “In the first cohort, we helped the finalists collectively raise over Rs. 80 lakh in funding and market access. Through i2E labs, we will be scaling early stage ideas, student innovations and startups by supporting them with resources pertinent to idea validation, mentorship, business development, pitching, market access and funding connect.” Founder of Makeroom Pranav Hebbar said, “In i2E Lab, we work hand-in-hand with each team, making the right connections to test, build and scale. With the right mentors and collaborators from industry, government and startup ecosystem, we create opportunities to test, build and iterate faster and enter the market.”  In i2E Lab, we work hand-in-hand with each team, making the right connections to test, build and scale. Pranav Hebbar, Founder, Makeroom||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/entries-invited-from-innovators/article36746488.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Digital tech the way forward to attend cases in remote areas’||When someone suffers a heart attack, time is of the essence when arranging for medical attention. But what if the person is in a remote location, far away from a health facility where appropriate treatment can be provided? Senior cardiologist at KIMS Hospitals, B. Hygriv Rao says digital technology can be used to provide initial treatment in such situations. During a heart attack, blood flow to some parts of heart stops because of clots in coronary arteries, causing damage to the organ’s muscles. A control centre could be established where experienced cardiologists are available round-the-clock. They can pass instructions to local healthcare workers in the remote places using digital technology. Dr Rao says ECG reports from a far-flung place can be directly sent from the machine to the control centre, or through a social media app. “If the cardiologist concerned concludes that it is indeed a heart attack, instructions can be issued to administer clot busters or other medicines. Later, the patient can be taken to a health facility with cath lab where angiogram and angioplasty are performed,” explains Dr Rao. He adds that digital technology can be used to teach more people basic concepts of heart functions. Since the internet is connecting people from across the world, expert cardiologists around the globe can impart classes to students or heart care professionals here or in any part of the country. The curriculum can also be standardised with the same level of expertise since dearth of experts would not be a problem, Dr Rao avers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/digital-tech-key-to-attending-heart-attacks-in-remote-areas/article36746491.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SPMCIL pledges Rs. 2.3 crore to six start-ups on COVID||Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL) has pledged Rs. 2.3 crore to the Atal Incubation Centre — Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) novel COVID-19 Technology Deployment (CoviTED) designed to help promising start-ups accelerate the scale-up and deployment in the market. The incubator has selected six start-ups with promising technologies in the first call and this support from SPMCIL as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) will help these with critical financial, regulatory, and marketing support, informed the CEO & consultant scientist N. Madhusudhana Rao on Wednesday. SPMCIL has come forward to support organisations at AIC-CCMB involved in mitigating the COVID-19 pandemic after the ‘tsunami of Covid-19 has ravaged the nation. The pandemic has ignited an extraordinary response from start-ups and innovators across the globe to identify and implement potential short and long-term solutions. As the threat of new variants causing another wave looms large, there are significant opportunities to reduce the cost of testing and indigenisation of Medtech, he said at ‘CoviTED-19 Tech Showcase’ held at the institute. “Timely supports are crucial for rapidly adapting to demands of the pandemic and SPMCIL support will go a long way in evolving novel technologies to stop and decelerate the viral infections,” added Dr. Rao. SPMCIL chairman and managing director Tripti Patra Ghosh said her organisation understands the need for promoting indigenous technologies to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. “Our CSR initiatives, programmes, and policies are intended to meet the basic needs of the citizens. Our support for carrying out activities relating to COVID-19 oriented healthcare projects furthers our commitment to building a sustainable society,” she said. CSIR-CCMB director Vinay Kumar Nandicoori said he was delighted that a public enterprise like SPMCIL has come forward to to realise the potential of start-ups and engage with incubators like AIC-CCMB further the Atmanirbhar Bharat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spmcil-pledges-rs-23-cr-to-6-start-ups-on-covid/article36746511.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC issues notices over vacancy in tribunal||Noting that not appointing members to tribunals amounted to deprivation of justice to litigants, Telangana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to Union Law Ministry and the Railways in a PIL petition seeking appointment of Member (Judicial) to Railway Claims Tribunal. A bench of Justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and T. Vinod Kumar directed the Law Ministry and the Railways to file affidavits by October 4. The bench observed that earlier people used to approach civil courts in case of any grievances. With the government constituting tribunals, they would approach the latter in case of any issue relating to a specific department. However, with the government not appointing members for the tribunals for long periods of time, the litigants were being left at crossroads. The civil courts were not undertaking matters relating to tribunals since the latter were constituted for specific purpose, the bench said. The Railway Claims Tribunal Advocates Association filed the PIL plea questioning the failure of the government to appoint a Member (Judicial) for Railway Claims Tribunal-Secunderabad. Counsel for the Central government contended that the petitioners did not make the Union Law Ministry and the Railways which recommends and appoints members for the tribunal respondents. In stead, they made the Cabinet Secretary respondent. Expressing dissatisfaction over the petitioners not including them as respondents, the bench passed orders suo motu impleading the two parties as respondents. The bench noted that every citizen had right to secure justice and the government had no right to deprive them of the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-issues-notices-over-vacancy-in-tribunal/article36746521.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protest against temporary relocation of fruit market||Farmers, hamalis and commission agents of Kothapet Fruit Market formally demanded that the State government withdraw the proposal to relocate the market to Batasingaram in Hayatnagar. Instead, the market should be moved to Koheda as agreed upon previously, they said, holding a demonstration in front of the office of the Agricultural Marketing Department in Himayatnagar on Wednesday, with support from the Communist Party of India. Addressing the protesters, Telangana State secretary of CPI Chada Venkat Reddy said it is unfair to move the market to Batasingaram, instead of Koheda, as promised by the government earlier. Farmers, buyers and traders will face severe difficulties with the market moved from current 22 acres to eight acres in Batasingaram, Mr. Venkat Reddy said, and questioned how hundreds of trucks arriving daily could be accommodated at the new market with space crunch. Hamalis will be severely hit by the proposal and expressed concerns about the increased cost of commuting. Mr. Venkat Reddy demanded that the decision for temporary relocation be immediately withdrawn and market should be shifted only when all facilities are in place at Koheda. CPI national executive member and former MP Syed Azeez Pasha said directly or indirectly close to 50,000 families are dependent on fruit market for their livelihood and it is inappropriate on part of the government to take hasty decisions and harass poor families. A delegation led by Chada Venkat Reddy discussed the issues with the Director of Agricultural Marketing. Meanwhile, the market yard at Kothapet has not been receiving any trucks for the past four to five days, officials said. Traders are allowed to take out only the merchandise stored inside the market. Regular trading and transactions could be resumed at Batasingaram from October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/protest-against-temporary-relocation-of-fruit-market/article36746498.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Colombian team visits CSIR-IICT||A high-level delegation from Colombia visited various research facilities in CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology to discuss technologies that may help in developing health programmes in their country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/colombian-team-visits-csir-iict/article36746733.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Himayatsagar gates closed||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board has begun to shut down the gates of Himayatsagar reservoir, as the flood water has started to recede. Ten gates of Himayatsagar, out of the total 17, were lifted by two feet in order to release the excess water into the Musi for the past two days. On Wednesday morning, eight gates were downed and two kept open to release 1,400 cusecs of water. However, flood water to the tune of 1,900 cusecs continues to arrive into Osmansagar, hence four gates have been kept open to release 2,100 cusecs of water into the Musi, a statement from the water board said. At 5 p.m. on Wednesday, for a full tank level of 1,763.5 feet, water brimmed at 1,763.45 feet in Himayatsagar, while in Osmansagar, water came up to the FTL of 1,790.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/himayatsagar-gates-closed/article36746500.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Zoo tiger safari flooded||Forest officials responsible for the Nehru Zoological Park on Wednesday took stock of the situation inside the zoo, precipitated by heavy rains for the past few days. Director, Zoo Parks, Siddhanand Kukrety along with curator V.V.L. Subhadra Devi inspected the heavy inflow into the zoo from the surplus weir of the Mir-Alam Tank adjacent to the Tiger Safari area, and the arch-bund of the lake. The safari park and Singoji Pond areas were slightly inundated with flood water and efforts are being made to drain out water using diesel engines and removing debris and fallen trees manually. A statement from the zoo said all the animals are safe in their respective enclosures with the zoo's veterinary team keeping constant vigil on the health of the wild animals. Ms. Subhadra Devi assured maximum efforts to maintain hygiene inside the zoo. Deliberations are on with the Irrigation Department and the GHMC on the possibility of diverting surplus channel as a permanent solution, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tiger-safari-in-zoo-flooded-animals-safe/article36746506.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||23 held for online cricket betting||With the arrest of 23 persons, all bookies, and seizure of 247 mobile phones and 28 smartphones, Cyberabad police claim to have busted an organised online cricket betting racket operating from the city. Acting on a tip-off about betting for the ongoing IPL cricket matches, the Special Operations Teams raided seven places at Miyapur, Bachupally, Gachibowli and Mailardevpally and apprehended the accused on Tuesday evening. They also seized Rs. 93 lakh in cash, 14 betting boards, eight laptops, four tabs, four TVs, two routers, a printer and five four-wheelers from the possession of the bookies. The accused are Chintha Venu from Miyapur, Vaduvu Ajay Kumar from Gachibowli, Jella Suresh (33) from West Godhavari, Kunappareddy Durga Pavan Kumar from Vijayawada, Thirumani Mani Kanta from West Godhavari, apart from other accused persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/23-held-for-online-cricket-betting/article36746504.ece
30 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Applications invited for teacher awards||Lead India Foundation and LIPSF in collaboration with Telangana Recognised School Managements Association (TRSMA) is inviting applications from teachers for the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam’s Best Teachers Awards. Lead India Foundation Executive Chairperson, N.B. Sudarshan Acharya and LIPSF President S.N. Reddy said that teachers can apply to their respective school correspondents or Headmasters by October 1 along with relevant professional videos, documents, and two passport size photos. The awards will be announced on October 8 by a jury consisting of prominent people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/applications-invited-for-teacher-awards/article36746508.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AIIMS inks agreement with CDFD||A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between AIIMS-Bibinagar and Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD) on Wednesday, by directors of the respective institutes to carry out collaborative academic and research programmes. The collaboration will enable DNA-based diagnostics and provide an entire spectrum of mutations responsible for various genetic diseases by simply looking at any patient or newborn’s DNA sequence. It will provide early diagnosis of genetic diseases and help in preventive healthcare using medication, or through lifestyle modification. AIIMS-Bibinagar director Vikas Bhatia and CDFD director Dr K Thangaraj were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aiims-inks-agreement-with-cdfd/article36746492.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State COVID tally up by 245 cases||Telangana recorded 245 cases of COVID-19 and one death on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to 6,65,749 and the death toll to 3,916. A total of 52,683 samples were put to test, and results of 1,405 were awaited. The new cases included 73 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 21 from Karimnagar, 16 from Warangal Urban, 15 from Nalgonda, and 14 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in Nirmal, Narayanpet, Medak and Kamareddy. Of the total cases, 4,620 were active as of Wednesday evening. So far, the State has tested more than 2.63 crore samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-covid-tally-up-by-245-cases/article36746493.ece
30 September 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special camps for the disabled||GMR Varalakshmi Foundation organised special camps to distribute aids and appliances to 400 physically-challenged persons on Wednesday.These camps were organised in coordination with National Institute of Locomotor Disability at Suryapet, Choutuppal, and Shamshabad. The aids given include wheelchairs, hand-propelled tricycles, artificial limbs, hearing aids, crutches, walking sticks, foldable walkers etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-camps-for-the-disabled/article36746725.ece
30 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Quiz contest||General Officer Commanding, Telangana and Andhra Sub area, Major General RK Singh, who is also the patron of Army Public School, Golconda, Hyderabad, felicitated the quiz team of the school for its outstanding performance in the Southern Command quiz competition. It was an inter-school competition where six teams participated comprising three students in each team. The quiz consisted of six rounds and each round was a mixed bag with questions from different fields. APS Golconda was represented by Parnika Shrivastava oc Class XII, Prakhar Singh from Class X and Rushil Mohan from Class X, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quiz-contest/article36746735.ece
30 September 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 TSRTC JAC urges payment of salaries on 1st of every month, and a festival advance ahead of Dasara||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) Joint Action Committee (JAC) has demanded that the management release worker salaries on the first of every month, and a festival advance. With Dasara scheduled to be celebrated next month, the JAC has demanded a festival advance. Office bearers said that with several workers being paid salaries well after 15th of every month, celebrating festivals has become difficult. They also said that festival advance was not paid even last year. The JAC also stated that with delay in payment of salaries, staff is unable to pay even house rents. They said that a festival advance would instil a sense of confidence among workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-tsrtc-jac-urges-payment-of-salaries-on-1st-of-every-month-and-a-festival-advance-ahead-of-dasara/article36746505.ece
30 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||AOC cycling expedition leaves Khammam for Warangal||The Army Ordnance Corps (AOC) cycling expedition team, touring the historical forts in both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, received warm welcome from locals at various villages and towns en route their last leg of the ride from the fort town of Khammam to the historical tricity of Warangal on Tuesday. The team comprising 12 cyclists embarked on the 1,300-km cycling expedition to cover several historical forts in both the States at the AOC Centre in Secunderabad on September 20. The 10-day cycling expedition is being organised by the AOC Centre, Secunderabad, as part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh (SVV) celebrations to commemorate India’s historical victory over Pakistan in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, which led to the creation of Bangladesh. The expedition will conclude at the AOC Centre in Secunderabad on September 30. The participants of the cycling expedition were accorded a rousing reception on their arrival in Khammam town en route Warangal on Monday night. After an overnight stay in Khammam, the cyclists set out on the final leg of their expedition on Tuesday. People cheer People lined up on either side of the main roads and cheered the cyclists at various villages in the old undivided Khammam and the erstwhile composite Warangal districts as they pedalled their way towards their next destination fostering a spirit of adventure and spreading the message of national integration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aoc-cycling-expedition-leaves-khammam-for-warangal/article36746740.ece
30 September 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Visually challenged boy’s wish fulfilled||Senior civil judge and the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) secretary Mohammed Abdul Javeed Pasha fulfilled the long-cherished wish of a visually challenged boy to meet District Collector V P Gautham here on Wednesday. The boy identified as Abilash expressed his wish to meet the Collector during an interaction with the DLSA secretary when the latter met him at a free medical camp organised by the DLSA at Naidupeta a few days ago, sources said. The judge introduced the boy to the Collector at the latter’s chambers here on Wednesday evening. The boy played flute with remarkable ease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/visually-challenged-boys-wish-fulfilled/article36746530.ece
30 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||CITU protest on October 8||A.K. Padmanabhan, former president, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), demanded that the State should implement the Minimum Wages Act and that it should be Rs. 18,000 per month as recommended by a tripartite committee consisting of representatives from labour, government and industry. Addressing a presses conference here on Wednesday along CITU leaders Veeraiah, Saibaba, Chukka Ramulu and others, Mr. Padmanabhan said international corporates are being welcomed in Telangana but the government is neglecting labour and is failing to protect their interests, which is crucial to run industry. "Industries need labour. Workers status is not guaranteed here. We want workers interests to be protected. The Centre has accepted for Rs. 18,000 minimum wage in draft notification but final notification was not issued. To press our demand, a one-day hartal will be held on October 8," said Mr. Padmanabhan adding that agitation will be intensified. "Many promises made in seven years by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao were not fulfilled. Issue new wage notification which will benefit more than 1.2 crore labour working in the State. Pay labour what they deserve," said M. Saibaba, general secretary, CITU. Informing that the 22-day Karmika Garjana Padayatra concluded on Tuesday, which covered five districts, brought several issues being faced by labour, CITU leader Veeraiah said that in only 100 industries trade unions are functioning while there are about 1,500 industries in Sangareddy district alone. "There are no circumstances where labour can demand minimum wages. Minimum wages has to be revised every five years. Why is the State government not issuing Minimum Wages Act?" asked Mr. Veeraiah adding that the TRS government is not worker-friendly. "Let the State government pass a resolution in the ongoing Assembly sessions in favour of Minimum Wages Act and repeal of four labour codes devised by the Centre. Then only workers will trust the government," he said. Later in the evening, a public meeting was held in which Mr. Padmanabhan addressed the gathering along with others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/citu-protest-on-october-8/article36746737.ece
30 September 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||One arrested, ganja seized||The town police have arrested Burani Amar Singh and seized seven dry ganja packets from him. The raid was conducted on Tuesday night. According to Circle Inspector B. Ramesh, police conducted raid on the house of Amar Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-arrested-ganja-seized/article36746529.ece
30 September 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Siddipet police go the extra mile to save lives||Usually, policing means maintaining law and order. But Siddipet police seem to believe in going the extra mile, and saving lives while at it. Last year, police constable Dasari Chandrashekhar received a request for plasma donation. He had just been discharged from the hospital after undergoing coronavirus treatment and very well understood the importance of plasma donation in saving a precious life. In eight days, he donated plasma four times. “Donating blood is something which makes a difference in the life of others. It saves them from a crisis, even from death. What more satisfaction do we need than this?” says Mr. Chandrasekhar, who has donated blood at least 51 times. His friend R. Srinivas, also a constable, has donated blood eight times so far in the past two years. Then there’s Parashu Ramulu, a traffic constable in Siddipet. On September 27, he got information from friends that a year-old baby was in urgent need of A+ blood. He immediately rushed to the government hospital and donated blood despite his hectic schedule. The girl’s parents thanked him profusely for extending timely assistance. Police PRO Ch. Mallikarjun Reddy also has donated blood 21 times so far. Mulugu Sub-Inspector Ranga Krishna donated B+ blood on September 18 to a woman undergoing surgery at RVM Hospital on the outskirts of Lakshmakkapally village in the mandal. Siddipet police are spreading awareness about emergency blood donation by the police personnel round the clock for any person in distress, and that they are just a phone call away. Last year, as many as 356 police personnel donated blood followed by plasma donation by 98 others. In the current year, so far, 198 have donated blood followed by 36 plasma donations. “We are ready to donate blood to anyone. Just call us and we will be there. Awareness was created among all our personnel about the importance of donating blood,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/siddipet-police-go-the-extra-mile-to-save-lives/article36746728.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Indian Bank announces Utsav Dhamaka||Indian Bank is one of the leading Public sector banks with a total business of 9.30 Lakh Crores and Net Profit of Rs 3005.00 Crores as on March 2021. Having 75 branches in the city of Hyderabad and a total of 150 branches all over the state of Telangana, the bank has its presence across the state. In view of the upcoming festive season, bank has approved concessions and relaxations in major retail products, home loans, vehicle loans and jewel loans (N.P) in the name of ‘Utsav Dhamaka’ which is valid upto December 31, 2021. - Relaxation in ROI in home loan schemes based on CIBIL/CIC scores with lowest ROI starting from 6.80%. - Relaxation in ROI in vehicle loan schemes based on CIBIL/CIC scores. - Relaxation in ROI in jewel loan (N.P) schemes. - Waiver of 100% processing charges in the aforesaid schemes. Bank is offering wide array of home loan products namely Home Loan Plus, Loan for purchase of Plots, Home Advantage, Home Improvement, Loan for repair and renovation etc. to all sorts of salaried class, businessman and pensioners having adequate income and experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indian-bank-announces-utsav-dhamaka/article36746515.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Divine duty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/divine-duty/article36746732.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Bandi meeting||TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay’s ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ will culminate in a public meeting at Husnabad on Oct.2 and the padayatra will continue in Siddipet district till then in view of the model code of conduct coming into force in Karimnagar district for the Huzurabad bypoll, it was announced on Wednesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bandi-meeting/article36746526.ece
30 September 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Pay farmers more for land acquired, says Akali Dal||Leaders and workers of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) staged a demonstration against the “low compensation” being given to farmers to acquire their lands for various road projects under the Bharat Mala project. SAD members staged a protest on the Mohali-Chandigarh border after they were stopped by the police from proceeding towards Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s official residence. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Congress government had stonewalled the demand for fair compensation to more than two lakh farmers whose 25,000 acres of land were being acquired across 19 districts in the State. He said farmers were being short-changed by the Congress government, which was giving them awards ranging from Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 70 lakh per acre for rural and urban land respectively when they should be getting Rs. 2 crore to Rs. 3 crore per acre. Besides acquisition of 25,000 acres, as much as 75,000 acres of land were rendered useless — being small pockets left without access and irrigation facilities. More than 3,000 houses would be demolished, and villages would lose 100 village ponds. Farmers would also lose water sources and tubewells as well, he said. On the current political scenario, Mr. Badal said: “No one seems to be interested in the people or their problems. What we are witnessing in the Congress party is a fight for the top post. One person wanted to be Chief Minister, but another got the post. One leader wanted the Chief Minister to be his puppet but when the latter did not oblige, he submitted his resignation. Punjab cannot be run like this. This is a border State. We need a leader who can act like a unifying factor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pay-farmers-more-for-land-acquired-says-akali-dal/article36746586.ece
30 September 2021||Chandigarh,||‘No clean chit to Dera Sacha Sauda chief’||The Punjab police on Wednesday trashed reports of giving clean chit to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in a 2015 case of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib. The statement came amid some news reports referring to Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who has been given additional charge of Punjab’s police chief. The reports alleged that he gave a clean chit to Ram Rahim while heading an SIT to probe into the 2015 sacrilege cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-clean-chit-to-dera-sacha-sauda-chief/article36746584.ece
30 September 2021||Gurugram,||‘We’ve made place in the hearts of people’||Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna awardee Deepa Malik, the first woman from India to win a medal in the Paralympic Games and the president of the Paralympic Committee of India, speaks to The Hindu on the state of affairs for para sports in the country, society’s growing interest in the Games and the way forward. Excerpts:  India jumped from 43rd spot in Rio to 24th in Tokyo Paralympics with 19 medals. We had won just four medals at Rio in 2016. Was the Tokyo Games just a one-off good tournament or things have changed fundamentally for para sports in the country over these five years? Definitely things have changed fundamentally, that’s why this change has happened. The Rio Paralympics brought in a revolution which was taken forward. The medals haul in 2016 proved that there is a lot of potential in para sports. The attention of the government shifted to para sports, accepting it as mainstream sports. Para sports were included in all the mainstream-funding programmes of the government and the awareness spread. The media took notice, so did social media. The working of the federation became more streamlined. There was a deliberate attempt to conduct proper selection trials and introduce sciences in sports. Talent pool was identified and nurtured, aiming at future events such as the Tokyo Paralympics. The coaches have understood after Rio that medals can be won when sports sciences are introduced. You said funding for the Games has improved. Please elaborate. Under the Target Olympic Podium Scheme, more than Rs. 17 crore were sanctioned to the athletes for preparation. The State governments too came forward and funded preparations. We also received funding from private companies under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) scheme, but they came in a bit late. Government funding comes after the team is formed and the talent has been identified, but these athletes need to be continuously trained. We do need more funding, there is no doubt about it. What is the state of affairs of para sports in India in terms of the interest it generates among the masses? The way India has celebrated para sports, it definitely marks a new era for the Games. It jumped started with Rio and now with Tokyo, there is not just more awareness but we have made place in the hearts of the people. People have begun to follow the Games. Now, they make enquiries on social media as to when they are going to see the para-athletes in action again. As a president, I made deliberate efforts to revive our social media handles. We were applauded by the International Paralympic Committee for the maximum engagement from India. I think the shift has taken place. We are feeling welcomed everywhere. Still, para-athletes don’t get contracts for endorsements on a par with able-bodied athletes. Your views. It is happening slowly. I have also been pushing it individually. My crusade is that why we (para-athletes) are used only for inspirational or CSR activities; we should also be involved in mainstream promotions. But for this to happen the responsibility also lies with individual athletes. They need to augment their digital media presence. What could be the short-term and long-term measures to promote para sports? The short-term measure is definitely to nurture our pool of excellence. For long-term, a lot of work needs to be done. As an apex body, we can work to a certain extent but the State bodies need to take more responsibility, pushing the policies at State-level. Given the present condition of the infrastructure and the policies, what could be a realistic goal for India for the next Paralympics? If we don’t face the COVID-19 problems and get regular participation at international levels, I think the 19 medals can be easily converted into 30-odd with more gold medal-winning performances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/weve-made-place-in-the-hearts-of-people/article36746407.ece
30 September 2021||Guwahati,||BJP, allies confident of by-poll win in NE||The BJP and its strategic regional allies in the Northeast are confident of winning most of the 10 Assembly seats, where by-elections have been scheduled on October 30. Five of the seats are in Assam, three in Meghalaya and one each on Mizoram and Nagaland. BJP’s Assam unit president Bhabesh Kalita is upbeat about the party and one of its regional allies sweeping the five seats. The BJP would contest the Bhabanipur, Gossaigaon, Mariani and Thowrah seats, while ally United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) would fight the Tamulpur seat. The Gossaigaon and Tamulpur seats fell vacant after their MLAs Majendra Narzary of the Bodoland People’s Front and Leho Ram Boro of the UPPL died. By-elections to the other three seats became necessary after their candidates quit and joined the BJP. The BJP is likely to field Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain – both imports from the Congress – for Mariani and Thowrah, while there is no certainty about Phanidhar Talukdar, who had won the Bhabanipur seat as an All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) candidate. In Meghalaya, the BJP is expected to contest only the Rajabala seat, a Congress stronghold that the National People’s Party (NPP) is keen on wresting. The NPP is the BJP’s ally in the State and a member of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), an anti-Congress forum. Mizoram seat In Mizoram’s Tuirial constituency and Nagaland’s Shamtorr-Chessore seat, the Mizo National Front and the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party are seen as the front runners. Both are members of the BJP-fronted NEDA. The Congress, keen on reversing its fortune in the region, is expected to go it alone in Assam. The Meghalaya unit of the Congress appeared more confident than its Assam counterpart about “doing well” in the bypolls. “We will sweep the three seats because of the allegations of corruption and irregularities against the ruling dispensation,” party veteran and former Chief Minister Mukul Sangma said. The Congress, though, has been battling infighting since its high command appointed Lok Sabha member Vincent H. Pala as the State unit president a month ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-allies-confident-of-bypoll-win-in-ne/article36746587.ece
30 September 2021||Guwahati,||Rs. 570-cr. package for closed paper mills’ staff||All the unions and associations of the Hindustan Paper Corporation (HPC) have arrived at an agreement with the Assam government for bailing out the workers of two closed paper mills. The Cachar Paper Mill at Panchgram in southern Assam’s Hailakandi district and the Nagaon Paper Mill at Jagiraod in central Assam’s Morigaon district have been closed since October 2015 and March 2017. “Finally, reached an agreement with the workers and employees of the HPC to resolve long-pending issues of their salaries and dues,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said after a four-hour meeting with the unions that ended at 2 a.m. on September 29. According to the agreement, a relief package of about Rs. 570-crore will be disbursed to the employees within two months of the National Company Law Tribunal’s approval of a proposal submitted by the government. The assets of the two mills would remain with the government. Legal cases According to president of the Joint Action Committee of Recognised Unions (JACRU) Manobendra Chakraborty, the relief package offered would not be prejudiced against the claims of workers in legal cases pending at various courts. “The agreement also states that 100 workers and employees of the HPC mills would be given permanent employment in government entities through a special recruitment drive. Doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff of the mills would also be given employment,” he stated. Since the closure of the mills, 95 workers have died due to starvation or inability to afford treatment for various illnesses. Three of them had allegedly taken their own lives. “The Central and State governments have repeatedly made commitments to revive the mills or provide relief to the workers barely surviving without pay. We thank the Chief Minister for resolving our long-pending issues,” JACRU general secretary Ananda Bordoloi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rs-570-cr-package-for-closed-paper-mills-staff/article36746589.ece
30 September 2021||Guwahati,||Assam: alarm over ‘encroachment’ by evicted people elsewhere||A case of encroachment has led Assam officials to another across the Brahmaputra. The Kamrup (Metropolitan) district authorities had on September 25 received a letter from BJP legislator Atul Bora seeking an investigation into allegations of encroachment by “new faces” in areas under the Dimoria, Sonapur and Hahanra panchayat areas of his constituency Dispur. These areas are on the southern bank of river Brahmaputra, across Dhalpur and Gorukhuti areas of Darrang district where the police shot two persons, including a minor, during an eviction drive on September 23. Dhalpur is within 77,000 bighas of government land targeted to be freed from settlers, all Bengali-speaking Muslims. “Sonapur gaon panchayat president, Md. Noor Ahmed Laskar, raised the alarm about people registered as voters and owning land elsewhere having grabbed land and posing a threat to the local people. The case has to be probed and the encroachers evicted,” Mr. Bora said. Kamrup (Metropolitan) Deputy Commissioner Biswajit Pegu said he had asked the circle office concerned to investigate and prepare a report. “We found out that the allegations are true and 17 families from Darrang district have taken refuge in the Dimoria-Sonapur areas. But they are not encroachers; they have put up with their relatives who have been staying there for quite some time,” he told The Hindu on September 29. The investigation, however, revealed that the relatives of the evicted families have been squatting on a tribal belt where non-tribal people cannot possess the land. The district administration has ordered a separate probe into how they came to possess the land. The British government had marked several areas as protected tribal belts and blocks under the Assam Land and Revenue Regulation Law of 1886 to keep non-tribal people off these areas. These blocks and belts were retained by the Assam government after Independence, though many such belts came to be occupied by non-tribal people later. “We have asked Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to probe how the people of suspect nationality came to occupy land protected for the tribals,” Barasha Medhi, president of a local (Dimoria) students’ union said. Forest encroachment The Gauhati High Court has asked the State government to update it about the status of a drive to evict encroachers from central Assam’s Lumding Reserve Forest on November 1. Hearing a petition by former MLA Shiladitya Dev, Judges Manish Choudhury and N. Kotiswar Singh said the State government had acknowledged the encroachment of 1.10 hectares under the reserve forest. “…the State authorities have prepared a plan of eviction which they intend to implement in a phase-wise manner during October 2021 to February 2022,” the court said, seeking the update on action taken in the first phase for five days from October to November.  The case has to be probed and the encroachers evicted Atul BoraBJP legislator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assam-alarm-over-encroachment-by-evicted-people-elsewhere/article36746595.ece
30 September 2021||IMPHAL,||Man held at airport for smuggling gold||One person from Kerala, identified as Mohammad Shariff, has been arrested at the Imphal international airport while trying to smuggle out more than 900 gram of gold worth over Rs. 42 lakh, a statement by the CISF on Wednesday said. The man, arrested on Monday, was scheduled to travel from Imphal to Delhi in an Air India flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-held-at-airport-for-smuggling-gold/article36746594.ece
30 September 2021||Jammu,||40 political activists join Apni Party in Jammu||More than 40 political activists joined the Apni Party Wednesday in Jammu city and vowed to strengthen the party's base in the region. They joined the party at a function organised at Purkhoo in the presence of district president Pushp Dev Kumar Uppal and scheduled caste coordinator Bodh Raj Bhagat.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/40-political-activists-join-apni-party-in-jammu/article36746592.ece
30 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Visva-Bharati withdraws merit list after aspirants score more than 100||In what gives ammunition to the detractors of Visva-Bharati Vice-Chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and is an embarrassment for the university, the merit list of admission to M.Ed course showed four aspirants scoring far more than the maximum 100 marks. While the university did not make any comment and its PRO did not answer calls, it withdrew the list from its website, uploaded on September 27, after the errors got noticed and provided fodder to the local media and those employees who are at loggerheads with the V-C. The list showed as many as four aspirants scoring way above the allotted 100 marks (60 for written test and 40 for performance in previous exams). One of them was given 200 marks, and three others got 198, 196 and 151 respectively. Most people, even those who are not aligned with any particular group within the university, blame the goof-up on the recent change in the composition of the Central Administration Coordination Cell, which is responsible for the publication of results. Barely two months ago, a notification was issued that the V-C was “reconstituting” the cell for the “smooth conduct of admission to all courses offered by Visva-Bharati”. The reconstituted body had the acting librarian of the university as its coordinator. “For the first time, an employee who is not a professor was given charge of the cell,” said a teacher who has been at Visva-Bharati for 20 years now and who did not want to be named. “In fact, the cell is now packed with people who are not capable.” Two circulars Professor Sudipta Bhattacharyya, the most outspoken critic of the V-C, held him directly responsible for the embarrassment caused to the university. He dug out two circulars from about a month ago — when a section of students was staging a sit-in outside the V-C’s residence — which clearly stated that results and admissions would be delayed because the V-C, “whose presence was necessary” in both processes, was under siege. “They had clearly stated that the V-C’s physical presence and approval was necessary for the publication of results. And now this has happened. So, who is to be held responsible,” Professor Bhattacharyya, currently under suspension for his outspokenness, asked. This year, the university’s position in the NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework), took the sharpest dip ever since the ranking was instituted in 2015. From the 11th position in 2016 to 19th in 2017 to 31st in 2018 to 37th in 2019 to 50th in 2020, it slipped to the 64th spot in 2021 under the university category. In the overall category, which includes all institutions such as engineering, medical and other colleges, Visva-Bharati ranked 97.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/visva-bharati-withdraws-merit-list-after-aspirants-score-more-than-100/article36746591.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Ban on firecrackers takes the bang out of Ramlila celebrations||The biggest, oldest and most popular Ramlila events that the Capital has been hosting for decades, in some cases for centuries, are likely to be cancelled entirely this year. The organisers, who had agreed to keep the celebrations low-key last year in the wake on the COVID-19 pandemic, seem determined to call off the events, blaming the authorities for “not issuing guidelines in time and imposing a total ban on the bursting of firecrackers of all makes and varieties, including ‘green crackers’”. The “mismanagement”, said the organisers, has left them with limited to non-existent alternatives for Ramlila celebrations, which are supposed to start from October 6. A handful of them, however, are hopeful of pulling off smaller, single-day events for the sake of continuity. According to the organisers, an estimated 700 events are planned across the city every year at varying scales, of which around a hundred are the biggest and among the oldest in the country. The over 170-year-old Ramlila organised by the Shri Ramlila Committee (SRC) in central Delhi, with its origins in Mughal Emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar’s decision to patronise the event during his reign, is among those likely to be cancelled, along with other big and popular events. “On the one hand, there isn’t enough time to make the arrangements since the guidelines are yet to be communicated to the organisers; on the other, given the ban on firecrackers, a quality display during the Ramlila is not possible,” said Rajesh Khanna, general secretary, SRC. “They (authorities) have made it impossible for us to organise the Ramlila. It feels like this is precisely what they wanted in the first place; had that not been the case, they would have spoken to us well in advance,” he said. ‘Not enough time’ Satish Aggarwal from East Delhi’s Shri Balaji Ramlila Committee said there was neither enough time to collect contributions for the event nor a way to tide over the prohibition on the use of firecrackers. “We were able to pull off the celebrations last year on a relatively smaller but still adequate scale. That doesn’t seem possible at all this year. In a way, it [cancelling events] seems to be the right thing to do; not many have the heart to seek contributions from homes which have lost one member or more to COVID,” he said. Ashok Goel Devraha, general secretary of Delhi Dharmik Sangh, an umbrella body of Ramlila organisers in the city, said events would be organised for the sake of continuity, no matter the scale. “Whether we organise them at home or with just the families of committee members in attendance, we will organise the event in honour of Lord Ram. In Pitampura, for instance, we will organise a single-day Sampoorna (complete) Ramlila and use electronic effects to simulate fireworks,” said Mr. Goel, who is also the president of Shri Keshav Ramlila organised at Netaji Subhash Place. Anil Sharma of the R.K. Puram Ramlila Religious Committee said its members would meet on Thursday to take a final call. “No matter how small the celebration is, we will do something to mark the occasion,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ban-on-firecrackers-takes-the-bang-out-of-ramlila-celebrations/article36746389.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. has power to float new excise policy: HC||The Delhi government has the power and jurisdiction to float the New Excise Policy 2021, the Delhi High Court observed on Wednesday and refused to stay the closure of retail vends having L7 licences for the sale of Indian liquor in private sector under the old policy with effect from September 30. A Bench headed by Chief Justice D.N. Patel, dealing with an application by one such licence holder — Rattan Singh — for stay on the closure, said that prima facie, the new mechanism did not violate any of his rights. The application was part of the plea seeking to extend the licence in parity with other categories under the provisions of the Delhi Excise Act. “The government ought to be given free movement in the joints. It ought to be kept in mind that change is inevitable and excise policy is no exception. New experiments are always being permitted in matters of policy. Prima facie, we do not want to prejudice the resultant effect of the policy,” said the Bench which also comprised Justice Jyoti Singh. The court further stated that to withdraw from the sale and distribution, in a phased manner, of liquor was a policy decision of the Delhi government under the new regime, which has its own benefits. “Prima facie, the mechanism which is going to be adopted under the new policy does not violate any right of the petitioner... Even if L7 licences are brought to an end with effect from September 30, there is no prima facie case in favour of the petitioner because there is no discrimination,” the court said. ‘Public won’t suffer’ The court stated that the public at large was not going to suffer on account of the closure as other categories of vends would continue to operate. “There are different types of licences for different purposes, from L1 to L35... Public at large is not going to suffer. Other licences would continue. Public will have to move out of their comfort zone. Everything will not be at the doorstep when there is transformation,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-has-power-to-float-new-excise-policy-hc/article36746399.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||FIR against eatery for flouting COVID-19 rules; manager held||Delhi Police has registered an FIR against a restaurant-cum-bar in Connaught Place for flouting COVID-19 norms. The manager of the restaurant, House of Commons, has been arrested and the Delhi Police Licensing Department has issued closure order to the eatery. A senior police officer said a team checking the area on Monday night found the restaurant packed with people, none of whom were wearing masks or following social distancing norms. Hookah on menu “People were dancing and hookah [which is prohibited in Delhi] was being served,” the officer said. The officers approached a person sitting behind the counter who identified himself as Pankaj Rai, the manager of the restaurant. When asked about the violations, “Pankaj could not give a satisfactory response”, the police said, adding that Pankaj has shared the name of the restaurant owner. A case has been lodged under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Unlawfully doing an act which may spread infection), 270 (Malignantly doing an act which may spread infection) of the Indian Penal Code; and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003. Many restaurants and bars in the national capital are reportedly not following COVID-19 safety guidelines. Although law enforcement agencies are taking action in certain markets, most violations are going unreported. In August, the police registered an FIR against ‘Key Nightclub’ in Hotel Samrat for violating COVID-19 norms. Since April 19, Delhi Police has issued 2,65,258 challans for mask violations, 29,982 challans for flouting of social distancing rules, and 1,463 challans for ignoring norms on public gatherings. Police teams periodically visit markets, malls, hospitals, schools and residential areas to ensure people are wearing masks and following social distancing norms.  The restaurant was packed with customers, none of whom were wearing masks Senior police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-against-eatery-for-flouting-covid-19-rules-manager-held/article36746385.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||18,000 samples collected so far for sixth serological survey||About 18,000 random blood samples have been collected so far as part of the sixth serological survey and the exercise is expected to be completed by Tuesday. The result of the survey is likely to be announced by October 15, officials said. Last week, the Delhi government had started the sixth serological survey to assess the percentage of population having antibodies against COVID-19, either through natural infection or vaccination. The government aims to collect 28,000 random blood samples from all the 272 wards for the survey. “In most districts, sample collection will be completed by Saturday. In one or two districts it will take till Tuesday. It will take about two weeks more after it for results to be out,” an official said. 41 fresh cases Meanwhile, the city reported no new COVID-19 deaths over 24 hours and the toll stood at 25,087, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Forty-one new cases were reported over 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,38,821. A total of 71,983 tests were conducted, with a test positivity rate of 0.06%. Of the total cases, 14,13,342 have recovered, leaving only 392 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/18000-samples-collected-so-far-for-sixth-serological-survey/article36746394.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Plea in HC seeks removal of verdict from Net||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought replies from the Centre, Google and India Kanoon on a plea seeking removal of a judgment and an order in connection with a seven-year-old FIR under ‘Right to be Forgotten’, and asked how far this rule can be stretched. Justice Rekha Palli issued notices asking them to respond to the petition while listing the matter for further proceedings on December 1, when several similar petitions are also fixed for hearing. The court orally observed that the ‘right to be forgotten’ depends on how far it has to be stretched. “Tomorrow, people who defraud the banks will come and say ‘please remove the judgment’. We have to balance the rights,” it said. The court was hearing a petition by one Sukhmeet Singh Anand seeking removal of a judgment and an order passed in 2015 and 2018 in connection with an FIR registered against him in 2014 by the Economic Offences Wing. The FIR was registered against the petitioner and other persons in 2014 pursuant to a complaint by Samsung Gulf Electronic FZE, Dubai. The plea, filed through advocate Tarun Rana, said merely by typing Mr. Singh’s name on Google, the web page takes visitors directly to the links of the orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-in-hc-seeks-removal-of-verdict-from-net/article36746384.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police officers pose as municipal employees, arrest four for burglary||Delhi Police officers, posing as municipal employees, arrested four men for their alleged involvement in a case of burglary. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) Esha Pandey said Nitin, 25, Anoop, 24, Irfan, 26 and Ashu, 24, allegedly committed a burglary on September 18 in Kalkaji. Bidesh Haldhar (28), a Mehrauli-based jeweller, has been arrested for buying stolen gold and silver ornaments from the accused. A burglary case was lodged on September 18 after a Kalkaji resident filed a complaint alleging that she and her husband found the front door of their house open when they returned from work, and all the jewellery was missing. Autorickshaw driver During investigation, CCTV footage of the crime scene showed four men carrying a bag on the day of the incident. Footage from other cameras in the area showed the accused taking an autorickshaw from Ravidas Marg. The autorickshaw driver told the police that the accused got off in Mehrauli. Later, based on information from sources, the police found that the men had shifted to Ambedkar Colony. “To trace and nab the suspects, a team from Kalkaji police station then posed as municipal employees and checked suspected houses in the densely populated colony of Ambedkar Nagar and managed to arrest Nitin,” Ms. Pandey said, adding that the other accused were subsequently arrested.  The disguised officers checked houses in Ambedkar Nagar to nab the accused Esha Pandey Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-officers-pose-as-municipal-employees-arrest-four-for-burglary/article36746402.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Resolve technical issues, grievances related to Faceless Services: Gahlot||Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday convened a review meeting to assess the implementation of the department’s ‘Faceless Services’ initiative. Transport Commissioner Ashish Kundra, senior officials from NIC and other officers the department were also present at the meeting, where the Minister issued instructions to expedite the process of resolving technical issues, pendencies and grievances related to Faceless Services. Approval rate Since the phased launch of the initiative in February, the department has received 2,16,835 applications for vehicle-related services and 2,08,224 on driving licence-related services till September 27, the government stated. Out of these, 92% and 79.9% of all applications under driving licence and vehicle-related services, respectively, got approved, according to government statistics. The number of applications for learner’s licences from August 7 to September 28 was 57,755, of which 78.7% of candidates successfully received their learner’s licences and 12,260 applicants have yet to attempt their tests. The ‘Faceless Services’ initiative envisions providing contact-less, queue-less, hassle-free services to the applicants with transparent service delivery as its prime focus, the government said. At the moment, 33 transport-related services are part of the programme, except for the driving tests and fitness tests for vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/resolve-technical-issues-grievances-related-to-faceless-services-gahlot/article36746391.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Workshop conducted to link FBOs with NGOs||On International Day of Awareness of Food Loss and Waste, the Delhi government organised a workshop to connect food business operators (FBO) such as restaurants and hotels with NGOs distributing food to the needy. The government is also helping NGOs to get registered with it to carry out food donation and ensure quality food is distributed to the needy, said government authorities. “The registration is very simple and the process is online. Today [Wednesday] we registered six NGOs,” an official said. The FBOs are already registered with the government. The aim is to ensure that the food donated to the needy is fresh and both the NGOs and the FBOs stick to protocol prepared by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/workshop-conducted-to-link-fbos-with-ngos/article36746392.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||3 STPs yet to reinstall new systems||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has written to the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to instal monitoring systems in at least three Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), after they were stolen. The DJB runs the STPs in the city to clean the sewage before it flows into the Yamuna. Currently, the river is polluted and not even fit for bathing in the Delhi stretch, except for Palla, the point where the river enters Delhi, as per government data. “It is learnt that OCEMS (Online Continuous Effluent Monitoring Systems) earlier installed at Yamuna Vihar Ph-II, Coronation Pillar Ph-I &II and Kondli Ph-IV have been stolen & new OCEMS are yet to be installed at these STPs,” the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-stps-yet-to-reinstall-new-systems/article36746403.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman found dead inside public toilet||A 38-year-old woman was found dead inside a public toilet in South East Delhi’s Sarita Vihar on Wednesday. DCP (South-East) Esha Pandey said that a call was received around 9 a.m. regarding a body found inside washroom. When the police reached the spot, they found the woman in the differently abled section of the toilet in Rajasthani Camp. The woman had been reported missing by her children on Tuesday. The body has been shifted to AIIMS for post-mortem, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-found-dead-inside-public-toilet/article36746404.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Snake found at Rashtrapati Bhavan||A two-feet-long wolf snake was found in a restroom of Rashtrapati Bhavan and was rescued by the animal rescue NGO Wildlife SOS. The NGO said it is under observation at its transit facility before being released into its natural habitat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/snake-found-at-rashtrapati-bhavan/article36746405.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Wolf snake rescued from Rashtrapati Bhavan||A two-feet-long wolf snake was found in a restroom of Rashtrapati Bhavan and was rescued by the animal rescue NGO Wildlife SOS. The wolf snake, which is non-venomous, can repeatedly bite if threatened. The NGO said it is under observation at its transit facility before being released into its natural habitat. The NGO said there have been incidents of many snakes coming out of their burrows in search of prey and shelter due to the monsoon. A six-foot-long cobra was rescued from the Dudhiya Bhairav Mandir recently. Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO of Wildlife SOS, said: “Monsoon in Delhi always sees a rise in snake sightings. Last year, we rescued a Cobra from a security cabin at Rashtrapati Bhavan around the same time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wolf-snake-rescued-from-rashtrapati-bhavan/article36746583.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Brief 4||Nearly five months after two women had escaped from a critical care centre here, the Delhi Police’s anti-human trafficking unit of the Crime Branch rescued them from a red-light area in Pune, police said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/brief-4/article36746382.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Restaurant that denied entry to saree-clad woman shut||A restaurant that allegedly denied entry to a saree-clad woman here was issued a closure notice by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation for operating without a proper trade licence, following which the owner said he has shut operations. SDMC officials said that a closure notice was issued to the Aquila Restaurant located at Ansal Plaza in Andrews Ganj for operating without a licence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/restaurant-that-denied-entry-to-saree-clad-woman-shut/article36746383.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Call of the mosque||Even though prayers are no longer held here, the Begumpur Masjid is the second largest mosque of Delhi and has been in the news lately due to its rapidly deteriorating condition. In the 14th century, Delhi got its fourth city, grandly named Jahanpanah or the ‘Refuge of the World’. It was built by Sultan Muhammad bin Tughlaq, who is notorious for his eccentric decisions including the shifting of his capital from Delhi to Daulatabad in the Deccan. This meant that the city was not destined to flourish, even though he returned to it soon after. It was left to his successor, Sultan Firuz Shah Tughlaq, to give Delhi its most abiding monument. An ardent builder and antiquarian, Sultan Firuz Shah repaired many of the old monuments such as the Surajkund in modern-day Faridabad and the Qutub Minar. He built baolis (stepwells), schools, hospitals, hospices, hunting lodges and the fifth city of Delhi, named Firozabad, while his minister Khan-i Jahan Jauna Khan built seven mosques spread out over a vast area. Out of these, the largest was in the heart of Jahanpanah. It was built in 1387 in the village of Begumpur from which it gets its name. Its boldly projecting gateway, double-pillars, tapering turrets, multidomed roofs mark it as a Firuz Shah Tughlaq-era mosque. Its entrance is hidden in the narrow lanes of Malviya Nagar. It could once be accessed from three sides, but though domed gateways in the north and south remain, they are no longer in use as the steps leading up to them have been destroyed. Walking up the 15 stone steps and passing under the domed entrance gateway into the massive courtyard, one feels a sense of continuity with those who would have come here earlier and a sense of anguish at its dilapidated state. The 247-foot-long by 223-foot-broad courtyard has been a witness to history. The arched cloisters on the three sides and three-aisle deep prayer hall in the west would have once rung out with the sound of azan and the prayers of the faithful. Today, it is overgrown with grass and weeds. The main prayer hall on the west has an imposing entrance gateway with a tall arched pylon in the central frontage and tapering turrets at each of its corners. Clearly inspired by Iranian design, it is the earliest example of a ‘four-iwan (vaulted rectangular hall)’ mosque in India and, in turn, it inspired later mosques such as those in Jaunpur built by the Sharqi sultans. Since Sultan Firuz Shah had built a new city near the Yamuna and under the Lodi dynasty the capital was shifted to Agra, Jahanpanah was once again neglected. Except for a brief period of time under Sher Shah Sur and Humayun, Agra remained the capital till 1648. When it did shift back to Delhi under Shah Jahan, it was to the new city of Shahjahanabad. Sometime during this period, the 64 domes of the Begumpur mosque became home to villagers. According to H.C. Fanshawe (in Delhi, Past and Present , published in 1902) the arcades of the ‘Refuge of the World’ were also used to give refuge to some English in 1857. The villagers, along with their animals, lived in it till the beginning of the 20th century when the Archaeological Survey of India relocated them. These years were not kind to the monument. In fact, Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, who has devoted reams to the monuments of Delhi ( Asar-us Sanadid , published 1847) , dismisses it with the words, “Near Bijai Mandal lies Begumpur where Khan-e-Jahan Khan-e-Firoz Shahi has constructed a mosque. It is very similar to the Khirki mosque. I didn’t find the building attractive enough to sketch, so have left it out.” He must have seen it at a time when it was occupied by the villagers and their cattle. Today, shorn of people, its grandeur is stark, its sheer size majestic and its upkeep appalling. A portion of the arcade domes had collapsed earlier and the ones that survived are now crying out for help and hoping that its plea doesn’t go unheard.   Hogi iss dher imaarat ki kahaani kuchh tau   Dhundh alfaz ke malbe mein maa’ini kuchh tau  (Surely a story hides behind these ruins, somewhere Search the debris of words, the meaning is there, somewhere) — Shehpar Rasool (The author is a historian who writes on heritage and culture)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/call-of-the-mosque/article36746398.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Showing the way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/showing-the-way/article36746409.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Decision on resuming junior classes after festive season: Delhi Lieutenant-Governor||Junior classes will be allowed to resume only after the upcoming festival season concludes, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal said on Wednesday following a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting. Only students of Classes IX-XII are currently attending school. It was also decided that festive gatherings will be allowed, subject to observance of COVID-19 protocol. The L-G said that though the pandemic situation in the city is under control, we cannot let down our guard. According to sources present in the meeting, the Health Department made a presentation on the current COVID-19 situation in the city and the preparedness in terms of hospital infrastructure and availability of oxygen and medicines. The department also shared information regarding resumption of Classes IX-XII.  “Even as the experts expressed satisfaction at the prevailing situation, it was strongly reiterated that guard cannot be let down in terms of COVID-appropriate behaviour and there can be no laxity in enforcing the norms, especially in light of the forthcoming festive season,” a source said. It was further decided that all remaining classes would be allowed to resume after the festive season ends, the source added. The L-G also directed the police and district administration to enforce COVID-19 rules at public gatherings during the festive season, and strictly ensure separate entry and exit points, no standing crowds and appropriate social distancing for seating. No activities such as fairs, stalls and giant wheels that attract crowds in violation of social distancing will be allowed. The onus is on the organisers to ensure COVID-19 rules are followed, the source said. Cover all groups The Lieutenant-Governor, according to the source, also noted that while vaccination had increased, a change in strategy was needed to mandatorily cover all groups that have high public interface.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/junior-classes-can-resume-after-festive-season-ends-says-baijal/article36746401.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Kolkata deluge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/kolkata-deluge/article36746597.ece
30 September 2021||Tokyo,||Kishida set to be next Japan PM after winning ruling party poll||Japan’s ruling party elected former Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida its new leader on Wednesday, setting him on course to become the next Prime Minister of the world’s third-largest economy. The soft-spoken centrist defeated popular vaccine chief Taro Kono in an unusually close race to succeed Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, who is stepping down after just a year in office. Mr. Kishida, 64, will be confirmed as the new premier in a vote in Parliament on October 4 and will then lead the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) into general elections that must happen by November. Speaking after his win, he called on members to “show the public that the LDP has been reborn, and appeal for their support”. The scion of a political family from Hiroshima, Mr. Kishida has long targeted the Prime Minister’s office and ran unsuccessfully for party leader last year, losing out to Mr. Suga. He became the first candidate to step into the race this time around and ran on a platform of pandemic stimulus while carrying a suggestion box to events to receive proposals from citizens. “My skill is to really listen to people,” he said after his win on Wednesday, promising to work for “a bright future for Japan”. Tight race The race was a tight one, with Mr. Kishida edging Mr. Kono by just a single vote in the first round before taking the second with 257 votes to Mr. Kono’s 170. Two other candidates, hawkish right-winger Sanae Takaichi and feminist former Gender Equality Minister Seiko Noda, did not advance beyond the first-round vote. A former LDP policy chief, Mr. Kishida sought to capitalise on public discontent over Mr. Suga’s response to the pandemic, which has seen his government’s approval ratings slump to record lows. “We need to keep seriously pursuing coronavirus measures by all means. I need to create an atmosphere in which we can address the crisis together,” he said. On foreign policy, he pledged to “protect basic values led by democracy” and “show our presence by contributing to global challenges, led by the environment issue”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kishida-set-to-be-next-japan-pm-after-winning-ruling-party-poll/article36746210.ece
30 September 2021||Moscow,||Moscow warns YouTube for blocking German RT channels||Russia on Wednesday threatened to block YouTube and take other retaliatory measures, after the U.S. video-sharing platform blocked the German-language channels of state broadcaster RT. Moscow has recently been ramping up pressure on foreign tech giants as it seeks greater control over content available online to its domestic audience. At the same time, it has launched a series of efforts to broaden its influence abroad, especially with RT — formerly known as Russia Today — which operates broadcasters and websites in multiple languages. YouTube on Tuesday told German media that it had issued a warning to RT for violating its coronavirus disinformation guidelines, and then shuttered two channels for breaching user terms. On Wednesday, Russia’s Foreign Ministry accused YouTube of an “unprecedented act of media aggression”, which it said was likely aided by German authorities. But Berlin denied that it had anything to do with the move. The Russian Ministry said the adoption of retaliatory measures against German media “seems not only appropriate but also necessary”. “We believe these measures are the only possible way to stimulate our partners’ interest in a constructive and meaningful dialogue around this unacceptable situation,” it said. German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokesman, Steffen Seibert, responded by saying the German government had “nothing to do with” YouTube’s move and warned Moscow against potential retaliation against German media in Russia. Russian media watchdog Roskomnadzor, for its part, threatened to restrict access to YouTube in Russia, accusing the company of “censorship”. Roskomnadzor said it had sent a letter to YouTube’s owner Google “demanding that all restrictions be lifted” from the two channels — RT DE and Der Fehlende Part — “as soon as possible”. The regulator said YouTube could be issued with a warning, and “the law provides for measures of full or partial restriction of access” if such warnings are ignored. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov later accused YouTube of “censorship”, and said Russian laws had been “grossly violated”. “There must be zero tolerance for such violations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/moscow-warns-youtube-for-blocking-german-rt-channels/article36746213.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Adani Group to firm up Colombo Port deal today||Firming up a strategic deal at the Colombo Port in Sri Lanka, the Adani Group will on Thursday sign a build-operate-transfer (BOT) agreement with its local partner John Keells Holdings and the Sri Lanka Port Authority (SLPA), to jointly develop its West Container Terminal (WCT). While the Adani Group has been in talks with John Keells, one of the largest conglomerates in Sri Lanka, on aspects of design and a probable timeline for execution, Thursday’s agreement among all three stakeholders will bear details of the execution of the project, officials in Colombo, who are familiar with the negotiations, told The Hindu . The signing event is to be held virtually. Earlier this year, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa announced the involvement of the Adani Group in the WCT, after controversially ejecting India and Japan out of the East Container Terminal (ECT) project, following resistance from trade unions and sections of Buddhist monks who objected to “foreign involvement” in national assets. The cancellation of the tripartite agree- ment on the ECT project was a major cause of strain in bilateral ties, with New Delhi voicing concern over Colombo reneging on a commitment made in 2019. Tokyo too expressed displeasure. Colombo pitched the WCT project as a “compromise”, while the Indian role in the WCT project, through investment from Adani Group, is said to be “strictly private sector”, unlike the proposed ECT that entailed governmental involvement. Confirming the project in a tweet in March 2021, Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani had said: “Grateful to the leaders of GoI, GoSL, SLPA & John Keells for the opportunity to build WCT, Colombo. This partnership is a symbol of the deep strategic relations between cou- ntries with great intertwined history. It will launch decades of container growth.” In addition to the obvious strategic significance of the Colombo Port in the Indian Ocean, the popular argument from the Indian side for investing in it has been that over 70% of the transhipment business at the Colombo Port is linked to the Indian market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/adani-group-to-firm-up-colombo-port-deal-today/article36746217.ece
30 September 2021||Moscow,||Putin, Erdogan hail bilateral relations||President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday hailed Moscow and Ankara’s ability to find “compromises” as he hosted Turkish leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan for talks. Russia and Turkey have historically had complex relations, balancing regional rivalries with finding common ground on economic and strategic interests. In recent years, the two powers have clashed in particular in Syria, where Moscow and Ankara support opposing camps in the civil war. They also found themselves on different sides in last year’s conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan in the breakaway region of Nagorno-Karabakh. “Negotiations are sometimes difficult — but with a final positive result,” Mr. Putin said at his residence in the Black Sea resort city of Sochi. He added that the two countries “have learned to find compromises favourable to both parties”. Great benefits Mr. Erdogan said he believes there are great benefits in “Turkey and Russia keeping stronger relations each passing day”. In Syria, the two countries last year sponsored a ceasefire deal in the Idlib region, home to the last major jihadist and rebel stronghold in northwest Syria. “The steps we have taken with Russia related to Syria are of utmost importance,” Mr. Erdogan told Mr. Putin. “The peace there depends on Turkey-Russia relations.” Despite their clashes, the two countries have grown closer in recent years thanks to tensions between Moscow and the West and Ankara’s increasingly delicate relations with its NATO allies. In 2019, Turkey agreed to the purchase of the Russian-made S-400 air defence system that led to U.S. sanctions last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-erdogan-hail-bilateral-relations/article36746212.ece
30 September 2021||Tunis,||Najla Bouden named as Tunisia’s first woman PM||Tunisia’s President on Wednesday named geologist Najla Bouden as the country’s first ever woman Prime Minister-designate, to form a government with limited executive clout after the President seized wide-ranging powers two months ago. The university lecturer from the city of Kairouan, a political unknown, will take office after Kais Saied on July 25 sacked the government of Hichem Mechichi, suspended Parliament, lifted MPs’ immunity and took over the judiciary. His moves followed months of political deadlock in the face of a pressing economic crisis and mounting coronavirus deaths. While some Tunisians have supported his decisions against a reviled political class, he has faced repeated calls to name a government. Last week he extended the suspension of Parliament and moved to rule by decree, suspending parts of the country’s post-revolution Constitution. Mr. Saied’s office on Wednesday published a video of him meeting Ms. Bouden in his office and charging her with presenting a Cabinet “in the coming hours or days”. He repeatedly emphasised the “historic” nature of the nomination of a woman, calling it “an honour for Tunisia and a homage to Tunisian women”. He said Ms. Bouden’s main mission would be to “put an end to the corruption and chaos that have spread throughout many state institutions”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/najla-bouden-named-as-tunisias-first-woman-pm/article36746215.ece
30 September 2021||Dubai,||At least 100 killed in clashes for Yemen’s Marib: military sources||At least 100 Yemeni rebels and pro-government troops have been killed in the past 48 hours as fighting inten- sifies for the key city of Marib, sources said on Wednesday. A string of air strikes from the Saudi-led coalition targeted the Iran- backed Houthi rebels, who have stepped up their assault on Marib, the government’s last northern stronghold.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-100-killed-in-clashes-for-yemens-marib-military-sources/article36746208.ece
30 September 2021||Seoul,||North Korea says it tested hypersonic missile||North Korea successfully tested a new hypersonic gliding missile, state media reported on Wednesday, in what would be the nation's latest advance in weapons technology. Tuesday's launch was of "great strategic significance", the Korean Central News Agency said, as the North seeks to increase its defence capabilities a "thousand-fold".AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/north-korea-says-it-tested-hypersonic-missile/article36746211.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A fund without a care for the RTI||It may not be an exaggeration to say that when it comes to seeking answers and information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) is consistent in putting up a screen. The manner in which the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund was set up — with its acronym created to publicise the point that the Prime Minister cares for people — shows a bypassing of the statutory obligations of a public authority. The other funds A statutorily constituted National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF), which was established under the Disaster Management (DM) Act of 2005, is deliberately ignored while a new, controversial, unanswerable, and ‘non-accountable’ vehicle is created; its character is not spelt out till today. The NDRF is mandated to be accountable, and answerable under the RTI Act, being a public authority, and auditable by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The Government seems to consider statutory provisions for enquiry and information seeking to be embarrassing obstacles. The DM Act provided for a Disaster Response Fund — state and district level funds (besides the national level) and also to collect and use the donations at the local level, with mandatory transparency and audit provisions. The PM CARES Fund centralises the collection of donations and its utility, which is not only against the federal character but also practically inconvenient. There is the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund operative since the days of Jawaharlal Nehru. The website says (https://bit.ly/39PlqdI): “In pursuance of an appeal by the then Prime Minister, Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru in January 1948, the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) was established with public contributions to assist displaced persons from Pakistan. The resources ... are now utilised primarily to render immediate relief to families of those killed in natural calamities... and to the victims of the major accidents and riots. Assistance from the PMNRF is also rendered, to partially defray the expenses for medical treatment ... The fund is recognised as a Trust under the Income-Tax Act and the same is managed by [the] Prime Minister or multiple delegates for national causes.” The fact is that there is substantial money also left in the PMNRF. But the Narendra Modi government does not want to use it. The PMNRF has the President of India and the Leader of Opposition also as trustees. The Centre now considers it as another obstacle and has created a new trust with the Prime Minister and his Ministers only. While both funds, the NDRF and the PMNRF, have been relegated to the back burner, the PM CARES Fund is in the limelight. It has been created not by law, not by notification, but by the mere creation of a webpage, and set up last year in March to raise funds for those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The page lists its structure, functions and duties in an arbitrary manner. The official appeals for funds are made under the emblem of the Saranath lions and ‘Satyameva Jayathe’, which means “Truth Alone Triumphs”. Therefore, the recent affidavit, where the Delhi High Court was informed that “the PM CARES Fund is not a Government of India fund and that the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India”, is strange. The affidavit was filed by an Under Secretary at the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), who added that the trust functions with transparency. The most significant lie of this sworn statement is that the Government has no control over the Fund. Query and response After initial denials, the Government has conceded it to be a public charitable trust, but still maintains that it is not a ‘public authority’. In his public speeches, the Prime Minister often makes assurances of transparency. The Bharatiya Janata Party also says it is committed to its promise made in its election manifesto — of there being zero tolerance for corruption. If these are true, then the PM CARES Fund should be declared as ‘a Public Authority’ under the RTI Act, and all RTI queries answered truthfully. Going back to the affidavit about the PM CARES Fund, the Under Secretary’s response reflects the adamance to not be transparent and is a stand in defiance of the RTI Act. The issue arose after a petitioner/lawyer, Samyak Gangwal, filed a petition seeking that the PM-CARES fund to be declared as the “State” under Article 12 of the Constitution. In another plea, he had sought for the fund to be designated as a “public authority” under Section 2(h) of the RTI Act (https://bit.ly/3uqiFJk). The point is that the PMO operates the Fund, but says it cannot supply any information about the PM CARES Fund because it is not a public authority. The PMO completely glosses over the fact that the PMO is a public authority and has to give us answers about the fund under the RTI. More questions and gaps Some of the claims made in the affidavit are: The PM CARES Fund was neither created by the Constitution of India nor by any statute. If that is the case, under what authority does it use the designation of the Prime Minister, designated symbols of the nation, the tricolour and the official (gov.in) website of the PMO, and grant tax concessions through an ordinance? Why does the Prime Minister make appeals for contributions to this fund saying it will help the Government fight COVID-19? The link, “About PM CARES Fund” (https://bit.ly/2Wm8Lvw), makes it clear. The amount received by the Fund does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India. If it goes to the CFI, it could have been audited by the CAG. Because this Fund is not audited by CAG, the Government has to ensure that it is answerable and foreclose any possibility of corruption. It should be transparent when it comes to its sources and fund disbursement. The third claim is: “This Trust is neither intended to be or is in fact owned, controlled or substantially financed by any Central Government or State Government or any instrumentality of the any Government. In other words, there is no control of either the Central Government or any State Government/s, either direct or indirect, in functioning of the Trust in any manner whatsoever”. The Prime Minister is the ex-officio Chairman and three cabinet Ministers (for Defence, Home and Finance) are ex-officio members. A Government advertisement for the PM CARES Fund says: “PM announces new fund for people to donate towards Govt. fight against Coranavirus”. Another advertisement makes the claim, “MY Govt or Meri SARKAR”. It is interesting that the Prime Minister is the Chairperson of the Board of Trustees (https://bit.ly/3um6Of6), when the claim is that it is not connected with the Government. If the PM CARES Fund is unconnected with the Government, then the Fund could become an office of profit. And that could disqualify him and the three Ministers from holding those constitutional offices. The composition of the board of trustees can never be a determinative factor to ascertain whether the respondent is a “public authority” or not; the Prime Minister as chairman and three Cabinet Ministers as members, in their official capacity, determines it to be a public authority. This board decides how to spend the funds collected, which is the prime function. The Prime Minister’s Office administers the activities. This is ‘substantial control’ which is the test to determine its character as a public authority under the RTI Act as highlighted in the landmark judgment of the Supreme Court of India in Thalappalam Service Coop. Bank Ltd. vs State of Kerala . The point that some Government officer provides ex gratia services to the public trust is of no relevance; a Government officer providing secretarial assistance on an honorary basis while discharging his official duties can never be a relevant consideration for declaring a body to be a public authority. By agreeing that it is a public trust managed by the Prime Minister and three Ministers in their ex-officio capacity, the Government cannot say that it was irrelevant to declare it as a public authority. The Prime Minister and the Ministers do not take decisions in their personal capacity. They have to work to implement the objectives of the trust. Funding avenues The mere grant of certain tax exemptions with regard to the voluntary donations made to a public trust is not a determinative factor for the purpose of Section 2(h) of the RTI Act. An ordinance was promulgated to amend Income Tax Act, 1961 and declare that the donations to the PM CARES Fund “would qualify for 80G benefits for 100% exemption”. The official website and the Press Information Bureau (https://bit.ly/3D2cFcR) also declared that donations to the PM CARES Fund “would qualify for 80G benefits for 100% exemption under the Income Tax Act, 1961. Donations to PM CARES Fund will also qualify to be counted as Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure under the Companies Act, 2013... PM CARES Fund has also got exemption under the FCRA [Foreign Contribution Regulation Act] and a separate account for receiving foreign donations has been opened”. All this amounts to substantive funding. Section 19 of the Indian Trusts Act mandates the trustees to present full and accurate information of the amount and state of the trust property to the beneficiaries. Because of this statutory access, all information about the PM CARES Fund should be accessible as per Section 2(f) of RTI Act; “information” here means any material in any form, including records, documents, memos, e-mails, opinions, advices, press releases, circulars, orders, logbooks, contracts, reports, papers, samples, models, data material held in any electronic form and information relating to any private body which can be accessed by a public authority under any other law for the time being in force” (this enables access to information of trust even if it is private, through the Indian Trusts Act). The claim that the PM CARES Fund is not a public authority is absurd to say the least. M. Sridhar Acharyulu is Former Central Information Commissioner. He is presently the Dean, School of Law, Mahindra University, Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-fund-without-a-care-for-the-rti/article36745928.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A lesson from China on gig workers’ rights||On September 20, 2021, the Indian Federation of App-based Transport Workers, on behalf of gig workers, filed a public interest litigation in the Supreme Court demanding that the Union government provide succour to workers affected by the pandemic. The petition has asked for ‘gig workers’ and ‘platform workers’ to be declared as ‘unorganised workers’ so they come under the purview of the Unorganised Workers Social Security Act, 2008. In short, the petition demands social security benefits from food delivery platforms such as Zomato and Swiggy and taxi aggregator apps such as Ola and Uber. That same week, China strode ahead in this regard. Owing to public pressure, two of its food delivery platforms, Meituan and Ele.me, committed to end the practice of forcing workers to register as ‘independent businesses’, which has long helped these platforms evade responsibilities as employers. Both platforms run a duopoly in the sector, capturing over 90% of the market share, and employ millions of gig workers. In a notice to labour aggregator partners, Meituan said it prohibited signing on delivery workers “through deceptive or coercive means”. ‘Invisible’ to ‘frontline’ The one major factor that the pandemic has helped change is the erstwhile ‘invisibility’ of delivery workers. Through 2020, a trend that spanned China, India, the U.S. and Europe saw ‘invisible workers’ being propelled to ‘frontline workers’. In China, this was especially the case in Wuhan, the pandemic’s epicentre, where there was a clear transition of social discourse in favour of delivery workers. People’s Daily , the largest state-affiliated daily in China, responded to public sentiment by ranking delivery work among the top 10 occupations. The media aided this transformation. In the fall of 2020, Renwu , a monthly Chinese magazine, took an exhaustive look at the plight of delivery workers across the two food delivery platforms. Titled ‘Delivery Riders, Trapped in the System’, the article was shared over 200 million times on the Chinese internet indicating how deeply Chinese social media users connected with the issue. One indicator of how seriously an issue is taken by the public is its virality on the Chinese web. In 2015, for instance, a TED-style talk on China’s pollution crisis got 100 million views across major video streaming sites within 48 hours of its release, resulting in policy change. The Renwu piece highlighted how delivery workers were trapped in a “sophisticated labour control system” that they had unwittingly downloaded onto their phones. Simply put, the algorithm that is put in place by platforms is designed to create animosity between app users and workers, where the platform inherently shifts the pressure of receiving orders and maintaining smooth flow of deliveries onto the workers. But it is important to note that the pushback against influential platforms had begun long before COVID-19. Over the years, strikes in different parts of China have reflected this growing backlash. As food delivery platforms expanded through the pandemic period, growing massively in revenue and scale, strikes increased in numerous Chinese cities and have continued despite various barriers to collective action. In early 2021, in successive strikes spanning over two months, delivery workers protested against poor working conditions. In cities such as Shenzhen, Tongxiang and Linyi, delivery workers protested against new company policies that slashed their pay per delivery. A protest in Taizhou saw a delivery worker set himself on fire demanding unpaid wages. In 2018, an Associate Professor of Sociology at Harvard University, Ya-Wen Lei, documented strikes in Chongqing, a municipality in southwest China. She found that workers had mobilised through social media and offline meetings. They united to protest against “decreasing piece rates” and “unilateral change of contract terms or platform rules”. At the time of her fieldwork, the Chinese state had not intervened in the market to restrain the monopoly powers of platforms or initiate antitrust investigations. This provided platforms with unrestricted powers to exercise technological control. But the pandemic was curious in this regard. It began with the Chinese state indicating that platforms should help soak up the devastating effects of the pandemic on the workforce. And it ended with the state asserting “increased control” over major tech companies, including Meituan for allegedly abusing its dominant market position, via the new anti-monopolistic guidelines. In China, where the government is now focused on “common prosperity”, which seeks to narrow a widening wealth gap that threatens the country’s economic rise, the government’s scrutiny over food delivery platforms has increased. The authoritarian context, a weak civil society and the absence of independent labour unions leaves gig workers in China with very little option but to go on strike or protest, despite the risks, to affect change. In April, Caixin reported that a government official disguised himself as a Meituan driver and worked a 12-hour shift barely making RMB 41 ($6.32) for a day’s work. He was featured in a television programme in Beijing and stated that the experience left him feeling humiliated. In July, seven government agencies jointly passed guidelines directing online food delivery platforms that they should not set evaluation criteria based on optimisation algorithms, must respect the rights of delivery workers and ensure that they earn at least a minimum wage with social insurance. Many of these government initiatives have been public-driven. It was in the government’s interest to intervene when it realised that there was growing discontent not only among the delivery workers but also the public about their plight. The Indian context The situation is vastly different in India. Any reform in this sector is led wholly by delivery workers, not the public. For 27 days in 2020, close to 3,000 delivery workers from Swiggy went on strike in Hyderabad to protest the slash in remuneration from Rs. 35 to Rs. 15 per order. The strikes disbanded only after the Joint Commissioner of the Labour Department called a hearing with the platform’s operations manager and the workers’ union. It was the first time in India that such a negotiation was taking place, that too on the street. This year, in the lead up to Zomato’s July IPO, several anonymous Twitter accounts set up by delivery workers called customers’ attention to what they deem as “exploitative practices” employed by platforms. The PIL in the Supreme Court is another major step in this regard. The biggest lesson from China is the swell of public opinion that has partly led to government regulation and change in company policy. In the U.S., a gig workers collective has urged customers to delete the Instacart app as a show of solidarity until demands for better working conditions are met. Indians could make an effort to be better informed about the way platforms work by seeking out delivery workers and asking about their work conditions and the pressures they face. We will then be aware of the price that a person, who we only see as a miniature bike on our apps, pays for our convenience. Sowmiya Ashok, an independent journalist based in Chennai, was part of the 2020-21 China-India Visiting Scholars Fellowship at Ashoka University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-lesson-from-china-on-gig-workers-rights/article36745937.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The scorching rays of Assamese nationalism||The Darrang killings, in Assam, wherein there were casualties in police firing during an eviction drive, have unmasked an evil social character of Assamese nationalism and its further descent into darkness. The event was so macabre and grotesque that I will still call it an act of political sadism. How else can one characterise the emotional matrix of a group of people who defile a body after a person is shot right before their eyes and even go on to celebrate that act of humiliation? Erich Fromm, social psychologist, psychoanalyst, sociologist, has reminded us that the only way to understand the spirit of culture and social character is to pay keen attention to the ‘emotional matrix’. Assamese nationalism should be evaluated and diagnosed, among others, for its emotional matrix and how it makes its followers turn to it, like flowers to the sun. Us versus them The minority in Assam has been visited by violence so often that it has become part of their everyday life, although it is the tribals who are the historical subjects of evictions. Among the various minorities in the State, it is the Muslim minorities who are victimised the most. Assamese society never opened its doors to them. Assamese nationalists are wont to say, ‘become us’ by speaking our language, but do keep your religion and culture private, or you may live like nobody. The language riots and the Nellie massacre (1983) drew definitive measurements of the horror and destiny of “Bangladeshi” bodies. The National Register of Citizens (NRC) is not the last nail in their coffin either. It was declared much before Independence that the Pakistanis, Communists and Bengalis were enemies of the Assamese. There is a convergence in how the Assamese and the Hindu nationalists think of their enemy in the Muslim or “Bangladeshi” figure in Assam. Somewhere, they both harbour the fantasies of the collective elimination of this figure. However, they have different histories and methods by which they arrived at this similar sentiment. While the latter flaunts its enemy and their desires publicly, a section of the former tries to hide behind the latter. To say that communalism in Assam and violence against the minority is only due to the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is either a prayer or a fantasy — a beautiful camouflage. A marginalisation Even with such clamour of hatred and enmity surrounding them, they have continued with their life, minding their own business and engaged in deep conversation with the soil and the water of the Brahmaputra. They did not have any community but their own. Everything they did was declared to cause decay to the Assamese and their existence, a danger to Assam. To echo Walter Benjamin, philosopher, critic and essayist, the minorities in Assam are prohibited from investigating (or even dreaming) about the future. They are, as the poet once said, “forever a silent sob”. In the Constituent Assembly debates on minority rights, Begum Aizaz Rasul rightly qualified that denying a child an opportunity to learn in their mother tongue is militant. The minority in Assam face such militancy in primary education and in all walks of their life. Everything to do with the Muslim is screened. Clothes, children, family, museum, poetry, food, dwelling; everything is questioned, hated, and profiled. Popular songs, newspaper cartoons, wall graffiti, bureaucratic documents, gossip in the streets, classroom interactions, vernacular prose and poetry, cricket practice camps, or even films, vilify and humiliate the “Bangladeshi”. The poignancy of hate is so profound, commonplace and recurrent, that any potential empathy towards the minority is hopelessly out of reach. Everywhere they look, and in everything they listen, they see their mutilated identity being projected with disturbing barbarity. Every social interaction they have with the majority in Assam is filled with dehumanisation and violence. The reactions to the Darrang brutality expressed by journalists, politicians, and the foot soldiers of Assamese nationalism reveal how hatred has crystallised into the caste Assamese social structure, and how benumbed they are. Their narcissism will not stop even when political sadism is in such naked display. They are so consumed with their self-image that they fail to see any other reality. And like a psychotic, there is no reality but of what they see in and about themselves. A silence and its import What can you say about the silence of the victims despite lakhs of them being declared stateless, kept in detention camps, hundreds of deaths by suicide and severe impoverishment? Imagine how deep a social and political legitimacy the NRC process enjoys wherein the victim, who loses everything, will not even protest. Alternatively, should they protest, they know the consequences that will visit their bodies, family and life too well. This absence speaks volumes about the degree of un-freedom the minority has and the brutality with which they are forced to live. Perhaps this silence is also the reason that connects Nellie to Darrang. Ashis Nandy reminds us that the perpetrator remains permanently afraid that whom they have oppressed will strike back, nurturing ideas of revenge. So, they attack again. Was Darrang such an unfolding? I hope I am wrong. The connecting thread The Darrang incident was neither an act of a lone wolf nor a disconnected event. The singular event reflects something larger than him. The action of the perpetrators is also connected to the past — to Nellie, Kherbari and the Assam Movement. The singular event takes us to the rightful owners of the sentiments — Assamese nationalism, with its distinct figure of the enemy. How do we erect psychological defences to such robust sentiments of hate for the Muslim distributed so evenly in Assamese society? I am reminded of a Zapatista slogan that said that we need to learn to host the otherness of the other, not the sameness. Perhaps, there is a lesson there and a need to cultivate such a social character of hosting the otherness and the enemy. This is a possible way to come out of the psychosis and narcissism that plagues Assamese nationalists. As for Assamese political sadism, the only exit of it is to annihilate language and culture in its current form and interest. Suraj Gogoi is a PhD candidate in Sociology at the National University of Singapore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-scorching-rays-of-assamese-nationalism/article36745930.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||An unsteady ship and no Captain||The unceremonious dethroning of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in Punjab was a harebrained idea of the Gandhi siblings. Mr. Singh — war veteran, scion of the Patiala royal family, and a Congress war horse who led the party to victory — was ignominiously booted out by the Congress high command despite being credited with stopping in Punjab the saffron wave of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that swept the nation after Narendra Modi rode to power at the Centre. The sacking of Mr. Singh was a supreme irony. The legitimately elected leader was ousted by the Congress high command comprising Sonia Gandhi, an interim ad hoc president of the party; Rahul Gandhi, who abruptly resigned as president without putting in place any succession plan but continues to be de facto president intervening and interfering at will; and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was for long fluttering in the wings but has been anointed as in-charge in Uttar Pradesh to oversee the elections. A foolish idea A good leader who is secure and does not hanker after praise will not encourage dissidence that destabilises his own State government. It is well known that Mr. Singh is not given to fawning and has a mind of his own. On the other hand, Navjot Singh Sidhu, his greatest critic, is temperamental and unpredictable. He deserted the BJP and flirted with the idea of joining the Aam Aadmi Party. He joined the Congress just prior to the last election and became a Minister under pressure from the high command. He had to step down soon after, as he openly and frequently crossed swords with Captain. Appointing Mr. Sidhu as Congress president of Punjab and unleashing him to undermine Mr. Singh because of his streak of independence was a foolish idea of the Gandhis. This is not an attempt to give a clean chit to Mr. Singh on his record of governance. He had many faults and had made many enemies. He may have been incompetent as an administrator, he may have failed to deliver on the election promises of the party, and he may have been inaccessible to his MLAs with his imperious ways, but the method adopted by the Congress high command to undermine him was imprudent and self-damaging. Mr. Singh’s performance should have been reviewed objectively and diligently. The complaints of his colleagues could have been conveyed to him in confidence. He could have been warned of stern action if he didn’t mend his ways. Due process should have been followed to remove him. He deserved to be treated with dignity and grace given his age, stature, long service in the Congress, and the esteemed chair he occupied. The Gandhi high command is no different from other high commands. No party in India, either national or regional, has inner party democracy. They are all controlled by an individual or a family. “Difference of opinion is the one crime Kings don’t forgive,” said Ralph Waldo Emerson. That is the bane of Indian democracy. Still finding their feet But Mr. Gandhi and Ms. Vadra would be delusional in comparing themselves to Mr. Modi or Mamata Banerjee of the Trinamool Congress or K. Chandrashekar Rao of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi or M.K. Stalin of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The others are unquestioned leaders of their parties while the Gandhi siblings are yet to find their feet; they are not hammered and shaped well in the furnace of politics. They lack the tenacity and grit of other party supremos. They forget that their writ in the party does not run. Twenty-three senior Congress leaders have openly challenged them. Many Congress leaders have migrated to the BJP. The party is facing a crisis in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. It is in a shambles in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. This was not the right moment to draw Mr. Singh into battle, especially since he still has a large following among the Sikhs. He declared that he will keep his political options open and met the Union Home Minister on Wednesday. The Sidhu saga is the chronicle of a farce foretold. Mr. Singh’s characterisation of him as being “unstable” has proved to be true and was foreseen by many. The volatile president resigned from his post after wreaking havoc. The best politicians and generals choose their battles wisely. But the Gandhis have opened up one more battlefront in Punjab with the formidable Mr. Singh when their party has a shaky hold on other States and is in danger of disintegrating. A certain victory in the Assembly elections in Punjab, where the BJP is weak and the Akali Dal is in disarray, now seems a sure defeat for the Congress. May wisdom dawn on the Gandhis to save the Grand Old Party from extinction. India, now more than ever, needs a robust and vibrant Opposition that fashions itself after Jawaharlal Nehru and not Indira Gandhi. Captain G.R. Gopinath is founder of Air Deccan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-unsteady-ship-and-no-captain/article36745933.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||From riots to reconciliation||The beauty of liberal democracy is that it offers space to sociopolitical movements that contribute to political discourses in a manner that political parties often fail to do. India’s anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests and the ongoing farmers’ movement have been able to subvert Hindutva narratives in their own ways and have renewed the appeal for secular politics. Since the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots, Hindutva politics has become hegemonic, particularly in western Uttar Pradesh, and religious polarisation has become the only game in town. However, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s slogan, “Allahu Akbar, Har Har Mahadev”, at a recent mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar has sent a message of Hindu-Muslim unity in that riot-torn city. One mahapanchayat certainly cannot repair the enormous damage that Hindutva politics has inflicted on the secular social fabric of western Uttar Pradesh or the rest of India. But what is comforting is that at least an attempt is being made to turn the page. Birth of an iconic slogan This slogan has a long history, which can be traced to the early days of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by Mahendra Singh Tikait. During its early days in the late 1980s, the BKU organised a major protest over farmers’ issues. Two farmers — Akbar Ali, a Muslim, and Jai Pal, a Hindu — were killed in police firing during that protest. Keeping their bodies on the main road, the BKU continued the protest. The iconic slogan was born there to celebrate and symbolise the BKU’s secular structure. One of Tikait’s comrade-in-arms was Ghulam Mohammad Jola. After Mahendra Singh Tikait’s death in May 2011, his sons, particularly Rakesh Tikait, began to speak the language of the Hindu Right thus threatening the secular nature of the movement. Provoked by the Tikait sons’ behaviour and the 2013 riots, Mr. Jola broke away from the BKU and formed his own farmers’ union, the Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Manch (BKMM). This outfit had a new slogan: “Ek Ho, Nek Ho (Come together, Be Pious)”. In a recent interview to this author, Mr. Jola, an octogenarian, described Mahendra Singh Tikait as a quintessential secular leader. With great enthusiasm, he recalled how the senior Tikait had once urged him and a couple of Muslim farmers to offer Friday namaz on the premises of Har Ki Pauri in Hardwar during a protest since the nearest mosque was located more than 8 km away. When people complained, the senior Tikait apparently assuaged them by saying, “He was offering namaz and namaz is not an abuse.” The region that once displayed such understanding of religious harmony is now the hotbed of religious polarisation. New attempt at polarisation Although the 2013 riots took place during the tenure of Akhilesh Yadav, it was the BJP that drew enormous electoral capital from it. Some even consider the 2013 riots to have created the background for the Modi wave that swept north India. Some evidence of the ebbing of religious polarisation is visible now, but there are also attempts being made to polarise Uttar Pradesh around the conversion issue. A prominent cleric of Muzaffarnagar, Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui, was recently arrested for allegedly running the “biggest conversion syndicate”. That Muslims of all rank and file are busy preaching Islam and are converting Hindus to Muslims in every nook and corner of the country with the sole objective of turning India into a Muslim land has been one of the Hindu Right’s most favourite campaigns. The attempts by Uttar Pradesh’s governing regime to weaponise this campaign using state might are likely to dominate political conversations over the forthcoming Assembly elections. One is not too sure how far this polarisation can help the incumbent regime’s electoral ambitions. But the farmers’ movement has clearly disrupted the Hindutva narrative and has ignited the need for Hindu-Muslim reconciliation, at least in western Uttar Pradesh. Shaikh Mujibur Rehman teaches at Jamia Millia Islamia Central University and is the author of the forthcoming book, Shikwa-e- Hind: The Political Future of Indian Muslims||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/from-riots-to-reconciliation/article36745934.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||A scheme before its time||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced the National Digital Health Mission, the most salient aspect of which is that all citizens will have the option of voluntarily opting for a Health ID, a 14-digit health identification number that will uniquely identify every citizen and will be a repository of their medical history. Illustratively, it will contain details of every test, every disease, the doctors visited, the medicines taken and the diagnosis. The portability this offers implies a person will, in theory, never have to haul around their reports. The doctor who is examining the patient can give more well-informed advice because it is possible that patients may not consider aspects of their medical history relevant to share with a doctor, or sometimes may forget about them, but which may be valuable for a better diagnosis. This id can be created by using a person’s basic details and mobile number or Aadhaar number, and there will presumably be an app acting as a convenient interface. As snazzy as all of this sounds, a digital health id right now is really a solution looking for a problem. There is no clear justification that the immobility of medical records is an insurmountable obstacle to the provision of affordable, high-quality health care in India. The challenge of health care in India, as decades of research and the experience with the novel coronavirus pandemic have shown, can be expressed quite simply. There are too few hospitals with trained staff to cater to all Indians. But expanding the health-care system will not be easy. India’s federal structure, the size of its population — and a large rural one at that — the cost of researching, finding and buying appropriate drugs and treatment, competing systems of medicine and the very challenging nature of health itself, mean that the issues are manifold. The graver problem is that the technocratic sheen of a digital health id hides a mammoth store of personal data, which in the absence of a privacy law and little public awareness and control over their data, could be open to misuse. There is the danger that any large private insurance company could use sophisticated algorithms across the health and other databases to construct risk-profiles for people and make access to affordable insurance difficult. Also, data mining can prioritise certain rich demographics for their services and direct public and private resources to people who can afford a high premium for their services rather than to those who need them but cannot pay as much. For a digital health ecosystem to work, it is important that the fundamentals be fixed from the ground up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-scheme-before-its-time/article36745923.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Change of guard||The election of Fumio Kishida as the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) leader opens a new chapter in Japan’s otherwise status-quoist politics at a time when its geopolitical prominence is growing amid China’s rapid rise and the United States’ pivot to the region. Mr. Kishida, a former Foreign Minister, is certain to be elected the next Prime Minister when Parliament convenes next week, as the LDP controls the legislature. Japan was thrown into a leadership contest after the unpopular Prime Minister, Yoshihide Suga, announced his resignation earlier this month amid mounting public anger over his government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated economic woes. The traditionally conservative, pro-business LDP, which has dominated Japan’s post-war politics, was apparently not confident of going to the parliamentary polls in November under the leadership of Mr. Suga; his approval rating had plunged from 60% in January to below 30% in August. In the initial round of the voting on Wednesday among four candidates to lead the party, Mr. Kishida was neck-and-neck with Taro Kono, a serving Minister in the Suga government, who enjoyed higher popularity among the party’s rank and file. But in the run-off, most legislators supported Mr. Kishida, who had the backing of the LDP establishment. Mr. Kishida’s most immediate big task is leading the party to the parliamentary elections within weeks. With the COVID situation easing, the LDP appears to be confident of victory under the new leadership. But winning elections would only be the first of a host of key challenges awaiting Mr. Kishida. He needs to come up with a programme to lift the world’s third largest economy out of its sluggishness. Even when the U.S. and China had surged back to growth after COVID lockdowns, Japan’s economy continued to falter under the long national emergency declared to fight the virus. Despite the LDP’s conservative past, Mr. Kishida had taken a centre-left position on the economy during the campaign. He promised increased spending to revive the economy and asked corporations to distribute more of their profits to middle-class workers. What is to be seen is whether these were instances of mere election-time rhetoric or if Mr. Kishida would turn them into policies to address Japan’s economic woes and widening inequality. A tougher challenge would be in the realm of foreign policy. After announcing the AUKUS alliance with the U.K. and Australia, under which Australia would be supplied nuclear submarines, the U.S. has made it clear that the Indo-Pacific is the new theatre of great power rivalry. Japan, an American ally in the Pacific with deep economic ties with China, would find it difficult to sit on the fence for long. Mr. Kishida, who called Taiwan “a frontline in the struggle by democracies against authoritarianism” and supported building Japan’s missile-strike capability, has already indicated which direction he would be taking on China. If he walks the talk, tensions are going to rise in East Asia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/change-of-guard/article36745924.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The many deaths of Mao||In all the years of battle of his revolutionary youth, Mao Tsetung suffered not so much as a scratch, and during the long march in 1930 the only affliction to lay him low was a bout of malaria. But in the last three years, the Chinese Chairman has been killed no less than five times by the world press tuned in to Hong Kong. The best publicised story yet was during the early stages of the Cultural Revolution. One then-renowned China-watcher persisted in reporting that Mao had long been dead and that the man taking the review of the million Red Guards at Tienanmun was a “double”. The “watcher” has now ceased to pursue this trade. During the more turbulent years of the Cultural Revolution, there was no let-up on the monitoring of communist Chinese news and broadcasts. On one occasion, the failure of Chairman Mao to appear at an army function — it turned out later that he had a bad cold — sparked a rumour which in Hong Kong soon became a “report” that he was dead or dying. A subsequent rally of high-ranking army officers pledging allegiance to the Chairman was televised by the Chinese and monitored in Hong Kong. The blurred images showed Mao in a bad light, and as he appeared to be supported on one arm by a nurse, the “report” went out from Hong Kong that he was seriously ill. Two weeks later, at another rally, only Madame Mao showed up. This prompted the “news” that the Chairman was succumbing to Parkinson’s Disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-many-deaths-of-mao/article36745931.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet approves ECGC listing, Rs. 6,000 crore for export cover||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved an infusion of more than Rs. 6,000 crore into entities providing export insurance cover to facilitate additional exports worth in excess of Rs. 5.6 lakh crore over the next five years. It also approved the listing of state-run Export Credit Guarantee Corporation (ECGC) on the stock exchanges. Apart from spurring exports, these decisions will also create close to 62 lakh more jobs, the Commerce Ministry said in a statement after the Cabinet meeting. “By September 21, India’s exports had touched $185 billion [in 2021-22]. This is the highest in India’s history in the first six months of a financial year and 10 days are still remaining,” said Commerce, Industry and Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal. “The Cabinet has decided to give the ECGC Rs. 4,400 crore as capital, which will enable it to provide insurance policies worth Rs. 88,000 crore,” he said, adding that 97% of ECGC beneficiaries were micro, small and medium enterprises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cabinet-approves-ecgc-listing-rs-6000-crore-for-export-cover/article36745919.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Expect more than 7% growth for India this decade: CEA||Chief Economic Adviser K.V. Subramanian on Wednesday said India would clock more than 7% annual growth during this decade on the back of strong economic fundamentals. During the current fiscal, he said, growth would be in double-digits and it could moderate to 6.5-7% in the next financial year. The Economic Survey 2020-21, released in January, had projected GDP growth of 11% for the current year ending March 2022. “When you look at the data... the V-shaped recovery and quarterly growth patterns actually established that the fundamentals of the economy are strong... the kind of reforms that we’ve done on it, and the supply-side measures that we’ve taken will enable strong growth not only this year but going forward as well,” he said. Growth will be aided by various structural reforms, including labour and farm laws, undertaken by the government, he said. He was addressing a virtual event organised by the U.S.-India Strategic Partnership Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/expect-more-than-7-growth-for-india-this-decade-cea/article36745920.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. extends emergency credit scheme till March||The government has extended the Rs. 4.5 lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) till March 31, 2022, to help businesses cope with the pandemic’s adverse effects. The ECLGS was due to expire on September 30 and has helped 1.15 crore micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) so far. As on September 24, loans sanctioned under ECLGS have crossed Rs. 2.86 lakh crore, with about 95% of the guarantees issued for loans sanctioned to MSMEs. “With a view to support various businesses impacted by the second wave, it has been decided to extend the timeline till 31.03.2022 or till guarantees for an amount of Rs. 4.5 lakh crore are issued under the scheme, whichever is earlier,” the finance ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-extends-emergency-credit-scheme-till-march/article36745905.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘H-1B will exist till talent issue is tackled globally’||The need for H-1B visas will exist till the ‘talent challenge’ is tackled globally, even though the information technology industry has successfully adopted the work-from-home model amid pandemic-related travel restrictions, said Shivendra Singh, vice president and head of Global Trade Development at Nasscom. The H-1B visa programme allows employers in the U.S. to temporarily employ foreign workers in positions needing specialised knowledge. “During the pandemic, the role of the technology sector has become even more critical... all new technologies, whether it is artificial intelligence, robotics, machine learning, cybersecurity, cloud... have been growing at nearly 30%,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . “That has accentuated the challenge in terms of availability of skills,” he said, adding that access to high-skill talent was critical to growth. He said there had been a significant drop in H-1B visa denials. “The denial rates had gone up to nearly 28.6%, and have come down to nearly 7% in October 2020-March 2021,” he said. “The H-1B exists purely because the skills are not available in that country... obviously, it will take time, but till that time H-1B will be required,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/h-1b-will-exist-till-talent-issue-is-tackled-globally/article36745908.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Invesco moves NCLT as ZEEL ‘fails’ to call EGM||Invesco Developing Markets Fund, along with OFI Global China Fund, has moved the National Company Law Tribunal against media major Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd. (ZEEL) for not calling an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of the company. Invesco Developing Markets Fund (formerly Invesco Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund) along with OFI Global China Fund LLC - which together hold 17.88% in ZEEL, had earlier called for an EGM of shareholders seeking the removal of Managing Director Punit Goenka. ZEEL, which had last week announced its merger with rival Sony Picture Networks India to create the largest media firm in the country, termed the steps by its minority shareholders “impulsive or premature”. The matter is listed before the Mumbai Bench of the NCLT for hearing on Thursday, industry insiders said. ZEEL declined to comment on the development and said it remained committed to acting within the framework of the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/invesco-moves-nclt-as-zeel-fails-to-call-egm/article36745912.ece
30 September 2021||Mumbai,||Piramal acquires DHFL, pays Rs. 14,700 cr. in cash||Piramal Enterprises Ltd. (PEL) on Wednesday said it had acquired the bankrupt Dewan Housing Finance Corp. Ltd. (DHFL) by making a cash payment of Rs. 14,700 crore to creditors as per the resolution plan. PEL’s acquisition of DHFL for a total consideration of Rs. 34,250 crore, which includes Rs. 19,550 crore of 10-year NCDs (at 6.75% p.a.), marked the first successful IBC resolution in the financial services sector, chairman Ajay Piramal said in an online press conference. “This accelerates our plans to become a leading digitally oriented, diversified financial services conglomerate,” he added. Creditors also received the Rs. 3,800 crore in funds that was with DHFL when the administrator took it over for resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/piramal-acquires-dhfl-pays-rs-14700-cr-in-cash/article36745914.ece
30 September 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI lifts PCA curbs on IOB post review||Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) has been taken out of Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) restrictions subject to certain conditions and continuous monitoring, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said on Wednesday. “The performance of the Indian Overseas Bank, currently under the Prompt Corrective Action Framework (PCAF) of RBI, was reviewed by the Board for Financial Supervision,” the RBI said in a statement. “The bank has provided a written commitment that it would comply with the norms of minimum regulatory capital, net NPA and leverage ratio on an ongoing basis,” the regulator said. Taking the above into consideration, it has been decided to remove the restrictions, the RBI added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-lifts-pca-curbs-on-iob-post-review/article36745904.ece
30 September 2021||New Delhi,||Goyal urges U.S. firms to push for FTA||Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday exhorted U.S. businesses to convince Washington of the need for a trade pact that could help target $1 trillion in bilateral flow of goods and services over the next 10 years. “We already have an FTA with Japan; we are working on an early harvest FTA with Australia,” Mr. Goyal said at the U.S. India Strategic Partnership Forum. “I would urge you to take it up with your administration as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/goyal-urges-us-firms-to-push-for-fta/article36745906.ece
30 September 2021||Chennai,||AIL case: NCLT allows Valli to withdraw plea||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) Chennai on Wednesday allowed Valli Arunachalam and her family to withdraw the earlier waiver petition in the case against Ambadi Investments Ltd. (AIL), the holding company of Murugappa Group and its family members. Ms. Arunachalam had sought to file a fresh waiver plea to rectify the errors and withdraw the previous one, a move strongly opposed by Ambadi and the other family members. The earlier waiver application was dismissed as withdrawn and the plea on the second waiver application would be heard next month, the NCLT said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ail-case-nclt-allows-valli-to-withdraw-plea/article36745909.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Standard Life sells 5% stake in HDFC AMC||Promoter Standard Life Investments on Wednesday divested a 5% stake in HDFC AMC for a little more than Rs. 3,060 crore through an open market transaction. According to bulk deal data available with the BSE, the promoter sold a total of 1,06,50,000 shares, representing a 5% stake of the asset management company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/standard-life-sells-5-stake-in-hdfc-amc/article36745910.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||CIL to ramp up fuel supply to power plants||State-owned CIL on Wednesday said it would augment fuel supply to power utilities of the country to address the decline in coal stocks and build them up to adequate levels. For the past three days, the public sector company had pushed up its supply to power plants to 1.4 million tonnes (MT) per day, Coal India Ltd. (CIL) said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cil-to-ramp-up-fuel-supply-to-power-plants/article36745917.ece
30 September 2021||Mumbai,||India Inc’s overseas borrowings jump manifold to USD 2.84 bn in Aug||Indian companies’ external commercial borrowings surged manifold to more than $2.84 billion in August 2021, RBI data showed. The domestic firms had raised $145.74 million from overseas markets in August 2020. Of the total funds raised during the month under review, $2.25 billion was through the automatic route of ECBs.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-incs-overseas-borrowings-jump-manifold-to-usd-284-bn-in-aug/article36745903.ece
30 September 2021||Chennai,||Former Indian Bank MD appointed NSDL MD||Former Indian Bank MD and CEO Padmaja Chunduru has been appointed as MD & CEO of National Securities Depository Ltd. (NSDL). The appointment was ratified by the shareholders on Wednesday, NSDL said. She has about 37 years of experience in banking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/former-indian-bank-md-appointed-nsdl-md/article36745915.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Indian Bank announces 'Utsav Dhamaka'||Indian Bank has unveiled a ‘Utsav Dhamaka’ campaign in a bid to further boost retail sector loan growth. The campaign, which will be on till year end, will provide special offers on home loan, vehicle loan and non-priority jewel loan products for retail customers, the lender said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-bank-announces-utsav-dhamaka/article36745916.ece
30 September 2021||Yankton (USA),||All eyes on Deepika and Das in WC final||Star Indian archery couple — Deepika Kumari and Atanu Das — will look to start afresh after their Tokyo Olympics debacle when it competes in the World Cup Final, starting here on Thursday. The two-day showpiece competition will also mark the return of the duo that failed to make the cut to the Indian senior team for the just-concluded World Championships at the same venue. After being sidelined from the Indian team, the duo competed on its own at SAI, Kolkata and the two would look to make amends for their medal-less outing in Tokyo Olympics. Elusive medal An Olympic medal remained elusive for the Indian archers despite their impressive build-up to the Games. Competing as World No. 1, Deepika Kumari, who was the lone Indian woman archer in fray, made a quarterfinal exit with a tame loss to Korean sensation An San. Das was the best among the Indian men but he also bowed out in the pre-quarterfinal, while they lost to Korea in both men’s team and mixed pair sections. With the losses still fresh in their minds, the duo would look to start afresh in the two-day World Cup Final. Deepika, who has slipped to World No. 2, has four silver and a bronze medal from seven appearances at the World Cup Final, and it remains to be seen whether she is able to match the feat of Dola Banerjee. Dola is the only Indian to have won a gold at the premier competition, in 2007. Deepika will start against 23-year-old Russian Svetlana Gomboeva, fresh from her team silver at the Tokyo Olympics. For Das, this will be his first World Cup Final appearance and he has an easy draw against Germany’s Maximilian Weckmueller, who won a silver at stage two of the World Cup in Lausanne, Switzerland. The best eight archers from four stages of the World Cup qualify for the World Cup Final, which will see a total of 32 competitors across men’s and women’s recurve and compound sections. Lone qualifier This time India would have a participation in the compound section, where Abhishek Verma is the lone qualifier, after winning a gold at the third stage of the World Cup in Paris. The 2014 Asian Games gold medallist Verma will face World No. 4 Braden Gellenthien of the USA in his quarterfinal fixture later in the day. Verma has two individual medals — one silver (2015) and a bronze (2018) — at the World Cup Final and he also has a silver in the mixed pair event with Jyothi Surekha Vennam in 2018. Verma will look for his first gold medal in three appearances at the World Cup Final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-eyes-on-deepika-and-das-in-wc-final/article36746369.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||India confident of doing well in maiden Day-Night Test: Mithali||Test matches are rare in women’s cricket. Day/Night Tests are rarer. The Indian women’s team is all set to play its first ever game with a pink ball. Talking to reporters on the eve of the one-off Test against Australia at Carrara, captain Mithali Raj said her team was in a confident frame of mind after the ODI series. Though India lost the three-match series 1-2, it ended Australia’s streak of 26 ODI wins. “I am confident, the girls are confident,” Mithali told reporters. “The bowlers seem to be very confident because they did a very good job in the ODI series.” Equal opportunity She admitted the Test match was a different matter. “But it gives equal opportunity to the seamers, the spinners and the batters,” the skipper said. This is also going to be the first-ever experience of playing on a dropped-in pitch for the Indian women’s team. “There is a fair amount of grass on the wicket,” Mithali said. “Everybody would want to go with a lot of seamers.” She is happy with the way the Indian seamers have performed on the tour. “This should be one of the best fast bowling attacks India has (had),” she said, referring to the experienced Jhulan Goswami and youngsters Meghna Singh and Pooja Vastrakar. No Harmanpreet She confirmed that the injured batter Harmanpreet Kaur wasn’t available for selection. Mithali’s counterpart Meg Lanning said playing against India in a Test would be exciting. “Hopefully it’s not just a one-off,” the Australian captain said. “(We hope) we can go and play a Test match in India over the next few years.”  The teams (from):   India: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Harmanpreet Kaur, Smriti Mandhana, Shafali Verma, Punam Raut, Jemimah Rodrigues, Deepti Sharma, Sneh Rana, Yastika Bhatia, Taniya Bhatia (wk), Shikha Pandey, Jhulan Goswami, Meghna Singh, Pooja Vastrakar, Rajeshwari Gayakwad, Poonam Yadav, Richa Ghosh, and Ekta Bisht.   Australia: Meg Lanning (Capt.), Darcie Brown, Maitlan Brown, Stella Campbell, Nicola Carey, Hannah Darlington, Ashleigh Gardner, Alyssa Healy, Tahlia McGrath, Sophie Molineux, Beth Mooney, Ellyse Perry, Georgia Redmayne, Molly Strano, Annabel Sutherland, Tayla Vlaeminck, and Georgia Wareham.   Match starts at 10 a.m. IST.   It’s really exciting, India obviously is a great cricketing nation, they love their cricket and to have them playing a Test match is exciting Lanning   I am quite curious to see around that period (twilight) when they say that it’s going to be a little difficult Mithali   This will be the second day-night women’s Test The only other Pink ball Test was played between Australia and England in Sydney in 2017 Australia’s Ellyse Perry scored a double hundred in the drawn match||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-confident-of-doing-well-in-maiden-day-night-test-mithali/article36746175.ece
30 September 2021||MADRID,||Financial crisis leads to Barca’s salary reduction||Barcelona’s salary cap has been significantly reduced because of its financial struggles, becoming more than seven times smaller than that of rival Real Madrid, the Spanish league said on Wednesday. The league said Barcelona’s spending limit on salaries for the 2021-22 season has been set at €97 million ($113 million), about €285 million ($334 million) less than a year ago. The reduction was part of the reason the Catalan club failed to give Lionel Messi a new contract and led to him joining Paris Saint-Germain. Messi reportedly earned nearly €140 million ($163 million) per season, although he said he had agreed to cut his salary in half so he could stay with the club. Series of factors Each club has a different salary cap calculated based on a series of factors that include revenues, costs and debts. It is proportional to roughly 70% of a club’s revenues. The adjustments are part of the Spanish league’s long-standing financial control measures to reduce clubs’ debts and keep them financially healthy. Barcelona’s struggles had already forced the league to slash the club’s cap from a league-high €670 million (now $785 million) in 2019-20 to €385 million ($450 million) last season. In addition to losing Messi, Barcelona also sent Antoine Griezmann on loan to Atlético Madrid, and its only signings this offseason were free agents. Six other clubs now have bigger spending limits than Barcelona’s. Madrid’s cap is the highest, going from €470 million ($550 million) to €739 million ($863 million), which is €642 million ($750 million) more than Barcelona’s. Madrid benefited from better management and especially from not making big signings in recent transfer windows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/financial-crisis-leads-to-barcas-salary-reduction/article36746354.ece
30 September 2021||Jackson (USA),||Lahiri all set for new season||Indian golfer Anirban Lahiri is all set to open his 2021 campaign at the Country Club in Jackson with the Sanderson Farms Championship on Thursday, with a PGA Tour among his immediate goals. In a last-gasp effort, Lahiri managed to make the Top-125 to qualify for the FedExCup and also keep his Tour card. Lahiri plays his first two rounds with Russell Knox and J J Spain.  Lahiri said, “I skipped last week (Fortinet Championship) and then came the Ryder Cup. Now leading up to next week (Sanderson) with all the preparations and time off I am hoping I can hit the ground running.” He added, “Yeah I mean I have lots of objectives, lots of targets in the coming season. I need to start checking off my list of things that I need to achieve that have kind of got piled up now over the last few years so time to get some of those things checked off the list.” One of his immediate goals is winning his first PGA Tour title despite having been on it since 2015. He has even been runner-up and, in the just-concluded season, he was T-3 at Barbasol. So, he just needs to get that final step done. Lahiri has checked in for the first two events — Sanderson Farms and Shriners Hospital. He is unlikely to get into the limited field event, the CJ Cup and Zozo Championship, but will surely play as many events early in the season to get set when 2022 starts. Lahiri has admitted that keeping his card was at the back of his mind even as he prepared for the Olympics after finishing T-3 at the Barbasol Championship. Element of risk With the Tour still having a tournament after the Olympics and Lahiri missing an event due to the Olympics, there was always an element of risk, but the Indian survived. “Sure keeping the card is a goal for every player,” said Lahiri, who had come through the Korn Ferry Tour final series route before the pandemic. He said, “Frankly, there was a lot on my plate and I think I am quite pleased with the way I handled the pressure with covid situation, And you know how challenging it can be for not fully exempt players, not knowing till the week if you are into the tournament or not. “So, I am glad I was able to do that and I had to dig deep. I am proud of how I managed that.” He also said, “I was totally spent every which way and all this happened within 3-4 months of having Covid.” Leading the Asian challenger is Korea’s K.H. Lee who takes his bow in the PGA TOUR’s 2021-22 season at this week’s Sanderson Farms Championship with three clear goals in his mind — secure a second TOUR victory, break into the world’s top-50 and qualify for the International Team to compete in the 2022 Presidents Cup against the USA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lahiri-all-set-for-new-season/article36746367.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Super Kings will be keen to keep the winning run going||Thursday’s IPL clash will feature teams that sit on the extreme ends of the points table. Table-topper Chennai Super Kings takes on the bottom-placed Sunrisers Hyderabad. CSK has form on its side. And would like to maintain its winning momentum going into the playoff stage. Sequence broken SRH, which finally managed to break the sequence of defeats by overcoming Rajasthan Royals, will want to put the missing pieces together even if it is rather late in the day. CSK’s opening pair of the fleet-footed Ruturaj Gaikwad and the innovative Faf du Plessis have provided blazing starts, built solid platforms. Moeen Ali is a free-stroking batter at No. 3 and both Ambati Rayudu and southpaw Suresh Raina can sizzle in the middle-order. Then you have left-arm spinning all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja, who not only contains and strikes, but can swing games with the willow too. CSK, though, will be seeking runs from skipper M.S. Dhoni who appears out of touch since he plays virtually no cricket outside of IPL. And left-arm seaming all-rounder Sam Curran is leaking runs. The sooner the canny Dwayne Bravo, recovering from niggles, returns, the better it will be for CSK. Roy impressive For Sunrisers, aggressive opener Jason Roy, replacing out-of-form David Warner, impressed against RR and paceman Siddharth Kaul bowled with verve at the death. The contest will be a match-up between two wily captains, Dhoni and Kane Williamson. And Sunrisers’ gifted leg-spinner Rashid Khan might have an influential role to play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/super-kings-will-be-keen-to-keep-the-winning-run-going/article36746157.ece
30 September 2021||PARIS,||Messi strikes as PSG gets the better of City||Lionel Messi opened his Paris Saint-Germain account as the French side beat Manchester City while new boys Sheriff Tiraspol shocked Real Madrid in the Champions League on Wednesday. Messi’s top-corner finish added to Idrissa Gueye’s first half goal as PSG moved top of Group A with the 2-0 win over last year’s runners up. Pep Guardiola’s side hit the bar twice in the first half with Portugal playmaker Bernardo Silva failing to score two metres out with PSG goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma helplessly on the ground. In Group D, Sheriff, playing in just its second ever game in the group stage of the competition, upset record 13-time winner Real Madrid 2-1 in the Spanish capital. Uzbekistan winger Jasur Jakhshibaev put the Moldovans in the lead before the half hour mark as Karim Benzema equalised after 65 minutes to score for a 17th different season in the competition, a feat only also achieved by Messi. Thill thrills But the hero for Sheriff, who are based in the region of Transnistria on the Moldovan-Ukrainian border, was Luxembourg attacking midfielder Sebastien Thill. The 27-year-old Thill fired home a sublime half volley with 62 seconds of regular time remaining at the Santiago Bernabeu two week after Sheriff had beaten Shakhtar Donetsk earlier in the month in its opening group game. In Group B, Mohamed Salah and Roberto Firmino scored twice as Liverpool hammered Porto 5-1 and Luis Suarez claimed a 97th-minute winner as Atletico Madrid edged AC Milan 2-1. American Jesse Marsch lost his fifth game in nine matches in charge of RB Leipzig in the 2-1 home defeat to Club Brugge.  The results: Group A: PSG 2 (Gueye 8, Messi 74) bt Manchester City 0; RB Leipzig 1 (Nkunku 5) lost to Club Brugge 2 (Vanaken 22, Rits 41).   Group B: Porto 1 (Taremi 75) lost to Liverpool 5 (Salah 18, 60, Mane 45, Firmino 77, 88); AC Milan 1 (Leao 20) lost to Atletico Madrid 2 (Griezmann 84, Suarez 90+7-pen).   Group C: Borussia Dortmund 1 (Malen 37) bt Sporting Lisbon 0.   Group D: Real Madrid 1 (Benzema 65-pen) lost to Sheriff Tiraspol 2 (Yakhshiboev 25, Thill 90) 2   G roup F: Atalanta 1 (Pessina 68) bt Young Boys 0.   Group H: Zenit St Petersburg 4 (Claudinho 9, Kuzyaev 49, Sutormin 80, Wendel 90+4) bt Malmo 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-strikes-as-psg-gets-the-better-of-city/article36746161.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||RCB punishes wasteful RR, notches up seventh win||Royal Challengers Bangalore made short work of Rajasthan Royals, recording a seven-wicket victory at Dubai on Wednesday. Set a target of 150, RCB romped home with 17 deliveries to spare. Skipper Virat Kohli (25, 20b, 4x4) and Devdutt Padikkal (22, 17b, 4x4) put the chase on the right track, with a 48-run opening stand. K.S. Bharat (44, 35b, 3x4, 1x6) and Glenn Maxwell (50 n.o., 30b, 6x4, 1x6) then built a 69-run third-wicket stand to shut RR out of the contest. Maxwell notched up his second consecutive fifty. Earlier, RR frittered away a great start and finished with a sub-par total. Lewis, Jaiswal shine RR openers Evin Lewis and Yashasvi Jaiswal gave the side a rollicking start. Lewis threw the kitchen sink at anything in his arc, making a rapid 37-ball 58 (5x4, 3x6). Jaiswal was less adventurous in his 22-ball 31 (3x4, 2x6), but thoroughly effective. The pair put on 77 runs in 8.1 overs, before Jaiswal mistimed a slower ball from Dan Christian to Mohammed Siraj at mid-off. Lewis persisted with his attacking approach, until English left-arm pacer George Garton — playing his first IPL match — got rid of the left-hander from Trinidad. Poor shot selection RR captain Sanju Samson, in great form, started well with a couple of sixes. Poor shot selection, however, cut short his stay. Samson (19, 15b, 2x6) made room to loft left-arm spinner Shahbaz Ahmed, but despite making good contact, found Padikkal at sweeper cover. RR could not recover from this blow, as Shahbaz dismissed Rahul Tewatia cheaply in the same over. Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal got rid of Liam Livingstone to leave RR reeling at 127 for six in 16.2 overs. Fast bowler Harshal Patel then entered the attack and nearly recorded his second consecutive hat-trick of the tournament. He prised out Riyan Parag and Chris Morris, before a cautious Kartik Tyagi averted the hat-trick bid. Harshal, the leading wicket-taker of the tournament, once again had a good outing, with figures of three for 34. Chahal and Shahbaz finished with two scalps each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/royals-lose-their-way-after-a-brisk-start/article36746174.ece
30 September 2021||London,||Klopp expects goal spree to end||Jurgen Klopp admits he fears Liverpool’s goal spree will come to an end in Sunday’s Premier League showdown with Manchester City. It was the sixth successive match that Liverpool had scored three or more goals, only the third time in the club’s history the feat has been achieved. It has scored 20 times in 17 days and have 26 goals in its first nine fixtures to equal a club record for a top-flight campaign set in 1922 and replicated only one other time in the 2016-2017 season. But Reds boss Klopp knows it will not be so easy to run riot when Pep Guardiola’s Premier League champion visits Anfield this weekend. “We play against Man City, I don’t think now it makes too much sense to think too much about how many goals we can score against them,” Klopp said. “We need a complex and complete performance against them to have a chance only and that’s it. “But I’m really looking forward to it. I’m looking forward to playing at home again after a while. “We have two days more (than the three Liverpool had between Brentford and Porto) to the City game, which will be helpful, and then we will be fresh again and then give it a go.” But Liverpool is on an 18-match unbeaten run and Brazil midfielder Fabinho believes the win over Porto was just the confidence boost it needed before facing City. “A performance like this just gives us more confidence for the future,” Fabinho said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/klopp-expects-goal-spree-to-end/article36746358.ece
30 September 2021||ERODE,||Ashwin Karthik shuttles to glory||M. Ashwin Karthik defeated K.M. Nidhin 21-17, 21-18 to emerge the boys’ champion in the Tamil Nadu State under-17 badminton championship at the NBA courts on Wednesday. Earlier, V. Methini overcame a blip in the second game to beat V.R. Nardhana 21-18, 12-21, 21-16 in the girls’ final.  The results: Singles: Boys: Final: M. Ashwin Karthik (Mdu) bt K.M. Nidhin (Cbe) 21-17, 21-18; Semifinals: Ashwin bt K.P. Adith (Che) 21-14, 13-21, 21-12; Nidhin bt P. Girish Venkat (Che) 21-6, 16-21, 21-14.   Girls: Final: V. Methini (Cbe) bt V.R. Nardhana (Cbe) 21-18, 12-21, 21-16; Semifinals: Nardhana bt S. Rakshitha Sree (Cbe) 21-14, 18-21, 21-19; Methini bt Shreya Balaji (Kan) 21-14 21-14.   Doubles: Boys: Final: S.P. Aswathharrish (Nmkl) & Nathan Shieh (Slm) bt Aman Noushad (Cbe) & Sachin Anandhan (Tvlr) 21-11, 21-14; Semifinals: Aswathharrish & Nathan bt E. Aaruthra Kangayen & K.M. Nidhin 11-21, 23-21, 21-18; Aman & Anandhan bt R. Arulmurugan (Tpr) & M. Swastik (Tnj) 30-28, 15-21, 21-19.   Girls: Final: A. Anbu Joshna (Cgl) & Shreya Balaji bt Pravandhika Raghavan & Srinidhi Narayanan (Kan) 21-17, 21-19; Semifinals: Joshna & Shreya bt G.N. Atchaya (Ero) & Riduvarshini Ramasamy (Tpr) 21-19, 21-17; Pravandhika & Srinidhi bt S. Rakshitha Sree & U. Reshika (Tvl) 24-22, 21-16.   Mixed doubles: Final: Aman & S. Deepta (Tvlr) bt S. Bharathsanjai (Ero) & M. Reeva Evangelin (Vrd) 21-16, 17-21, 21-14; Semifinals: Bharathsanjai & Reeva bt Aswathharrish & Methini 21-5, 21-17; Aman & Deepta & B. Karthick Raja (Slm) & Nardhana (Cbe) 21-23, 21-16, 21-17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-karthik-shuttles-to-glory/article36746333.ece
30 September 2021||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu’s Syed Mushtaq Ali team to be picked on Oct. 5||The Tamil Nadu squad for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament will be picked on October 5, The Hindu has learnt from reliable sources. Tamil Nadu is the defending champion. Skipper Dinesh Karthik, in the UAE playing in the IPL, will be involved in the process through video conferencing.  It is understood young Sai Sudharsan, so impressive in the TNPL and in the subsequent matches across formats, is a certainty in the team. He has caught the selectors’ attention with his temperament, technique and the quality of strokeplay. Sudharsan is a fine fielder as well. The other names that could come up for selection are wicketkeeper-batter Adithya Ganesh, a street-smart customer, potent seam bowler Saravana Kumar, fluent strokemaker N.S. Chaturved, heavy-hitter R. Vivek, and young off-spinners Ya Arun Mozhi and B. Arun. The selectors will also pick probables for Ranji Trophy and Vijay Hazare competitions simultaneously. And the training for the probables will be specific for the team they have been picked for. Salem is a front-runner for the camp to be held from Oct. 6. The Mushtaq Ali tournament begins on Oct. 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamil-nadus-syed-mushtaq-ali-team-to-be-picked-on-oct-5/article36746307.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gailey jolts Praveen in triple jump||Gailey Venister Devasahayam, a former high jumper, shocked National Open champion Praveen Chithravel and won the triple jump with a personal best 16.20m in the National under-23 athletics championships here on Wednesday. While Praveen, who hit a personal best 16.88m at the National Open, had a foul-ridden series with just one legal jump, Gailey was in his best form with all his four legal jumps going over his previous best of 15.55m. “I didn’t come thinking that I should beat somebody, I just wanted to do something like 16.30m and came close to that,” said the 21-year-old Gailey from Tiruchi, who is coached by former national high jump record-holder N. Annavi, his wife Suganthi and son Mothi Arun. Later, sprinter Taranjeet Kaur and distance runner Komal Jagdale completed a double each.  The results:   Men, 200m: 1. Ragul Kumar (TN) 21.25s; 2. Abhin Devadiga 21.29; 3. V.A. Shashikanth 21.42. 800m: 1. Somnath Chauhan (Har) 1:53.75; 2. Abhishek Thakur 1:53.86; 3. Devender Kumar 1:53.87. 10,000m: 1. Kartik Kumar (UP) 30:41.66s; 2. Adesh Yadav 30:43.22; 3. Gurpreet 30:51.74. 3,000m steeplechase: 1. Atul Poonia (Raj) 8:49.13; 2. Sunil Jinabhai 8:53.48; 3. Sumit Kumar 9:05.96. 400m hurdles: 1. Dhaval Utekar (Guj) 51.05s; 2. Surendar Selvamani 51.53; 3. Ruchit Mori 51.86. High jump: 1. Kausthubha Jaiswal (MP) 2.11m; 2. Deva Karthick 2.11; 3. Swadhin Kumar 2.08. Long jump: 1. Jeswin Aldrin (TN) 7.81m; 2. Nirmal Sabu 7.79; 3. Asadullah 7.59. Triple Jump: 1. Gailey Venister (TN) 16.20m; 2. Praveen Chithravel 16.03; 3. E. Aravinth 15.98. Hammer: 1. Damneet Singh (Pun) 64.20m; 2. Praveen Kumar 61.81; 3. Ravi 61.68.   Women, 200m: 1. Taranjeet Kaur (Del) 23.57s; 2. A.T. Daneshwari 23.73; 3. Ancy Sojan 24.32. 800m: 1. K.M. Chanda (Del) 2:03.40s; 2. K.M. Deeksha 2:04.62; 3. Radha Chaudhary 2:06.00. 10,000m: 1. Sonika (Har) 35:42.36; 2. Kavita Yadav 36:25.19; 3. Chatru Gumnaram 37:20.79. 3,000m steeplechase: 1. Komal Jagdale (Mah) 9:51.76s; 2. Kajal Sharma 10:47.18; 3. Rebi Pal 10:50.42.   400m hurdles: 1. Nanhi (Har) 59.58s; 2. Sinchal 1:00.04; 3. Gurdeep Kaur 1:00.31. Triple jump: 1. Sandra Babu (Ker) 13.11m; 2. Sharvari Parulekar 12.88; 3. R. Aishwarya 12.74. Hammer: 1. Shital (Har) 54.21m; 2. Sneha Jadhav 52.02; 3. Kashish Singh 51.79. Heptathlon: 1. Sonu Kumari (Har) 4,889 points; 2. Kajal 4686; 3. Pooja 4618 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gailey-wins-triple-jump/article36746218.ece
30 September 2021||KOLKATA,||FC Goa makes the summit clash||FC Goa sealed a spot in the final of the Durand Cup after beating Bengaluru FC 7-6 in sudden-death in the second semifinal at the Salt Lake Stadium on Wednesday. The teams were locked 2-2 after regulation time and tied 4-4 after the tie breakers. After both sides saw one of their attempts saved during the first five attempts in penalty shoot-outs, the deadlock was broken when Goa goalkeeper Naveen Kumar stopped Damaitphang Lyngdoh’s shot after midfielder Christy Davis had made it 7-6 for Goa in the sudden-death. Quick strike Bengaluru took charge early and altered the score-line in the very first minute of the action (42 seconds) when N. Sivasakthi checkmated Naveen Kumar with a clever interception. The Bengaluru forward quickly read a back-pass from Goa defender Papuia and charged up to Naveen to block his forward pass and send the ball rolling into the net. Goa, which fielded three Spanish players including captain Edu Bedia, was stirred by the setback and regrouped to find the equaliser in the eighth minute. Devendra Murgaokar nodded home as Muhammed Nemil reached him unmarked with a nice cross following a corner. Goa went into the lead in the 72nd minute when Redeem, who came in as a second half substitute, scored with a nice angular shot. The Bengaluru boys were not ready to give up and found the equaliser in the 83rd minute when Sivasakthi showed his finishing skill again as he jumped above the Goa defenders to nod home a Namgyal Bhutia cross.  The result: FC Goa 2 (Devendra Murgaokar 8, Redeem Tlang 72) bt B FC 2 (N. Sivasakthi 1, 83) 7-6 in sudden-death .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goa-enters-the-final/article36746219.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||World Cup is irrelevant: Pollard||Kieron Pollard has contradicted MI bowling coach Shane Bond, stressing that the T20 World Cup is irrelevant for those featuring in the IPL. “To be honest, the World Cup is irrelevant. At this point of time, we are playing the IPL tournament. When you are in a tournament as an individual, you look to think about the present and not look too far ahead,” Pollard said after MI defeated PBKS on Tuesday, in response to a query on its out-of-form middle-order, which includes Ishan Kishan and Suryakumar Yadav who are a part of India’s T20 World Cup squad. “It’s just a matter of giving the guys the confidence that they’ve done it before and can do it again.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/world-cup-is-irrelevant-pollard/article36746176.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Apsara Star for Udhagamandalam Cup||Apsara Star, who has been judiciously prepared, may score in the Udhagamandalam Cup (1,400m), the main event of the concluding day’s races to be held here on Thursday (Sept. 30).  CROWNING BLOW HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 2-00 p.m.: 1. Awesome Gift (8) R. Manish 60, 2. Amazing Kitten (1) Shahar Babu 59.5, 3. Bright Light (3) C. Umesh 59.5, 4. Renzaccio (10) S. Kabdhar 59.5, 5. Kings Pride (5) Kuldeep Singh 59, 6. Autumn Shower (7) Ramandeep Singh 58.5, 7. Fine Teak (2) Md. Farhan Alam 57.5, 8. Sovereignaire (12) Nakhat Singh 56, 9. Star Chieftain (6) Farid Ansari 56, 10. Driftwood Pacific (11) K. Mukesh Kumar 55.5, 11. Price Striker (4) A. Ayaz Khan 54 and 12. Princess Saaraa (9) Ishwar Singh 54.  1. AUTUMN SHOWER,   2. KINGS PRIDE,   3. DRIFTWOOD PACIFIC   NEVER SAY GOODBYE HANDICAP (1,600m), rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Mister Moonlight (8) P. S. Chouhan 60, 2. Otus (12) Farid Ansari 60, 3. Henrietta (10) Koshi Kumar 59.5, 4. Chaitanya (3) Ishwar Singh 59, 5. Hallucinate (4) Zervan 58, 6. Eagle Bluff (5) Kiran Naidu 57, 8. Sanctuary Cove (2) K. Mukesh Kumar 57, 8. Sea Script (1) Nikhil Naidu 56, 9. Victory Walk (11) Akshay Kumar 55, 10. Symphony In Style (6) P. Sai Kumar 54, 11. Welcome Chakkaram (9) Md. Farhan Alam 53 and 12. Swiss Agatta (7) Ashhad Asbar 52.5.  1. MISTER MOONLIGHT,   2. SEA SCRIPT,   3. HALLUCINATE   CHAMPION TRAINER HANDICAP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 3-00: 1. Renegade (5) Surya Prakash 60.5, 2. Knight In Armour (7) Md. Farhan Alam 60, 3. Ayur Shakti (6) Ashhad Asbar 58, 4. Historian (2) K. Mukesh Kumar 58, 5. Fun Storm (8) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 6. Demerara (9) A. Ayaz Khan 56, 7. Royal Rules (11) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 8. Manzoni (1) P. Vikram 55, 9. Grand Royal (10) Zervan 54.5, 10. Ganton (4) Janardhan P 52.5, 11. Diamond And Pearls (12) Nikhil Naidu 51 and 12. Carnoustie (3) Ajeet Kumar 50.  1. DIAMOND AND PEARLS,   2. MANZONI   , 3. GRAND ROYAL   FAREWELL CUP (Div. II) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-30: 1. Cartel (7) C. Umesh 56, 2. Proposed (6) P. Sai Kumar 56, 3. Regal Kid (2) Surya Prakash 56, 4. Roger O’ More (4) Ramandeep Singh 56, 5. Stride Forever (5) Kiran Naidu 56, 6. Gift Of Perfection (8) Rajendra Singh 54.5, 7. Special Delivery (3) Zervan 54.5 and 8. Valeska (1) Nikhil Naidu 54.5.  1. VALESKA,   2. CARTEL,   3. PROPOSED   FAREWELL CUP (Div. I) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 4-00: 1. Bold Arrangement (2) Kuldeep Singh 56, 2. Maverick Mitchell (6) Ramandeep Singh 56, 3. Amarone (8) Surya Prakash 54.5, 4. Amber Lightning (3) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 5. Artic Star (4) K. Mukesh Kumar 54.5, 6. Innisbrook (1) Zervan 54.5, 7. Lakshanam (5) Yash Narredu 54.5 and 8. Roka (7) C. Umesh 54.5.  1. LAKSHANAM, 2. ROKA, 3. AMBER LIGHTNING   UDHAGAMANDALAM CUP (1,400m), rated 80 & above, 4-30: 1. Mzilikazi (12) Zervan 60, 2. Bernardini (1) Yash Narredu 59.5, 3. Night Hunt (8) Gaurav Singh 59, 4. Hope And Glory (5) Ramandeep Singh 57.5, 5. Nayadeep (3) K. Mukesh Kumar 56.5, 6. Glorious Destiny (4) C. Umesh 55.5, 7. Apsara Star (7) P.S. Chouhan 54.5, 8. Priceless Ruler (11) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 9. Durango (6) Surya Prakash 54, 10. King T’Chala (2) Antony Raj 54, 11. Oscars Thunder (10) Ashhad Asbar 53.5 and 12. Royal Currency (9) Akshay Kumar 53.5.  1. APSARA STAR, 2. MZILIKAZI,   3. NIGHT HUNT   OOTY JUVENILES TROPHY (1,200m), 3-y-o (Terms), 5-00: 1. Amendment (—) (—) 57, 2. Lady Royal (4) Nikhil Naidu 55, 3. Knight Envied (4) C. Brisson 54.5, 4. Golden Mirana (3) P. Sai Kumar 53 and 5. Mezcal (2) P.S. Chouhan 53.  1. MEZCAL, 2. KNIGHT ENVIED   CHAMPION JOCKEY HANDICAP (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 5-30: 1. Shield Maiden (5) Nikhil Naidu 60, 2. Undeniable (9) Shahar Babu 60, 3. Arithmetica (12) A. Ayaz Khan 58, 4. Fiat Justitia (3) Yash Narredu 57.5, 5. Nagada (10) P. Sai Kumar 56, 6. Wild Frank (6) Md. Farhan Alam 56, 7. Sprit Of Zion (7) C. Umesh 55.5, 8. Lady Rhino (1) Janardhan P 55, 9. Demesthenes (11) Gaurav Singh 54.5, 10. Feni (2) Kuldeep Singh 54, 11. Priceless Treasure (8) R. Manish 52.5 and 12. Wild Passion (4) Ajeet Kumar 51.5.  1. NAGADA, 2. SHIELD MAIDEN, 3. FIAT JUSTITIA  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (i): 1, 2 & 3; (ii): 4, 5 & 6; (iii) 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/apsara-star-for-udhagamandalam-cup/article36746268.ece
30 September 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pranav hopes to regain full fitness soon||Pranav Prince's senior international debut was short lived and ended in disaster. The young guard came in late in the first quarter against Saudi Arabia in the FIBA Asian qualifiers at the King Abdullah Sports City in Jeddah last month. But after spending less than two minutes on court, Pranav injured himself while contesting a defensive rebound. He fell awkwardly to break his right forearm and had to be carried off the court. It was far from the debut the 18-year-old dreamed of. He underwent an emergency surgery in a Saudi hospital on the same night and watched his team-mates qualify for the Asian Championships from his hospital bed.  “It was not the kind of dream debut I had hoped for. I felt a shooting pain in my right forearm when I fell and I knew something was wrong. The scans revealed my worst fears. But more than the injury, I was sad that I had let the team down. “My injury upset our team combination and we struggled with our rebound collection. We were a good team but we allowed Saudi to dominate us. I underwent surgery on the same night. I felt happy and relieved when we beat Palestine to qualify for the FIBA Asian Championship,'' he said. Pranav is currently undergoing rehabilitation in Bengaluru with the Indian basketball team. “I started my rehabilitation in Thiruvananthapuram last month. But now I have joined the Indian camp in Bengaluru and I am continuing the rehab under our physio. It is progressing well and I can feel the strength returning to my arm. “At this rate, I think in another two weeks’ time I will be able to start practising with the ball. I will be heading to USA in the first week of October and I hope to regain full fitness by November. I hope to play for the country again in the Asian championships next year,'' said Pranav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranav-hopes-to-regain-full-fitness-soon/article36746600.ece
30 September 2021||BENGALURU,||Double joy for Hashika||Hashika Ramachandra clinched the group II girls’ 200m freestyle and 400m medley golds on the final day of the State aquatics championship on Tuesday.   The results (winners all): Men: 200m freestyle: Srihari Nataraj, 1:52.62 (NMR, Old: Tanish George Mathew, 1:53.73, 2021); 200m breaststroke: Litheesh G.Gowda, 2:36.07; 100m butterfly: Tanish George Mathew, 56.80; 400m medley: S. Siva, 4:40.77.   Women: 200m freestyle: B.G. Madhura, 2:18.39; 200m breaststroke: Inchara S. Narayan, 3:23.96; 100m butterfly: Damini K. Gowda, 1:09.43; 400m medley: V. Preetha, 5:50.05.   Boys: Group I: 200m freestyle: R. Sambhavv, 1:55.30; 200m breaststroke: Vidith S. Shankar, 2:22.41 (NMR, Old: S.P. Likith, 2:30.43, 2013); 100m butterfly: R. Sambhavv, 56.06; 400m medley: Shoan Ganguly, 4:43.02 (NMR, Old: Self, 4:44.72, 2021); 4x100m medley: BAC-A, 4:00.54 (NMR, OR: BAC, 4:03.81, 2021). Group II: 200m freestyle: Anantajit Mukherjee, 2:06.77; 200m breaststroke: Krish Sukumar, 2:35.72; 100m butterfly: Niranjan Karthik, 1:03.46; 400m medley: Pavan Dhananjaya, 5:00.77; 4x100m medley: Dolphin Team A 4:29.91.   Girls: Group I: 200m freestyle: Ashmitha Chandra, 2:15.77; 200m breaststroke: Saanvi S. Rao, 2:47.96 (NMR, Old: Self, 2:49.30, 2021); 100m butterfly: Nina Venkatesh, 1:05.58; 400m medley: A. Jedidah, 5:32.25; 4x100m medley: Dolphin Team A, 4:49.37. Group II: 200m freestyle: Hashika Ramachandra, 2:13.66 (NMR, Old: Hashika, 2:13.46, 2021); 200m breaststroke: A.K. Lineysha, 2:49.51; 100m butterfly: Rishika U. Mangle, 1:05.65 (NMR, Old: Self, 1:05.94, 2021); 400m medley: Hashika Ramachandra, 5:29.98; 4x100m medley: Dolphin Team A, 4:45.75 (NMR, Old: Dolphin, 4:48.57, 2021).   Overall championship: Junior: BAC (616 points); Senior: BAC (326)   Individual championship: Men: Srihari Nataraj (185); Women: Damini k.Gowda (35); Boys: Group I: Vidith S. Shankar (1025), Group II: Navaneeth R.Gowda (535); Girls: Group I: Nina Venkatesh (535), Group II: Riddhima Veerendra Kumar (685) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/double-joy-for-hashika/article36746645.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,||Three meet records set||Three meet records were created in the junior and sub-junior categories of the State aquatics championships here on Wednesday.  The results (winners only):   Boys: Group 1: 1500m freestyle: Shyam Soundararajan (ANSA Dubai) 17:19.81 (NMR, Old: Rakesh Kumar (Turtles) 17:23.90, 2017); 50m backstroke: Visesh Parameshwar Sharma (Hamilton Aquatics) 28.67.   200m breaststroke: T. Jashua Thomas (Balakrishna MHSS) 02:29.02; 4x100 m medley relay: Balakrishna MHSS. 4:28.52.   Group 3: 100m breaststroke: M.S. Nitheesh (TDSA Tirunelveli) 01:17.87 (NMR, Old: S. Danush (TSPA) 01:19.54, 2012).   Group 4: 100m freestyle: T. Kabilan (LifeSpring Academy) 01:07.62 (NMR, Old: P. Vikas (SDAT Mdu) 01:08.80, 2014).   Girls: Group 1: 50m backstroke: Maanya Muktha Manesh (Marina) 34.99; 200m breaststroke: Shriya Iswar Prasad (SG Swim School) 03:01.43.   1500m freestyle: D.S. Srenethi (SDAT Theni) 19:28.67 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-meet-records-set/article36746267.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI:,||Pretty Gal on top in feature event||Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah’s Pretty Gal (Gaurav Singh up) won the (Div. I) Set To Fly Handicap, the main event of the races held here on Wednesday (Sept. 29). R. Ramanathan trains the winner.  1. SUNSHINE HEART HANDICAP (1,400m), 4-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: GOD’S WISH (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Propahlady (Farid Ansari) 2, Roses In My Dreams (C. Brisson) 3 and Velocity (Nikhil Naidu) 4. Nk, 1-3/4 and 1. 1m, 31.35s. Owner and trainer: Mr. Saddam Iqbal.  2. ROYAL BEAUTY HANDICAP (1,000m), rated 20 to 45 (no whip): SIR BAFFERT (H.M. Akshay) 1, Empress Eternal (Farid Ansari) 2, Wind Symbol (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Glorious Symphony (Yash Narreu) 4. 3-1/4, 4 and shd. 1m, 098s. Owner: Mr. Arun Alagappan Racing. Trainer: D.K Futnani.  3. ENDLESS TRIBUTE HANDICAP (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45: GREY TWILIGHT (Ramandeep Singh) 1, Striking Distance (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Daiyamondo (Surya Prakash) 3 and Charliez Angel (C. Umesh) 4. Not run: Fort St. George. 2-1/4, 3/4 and shd. 1m, 14.82s. Owner: Mr. G.S. Sarath Varun. Trainer: G.S. Parmar.  4. SOURCE CODE HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: PENSE’E (Neeraj) 1, Angel Heart (P. Sai Kumar) 2, Skylight (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Ms Boss (Ashhad Asbar) 4. 2-1/2, 3/4 and 1-3/4. 1m, 13.61s. Owner: Mr. R.M. Ruia. Trainer: J.E. Mckeown.  5. SET TO FLY HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,600m), rated 60 to 85: EMELDA (Akshay Kumar) 1, Torbert (Yash Narredu) 2, Divina (Nikhil Naidu) 3 and Avellino (P. Vikram) 4. Not run: Artistryy. 4-1/4, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 40.99s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: B. Suresh.  6. SET TO FLY HANDICAP (Div. I) , (1,600m), rated 60 to 85: PRETTY GAL (Gaurav Singh) 1, Cuban Pete (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Octavian (Yash Narredu) 3 and Star Twist (C. Umesh) 4. 1-3/4, 1/2 and hd. 1m, 40.75s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  7. QUEEN OF THE HILLS CUP (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): ARETHA (C. Umesh) 1, Wisaka (Shahar Babu) 2, Rein Of Terror (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Mystical Magician (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 5-3/4, shd and 2-3/4. 1m, 29.39s. Owners: Mrs. Smita Bajoria & M/s. Sarainaga Racing Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: J.E. Mckeown.  8. SOURCE CODE HANDICAP (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 40 to 65: OFF SHORE BREEZE (Yash Narredu) 1, Shadow Of Love (Gaurav Singh) 2, Texas Rose (K. Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Eagle Prince (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1-1/4, snk and nk. 1m, 14.56s. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: Sebastian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pretty-gal-finishes-on-top-in-feature-event/article36746271.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||League brings DGC's iconic golfers together||Delhi Golf Club has a legacy of producing international champions and some of its illustrious names will be part of the inaugural Delhi Golf Club League to be played from October 14 to 31. A quality field of 18 franchisees — with 18 players each, a coach and a mentor — will clash in a league-cum-knockout format.  Each match will involve seven pairs from two teams. The event will follow the four-ball-better-ball Matchplay format. The high-point of the league is the list of illustrious mentors like Gaurav Ghei, the first Indian to qualify to the British Open in 1997, four Arjuna Awardees — Shiv Kapur, two-time Indian Open winner Ali Sher, Amit Luthra and Nonita Lall Qureshi — and Asian Tour regulars Chiragh Kumar and Naman Dawar. Other mentors include country’s leading coaches Amandeep Johl, Brandon D’Souza, Jasjit Singh and Ajai Gupta, professionals from the Ladies Tour Meher Atwal and Ayesha Kapur besides leading amateur Gauri Monga. Each team owner paid Rs. 5 lakh to the DGC in an event that does not offer any prize-money. Sharing the details at a press conference on Wednesday, chairman of the Tournament Committee Balbir Singh Sandhu said, “The upper limit for handicap is 24 for male golfers and 30 for ladies. From a total of 324 players, 38 players have handicaps of five or under while 105 have single-digit handicaps. Overall, 71 percent of the golfers have handicaps of under 18. “For the purpose of scoring, 75 percent of the original handicap will be considered. Each team should have a lady golfer and a golfer over the age of 70. Each team can have a maximum of one golfer from the under-20 category.” Ghei, the best known player from the DGC, said, “This provides a great opportunity for the members and mentors, across teams, not only to test their preparedness on the course but also exchange quality knowledge in a very healthy environment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/league-brings-dgcs-iconic-golfers-together/article36746360.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rutuja and Webley-Smith lose in pre-quarterfinal||Rutuja Bhosale and Emily Webley-Smith of Britain were beaten 2-6, 6-4, [1-10] in the doubles pre-quarterfinals by the Belarusian duo of Vera Lapko and Lidziya Marozava in the $235,238 WTA tournament in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan. In the men’s Challenger in Murcia (Spain), Sriram Balaji and Ramkumar Ramanathan reached the doubles semifinals with a 7-6(5), 6-3 victory over Davide Galoppini and Francesco Passaro of Italy. In the ITF women’s event in Monastir (Tunisia), Jennifer Luikham shocked top seed Ipek Soylu of Turkey 6-4, 6-2 in the first round.  Other results First round:   €44,820 Challenger, Lisbon, Portugal: Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja bt Tiago Cacao & Goncalo Falcao (Por) 6-3, 6-2.   €44,820 Challenger, Murcia, Spain: Miljan Zekic (Srb) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 3-6, 6-4, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Lubbock, USA: Charles Broom (GBR) & Chad Kissell (USA) bt Parth Aggarwal & Suraj Prabodh 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Cancun, Mexico: Michael Zhu (USA) bt Siddhant Banthia 6-4, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Cairo, Egypt: Luciano Darderi (Ita) bt Rishab Agarwal 6-0, 6-0; Lorenzo Gagliardo (Arg) bt Nitin Kumar Sinha 3-6, 6-4, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles: Christoph Negritu (Ger) bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 6-3, 2-6, 6-4.   Doubles: Credit Chaiyarin (Tha) & Youssef Labbene (Tun) bt Ajeet Rai (Nzl) & Niki Poonacha 7-6(7), 3-6, [10-4].   Women: Doubles: Shrivalli Bhamidipaty & Smriti Bhasin bt Greta Medeghini & Lara Pfeifer (Ita) 6-0, 3-6, [10-6]; Sharmada Balu & Sravya Shivani bt Ferdaous Bahri & Ginerva Parentini (Ita) 7-6(5), 6-3; Ginerva Peiretti (Ita) & Jennifer Luikham bt Anouk Koevermans (Ned) & Snehal Mane 7-6(2), 5-7, [10-7]; Chompoothip Jundakate (Tha) & Niditra Rajmohan bt Margaux Komano (Fra) & Elena Milovanovic (Srb) 1-6, 6-3, [10-6]   $25,000 ITF women, Lisbon, Portugal: Mariana Drazic (Cro) & Sara Lanca (Por) bt Ana Filipa Santos (Por) & Sathwika Sama 6-2, 6-3; Francisca Jorge & Matilde Jorge (Por) bt Lara Salden (Bel) & Prarthana Thombare 6-4, 7-6(7) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rutuja-and-webley-smith-lose-in-pre-quarterfinal/article36746365.ece
30 September 2021||FARIDABAD,||Gorsa to train Indian shooters and coaches||World Championship silver medallist and Tokyo Olympics finalist, Petar Gorsa of Croatia,will train talented Indian shooters and groom the coaches, in collaboration with the Manav Rachna Educational Institutions (MREI). The 33-year-old, a versatile shooter in air rifle and 50-metre rifle events, has entered into an agreement with MREI to help Indian shooters emerge as Olympic champions. “Petar was here for two days. He wanted to see our facilities. We have a shooting school in Noida and he visited that. Apart from training our shooters, he can also study here if he wants, as we have many interesting courses,” said the vice-president of the Manav Rachna Institutions, Dr. Amit Bhalla. “We will scout talent which is immense in our country and bring them on a competitive platform” added Dr. Bhalla. As part of its drive towards sporting excellence, Manav Rachna has, over the years, brought champions like three-time Olympic gold medallist Ralf Schumann of Germany, World champion Daniele Di Spigno of Italy, World and Olympic Champion Russell Mark of Australia, two-time Olympic medallist Munkhbayar Dorjsuren of Germany, and London Games gold medallist Peter Wilson of Britain, to guide the Indian talent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gorsa-to-train-indian-shooters-and-coaches/article36746372.ece
30 September 2021||Manila,||Legendary Manny Pacquiao hangs up his gloves||Boxing legend Manny Pacquiao is officially hanging up his gloves. The eight-division world champion and the Philippines senator announced his retirement from the ring on Wednesday. “As I hang up my boxing gloves, I would like to thank the whole world, especially the Filipino people for supporting Manny Pacquiao. Goodbye boxing,” the 42-year old said in a 14-minute video posted on his Facebook page. “It is difficult for me to accept that my time as a boxer is over. Today I am announcing my retirement.” Pacquiao finished his 26-year, 72-fight career with 62 wins, eight losses and two draws. Of those 62 wins, 39 were by knockout and 23 by decision. He won 12 World titles. His retirement from boxing followed a disheartening defeat to Yordenis Ugas in Paradise, Nevada, USA on August 21.    Pacquaio had hinted at retirement recently. It was also expected because he is setting his sights on a bigger political battlefield.  Pacquiao’s rags-to-riches life story and legendary career — he is the only fighter in history to win titles in eight different weight classes — has brought honor to his country.   Pacquiao finished his 26-year, 72-fight career with 62 wins, eight losses and two draws||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/legendary-manny-pacquiao-hangs-up-his-gloves/article36746375.ece
30 September 2021||Mysuru:,||Gaghaan hits double ton||An unbeaten stroke-filled 207 by P. Gaghaan helped Jawahar’s CC register a 332-run win over Bellur CC in the KSCA Mysore zone u-16 inter-club cricket tournament at the S.D.N.R. Wadayar grounds on Tuesday.  The scores:   Jawahar’s 391/2 in 50 overs (P. Gaghaan 207 n.o., Jay 85, Dhanush Gowda 43, Swayam 32) bt Bellur 59 in 28.5 overs (Bindhu 25, Tushar 3/11).   Karavali 224 in 48 overs (H.C. Shashank 69, T. Sukdev 50, Sujan 3/44) bt MUC 94 in 42.5 overs (Gagan 33, Amogh 3/14).   NCC 156 in 41.4 overs (N. M. Tejas 36 n.o., L. Varun Patel 29, Manan 6/24) bt Vijaya 94 in 31 overs (Elvin Thomas 30, Vibodh Ramesh 5/20, R. Raaj 3/24).   Kuvempunagar 191 in 43.2 overs (Advaith 59, L.N. Srujan 35, Samarth Bharadwaj 3/23) bt The Mysore Gymkhana 79 in 26.3 overs (J. S. Navaneeth 3/18).   Yuvarajas’ College 83 in 22.5 overs (R. Daivik 3/10) lost to Kollegal 84/9 in 37.5 overs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gaghaan-hits-double-ton/article36746644.ece
30 September 2021||Karachi,||Wasim resigns as PCB’s chief executive||Pakistan’s cricket board said on Wednesday its chief executive had resigned, two weeks after New Zealand and England abandoned tours in the country over security concerns. The PCB gave no reason for Wasim Khan’s resignation, but said it would meet later on Wednesday to “consider the matter”. “(The) Pakistan Cricket Board today confirmed Wasim Khan has tendered his resignation as chief executive,” said in a statement. Khan had made huge efforts to revive international cricket after a 2009 terror attack on the Sri Lankan team sent Pakistan into isolation for years. Hired on a three-year contract in 2019, he had organised Pakistan’s tours of England and then New Zealand amid severe COVID-19 restrictions last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wasim-resigns-as-pcbs-chief-executive/article36746355.ece
30 September 2021||Madrid,||Full capacity for LaLiga games||Spanish football stadiums can be at full capacity again starting this weekend, authorities said Wednesday. Spain had only allowed 60% of seats to be filled at the start of the season but health officials said pandemic conditions have continued to improve across the country in recent weeks. Local regions still have the final decision on how many fans will be allowed in stadiums, and Catalonia will keep the restrictions at 60% for now, meaning there won't be immediate changes for matches hosted by Barcelona. Defending Spanish league champion Atlético Madrid is expected to fill the Wanda Metropolitano Stadium for its match against Barcelona on Saturday. Authorities said they will reevaluate the health conditions in a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/full-capacity-for-laliga-games/article36746356.ece
30 September 2021||KOLKATA,||Women’s Natl. boxing from Oct. 21||The National women’s boxing championships will be staged in Hisar from October 21 to 27 after more than a year due to the pandemic. The tournament, to be held on the campus of the St. Joseph’s International School, will have competitions in 12 categories — 48kg, 50kg, 52kg, 54kg, 57kg, 60kg, 63kg, 66kg, 70kg, 75kg, 81kg and +81kg — following a revamp in weight divisions by the International Boxing Association (AIBA). According to a Boxing Federation of India (BFI) release on Wednesday, performances in the event will be considered for the selection of the Indian squad for the World women’s championships to be held later this year. The last date of registration by number is Oct. 8 and by name Oct. 13. Entries can be sent to ewnboxing2021@gmail.com along with info@boxingfederation.in and suhail@boxingfederation.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/womens-natl-boxing-from-oct-21/article36746370.ece
30 September 2021||NEW DELHI,||New TOPS core group list in October||A new core group of the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) for the next Olympic cycle will be drawn up next month after the earlier one was dissolved at the end of Tokyo Games, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-tops-core-group-list-in-october/article36746376.ece
30 September 2021||CHENNAI,||JK Tyre’s Regularity Run in 17 cities||JK Tyre has launched the JK Tyre FMSCI National Regularity Run Championship, hoping to provide a platform for professional rallying. The Run will be held across 17 cities in the country with the biggest geographical spread, according to a release from JK Tyre. “We hope to nurture the new generation of rally enthusiasts to get into professional rallying. We will continue our commitment towards building more professional rally drivers,” said Sanjay Sharma, Head-Motorsport, JK Tyre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jk-tyres-regularity-run-in-17-cities/article36746377.ece
30 September 2021||SITGES (Spain),||India eases past France||India scored a 3-1 victory over lowly-ranked France to finish second in Group A in the league phase of the FIDE World women’s team chess championship on Wednesday. In Thursday’s two-set quarterfinals, India will take on Kazakhstan, which finished third in Group B.  The results: Fifth round: Group A: India bt France 3-1 (D. Harika drew with Marie Sebag; Tania Sachdev drew with Andreea Navrotescu; Bhakti Kulkarni bt Natacha Benmesbah; Mary Ann Gomes bt Silvia Alexieva); Armenia lost to Russia 1-3; Azerbaijan bt Spain 3.5-0.5.   Fourth round: Group A: Russia bt India 3-1 (Aleksandra Goryachkina drew with Harika; Alexandra Kosteniuk bt R. Vaishali; Kateryna Lagno bt Tania Sachdev; Polina Shuvalova drew with Mary Ann Gomes); France lost to Azerbaijan 0.5-3.5; Spain lost to Armenia 0.5-3.5.   Quarterfinal line-up: India-Kazakhstan; Russia-FIDE Americas; Georgia-Azerbaijan; Ukraine-Armenia .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-eases-past-france/article36746151.ece
30 September 2021||DOHA,||India men in last four||The Indian men entered the semifinals of the 25th ITTF-ATTU Asian table tennis championships with a 3-1 win over Iran on Wednesday. India will meet Korea, which beat Hong Kong 3-1.  The Indian women, however, went down fighting to top seed Japan 1-3 in the quarterfinals.  The results: Championship Division (quarterfinals): Men: India bt Iran 3-1 (Sharath Kamal bt Nima Alamian 11-9, 6-11, 11-9, 11-5; G. Sathiyan bt Noshad Alamiyan 11-7, 11-6, 6-11, 11-6; Harmeet Desai lost to Amir Hossein Hodaei 8-11, 7-11, 11-8, 14-12, 7-11; Sharath bt Noshad 11-8, 11-8, 8-11, 11-9).   Women: Japan bt India 3-1 (Hitomi Sato bt Sreeja Akula 11-5, 11-3, 11-3; Saki Shibata bt Archana Kamath 10-12, 11-7, 11-4, 10-12, 11-9; Miyu Nagasaki lost to Sutirtha Mukherjee 7-11, 8-11, 11-5, 11-7, 8-11; Saki Shibata bt Sreeja Akula 8-11, 10-12, 11-2, 11-9, 11-8).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-women-enter-final/article36746180.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||TN beats Gujarat||Tamil Nadu scored a seven-wicket win over Gujarat in an Elite-B second round match of the BCCI-Vinoo Mankad Trophy under-19 tournament in New Delhi on Wednesday.  The scores: Gujarat 148 in 39.2 overs (Ved Patel 40, Manav Parakh 4/40, V. Arunachalam 3/23) lost to TN 154/3 in 27.4 overs (R. Vimal Khumar 82 n.o., B. Sachin 30) .    Qualifier Riya Uboveja of Gujarat beat AP's Anusha Kondaveeti 6-0, 6-3 in a women’s pre-quarterfinal match of the Appaswamy Open tennis tournament.  Important results (pre-quarterfinals):   Men: Irfan Husain (TN) bt Mohit Bhardwaj (Del) 6-4, 6-1; K.S. Siddharth Arya (TN) bt Rudra Himendubhatt (Guj) 6-1, 4-6, 6-2; Dhakshineswar Suresh (TN) bt Guhan Rajan (TN) 6-3, 6-3; Women: Yubrani Banerjee (WB) bt Kaavya Palani (TN) 7-6(4), 6-2; Reshma Maruri (Kar) bt Naga Roshne Arunkumar (TN) 6-3, 6-2; Akanksha Nitture (Mah) bt Shrichandrakala Tentu (TN) 6-2, 6-3.   C. Samhitha Sai (TN) bt Yashaswini Singh Panwar (MP) 6-2, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-beats-gujarat/article36746270.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||ENGAGEMENTS||Aquatics: State sub-junior, junior and senior championships, SDAT-Velachery Complex, 7 a.m.  Cricket: VAP Memorial Trophy final, Vijay vs Jolly Rovers (9 a.m.); Rupa Gurunath, TNCA president, gives away prizes, MAC. CDCA league, I div., Krish vs Reddy CC (9 a. m.), Sumangali ‘A’ (turf); Challengers vs Mamallapuram (9 a.m.), Sumangali ‘B’ (turf).  Tennis: Appaswamy Open tournament, MPTA-KTC, OMR, 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/engagements/article36746269.ece
30 September 2021||BELGRADE,||Anargya wins title||Anargya Manjunath defeated Hungary’s Dorottya Tolgyes 11-6, 7-11, 11-4, 8-11, 11-6 to win the under-17 girls’ title in the WTT Youth contender on Wednesday. In the last-four stage, the Karnataka paddler beat Swede Nomin Baasan 11-4, 11-7, 12-10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anargya-wins-title/article36746179.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 08:37 IST,||Sudoku — September 30, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-september-30-2021/article36746871.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Ocean’s Seven||It is high tide, on a grey afternoon. Frothy waves gently caress the shore. At Kovalam beach, clad in bodysuits, two amateur surfers are trying to catch a wave. Nudging them along is a young boy in a yellow uniform: their coach. The men paddle into the water on surfboards, turn to face the beach and wait. As soon as a wave hits them, they attempt to ‘pop’ (stand on the board) and strike a superhero pose. A few seconds in, they topple over with a splash. On the shore, their family enthusiastically tries to catch the few seconds of action on camera. It is a typical, slow weekday afternoon at Kovalam, along the Coromandel coast. However, the scene revs up on weekends, and early mornings. As the crowd swells, students line up behind their instructors with boards laid out on the sand, learning to ‘paddle’ and ‘pop’ before hitting the waves. Then their instructors, chest-deep in water, guide them carefully, coaxing them to catch each oncoming wave. About a decade ago Kovalam had just a few local surfers, today it is part of a quiet, yet significant Indian surfing revolution. The fishing village is now home to seven independent surf schools — Surf Turf, Kovalam Surfing School, Soulmate Surf School, Coco Surf School, Yellow Fin Surf School, Ocean Delight and Bay of Life — and is a popular destination with surfers from around the world. Why is it so special? “Kovalam has some of the best waves on the East coast. The rocks outside and the sand bar creates great waves during the surf season every year,” says Arun Vasu, founder of Surf Turf, chairman of TT Group, and an avid windsurfer with 40 years of experience in the water. Murthy Megavan, a fisherman-turned-surfer from the village who now runs Kovalam Surfing School, agrees, “You can surf here all through the year, even in the monsoons. And for our boys (instructors), safety comes first. You are playing with Nature, after all.” Seven schools strong Arun is one of the pioneers of this movement. He started Surf Turf (then, Covelong Point Surf School) in 2013, with musician Yotam Agam and Murthy. “It was started as a way to give back to the fishing community of Kovalam, and meant as an alternate source of income other than fishing. We started with a small rented place in the village first. The response was really good and that’s why I decided to buy a plot and set up a more permanent school,” he recalls. Though the village already had a few surfers, including Murthy, who had learned surfing from visiting foreigners, with the setting up of the school, a formalised way of training came into being: all those who were part of the school were certified and trained by International Surfing Association (ISA) coaches. Murthy, who has been teaching children from the village since as early as 2012, is at the centre of this once fledgeling, now mature revolution. He learned to ride waves atop a broken door at the age of 10. Sporting a pair of sunglasses and a never-waning smile, he walks though his under-construction surf school pointing out the rooms for surfboard storage, pantry and shower areas. The white building, located a stone’s throw away from the Covelong Point beach is nearing completion. “If everything goes well, we will inaugurate it in November this year,” he says, adding that he has 10 instructors in his crew. “The office space will also double up as a counselling centre for people in need, especially from the village and even nearby villages,” says Murthy, adding, “It will be good to watch the beach and talk, don’t you think?” Will this facility (done in collaboration with counsellor Sheena Ramanalukkal) be available for surfers too? “For us, a good wave is enough to clear the mind,” he adds with a laugh. Be it surfing or counselling, he assures that such features will always be provided free of cost, for people from the village. The schools, most of which are led by surfers who trained under Murthy, have also identified five ideal points along the coast for training: referred to as Covelong Point, Rock Area, Village Point, River Mouth and New Point. “Rock Area is not for the weak-hearted. Only for professionals!” specifies Murthy. As borders open up, each school is drawing interest among surfers from across the country, especially Chennai, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi. “We did get a lot of expats before the pandemic. But after, it's been mostly Indians,” says Arun. Ride with the times While Murthy and Surf Turf evolved to be household names over time, new establishments like Soulmate Surf School, helmed by 33-year-old National-level surfer Palani Vijayan, had to take the social media route for that much-needed jumpstart. It was around the 2020 lockdowns that he decided to start over. Before that, he was an instructor under Murthy for almost 10 years. “All I had was the money to buy one board. And the confidence to do it,” recalls Palani, “I began by starting a YouTube Channel and posting videos on surfing. Then followed it up with Instagram and Facebook pages. Slowly, I started getting messages on these platforms.” Many were from those who liked Palani’s way of teaching. His YouTube videos also share a glimpse of the community and the village, along with information on surfing safety. Right now, Palani says there are about 200 students training under him. He adds with a chuckle, “Some of them are very interested in getting photos clicked, especially for social media. So I have bought a camera.” For now, his school doesn’t have a formal physical space, “I have rented a house close to home to keep extra boards. Depending on the conditions at sea, I take the boards on my bike to the respective spot and pitch a tent there.” As more enthusiasts discover Kovalam, it is likely that Mamallapuram, another important surf spot on the East coast, might also see more takers, says Arun. “Around 2008-2009, Mahabs used to be the most famous spot, especially for expats. Right now, even during competitions, surfers from Kovalam and Mahabs are always neck to neck,” Murthy adds. Arun believes that surfing as a leisure sport will be “huge in the next five to 10 years” in India. “My vision for Kovalam has always been to make it the surfing mecca of India. More schools coming up is good for the sport,” he says. As the day winds down and learners walk up the shores carrying their multicoloured boards, Murthy exclaims, “In the village, there are 100 or more surfers now — right from small children to grown-ups. And you will see me on a longboard at least till I’m 75 years old!”  As borders open up, each school is drawing interest among surfers from across the country, especially Chennai, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/oceans-seven/article36746112.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa woos the locals||Prior to the pandemic, Goa welcomed approximately 90 lakh tourists, including around nine lakh foreigners, per year. But from March 2020, foreign tourists have paused. Backpackers and party chasers have given way to long-stay tourists, many escaping the claustrophobia of locked-down cities to rent villas by the beach for months. While restaurants across the country began to close down, Goa witnessed the rise of stylish, responsible restaurants, focussing on local menus and finding inventive ways to put a spin on tradition, keeping in mind the change of tourists. Goa-based writer Vikram Doctor, observes, “I think some restaurants came close to shutting down, but were saved by the fact that the winter season, where most make their profits, came between the two waves so they have been able to scrape through. Now they are expecting to do well, with everyone who can’t go abroad, coming to Goa.” He adds, “In some ways, I think, being tested by the lockdown has actually been good for Goa’s restaurants. It has forced them to develop takeaway menus that are really good, not just afterthoughts. It also made them find ways to appeal more to local, long-term customers — not just transient tourists — and to use locally sourced produce, not just stuff brought in, which they’ve realised can get cut off due to pandemic restrictions.” Goa’s appetite for new age restaurants continued during the pandemic, even though business took a hit. At a prominent corner of Anjuna, bright yellow Maka Zai emerged in late 2020. It made its mark with hip Asian food — including a Goan-inspired sloppy Joe called baoee — cutting-edge mixology with cocktails like Trouble (tequila, tamarind, fresh coriander and sea salt), and a relaxed atmosphere. At Mosaic Anjuna, another opening, diners can enjoy prawn omelette tacos, Andhra tendli pepper fry and raw jackfruit croquettes while sipping quirky cocktails. Entrepreneur and restaurateur Manav Chadha, the man behind Maka Zai, says, “Concept restaurants are the new age bars. Goa’s tourists are well-travelled and know their food. People are more willing to try local cuisine or regional specialities today.” And by the looks of it, they are willing to pay top dollar. Diners, according to Chadha, have primarily been those who are on ‘workacations’ or ‘staycations’ and take a break by dining out in the Anjuna-Assagao belt, or the tourists who have just begun to come in. The shacks may be mostly shut, awaiting foreign tourists, but locals and travellers still have a rapidly increasingly list of places to dine at. Chef Rahul Gomes Pereira aka Chef Picu of Jamun Goa, which opened in December 2019, says, “Clients who usually dine at global restaurants, have found their way to Goa and are spending top dollar on food and beverage.” Gin bars and innovative cocktails are also wowing diners. Edible Archives, an ingredient-centric restaurant, offers plant-based cocktails like bimli urrak , teffal vodka, and kokum feni , all with seasonal ingredients in keeping with Chef Anumitra Ghosh’s philosophy. At the packed Tamil Table, which opened this March in the quiet Goan village of Assagao, apart from unique food which includes duck pakodas and coconut milk pulao, a curry leaf gin and tonic stands cheek by jowl with a peanut whiskey sour. The purple-hued, signature cocktail ‘jamun’, served with a gin base, allures diners at Jamun. Meanwhile, at Chef Pablo Miranda’s tapas bar in Panjim — Antonio 31 — gin infusions with butterfly pea flower, accompanied with crispy baitfish and truffle mushroom rissois (a crumb-fried Goan and Portugese snack), are a hit. Regional rules Chef Picu is of the opinion that Goa has evolved and restaurants like Jamun, are being appreciated. “Modern adaptions to cuisines is a dying trend. Authentic, traditional and historically relevant food, is the new game,” he says. Perhaps that explains why Goan cuisine is being rediscovered with a vengeance. Cavatina, serving contemporary Goan food in quieter South Goa, attracts diners from touristy North Goa too. What’s more, even after re-opening to 50% capacity, it is doing brisk business. Cavatina’s founder-Chef Avinash Martins says, “The trend of people hiring large villas as a family or friends’ group and inviting chefs to curate special meals is fast growing. I have done many such meals for guests from across India, who are willing to spend and experiment with local cuisine.” He adds, “Goa, for the last year-and-a-half, has been a second home to the entire country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/goa-woos-the-locals/article36746122.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||The man behind the #ValimaiUpdate||What connects former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edapaddi Palanisamy and England cricketer Moeen Ali? Both have been asked Valimai updates in recent times. Starved of news about Thala Ajith Kumar’s upcoming Tamil biggie from its makers, fans of the actor have been posing the question to people from different walks of life. Naturally, “ Valimai update” became a viral trend. So much so that it forced the makers to issue statements, and finally, post the update itself… with official posters and the recently-released teaser — fans seem to be satiated. Heaving a sigh of relief and happy with the response is producer Boney Kapoor, the man in demand among Ajith fans, considering the elusive nature of the star. In a telephonic interview from Mumbai, the producer shares the latest on the film: How have reactions been to the recently-released teaser video? It has been extraordinary. It shows the effort put in by Ajith, Karthikeya, director H Vinoth, and the entire stunt team. How did the team go about shooting the bike stunt sequences, which many say will be a highlight? We waited for over a year to shoot this six-day-long sequence. Ajith was most excited about it, and we did not want to compromise on its quality. We roped in one of the best stunt teams from Russia, and shot the sequence in a place 300 miles from Moscow. Many locals from that little town came along to greet Ajith on the set! As a producer, what went through your mind when so many people were asking about updates? Fans are well within their rights to ask for updates, because they love Ajith a lot. However, I did not want to mislead them. I wanted to give out material only when there was something concrete at hand. While most of the portions were shot over a year back, we had to patiently wait to complete this crucial sequence. I have always been a directors’ producer. If I have confidence in the director, like I do with Vinoth, I will ensure that the vision is fulfilled. What gave you that confidence in Vinoth, who is relatively new to the industry? His work will talk. He believes in expressing himself through his films. It was Ajith who sent Vinoth to my Mumbai residence to narrate some film ideas a few years back. I remember my wife [the late actor Sridevi] conversing with him in Tamil, and being impressed with his story lines. His vision was clear, and ours has been a happy journey. In fact, my next film will also be with Ajith and Vinoth. As a person producing films since the ‘80s, what do you think is unique about Ajith? Less is more is an adage that fits him well. He never believes in public appearances, and keeps away from all PR activity. This means that the appetite of audiences is never fully fulfilled. We hear you came to Chennai for the first day first show of Ajith’s hit Viswasam (2019) … I have never seen or experienced something like that before. There were thousands of people waiting outside the theatre well past midnight, to try to watch the first show. When I walked out after the film ended, there were thousands waiting for the next show. There are chances of Vijay’s Beast also being released for Pongal 2022. If that happens, Ajith and Vijay, two of the biggest stars of Tamil cinema, will clash at the box office. Your thoughts? Well, if it does, Pongal will get brighter for the fans of both stars.  A field day Apart from Valimai , Boney Kapoor also has his hands full with Hindi sports drama Maidaan . Starring Ajay Devgn as a football coach, the film will, in Boney’s words, ‘chronicle the golden period of Indian football that many have forgotten’. He says, “We put up an entire set to shoot the important football matches, but we had to cancel the shoot thrice due to the pandemic and a cyclone. We are in the process of rebuilding that set, and will kickstart shoot in October.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-man-behind-the-valimaiupdate/article36746083.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Tempeh rising||Hello Tempayy’s kitchen in Bengaluru is brimming with activity. The staff brainstorms, makes a few notes, then slices blocks of tempeh, tossing cubes into pans, ovens and blenders to create new recipes. The most ambitious so far being a tempeh chaat. “We cut tempeh into thin slices; baked some, fried some. It was crunchy, and we had ourselves a wonderful chaat,” says Siddharth Ramasubramanian who started Hello Tempayy earlier this year in Bengaluru. He is rather poetic when he says he looked at tempeh as a blank canvas. It is an ingredient with unbelievable potential and really soaks in flavour, he enthuses. The first thing they made was a cutlet. Then they tried keema , gravies and lately modaks for Vinayaga Chaturthi. After foraying into Hyderabad next, the brand with its vegan, gluten free, ready-to-eat offering is now making its debut in Chennai. Made from soybean, this plant-based protein comes in four varieties: natural (Rs. 130 for 200 grams) and the other three being marinades such as Sriracha, Tawa Masala and Szechuan (Rs. 150 for 200 grams). Conscious choices “We have been working with tempeh for well over 18 months trying to achieve neutrality of taste, the right form: firm yet malleable, among other things,” says Siddharth. In the initial stages the company imported tempeh from the US, Australia, Indonesia and the Netherlands. “Now, we make our own and we have developed our own fermentation methodology,” he says. With roots in Indonesia, the humble tempeh, despite being around for decades, suddenly saw a surge in popularity a few years back. Siddharth feels it is to do with people turning vegetarian or vegan and looking for sources of plant-based protein. In India, he feels, the vegetarian consumer lacks choice. That served as a catalyst for Siddharth to launch full fledged into tempeh. Ever since the pandemic struck, he says, he noticed a growth in conscious eating. “As a culture we are becoming conscious foodies. We noticed a requirement for more protein in people’s diet. They are thinking about good fat, B12, iron,” he says adding that a 100 grams serving of tempeh has 19-20 grams of protein. While coming up with the product Siddharth also realised that whatever he gives the clients needs to fit within the practices of the kitchen. “People want something that they can incorporate in their usual diet. It needs to be easy to cook, accessible and affordable so that it can be included as a staple and not luxury,” he explains. He is pleased to see his clients come up with innovative recipes, from Vietnamese spring rolls to masala dosas. At the moment Hello Tempayy is making above five tonnes of the product in a month. The facility in Hennur can make 75 tonnes of tempeh in a year. “But we are doubling it before the end of the year,” adds Siddharth. Plans are on to set up units in Chennai, Maharashtra and Gurugram. Siddharth adds, “India is in the top six countries growing soybeans. We source our soybeans from Madhya Pradesh, which is the largest producer in the country.  Hello Tempayy is available on hellotempayy.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tempeh-rising/article36746132.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||All about substance||Aishwarya Lekshmi is back after a brief hiatus. Her last outing in Malayalam was Brother’s Day in 2019. She returns to Malayalam cinema with the recently-released Kaanekkaane, currently streaming on SonyLiv. As a guilt-ridden woman trying to find happiness in her marriage, Aishwarya’s performance is spot on. “I am super happy about the way people have appreciated my character in Kaanekkaane . Such scripts don’t come to you everyday. As an actor, you long for characters with substance and Sneha [in Kaanekkaane ]  was someone with so many facets to her personality,” she says. What’s next? Aishwarya has been longing to work in a Malayalam film, though she has been busy in Tamil and Telugu. “During a break in the shooting of Ponniyin Selvan , I decided to take a one-month break after shooting continuously from December to February. That was the biggest mistake I made because, soon after, the pandemic brought everything to a standstill. From February 2020 to October 2020, I was jobless till the shooting of Kaanekkaane began,” she says. Meanwhile, Aishwarya has just wrapped up work in Mani Ratnam’s magnum opus Ponniyin Selvan , the first part of which is expected to release in 2022. “Both parts of the film were shot simultaneously. The shooting began with a scene of mine. But I can’t say anything about my role or the film. I was so nervous and excited about working in a Mani Ratnam film. I took sometime to settle down as I was trying hard to impress him. It also took time to get used to the big names I was working with,” she says. Moving on to Godse , she says she cannot express enough how much she enjoyed working in Telugu. “Gopi Ganesh, whom I call babai [which means father] is so kind. I can take as many takes as I want and there’s not an unkind word from him. Thanks to him, I was able to find my feet in the mainstream entertainer. The director also expects me to do the dubbing in Telugu,” she says, adding that her upcoming films in Malayalam are Archana 31, Not Out and Kumari .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-about-substance/article36746085.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Adding another layer||Mamta Mohandas watched Andhadhun (2018) in order to prepare for its Malayalam remake Bhramam ,  to study how Tabu approached the character of Simi. She is reprising Tabu’s character in the remake directed by cinematographer Ravi K Chandran and stars Prithviraj Sukumaran, Sankar Panicker and Raashi Khanna. “There is a significant age difference between Simi and me, so it wasn’t going to be easy, as I am far younger than her. I had to bring in cuteness and ‘bubbliness’. When you see someone like that, you don’t expect her to do something as crazy as what she ends up doing in the film,” she says. Tabu’s Simi is a layered character in the original, as is Bhramam’s Gia, says Mamta. She enjoyed the character’s complexity more, counting it among the best characters she has done. “The character travels through so many layers. She is complex, we don’t get to meet such characters in real life. It is all in the writing! I hope I have been able to bring new things into it,” she adds. She cherishes the experience of working with veteran cinematographer Ravi K Chandran who is making his directorial debut in Malayalam. “Raviettan is a beautiful person to interact with. He is the kind who remembers and cherishes things. We all know him as a cinematographer, but he was excited to wear the director’s hat. He was only worried about how a scene would turn out, not how it would look because that [cinematography] is his department. He went into the core of the script, which gave me the energy, excitement and freedom to approach the role.” There is another connection between Ravi K Chandran and Mamta: his older brother, Ramachandra Babu, was the cinematographer for her first film, Mayookham .  Bhramam is Mamta’s OTT debut and she admits she is very excited about the October 7 release. “People everywhere can watch a film the same day it releases. Besides that, this platform has given producers an opportunity to give some of their old content, which the world can watch from the safety of their homes at the click of a button. Not all films can be enjoyed like that, but many can be. It will come to a point where different content will be made for OTT streaming and screening in theatres.” She believes writers and actors can create content without fear of censorship — “There is the freedom to executing certain scripts. An OTT platform is free to take on sensitive subjects or not. Writers can write what they want and actors can accept the roles they want to. There is an audience for everything, regardless of the language. We have understood that. It is sad to say this, the first seven-eight years of my career seem insignificant... we didn’t have these platforms to promote our work!” Last year, in November, Mamta launched her production company, Mamta Mohandas Productions, with a Malayalam rap single. She has a few scripts and will announce the company’s first production later this year or early 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/adding-another-layer/article36746090.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Who are men to empower women?||AR Rahman does not stop working. Among a slew of upcoming projects such as Cobra, Atrangi Re, Ayalaan, Heropanti 2 and Ponniyin Selvan , the composer has also collaborated with Expo 2020 Dubai to conceptualise a state-of-the-art music recording studio in the UAE, and pioneer an all-women ensemble of musicians: The Firdaus Women’s Orchestra. The initiative brings together 50 talented women from across the UAE and wider MENA region to create a unique musical project, mentored by Rahman. The Oscar winner will be part of concerts with the orchestra at Expo 2020 Dubai, during which his compositions will be featured on stage. Described as a fusion of styles and genres, the ensemble comprises women of 23 nationalities, between the ages of 16 and 51, with Yasmina Sabbah as its conductor. Their music will draw on inspiration from the UAE region’s traditions, with instruments such as the oud, rebaba and darbuka. Ahead of the Expo on October 1, Rahman, talks to us from Dubai on this project. You have always stated that you gain more when you mentor someone; is that your motive being part of this initiative? For me, teaching has always been about learning; when you give, you get. The world is in a very divisive place at the moment, and people are always going to fear what they don’t understand. So when this whole idea came up, it was such a great opportunity to get all these women from different nationalities to work together and create something beautiful. People watching them will also be from various parts of the world. From Syria and Lebanon to Oman and Armenia, this idea will hopefully be a culmination point for people to play music together, foster bonds and create understanding. What is different about collaborating with musicians from other cultures, outside India?  It’s been three months so far of rehearsals, and we are also building a studio. I feel in Dubai, everything revolves around progress. It’s a place where I see bikinis and burqas together in hotels; everything is so open and free. It’s a place that embraces everything and everyone, and lets them shine. The orchestra, of course, is all about the talent and expression. There’s quality and commitment to their vision, and coming from India, I feel honoured that I’ve been asked to mentor this initiative. Our first concert is on October 23. The word ‘Firdaus’ means something akin to a ‘garden of paradise’. Why did you choose this name for the orchestra?  In the philosophical context, music has different connotations in different cultures. In some, they refer to it as the unspoken language of God. In others, they say music takes you to a different realm. I wanted to remind everyone that there is a sense of everything coming to us from the creator. It’s also an ode to our mothers in a way; for the sons, it is claimed that paradise is found at the feet of their mother. Finally, it is also meant to bring about a special — not religious — connection; all these women are from different faiths but it is humanity that connects the soul. The term Firdaus seemed complementary to that ideology. You have batted to empower women, be it refusing to use sexist lyrics, or sticking up for your daughter’s viral post last year on her choice of clothing. Is this ensemble an extension of that ideology?  I have to say, kudos to Khatija! Now, we are all wearing burqas in a way with our masks, aren’t we? There is so much freedom; I can walk anywhere and nobody recognises me. Guess she proved a point to everyone after all ( laughs ). As for your question, well, who are men to empower women, first of all? Women don’t need us; they empower themselves. They are world leaders and heads of states today.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/who-are-men-to-empower-women/article36746115.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Bridge the gap||An artist and her efforts to create a space for her peers forms the foundation of A Moxie Tale, a digital archive that promotes visual artists from South India. Now, in its nascent stages, the platform attempts to train the spotlight on South Indian practices, more specifically from Tamil Nadu, and doubles up as a digital space for display, which connoisseurs can browse and opt to support. Behind it is Moksha Kumar, a Chennai-based artist and curator. Shapes, architecture and art have been constant companions for Moksha, and so A Moxie Tale, to her, seems like a natural destination. “My focus was not only on providing space for others, but also on championing the arts,” says the artist who has a BFA in Painting from Pratt Institute, New York, after which she went on to specialise in Art History at Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda. She is currently a practising artist at Lalit Kala Akademi, Chennai. During her years in New York she realised that Indian art needs space — “Even today, the Asian market is not recognised. There definitely has to be a push,” says Moksha. After interacting with artists in South India, she discovered that though they have expertise, marketing is an intimidating process for many. This aspect is not covered in arts education. This, she believes, is one of the biggest shortcomings in the art market of India. Hence she decided to create an archive especially for artists who were not getting the steam they needed. It led her to focus on South India. “We can see that the artists have a unique voice. But expressing that unique voice needs a certain expertise in communication.” A Moxie Tale, conceptualised in the beginning of this year, attempts to bridge these gaps. “I started visiting studios and talking to artists about featuring their work,” she continues. “The distinction is made based on how experimental they are and how much they want to push themselves. When I curate, I automatically look at the way these artists are approaching their own work and their philosophies.” She points to examples. “Artist Kumaresan Selvaraj does paperwork and you wouldn’t expect paper to be used in the way he does: layering paper and patterns to form geometrical structures. Gurunathan Govindan uses pigments on canvas to create a texture — and in turn an emotional connection with the viewer — as contrasting colours meet.” “I want to include neurodiverse (those in the autistic spectrum) artists and have three on the platform right now,” Moksha adds. Priyanka Muthuraman, a Chennai artist who specialises in sculpture and public art featured in the archive, says, “My main aim is to integrate art and architecture. Such websites are essential especially for artists who are starting out. The fact that someone [a practising artist of this generation] has actually thought about their peers, makes it important and personal.” Moksha believes that the whole landscape of art in Tamil Nadu can change with innovation in marketing.  Visit www.moxie-tales.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bridge-the-gap/article36746125.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Mike Tyson in Vijay Deverakonda starrer ‘Liger’||Actor Vijay Deverakonda essays the part of a boxer in the pan-Indian film Liger , which comes with the tagline ‘Saala Crossbreed’. The film’s team announced that it also has on board the boxing legend Mike Tyson. “The film that narrates the story of a mixed martial arts person will feature ‘Iron Mike’ in a significant and mighty role,” according to a statement from the film unit.  Liger is currently being filmed in Goa. Directed by Telugu filmmaker Puri Jagannadh and jointly produced by Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions and Charmme Kaur, it stars Ananya Pandey as the female lead. Ramya Krishnan and Ronit Roy play prominent roles in Liger, which is being made in Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/mike-tyson-in-vijay-deverakonda-starrer-liger/article36746087.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||It started with a podium finish||As the black race car roared across the finish line this Sunday, at 180 kmph, the driver could hardly believe what he had just done. Dillon Zachariah, 18, had finished third in his debut race in the prestigious MRF National Championship, held at the Madras Motor Race Track. An eSports driver, this was just Dillon’s second race weekend in a race car. Explaining why this finish was unusual, Aditya Patel who drives for Audi India Motorsports says, “Dillon has come a long way in a very short span of time. From his first win in the X1 eSports series to his first podium in the Formula 1600 in only two years is a big achievement. His passion and dedication for motorsport will take him a long way.” Usually, a racing driver progresses from gaming to karting and only then onto full fledged single seater race cars. Dillon’s journey began three years ago, when his brother bought a steering wheel for their PlayStation 4 — to play Formula 1 2018. He fell in love with car racing, playing for hours on end. In 2019, he saw a social media post about the XI Racing eSports League. He participated and was one of the youngest and fastest drivers, winning the Delhi leg. Real-world challenges Here he was introduced to two of India’s best known racers: Aditya Patel and Armaan Ebrahim, founders of the X1 Racing League. The two met Dillon over a couple of weekends, and watched him drive on a simulator. They were impressed by his talent, but also told him that he needed to lose weight and be much fitter, pointing out that driving a real race car was physically much more demanding than a simulator. The duo, however, soon began to explore eSports too. When real racing came to a standstill in 2020, and the pandemic grew increasingly severe, Aditya and Armaan launched a charity eSports event called Ultimate E, with celebrity guest drivers like Arjun Maini, Kush Maini and Narain Karthikeyan. Dillon helped Armaan and Aditya with streaming, commentating, and even hosting of lobbies. (A lobby is where participants meet up to race. The host sets the rules,) Back on track Towards the end of 2020, real racing slowly started making a come back. “It became clear that it was time for me to get into the car and show what I’m capable of,” says Dillon. By January 2021, he began working out for four hours a day, playing badminton and spending hours in the gym. He also did intermittent fasting and ate only from 1pm to 7pm. By March 2021, he had dropped his weight from 100 to 76 kilgrams. His first real car race was at the Meco Motorsports FJRS 2021, held at the Kari Motor Speedway in Coimbatore, in August. Despite no previous experience, Dillon was quick enough to be amongst the top racers, finishing fourth in three out of five races. He was fifth overall in the championship, in a field that included racers of international experience. Dillon says, “None of this would be possible without Aditya Patel, who has been guiding and mentoring me: showing me the nuances of tyre pressure, brake pressure, track temperatures etc. Motorsports is also an expensive sport and I wouldn’t have been able to participate in these races if it wasn’t for the trust shown in my abilities by my sponsors Tagros. They’re amongst a handful of people who believed that my performance in eSports would translate onto the race track.” After the Meco Motorsports FJRS 2021 event, Dillon learnt about the MRF Formula 1600 category at the MRF MMSC FMSCI National Car Racing Championships, conducted at Chennai on September 25 and 26. At the championships, Dillon finished third in his first race, scoring his first podium against a field that consisted of many pros. Armaan says, “This last weekend, we stuck to a plan of gradually improving through each practice session, with the goal of him not making mistakes and gather as much experience as possible, as track time was limited. With some good fortune and a mature approach he ended his very first race on the podium.” Dillon adds with a smile,”The MRF National Car Racing Championships continue with another three legs at MMRT in December 2021, January 2022 and February 2022. I hope to bring more wins back to my city, Chennai.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/it-started-with-a-podium-finish/article36746095.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Goa woos the locals||Prior to the pandemic, Goa welcomed approximately 90 lakh tourists, including around nine lakh foreigners, per year. But from March 2020, foreign tourists have paused. Backpackers and party chasers have given way to long-stay tourists, many escaping the claustrophobia of locked-down cities to rent villas by the beach for months. While restaurants across the country began to close down, Goa witnessed the rise of stylish, responsible restaurants, focussing on local menus and finding inventive ways to put a spin on tradition, keeping in mind the change of tourists. Goa-based writer Vikram Doctor, observes, “I think some restaurants came close to shutting down, but were saved by the fact that the winter season, where most make their profits, came between the two waves so they have been able to scrape through. Now they are expecting to do well, with everyone who can’t go abroad, coming to Goa.” He adds, “In some ways, I think, being tested by the lockdown has actually been good for Goa’s restaurants. It has forced them to develop takeaway menus that are really good, not just afterthoughts. It also made them find ways to appeal more to local, long-term customers — not just transient tourists — and to use locally-sourced produce, not just stuff brought in, which they’ve realised can get cut off due to pandemic restrictions.” Goa’s appetite for new age restaurants continued during the pandemic, even though business took a hit. At a prominent corner of Anjuna, bright yellow Maka Zai emerged in late 2020. It made its mark with hip Asian food — including a Goan-inspired sloppy Joe called baoee — cutting-edge mixology with cocktails like Trouble (tequila, tamarind, fresh coriander and sea salt), and a relaxed atmosphere. At Mosaic Anjuna, another opening, diners can enjoy prawn omelette tacos, Andhra tendli pepper fry and raw jackfruit croquettes while sipping quirky cocktails. Entrepreneur and restaurateur Manav Chadha, the man behind Maka Zai, says, “Concept restaurants are the new age bars. Goa’s tourists are well-travelled and know their food. People are more willing to try local cuisine or regional specialities today.” And by the looks of it, they are willing to pay top dollar. Diners, according to Chadha, have primarily been those who are on ‘workacations’ or ‘staycations’ and take a break by dining out in the Anjuna-Assagao belt, or the tourists who have just begun to come in. The shacks may be mostly shut, awaiting foreign tourists, but locals and travellers still have a rapidly increasingly list of places to dine at. Chef Rahul Gomes Pereira aka Chef Picu of Jamun Goa, which opened in December 2019, says, “Clients who usually dine at global restaurants have found their way to Goa and are spending top dollar on food and beverage.” Gin bars and innovative cocktails are also wowing diners. Edible Archives, an ingredient-centric restaurant, offers plant-based cocktails like bimli urrak , teffal vodka, and kokum feni , all with seasonal ingredients in keeping with Chef Anumitra Ghosh’s philosophy. At the packed Tamil Table, which opened this March in the quiet Goan village of Assagao, apart from unique food which includes duck pakodas and coconut milk pulao, a curry leaf gin and tonic stands cheek by jowl with a peanut whiskey sour. The purple-hued, signature cocktail ‘jamun’, served with a gin base, allures diners at Jamun. Meanwhile, at Chef Pablo Miranda’s tapas bar in Panjim — Antonio 31 — gin infusions with butterfly pea flower, accompanied with crispy baitfish and truffle mushroom rissois (a crumb-fried Goan and Portugese snack), are a hit. Regional rules Chef Picu is of the opinion that Goa has evolved and restaurants like Jamun, are being appreciated. “Modern adaptions to cuisines is a dying trend. Authentic, traditional and historically relevant food, is the new game,” he says. Perhaps that explains why Goan cuisine is being rediscovered with a vengeance. Cavatina, serving contemporary Goan food in quieter South Goa, attracts diners from touristy North Goa, too. What’s more, even after reopening to 50% capacity, it is doing brisk business. Cavatina’s founder-chef Avinash Martins says, “The trend of people hiring large villas as a family or friends’ group and inviting chefs to curate special meals is fast growing. I have done many such meals for guests from across India, who are willing to spend and experiment with local cuisine.” He adds, “Goa, for the last year-and-a-half, has been a second home to the entire country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/goa-woos-the-locals/article36746576.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Tempeh rising||Hello Tempayy’s kitchen in Bengaluru is brimming with activity. The staff brainstorms, makes a few notes, then slices blocks of tempeh, tossing cubes into pans, ovens and blenders to create new recipes. The most ambitious so far being a tempeh chaat. “We cut tempeh into thin slices; baked some, fried some. It was crunchy, and we had ourselves a wonderful chaat,” says Siddharth Ramasubramanian, who started Hello Tempayy earlier this year in Bengaluru. He is rather poetic when he says he looked at tempeh as a blank canvas. It is an ingredient with unbelievable potential and really soaks in flavour, he enthuses. The first thing they made was a cutlet. Then they tried keema , gravies and lately modaks for Ganesh Chaturthi. After foraying into Hyderabad next, the brand with its vegan, gluten free, ready-to-eat offering is now making its debut in Chennai. Made from soybean, this plant-based protein comes in four varieties: natural (Rs. 130 for 200 grams) and the other three being marinades such as Sriracha, Tawa Masala and Szechuan (Rs. 150 for 200 grams). Conscious choices “We have been working with tempeh for well over 18 months trying to achieve neutrality of taste, the right form: firm yet malleable, among other things,” says Siddharth. In the initial stages, the company imported tempeh from the U.S., Australia, Indonesia and the Netherlands. “Now, we make our own and we have developed our own fermentation methodology,” he says. With roots in Indonesia, the humble tempeh, despite being around for decades, suddenly saw a surge in popularity a few years back. Siddharth feels it is to do with people turning vegetarian or vegan and looking for sources of plant-based protein. In India, he feels, the vegetarian consumer lacks choice. That served as a catalyst for Siddharth to launch full-fledged into tempeh. Ever since the pandemic struck, he says, he noticed a growth in conscious eating. “As a culture, we are becoming conscious foodies. We noticed a requirement for more protein in people’s diet. They are thinking about good fat, B12, iron,” he says, adding that a 100 grams serving of tempeh has 19-20 grams of protein. While coming up with the product Siddharth also realised that whatever he gives the clients needs to fit within the practices of the kitchen. “People want something that they can incorporate in their usual diet. It needs to be easy to cook, accessible and affordable so that it can be included as a staple and not luxury,” he explains. He is pleased to see his clients come up with innovative recipes, from Vietnamese spring rolls to masala dosas. At the moment, Hello Tempayy is making above five tonnes of the product in a month. The facility in Hennur can make 75 tonnes of tempeh in a year. “But we are doubling it before the end of the year,” adds Siddharth. Plans are on to set up units in Chennai, Maharashtra and Gurugram. Siddharth says, “India is in the top six countries growing soybeans. We source our soybeans from Madhya Pradesh, which is the largest producer in the country.”  Hello Tempayy is available on hellotempayy.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tempeh-rising/article36746578.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Bridging the gap||An artist and her efforts to create a space for her peers forms the foundation of A Moxie Tale, a digital archive that promotes visual artists from south India. Now, in its nascent stages, digitally manifested through a website, the platform attempts to train the spotlight on south Indian practices, more specifically from Tamil Nadu, and doubles up as a digital space for display, which connoisseurs can browse and opt to support. Behind it is Moksha Kumar, a Chennai-based artist and curator whose interaction with art began as a child. Shapes, architecture and art have been constant companions for Moksha, and so A Moxie Tale, to her, seems like a natural destination. “My focus was not only on providing space for others, but also on championing the arts,” says the artist who has a BFA in Painting from Pratt Institute, New York, after which she went on to specialise in Art History at Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda. She is currently a practising artist at Lalit Kala Akademi, Chennai. During her years in New York, she realised that Indian art needs space. “Even today, the Asian market is not recognised. There definitely has to be a push,” says Moksha. After interacting with artists in south India, she discovered that though they have expertise, marketing is an intimidating process for many. This aspect is not covered in arts education. This, she believes, is one of the biggest shortcomings in the art market of India. “When I was conceiving this idea, I realised that the gap has to be covered even if it’s not entirely profitable at the moment,” says Moksha. Hence, she decided to create an archive especially for artists who were not getting the steam they needed. It led her to focus on south India. “We can see that the artists have a unique voice. But expressing that unique voice needs a certain expertise in communication,” she says. A Moxie Tale, conceptualised in the beginning of this year, attempts to bridge these gaps. “I started visiting studios and talking to artists about featuring their work,” Moksha continues, adding that building a relationship plays a key role in her curation. “The distinction is made based on how experimental they are and how much they want to push themselves. When I curate, I automatically look at the way these artists are approaching their own work and their philosophies.” She points to examples. “Artist Kumaresan Selvaraj does paperwork and you wouldn’t expect paper to be used in the way he does: layering paper and patterns to form geometrical structures. Gurunathan Govindan uses pigments on canvas to create a texture — and in turn an emotional connection with the viewer — as contrasting colours meet.” “There is an educational aspect too. When a person looks at the medium, they are intrigued to know about the artists who use these mediums.I want to include neurodiverse [those in the autistic spectrum] artists and have three on the platform right now,” Moksha adds. Priyanka Muthuraman, a Chennai-based artist who specialises in sculpture and public art featured in the archive, says, “My main aim is to integrate art and architecture. Such websites are essential especially for artists who are starting out. The fact that someone [a practising artist of this generation] has actually thought about their peers, makes it important and personal. There should be a lot more such initiatives.” Moksha believes that the whole landscape of art in Tamil Nadu can change with innovation in marketing. With respect to her website, classifying the artists and the medium was the starting point. Will the initiative see a physical space someday? Moksha says that right now her focus is on building trust and enabling community-building. But having said that, a physical space is not entirely out of question.  Visit www.moxie-tales.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/bridging-the-gap/article36746577.ece
30 September 2021||September 30 2021 00:00 IST,||Progressive North Coastal Andhra||Along coastline, verdant hilly terrain, fertile plains; Andhra Pradesh has a vastly varying topography which plays an important role in its growth and development. In particular the terrain from the northern tip of the state up to the mighty Godavari River – that is from Srikakulam to Rajahmahendravaram, is very distinct and unique, allowing for diverse sectors to grow and flourish. As a whole, Andhra Pradesh has well-developed industrial infrastructure and virtual connectivity. It also has good power generation, well established connectivity via airports, seaports, railways and a robust road network, as well as IT infrastructure. Referred to as Kalingandhra, the ancient region of Uttarandhra was originally a seat of royalty. Comprising of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts, the area is bestowed by an expansive coastline, ancient temples, a series of early Buddhist sites, British-era monuments, pre-British-era sites, a plethora of educational institutions and a thriving industrial belt. These aspects give the area an interesting blend of culture, tradition, modernism, education and tourism. While Vizianagaram was once a thriving business hub with a multitude of tourist attractions, Srikakulam with its greenery and rivers is a religious destination with ancient temples. Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam have an ancient history of many merchant ships dropping anchor in these waters, thanks to their accessibility to the sea. Visakhapatnam has emerged as a major industrial centre and has major public and private sector establishments as well as being the headquarters of the Eastern Naval Command of the Indian Navy. The fishing harbour at Visakhapatnam Port Trust is one of the biggest in the coastal corridor of Andhra Pradesh and also exports seafood. The rest of Visakhapatnam district as well as Srikakulam and Vizianagaram are more dependent on agricultural industries. For instance, Anakapalle is a trade hub 36 km from Visakhapatnam city and is very famous for its huge Jaggery Market. Palasa is the centre of cashew industries in the Srikakulam district. Jute and cotton are also popular crops here. Ponduru is where the finest handloom cotton khadi is woven. A number of jute mills and co-operative sugar factories also add to the economy of the region. There are many factors that have contributed towards the development of this region. Enterprising individuals, government entities, and the progressive attitude of the citizens contributed to the growth of this region. And there has been a corresponding impetus and infrastructural backing from the governmental agencies as well. Also, many Public Sector Units were set up here, allowing for the influx of allied industries. There are a number of highly revered educational institutions for engineering, medicine, law, management and other specialities in and around Visakhapatnam. East Godavari District, the biggest district is known for its agricultural produce and natural resources. The Godavari River that that flows through the district is the sole reason for the district’s prosperity. Factors like the availability of fertile delta lands, good horticultural resources, abundant marine and fisheries resources and good mineral deposits along with the availability of natural gas deposits have benefitted this district immensely. The main occupation of the district is agriculture. East Godavari District also has the unique distinction of having marine, inland and brackish water fish-culture. Fire clay, china clay, Graphite and Laterite are the important mineral resources available and clusters of industries based on these minerals are flourishing in the district. Some of the main industries and institutions in North Coastal Andhra include PSUs and major private industries. In addition to the major Visakhapatnam Port, the Gangavaram Port and the Naval Dockyard, Vizag has quite a few heavy industries. Like the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, HPCL, Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL), Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, BARC, Naval Science and Technological Laboratory, Visakhapatnam Port Trust, Dredging Corporation of India, GAIL, Strategic Petroleum Reserve, NMDC, Ferro Scrap Nigam Ltd, MMTC, Container Corporation of India, Rain Carbon Inc., Visakha Container Terminal, Coromandel International, Ferro Alloys Corporation, East India Petroleum, Ramky Pharma SEZ, Brandix Apparel city, Andhra Pradesh Medtech Zone Limited , Coramandel Paints and the Simhadri Super Thermal Power Station. In the East Godavari belt, major organisations including Oil & Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI), Glaxo Smithkline Beecham Consumer Healthcare limited, Schlumberger, Vijjeswaram power plant, The GVK Industries Limited, The Jegurupadu Power Plant, Godavari Ceramics Ltd and more are established here, adding to the economy of the region. One of the leading major ports of India, Visakhapatnam Port is located on the east coast of India in between Chennai and Kolkata. The Port has three harbours viz., outer harbour, inner harbour and the fishing harbour. This is the only port in India and first of its kind in South Asia to have a Cavern facility for LPG – a mined rock cavern at a depth of 200 mtrs. below sea level with a capacity of 60,000 T. The port contributes significantly to the maritime trade with the economies in the Asia and Asia Pacific regions at economic cost besides economies in the Persian Gulf, Europe, Americas and Africa. Port of Visakhapatnam is notified as a Gateway port for the EXIM cargo of Nepal. The Port is well connected to the Chennai-Howrah NH-16 by a 4-lane connectivity road for movement of cargo towards the North and South. It is also the only Indian port to have three international certifications; ISO 9001 – Quality Management System, ISO 14001 – Environmental Management System and OHSAS 18001 - Occupational Health and Safety Management System. Another major port in the district is the Gangavaram Port. It has been developed as an all-weather, multipurpose port with water depth up to 21 meters. Gangavaram Port, its related facilities and material handling system are among the most advanced in Asia and meet the highest standards in terms of pollution prevention and safety. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant is a Navaratna PSU under the Ministry of Steel. Visakhapatnam Steel Plant locally called Vizag steel, is the second largest state-run steel. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL) is a Government of India Enterprise with a Navratna Status, and a Fortune 500 and Forbes 2000 company. Also in Vizag city is the defence administered Hindustan Shipyard Limited, that built the first ship of India in 1948. The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited (ONGC), India's largest oil and gas exploration and production company has a strong presence in Rajahmahendravaram. ONGC contributes around 70 per cent to Indian domestic production. Similarly, Oil India Limited (OIL) is a premier Indian National Oil Company engaged in the business of exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas, transportation of crude oil and production of LPG, with a presence in the East Godavari District. A private industry which has reached global recognition, Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) is currently the operator of the Offshore block located in the Krishna Godavari Basin, Bay of Bengal off the East Coast of India. North Coastal Andhra is blessed with good natural resources, fertile soil, a perennial river, good forest cover, and good mineral deposits. It has a wide agriculture base, with a variety of crops like Horticulture crops, and commercial crops. Furthermore, the region has seen vast improvement in infrastructure facilities in the recent past. It has been a leading producer of IT and enabled services. With these inherent advantages, the region has emerged as an investor’s destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/progressive-north-coastal-andhra/article36746715.ece
30 September 2021||Ghaziabad,||Gurjars, Rajputs stake claim to Mihir Bhoj||Over the past week, Samrat Mihir Bhoj emerged from the pages of history books to make headlines in the vernacular newspapers of western Uttar Pradesh as Gurjars and Rajputs staked their claim to the 9th century ruler of the Gurjara-Pratihara dynasty. While Gurjars claim the king belonged to their caste, the Rajputs say ‘Gurjara’ referred to a place, not a caste, and that Mihir Bhoj was a Rajput king. In poll-bound U.P., observers say, the issue will have political consequences, particularly in west U.P., where the Gurjar vote could prove decisive in at least a dozen constituencies. The issue surfaced days before CM Yogi Adityanath unveiled a 12-foot high statute of Mihir Bhoj in Dadri town of Gautam Buddh Nagar in a college named after the ruler on September 22. The plaque referred to the ruler as Gurjar Pratihar Samrat. It offended the Rajputs. Just before the event, the word Gurjar was removed. In his speech, Mr. Adityanath tried to placate both the communities by saying “ mahapurush ” (great men) are beyond caste and region. Observers say that playing the Hindutva card, he emphasised that during Mihir Bhoj’s time, no Muslim invader could cross into India, and it was towards the end of the Gurjara Pratihara dynasty that Mahmud Ghazni invaded north India. However, it didn’t cut much ice with the Gurjars, who have formidable numbers in Dadri and the neighbouring Jewar constituency. There was a time when Gurjars of the region swore by Congress leader Rajesh Pilot but today both have sitting BJP MLAs. While Dadri has Tejpal Nagar, a Gurjar, Jewar sent Dhirendra Singh, a Thakur to the Assembly. Local sources say it’s internal politics that put Mr. Adityanath on a sticky wicket. ‘Distorting history’ The Opposition leaders — Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, BSP’s Mayawati and Rashtriya Lok Dal’s Jayant Chaudhary — took the BJP government to task for distorting history and playing caste politics. On September 26, Gurjars held a massive mahapanchayat in a Dadri village, demanding the word Gurjar to be restored. For young Gurjars who are moving away from traditional professions of agriculture and dairy farming, it has become an emotive issue because they have grown up listening to oral stories of Mihir Bhoj. “The new narrative has come to us as a shock,” said Dr. Veerpal Singh, a professor in Chaudhary Charan Singh University who hails from the Gurjar community. In Dadri itself, there are at least half a dozen institutions named after the ruler. On Tuesday, the BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Surendra Nagar removed the black ink from the word Gurjar and posted his pictures on the social media. Some hours later, unknown people put black ink on the names of the CM, Mr. Nagar and the local MLA on the plaque. The BJP blamed the local Samajwadi Party leaders for the act. Dadri Police has arrested two people in this regard. Reacting to this, Prince Arunoday Singh Parihar, who claims to be a direct descendant of Bhoj, wrote to the PM to stop “distortion of Rajput history”. Ajay Singh, national president of the Akhil Bhariya Kshatriya Mahasabha, said they were approaching the High Courts of four States to protect the community’s honour. “How could the Gurjars enjoy the perks of Other Backward Class and appropriate a Kshatriya ruler at the same time,” he asked, adding the issue would not die down soon. “It will have consequences in the elections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gurjars-rajputs-stake-claim-to-mihir-bhoj/article36746412.ece
30 September 2021||AHMEDABAD,||After Surat success, AAP takes aim at Gandhinagar||After tasting success in the Surat municipal elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has now set its eyes on the upcoming civic body polls in Gandhinagar where the voting will take place on October 3. The entry of AAP in the civic polls here has made the contest tripartite, giving jitters to the BJP and the Congress. On Wednesday, AAP leader and Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia asked the people of Gandhinagar to give his party a chance to change the face of the State capital. He addressed a well attended town hall meeting and also held a roadshow appealing the citizens, mostly government employees, to vote for AAP and to reject the BJP and the Congress, which he termed as the two sides of the same coin. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Sisodia alleged that even as the voters had given a chance to the Congress in the past, the party betrayed the people’s mandate and helped the BJP capture the municipal body. In the 2016 election, the Congress had won the municipal polls but subsequently party councillors defected to the BJP, helping the ruling party in the State to capture the civic body in the State capital. Mr. Sisodia also slammed the BJP and the Congress for playing a fixed match in the State and appealed to the voters to make the AAP as real alternative to see ‘real developments’ in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/after-surat-success-aap-takes-aim-at-gandhinagar/article36746413.ece
30 September 2021||Mumbai,||Retired Delhi policeman gets bail in firearm case||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted bail to retired Delhi Police ACP Sunderlal Parashar, arrested by the NIA in 2019 for allegedly providing a firearm to a man linked to a group attempting to revive Sikh militancy for a separate Khalistan. A Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar granted bail after noting that the NIA had applied stringent sections of the Arms Act. Mr. Parashar was accused of having provided a country-made pistol, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/retired-delhi-policeman-gets-bail-in-firearm-case/article36746598.ece
