01-11-2021||India||PM Modi, Johnson review 2030 Roadmap, discuss Afghanistan at sidelines of COP26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson on Monday reviewed the implementation of Roadmap 2030 for future India-UK relations, particularly in the areas of trade, economy, health, defence, and security areas, according to the ministry of external affairs. PM Modi congratulated Johnson for successfully organising the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference, also known as the Conference of Parties 26 or COP26, and for his “personal leadership in championing global action for climate change mitigation and adaptation.”On the sidelines of the two-week-long climate meet, the two leaders discussed regional and global challenges, including Afghanistan, counter-terrorism, Indo-Pacific, supply chain resilience and post-Covid global economic recovery. They expressed satisfaction at the progress in delivering Enhanced Trade Partnership, including steps taken towards the launch of free trade agreement (FTA) negotiations, the ministry said.The prime minister reiterated India's commitment to closely working with the UK on climate finance, technology and innovation and discussed cooperation in areas like green hydrogen, renewables and clean technologies.After the meeting, PM Modi also addressed a side event convened by Johnson on ‘Action and Solidarity - The Critical Decade’. Speaking at the event, the prime minister stressed the need to make adaptation the “main part of our development policies and schemes.” Highlighting the schemes back home like ‘Nal Se Jal', Clean India Mission and Ujjawala, he said that they have not only given adaptation benefits to the citizens but also improved their quality of life.“Many traditional communities have knowledge of living in harmony with nature. To make sure that this knowledge flows to the next generations, it should be added to the schools’ syllabus. Protection of lifestyle suitable to local conditions can also be an important part of adaptation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-johnson-review-2030-roadmap-discuss-afghanistan-at-sidelines-of-cop26-101635784506461.html
01-11-2021||India||Achhe din gone for a toss: Mamata’s latest jibe at BJP over fuel prices||In a latest jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Monday said promises of “achhe din” and “sachhe din” by Prime Minister Narendra Modi government were nothing but a load of hot air.“Forget the promise of achhe din, forget about sachhe din, they have all gone for a toss,” she was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Hitting out at the saffron party-led ruling dispensation at the Centre, Banerjee said it is “plotting to sell stakes of SAIL (Steel Authority of India)” amid the continuous surge in petrol and diesel prices across the country. “Several PSUs (public sector undertakings), which are our national assets, are up for sale. Can they run a country this way?” she said at an inaugural event of a Kali Puja pandal in Kolkata.The chief minister further said the BJP is not bothered about replying to the letters sent on such issues, and is only “concerned about winning elections”. “During elections, they come to the state in hundreds, spend thousands of crores. When the people of Bengal reject them, they forget to address their economic issues,” Banerjee added.The TMC supremo said fuel rates have a “direct bearing” on the prices of essential items, adding that the people of Bengal are not interested in the BJP’s “divisive agenda” but knowing when the surge in oil prices would be rolled back.Later, Leader of opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari said Banerjee should first “withdraw the taxes her government has imposed on oil” and only then she has the “right to speak anything” against the central government.Fuel prices witnessed a hike for the sixth consecutive day, following a two-day pause, on Monday. This has led to petrol prices in Kolkata surpass the ₹110 per litre mark.At present, petrol costs ₹110.15 per litre in Kolkata, while an equal amount of diesel costs ₹101.56.Fuel prices in Kolkata is one of the highest among the metros, even more than Delhi where a litre of petrol costs ₹109.69 and diesel ₹98.42 per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/achhe-din-gone-for-a-toss-mamata-s-latest-jibe-at-bjp-over-fuel-prices-101635789142998.html
01-11-2021||India||Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba heads EGoS to monitor PM Gati Shakti NMP||NEW DELHI: The Centre has constituted an empowered group of secretaries (EGoS) headed by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba to track the development and implementation of the government’s ₹100 crore holistic and integrated approach in infrastructure construction, PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan (NMP).Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who announced the ambitious plan last month to create employment and make local manufacturers globally competitive, said Gati Shakti will lay the foundation of holistic infrastructure. “Right now, there is no coordination among our means of transport. Gati Shakti will break the silos, and will remove all these obstacles,” PM Modi said on the integrated approach to develop modern railways, roadways, waterways and airways.An October 30 order by the Union ministry of commerce and industry said the 20-member EGoS will set out a procedure and a definitive time-frame for synchronisation of various activities for construction of road, rail etc. along with all utilities in an area-based approach for development of infrastructure on pilot basis apart from review and monitor the implementation of the plan to ensure logistics efficiency.The EGoS will issue appropriate directions for achieving the objectives and for compliance to guiding principles of the PM Gati Shakti NMP and in addressing demand side requirements of the ministries concerned, the notification said.The EGoS has the mandate to adopt a framework and norms for undertaking any amendment in the NMP and will also look at interventions needed to meet the “demand side, in efficiently transporting bulk goods based on the requirement of various ministries’’. The EGoS, which will have secretaries of 18 ministries as members and head of the logistics division as member convenor, is part of the Centre’s three-tier system to monitor the plan. The three-tier monitoring system will have EGoS at the top followed by Network Planning Group (NPG) and Technical Support Unit (TSU).Last month, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) approved PM Gati Shakti NMP, including institutional framework for rolling out, implementation, monitoring and support mechanism for providing multi-modal connectivity. The EGoS will align various initiatives on development of a common integrated portal which serves the needs of all stakeholders, as per the notification.The EGoS will be assisted by NPG, which will have heads of network planning wing of respective infrastructure ministries. The TSU, which will have domain experts from various infrastructure sectors, will play an important role in avoiding duplication of work of any region and also reduce logistics costs through micro-plan detailing.“PM Gati Shakti Master Plan not only brings together governmental processes and various stakeholders, but also helps to connect different modes of transportation. This is an extension of holistic governance,” PM Modi said at the launch last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-secretary-rajiv-gauba-heads-egos-to-monitor-pm-gati-shakti-nmp-101635788969915.html
01-11-2021||India||Kerala missing newborn case: Former SFI leader to move habeas corpus to locate her baby||Two weeks after filing a police complaint against her parents, former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI) Anupama S Chandran (23) and her husband K Ajith on Monday decided to move the High Court with a habeas corpus plea to locate their child, officials said. “Though we got a legal opinion to move the HC, we waited for proceedings in the family court. Now we will move the HC with a habeas corpus petition to trace the child,” said Ajith. Meanwhile, a family court ordered a DNA test to resolve the complaint over the controversial adoption of the newborn and to ascertain if Chandran is the mother of the baby. “The court favours a DNA test to identify if the baby given up for adoption belongs to Anupama S Chandran. There is a need to examine whether the baby was abandoned or not,” the court observed on Monday while taking up Anupama’s plea to get back her child. The baby was reportedly given for adoption in August, last week, the court stayed the final adoption procedures. The court also pulled up the Kerala child welfare committee and directed it to file an action taken report by November 20. A police case in this regard was registered on October 20 after Chandran filed a complaint alleging that her parents forcibly took away her baby soon after its birth last year and gave it for adoption, bypassing her request to live with the newborn. Later, police registered a case against six people, including her parents. A local court will announce its verdict in the anticipatory bail petitions filed by the accused on Tuesday. In the complaint filed two weeks ago, Chandran alleged that her father, S Jayachandran, a senior leader of the CPI(M) trade union wing CITU, took away her newborn child and handed it over to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare-run orphanage in the state capital in October last year. The child was reportedly given to a family from Andhra Pradesh in a hurry, flouting adoption rules, she claimed in her complaint. Her father, Jayachandran, said since the baby was born out of wedlock they decided to shift to the government-run children’s home in the state capital with the consent of his daughter. He said she signed on stamp paper but Anupama later said she signed under duress. She said her parents opposed her relations with her husband Ajith since he belonged to a Dalit family. Last week, Anupama’s day-long fast outside the state secretariat seeking the return of her baby attracted national attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-missing-newborn-case-former-sfi-leader-to-move-habeas-corpus-to-locate-her-baby-101635788491586.html
01-11-2021||India||PM Modi delivers India 'panchamrit' gift at COP26 to fight climate change: Five commitments in detail here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday presented his five-point agenda, which he called the five ‘amrit tattva’ (nectar elements), while delivering the ‘National Statement’ at the COP-26 conference in Glasgow, Scotland.“In the midst of this global brainstorming on climate change, on behalf of India, I would like to present five nectar elements, Panchamrit, to deal with this challenge,” Modi said.क्लाइमेट चेंज पर इस वैश्विक मंथन के बीच, मैं भारत की ओर से, इस चुनौती से निपटने के लिए पांच अमृत तत्व रखना चाहता हूं, पंचामृत की सौगात देना चाहता हूं।पहला- भारत, 2030 तक अपनी Non-Fossil Energy Capacity को 500 गीगावाट तक पहुंचाएगा: PM @narendramodiThe announcement of the five key commitments at the world stage was among the first such by Modi. Among the key announcements, he said the country would strive to achieve net zero emissions by 2070. He said half of the country’s energy requirements would be met using renewable sources by 2030.Also read | PM Modi sets India's 2070 zero carbon emission target at COP26 summitHere is a detailed account of the five commitments made by Modi at the global conference.The PM also called upon developed economies to make $1 trillion available for climate financing. “India expects developed countries to make $1 trillion available as climate finance as soon as possible. As we track the progress of climate mitigation, we must also track climate finance. Justice would truly be served if pressure is put on those countries that have not lived up to their climate finance commitments,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-delivers-india-panchamrit-gift-at-cop26-to-fight-climate-change-five-commitments-in-detail-here-101635788023755.html
01-11-2021||India||‘Looks from Bengal’s lens’: Chidambaram counters Mamata Banerjee’s Goa pitch||PANAJI: Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday rebutted West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee who sought to position the Trinamool Congress (TMC) as the primary opponent to Goa’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), insisting that the Congress was best placed to fight the Narendra Modi government “all across the country”.Chidambaram also rejected Mamata Banerjee’s contention that the Congres didn’t take politics seriously, saying she was only looking at the political situation from the ‘Bengal lens’.“The Congress is the only party which is fighting Narendra Modi and his government all over India. I do not dispute that Banerjee fought and won a tough fight in Bengal, but who is fighting Narendra Modi in Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, TN, Kerala, Karnataka, Assam? It is the Congress party that is fighting.“She is looking at it from the Bengal lens. But if you look at all India, which is more than Bengal, the party that is at the forefront at the fight against Narendra Modi every day, fighting tweeting, addressing press conferences, agitations in the Congress party,” Chidambaram said.“I don’t know what their (TMC’s) intention is, but I’m pretty sure that if the people of Goa want a change of government, then it is the Congress alone that can provide it,” he added, delivering the Congress’ counter to the TMC effort to present itself as the only opposition party that could present a formidable challenge to the BJP.Mamata Banerjee, who was in Goa last week, hit out at the Congress who she said was responsible for the rise of Narendra Modi into the powerful leader that he is. “Modiji is going to be so powerful because of Congress. If one cannot take a decision, why will the country suffer for that? They have got enough opportunities. Instead of BJP, they contested against me in my state. How do they expect that they will contest me and we will only give flowers to them? And sweets to them?” Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday during her two-day visit to the state.Banerjee was non-committal on building a nationwide anti-BJP alliance that included the Congress but instead suggested it should be regional parties that should come together to take on the BJP. “We want committed people, the committed local political parties who are really fighting who really want to fight against the BJP let us work together,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looks-from-bengal-s-lens-chidambaram-counters-mamata-banerjee-s-goa-pitch-101635786869953.html
01-11-2021||India||Modi thanks Oz PM Morrison for Covaxin move, says would help post-Covid ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday thanked his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison after the country recognised India’s indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin earlier in the day.Covaxin is the second vaccine being used in India’s inoculation programme that has been recognised in Australia following Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India.Calling Morrison a “dear friend”, Modi hailed the recognition as an important step in the post-Covid relationship between the two countries.“I thank my dear friend @ScottMorrisonMP for Australia’s recognition of India's COVAXIN. It is an important step forward in the post-COVID partnership between India and Australia,” Modi wrote in a tweet.I thank my dear friend @ScottMorrisonMP for Australia’s recognition of India's COVAXIN. It is an important step forward in the post-COVID partnership between 🇮🇳 and 🇦🇺.Earlier in the day, Australia's medicines and medical devices regulator Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) said that Covaxin, developed and manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, has been recognised for vaccination as the country opened up its international borders after a gap of nearly 20 months.Also read | Covid-19 pandemic: Australia opens door to Indians vaccinated with CovaxinAlong with Covaxin, another vaccine BBIBP-CorV, manufactured by China’s Sinopharm, was accorded recognition by the TGA.“Today, the TGA determined that Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech, India) and BBIBP-CorV (manufactured by Sinopharm, China) vaccines would be 'recognised' for the purpose of establishing a traveller's vaccination status. This recognition is for travellers aged 12 and over who have been vaccinated with Covaxin, and those 18 to 60 who have been vaccinated with BBIBP-CorV,” it said in a statement.The regulator said the move to recognise the vaccine would imply that the people inoculated with these shots would now be considered fully vaccinated upon entry into Australia.“This will have significant impacts for the return of international students, and travel of skilled and unskilled workers to Australia,” it further said.The move from Australia to recognise Covaxin came a few days after Oman had approved the vaccine and added it to its list of vaccines accepted for travel to Oman, the Indian embassy there announced on October 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-thanks-oz-pm-morrison-for-covaxin-move-says-would-help-post-covid-ties-101635783266341.html
01-11-2021||India||File FIR against Pala Bishop, orders Kerala court on his ‘narcotic jihad’ speech||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A Kerala court on Monday ordered the police to file a First Information Report (FIR) against Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt who ignited a huge controversy with his remarks that after love jihad, Catholic youngsters were reportedly becoming victims of a “well-orchestrated narcotic jihad”.A senior police officer said the judicial first class magistrate court in Pala (Kottayam) directed the police to file a case against the Catholic bishop under several sections of the Indian Penal Code including Section 153 (A) which relates to promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race or language.An FIR has been registered in this connection by the Kuravilangad police station pursuant to the court order, the officer said. The FIR was registered on a complaint by the Imam Council of India which had earlier approached a court.A spokesman of the bishop’s diocese said it is yet to get any information about the FIR and the church will deal with it legally once it receives a notice. Many Muslim bodies including Samastha Kerala Students Federation have welcomed the decision, but the state’s political leaders are yet to react.Addressing a church ceremony in Kottayam on September 9, the Bishop said those who try to establish that ‘love and narcotic jihad’ does not exist in the state, were just shutting their eyes to reality.“Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to support them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said, referring to the trip of 21 people, including five converts to Islam, from north Kerala to Afghanistan in 2016.“Love jihad” is a term often used by right-wing groups to describe unions between Muslim men and women belonging to other religions.All political parties except the BJP criticised the Pala Bishop’s statement, asking him to withdraw it but he refused. Later, the Bishop had justified his statement in church mouthpiece ‘Deepika’ saying pseudo-secularism will destroy the country. Kerala BJP president K Surendran, however, insisted that there was nothing wrong with his remarks. ”What he said is true. We are not blaming the whole community, but extremists elements within it,” the state BJP chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/file-fir-against-pala-bishop-orders-kerala-court-on-his-narcotic-jihad-speech-101635784052448.html
01-11-2021||India||On Fadnavis-Malik row over cruise ship drugs case, Thackeray says ‘let’s see what happens’||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray on Monday dodged questions related to the ongoing row between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and state minister Nawab Malik. “There are mutations in the allegations. Let’s see what happens,” Thackeray told news agency PTI.Earlier in the day, Malik tweeted pictures of Fadnavis and his wife Amruta with Jaydeep Rana, an alleged drug peddler who has been arrested in a drug peddling case. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader claimed that people like Rana used to get protection in Maharashtra during the earlier rule of the BJP-led government. He further said that Fadnavis has good relations with Rana, who also funded the “Mumbai River Anthem'' song that was sung by the former CM’s wife with singer Sonu Nigam.In response, Fadnavis quashed all allegations and hit back at Malik, saying that he will expose the latter’s links with the underworld after Diwali.Watch here | Underworld' vs 'drug cartel': Nawab Malik targets Fadnavis amid Aryan Khan rowThis latest exchange between the politicians come amid a score of allegations Malik has made against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede since he along with his team raided a God-bound Cordelia ship. Multiple people were nabbed in association with the case, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan that created a massive buzz around it.Sharing photos of Wankhede from his wedding to his ex-wife Shabana Quraishi on Twitter, Malik said that the NCB officer follows Islam and has forged his caste documents in order to get a government job. The minister also said that Wankhede has framed as many as 26 innocent people in fake drug cases in the past, referring to Aryan arrest and over 20 days’ stay in jail.Notably, the 23-year-old was granted bail by the Bombay high court on Thursday and he walked out of jail on Saturday. Co-accused actor Arbaaz Seth Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha were also granted bail along with Aryan. So far, a total of 14 people have been given bail while six remain lodged in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-fadnavis-malik-row-over-drugs-case-thackeray-says-let-s-see-what-happens-101635781419550.html
01-11-2021||India||WhatsApp banned over 2.2 million Indian accounts in September: Report||More than 2.2 million Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp while 560 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform in September, according to its compliance report.In its latest report released on Monday, WhatsApp said 2,209,000 Indian accounts on the platform were banned in September.An Indian account is identified via a ' 91' phone number, it added."WhatsApp is an industry leader in preventing abuse, among end-to-end encrypted messaging services. Over the years, we have consistently invested in Artificial Intelligence and other state of the art technology, data scientists and experts, and in processes, in order to keep our users safe on our platform," a WhatsApp spokesperson said.In accordance with the IT Rules 2021, WhatsApp has published its fourth monthly report for the 30-day period of September 1-30."This user-safety report contains details of the user complaints received and the corresponding action taken by WhatsApp as well as WhatsApp's own preventive actions to combat abuse on our platform," the spokesperson said.Previously, the Facebook-owned company had stated that more than 95 per cent of the ban was due to the unauthorised use of automated or bulk messaging (spam). The global average number of accounts that WhatsApp bans to prevent abuse on its platform is around 8 million accounts per month.WhatsApp, in its latest report, said it received 560 user reports spanning across account support (121), ban appeal (309), other support and product support (49 each) and safety (32) during September.During this period, 51 accounts were actioned based on the reports received.WhatsApp explained that "Accounts Actioned" denotes remedial action taken based on the reports.Taking action denotes either banning an account or a previously banned account being restored as a result of the complaint.Also, reports may have been reviewed but not included as 'Actioned' for many reasons, including the user needing assistance to access their account or to use some features, user-requested restoration of a banned account and the request is denied, or if the reported account does not violate the laws of India or WhatsApp's Terms of Service.About 2 million Indian accounts were banned by WhatsApp while 420 grievance reports were received by the messaging platform in August.The new IT rules -- which came into effect in May -- require large digital platforms (with over 5 million users) to publish compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken.Previously, WhatsApp had emphasised that being an end-to-end encrypted platform, it has no visibility into the content of any messages.Besides the behavioural signals from accounts, it relies on available unencrypted information, including user reports, profile photos, group photos and descriptions as well as advanced AI tools and resources to detect and prevent abuse on its platform, it had said. PTI SR RAM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-banned-over-2-2-million-indian-accounts-in-september-report-101635781555258.html
01-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Indian Army launches airborne drills in eastern Ladakh and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.In high-intensity airborne drills, army tests response capabilities in Ladakh as LAC row lingersThe Indian Army on Monday launched airborne drills in eastern Ladakh to validate its rapid response capabilities including the inter-theatre movement of troops and equipment, precision stand-off drops, rapid grouping and ability to capture designated targets with speed and surprise at a time India and China are locked in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector, officials familiar with the development said on the condition of anonymity. Read more.Govt forms empowered group to monitor rollout of PM Gati Shakti master planThe Centre on Monday constituted an empowered group of secretaries led by the cabinet secretary to monitor the mechanism for the development and implementation of the PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan. Read more.'Underworld' vs 'drug cartel': Nawab Malik targets Fadnavis amid Aryan Khan rowFormer Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis on Monday hit back at state minister Nawab Malik after he alleged he used to run a drug cartel in Mumbai during his tenure as the chief minister of the state. Watch here.Sachin Tendulkar reveals 'critical point' where India failed against NZ: 'It forced our batters to play big shots'Team India conceded a disappointing 8-wicket defeat in their second game of the 2021 T20 World Cup against New Zealand on Sunday. The Kane Williamson-led side outclassed India, restricting the ‘Men in Blue’ to 110/7 before chasing down the target in 14.3 overs. Read more.Tamil Nadu allows bursting of green crackers for two hours on DiwaliThe Tamil Nadu government on Monday said that the people of the state would be allowed to burst only green crackers for the festival of Diwali for two hours -- between 6am and 7am and from 7pm to 8pm -- on November 4. Read more.Pralhad Joshi asks CIL to ensure power plants have 18 days of stock by Nov 2021Union minister for coal Pralhad Joshi on Monday asked the Coal India Ltd (CIL) and its subsidiaries to make “all out efforts” to ensure at least 18 days of coal stock with thermal power plants by the end of November. Read more.Diwali 2021: Getting rid of acidity, bloating and constipation post Diwali bingeCelebrity nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar has been sharing tips for her followers to make the most out of Diwali celebrations without falling sick or end up with extra kilos. Read more.Mahesh Manjrekar feels Salman Khan is ‘lonely’, says he 'needs someone to come back to'Mahesh Manjrekar opened up about his relationship with Salman Khan and said that he feels the actor is ‘lonely.’ Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indian-army-launches-airborne-drills-in-eastern-ladakh-101635778598220.html
01-11-2021||India||Recovery underway, but red flags remain||Two high-frequency indicators released on November 1 suggest that the Indian economy is on a steady path of recovery. The Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing for the month of October 2021 came at 55.9, the highest since February 2021. Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections for the month of October (they correspond to transactions in September) were ₹1.3 lakh crore, the second highest since the indirect tax was rolled out in 2017. The highest ever GST collections were recorded in April.But another set of indicators strike a note of caution. Although the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (Nibri), rose in the week ending October 31, the firm’s analysts noted that “growth signals (in the Indian economy) are currently inconsistent”. And the index of eight core sector industries for September 2021, released on October 29, supports such a conclusion.PMI manufacturing rises for third consecutive monthPMI manufacturing for the month of October 2021 increased to 55.9 compared to its September reading of 53.7. A PMI value greater than 50 signifies expansion in economic activity over previous month. This is the third consecutive month when PMI manufacturing has increased and the latest value is the highest since February, when it was at 57.5. “Amid reports of improved market confidence, rising requirements among clients and successful marketing, new orders continued to expand in October. The upturn was sharp and the fastest in seven months. Similarly, factory output increased at a sharp pace that was the strongest since March” said a release from IHS-Markit, the agency which conducts the PMI surveys.To be sure, the latest PMI numbers also raise red flags about the pressure of rising input prices and slack in job growth. “Companies noted a further increase in supplier prices. The overall rate of input cost inflation surged to a 92-month high”, the release said. Inflation could have been much higher had firms passed on the increase in costs fully to consumers, the survey suggests. “Some firms opted to pass part of the additional cost burden on to their clients by lifting output charges. However, with the vast majority of manufacturers leaving their fees unchanged, the overall rate of inflation was moderate.”Employment growth, however, continues to lag. “Despite the overall improvement in operating conditions, jobs failed to increase. This was often linked to sufficient capacity to deal with current workloads and government norms surrounding shift work”, Pollyanna De Lima, Economics Associate Director at IHS Markit said. PMI services for the month of October 2021 will be released on November 3.
01-11-2021||India||Covid-19: 78% people received first dose of vaccine, 35% fully jabbed, says Mandaviya||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said 78 per cent eligible population in the country has received their first dose of the Covid vaccine, while 35 per cent have been fully jabbed. The minister’s announcement came on the 290th day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive that began on January 16 this year.“An extraordinary feat of an extraordinary nation!” Mandaviya wrote in a tweet. “India has administered 1st #COVID19 vaccine dose to 78% of the eligible population and 2nd dose to 35% of the eligible people,” he said. “Congratulations to all as we rapidly progress on our path to defeat the virus!” he added.An extraordinary feat of an extraordinary nation!India has administered 1st #COVID19 vaccine dose to 7⃣8⃣% of the eligible population and 2nd dose to 3⃣5⃣% of the eligible people.Congratulations to all as we rapidly progress on our path to defeat the virus! pic.twitter.com/CLveOMJVakEarlier in the day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s vaccination drive has crossed the 106.31-crore mark.“With the administration of 12,77,542 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 106.31 Cr (1,06,31,24,205) as per provisional reports till 7 am today,” the ministry said in a statement.Also read | Global Covid-19 deaths top 5 million: Fatality rate and worst-hit regionsHowever, the government had also expressed concerns about the low vaccination rate in some districts across the country. On October 28, Mandaviya met with state health ministers to discuss plans to ramp up the inoculation drive. The ministry announced the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (door-to-door vaccination) programme for the next one month, during which the focus would mostly be on administration of the second dose to beneficiaries.Following the meeting, the minister said the first dose coverage among eligible populations was at 77 per cent, while the second dose coverage was at 32 per cent. He also said that 48 districts have been identified where the first dose coverage is less than 50 per cent, according to a new report in ANI.On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is slated to meet with the district magistrates of 40 districts across some states to discuss the Covid vaccination situations there, the PM’s office said on Sunday. The respective state chief ministers are also scheduled to attend that meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-78-people-received-first-dose-of-vaccine-35-fully-jabbed-says-mandaviya-101635779105369.html
01-11-2021||India||'Don't they have any self-respect?': Kerala HC raps police over ‘victimising’ of Delhi couple||The Kerala High Court on Monday came down heavily on the police over the "victimising" of a Delhi-origin couple who had to bear travel and accommodation costs of a Kerala Police team which went to the national capital to search for their missing daughters, saying "don't they (officers) have any self respect". Justice Devan Ramachandran asked how the police officers concerned could have made the parents, worried over their missing daughters, pay for the travel and stay in Delhi. The court asked police how the controlling authority of the officers was not aware how they travelled to Delhi as any official going outside the state on duty has to inform the authority. "If the controlling authority was not aware about it, then it indicates complete breakdown of the law. There appears to be no accountability. No wonder the police are like this," the court said. "How are you victimising the victims (parents)? What kind of police officers are they? Don't they have any self respect," the court added. It also questioned why the officers involved have not been suspended in connection with the allegations levelled against them by the parent. "The allegations are very serious, They have destroyed a family," the court said. According to a statement of the enquiry proceedings initiated against the officers by the police, one of them was suspended in connection with a cheating case while the others have only been transferred, the court noted. It also noted that the statement "did not contain a whisper" of the allegation by the parents that one of the officers had also demanded ₹5 lakh to release the daughters back to the family or what action was proposed against them. The court was hearing a plea initiated by it on its own based on a newspaper report which claimed that not only did the police demand ₹5 lakh to release the daughters back to the parents, they also arrested the couple's two elder sons for allegedly sexually abusing their sisters.While the police on Monday claimed before the court that action against the sons was taken based on the elder daughter's statements before the police and the magistrate that she was sexually abused by her brothers, according to a KeLSA report the statement was made under pressure and instigation by the officers in question. The Kerala State Legal Services Authority (KeLSA), which was asked by the court to look into the matter, in its report said that the daughters -- one aged 19 years and other 14 years -- have claimed that their brothers are fond of them and have never abused them. They also said that they made false allegations against their brothers under police pressure, KeLSA told the court and added that the daughters -- currently housed in a care home -- wanted to return to their family. The court was also informed by the police and KeLSA that the two brothers have been granted bail on the condition that they will not enter the district of Ernakulam. In view of these facts, the court allowed the daughters to return home to their parents and directed that a protection officer as provided under the POCSO Act keep a vigil on the house and ensure their welfare continuously for 10 days initially and then on a random basis thereafter. The court also ordered that the daughters be counselled so that the shock of their ordeal can be alleviated to the extent possible and they can be brought back to normal life as much as reasonably possible. It also sought an action taken report from the Commissioner of Police, Kochi city, before the next date of hearing on November 16 with regard to the charge memo, if any, issued to the officers concerned by then and also further steps taken regarding the allegation of ₹5 lakh demanded by them. According to the news report, the two sisters had run away from home to Delhi with ₹35,000 to meet the online boyfriend of the elder one. Subsequently, the parents had to pay for the travel and accommodation of the police team which went to Delhi from Kerala to look for the girls, the news report said. The team found the girls from Delhi and initial probe revealed that the elder was raped by her online boyfriend and another man. The team arrested the boyfriend and brought him and the two girls back to Kerala and on arriving here, demanded ₹5 lakh from the parents to release their daughters, the news report had claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-they-have-any-self-respect-kerala-hc-raps-police-over-victimising-of-delhi-couple-101635776359904.html
01-11-2021||India||In high-intensity airborne drills, army tests response capabilities in Ladakh as LAC row lingers||The Indian Army on Monday launched airborne drills in eastern Ladakh to validate its rapid response capabilities including the inter-theatre movement of troops and equipment, precision stand-off drops, rapid grouping and ability to capture designated targets with speed and surprise at a time India and China are locked in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector, officials familiar with the development said on the condition of anonymity. An airborne brigade, called Shatrujeet, consisting of the army’s finest paratroopers, is the centrepiece of the three-day high-altitude combat manoeuvres that saw soldiers being inserted into a drop zone at an altitude of more than 14,000 feet on the opening day, said one of the officials cited above. “Acclimatised troops, along with specialist vehicles and missile detachments, were transported (to the exercise area) via US-origin C-130J special operations aircraft and Soviet-origin AN-32 medium transport planes from five different mounting bases to validate inter-theatre move, precision drops and capture of designated objectives,” said a second official, adding that the drop was particularly challenging as it took place in minus 20-degree conditions. Experts said the timing of the exercise was significant as it was being staged three weeks after the 13th round of military talks between India and China, to cool tensions in Ladakh, reached an impasse on October 10 with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army. Other elements of the exercise include integrated battle drills by airborne forces, mechanised columns and attack helicopters, the second official said.The Indian Army is clearly demonstrating its combat capabilities to China with the high-altitude exercise, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). “India stood up to China after the border row erupted, and now the army is sending a message that PLA should not underestimate Indian military capabilities. Such drills have been conducted in the past but on a smaller scale,” Jaswal added. The high-intensity manoeuvres also come in the backdrop of PLA scaling up its military activities in the east. It has intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh after the lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector. The PLA has also ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers to forward areas to supervise the military activities in the eastern sector, as previously reported by HT. The sectors across which the Indian Army has detected increased PLA activity in Arunachal Pradesh include Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La - areas of high historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector - and counter-measures have been taken to boost India’s readiness to handle any contingency. The October 10 military dialogue in Ladakh took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to the disengagement of forward-deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrolling Point-17A, in early August. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each deployed in Ladakh. Outstanding problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs (PP-15) and PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to PP-10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. There is no end in sight to the standoff, with army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane stating on October 9 that if the PLA is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-high-intensity-airborne-drills-army-tests-response-capabilities-in-ladakh-as-lac-row-lingers-101635778290405.html
01-11-2021||India||‘Bengal can’t be exception’: Supreme Court cancels high court’s firecracker ban||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday set aside the Calcutta high court order imposing a complete ban on sale and use of all firecrackers in the state, ruling that the high court departed from the legal regime established under the top court’s orders without any material to show inaction on part of the state or collusive approach by the authorities at the ground level.“We are convinced that if the high court wanted to impose complete ban, it should have asked the authorities to offer an explanation requiring such an extreme order and departing from the order passed by this court on October 29,” the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Ajay Rastogi observed at a special sitting to hear this case as the courts have closed for Diwali vacation.On October 29, the Calcutta high court held that it found no evidence to establish that there was a mechanism to ascertain that only green crackers were being sold or burst, and went ahead to prohibit the sale of even green crackers ahead of the festive month beginning with Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhatt Puja, Jagadhatri Puja, Guru Nanak’s Birthday and extending till Christmas and New Year celebrations.The high court verdict came on the same day the Supreme Court ordered states and Union territories to comply with its order prohibiting the sale of banned firecrackers but made it clear that there was no blanket firecracker ban, because green crackers can be used during the festival.Two fireworks dealers’ association, Burrabazaar Fireworks Dealers’ Association and Siliguri Fireworks Dealers Association, rushed to the Supreme Court against the high court ban, pleading that they have already received their stocks from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu and the last-minute ban jeopardised their interests ahead of the festival season.The dealers represented by senior advocates Siddharth Bhatnagar and Malvika Trivedi recalled the top court’s direction on Friday, laying down clearly that there is no complete ban on firecrackers and use of green crackers and improved crackers (with reduced emission) are permitted.The bench agreed. “All states are following the order passed by this court. How can West Bengal be an exception? Our order has to be consistent in all areas unless as a matter of policy, any state decides to impose a ban (on sale or use of firecrackers),” it said.To be sure, a blanket ban on all types of firecrackers including the ‘green’ ones is in place in Delhi where the prohibition is effective till January 1 next year in view of the worsening air pollution. The Odisha government earlier banned firecrackers in the interest of protecting general public health but on Monday, the high court allowed green crackers to be sold ahead of Diwali but has stipulated that these should only be burnt between 8pm and 10 pm.Senior advocate Anand Grover appearing for West Bengal government told the court that the state government was also taken by surprise by the high court ruling. “The order came as a bolt from the blue as the high court never discussed it when the PIL was heard and suddenly made it part of the order,” Grover said.He also produced figures indicating that last year, over 100 First Information Reports (FIRs) were registered against people found selling illegal crackers in Kolkata resulting in the arrest of 243 persons. Similar figures were provided for the years 2018 and 2019 as well. This year too, 10 persons were arrested in connection with seven FIRs, Grover stated.Lawyer Rachit Lakhmani, appearing for Roshni Ali who petitioned the high court for a ban, told the Supreme Court that crackers are being burst near hospitals and prescribed silence zones in violation of the Supreme Court’s repeated directions to states to have community cracker bursting at designated places.The bench said, “There may be people of all kinds but that does not mean there should be a complete ban. Instead, the mechanism has to be strengthened to prevent abuse of our orders. The high court has not defined what the practical realities are to pass such an extreme order. Even the state did not have the opportunity to present facts.”The bench said that over the years, the top court specified the legal regime regarding ban on fireworks and to depart from that regime, there must be some material to show inaction on part of the state or collusive approach by police and officials at the ground level.The top court accepted the assurance given by the state that in the event of any inaction on part of its officials to curb illicit fireworks, “appropriate remedial and corrective steps will be taken.”Senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan, who last week argued for a blanket ban on firecrackers, said the top court’s October 29 order was passed in the context of manufacturers while the present petition concerned dealers. He reiterated that most firecrackers produced in Sivakasi were mislabeled ‘green crackers’ with fake QR codes as they contained the chemicals including barium salts already banned by the Supreme Court in October 2018.“The same logic laid down by this court on October 29 for manufacturers shall apply to traders,” the bench said asking the state to abide by the top court’s order. Adding further, it said, “West Bengal government may explore the possibility of ensuring no banned fireworks or related items are imported within the state and be verified at the entry point itself. This mechanism can be strengthened in addition to the strict supervision and verification at other places where trading or utilization of such fireworks takes place.”The bench said the petitioner or any person was free to place all relevant documents before the high court, “which after giving opportunity of hearing to the WB government and WB Pollution Control Board may proceed to pass orders as may be advised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-can-t-be-exception-supreme-court-cancels-high-court-s-firecracker-ban-101635775889509.html
01-11-2021||India||Khalistan referendum: Tall claims of organisers punctured; Pak elements present||Groups of Sikhs travelled to London on Sunday to cast their vote in so-called referendum to decide whether Khalistan should be carved out of Punjab. The referendum was organised by US-based Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), a banned organisation in India.Social media channels of SFJ and people associated with the movement claimed 10,000 to 12,000 people participated in the referendum. But, according to UK watchers, a gathering of just 100-150 people was seen during the initial hours of the referendum.The organisers had arranged around 300 buses to fetch people from across the UK and a total of 1,500-1,700 people were brought in to vote in the so-called referendum, they added.The diplomats based in London also noted while none of the Gurudwaras (except the three known Khalistan movement supporters) allowed the organisers a platform, the SFJ and Kuldeep Singh Chaheru, the leader of Federation of Sikh organization (FSO) - a well know front of Babbar Khalsa - actively supported the referendum.The pro-Khalistan elements believed to have reached out to illegal Sikh immigrants and offered them immigration support and money to participate in the referendum, they added.The offer to ferry the prospective voters on a bus was criticised by the Gurudwaras. They said the organisers confused the public by issuing posters declaring the location of buses near 100 Gurudwaras "as if these buses have been made available by the Gurudwaras".The people cited above said that there was no verification if the persons arriving for the referendum were Sikhs, Pakistanis or Afghans. Coverage of the event also showed that the same set of people were brought in to vote repeatedly, they added.The organisers, including their backers in Pakistan, went on an overdrive to declare that the exercise was a success, UK watchers said, adding that they could seek a legitimate right to conduct a larger referendum.The SFJ had called all the Sikhs above the age of 18 to vote in the referendum. The voting was held in Westminster and those who indeed came to take part in the exercise shouted pro-Khalistan slogans and carried the Khalistan flag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khalistan-referendum-tall-claims-of-organisers-punctured-pak-elements-present-101635775465738.html
01-11-2021||India||Govt forms empowered group to monitor rollout of PM Gati Shakti master plan||The Centre on Monday constituted an empowered group of secretaries led by the cabinet secretary to monitor the mechanism for the development and implementation of the PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan.The PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan is intended to break departmental silos and bring in more holistic and integrated planning and execution of projects to address the issues of multi-modal connectivity and last-mile connectivity.The commerce and industry ministry in a notification said this 20-member group will set out procedure and definitive timeframe for synchronisation of various activities for construction of roads and rail, etc., along with all utility services in an area-based approach for development of infrastructure on a pilot basis, according to news agency PTI.The other terms of references of the group include review and monitoring of the implementation of the plan to ascertain the logistics efficiency accruing; adopt framework and norms for undertaking any amendments in the plan; and coordinate for any changes in the projects already included in the plan, according to the minutes accessed by news agency PTI.ALSO READ | Gati Shakti: A major leap in governanceIt will also align various initiatives on the development of common integrated portal which serve the needs of all stakeholders; and issue appropriate directions for achieving the objectives and for complaince of guiding principles of the plan and in addressing demand side requirements of the ministries concerned, it said.The members of the group includes secretaries of key ministries, including road, shipping, civil aviation, telecom, coal, mines, agriculture and expenditure. The chairman of the railway board is also a member.The Union Cabinet had last month approved the Pradhan Mantri Gati Shakti National Master Plan for providing multi-layered connectivity, which includes implementation, monitoring and support mechanism.Modi on October 13 launched the ₹100 lakh crore National Master Plan to reduce 'logistic' costs and develop infrastructure that boosts the economy.PM Gati Shakti plan involves the creation of a common umbrella platform through which infrastructure projects can be planned and implemented in an efficacious manner by way of coordination between various ministries and departments on a real-time basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-forms-empowered-group-to-monitor-rollout-of-pm-gati-shakti-master-plan-101635774108645.html
01-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 1, 1959 — Animals in natural surroundings; Delhi Zoological Park opens||New Delhi- The Delhi Zoological Park was formally declared open on Sunday. A large number of people, including diplomats and Ministers, attended the inaugural function.The zoo, which was started under the Second Plan, will be included in the Third and following plans for expansion. Covering an area of 250 acres, it will be the biggest in the East and the second biggest in the world when completed.A unique feature of the zoo is that it provides, for the first time in India, natural surroundings to animals on a large scale.In addition to animals and birds, the park will have a botanical garden. A plot of 50 acres has been reserved for the purpose, which will also include an 11 acre landscape garden on the Japanese style.Declaring the zoo open, Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh, Minister for Agriculture, said that zoos were meant not only for amusement but also for educative purposes. He said though the scheme was big it would not take an unreasonably long time for completion.Earlier Mr K. R. Damle, Secretary to Ministry of Food and Agriculture described how the idea emanated. He praised the services tendered by foreign experts, Maj. A. N. Weiman of the Colombo Zoological Park, and Mr Carl Hagenbeck, well-known authority on zoos, in its development.SIGNIFICANT FEATURESMr N. D. Bachkheti, superintendent of the park, said one of the significant features of the zoo would be its diversion into Indian, Australian, African and American sections.Another feature was that the enclosures would be as near the natural homes of the animals as possible. The animals could be seen by the visitors moving about in an extensive area, and they would be separated by unobtrusive moats and not by bars or wire meshes he added.When completed the total cost of the park is expected to be about ₹1.5 crores. Out of this, works costing ₹25 lakhs have already been completed.The park has been divided into 57 enclosures. Of these 10 have been completed so far. The Indian and Australian sections of the zoo are practically ready. By next year, the African section is expected to be complete, which will have girffes, zebras, ostriches, antelopes and lions in their natural setting. The park will also have an aquarium for various types of fish, a serpentarium, for all varieties of snakes, both poisonous and non-poisonous, and an insectarium for rearing and keeping of insects. In another section glazed models of extinct pre-historic fauna like the mammoth and dinosaurs will be displayed. The plans for the park also include a food store and kitchen run on modern lines and an animal hospital fitted with X-ray and other equipment. For visitors two-terrace restaurants and a number of kiosks spread all over the park will be provided. Another interesting feature of the zoo will be the children’s corner where young animals will be kept for children to fondle and play with. It will also have arrangements for joy rides on elephants, camels and ponies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-1-1959-animals-in-natural-surroundings-delhi-zoological-park-opens-101635775529824.html
01-11-2021||India||The pandemic disrupted education. And female students suffered more||Seventeen-year-old Rani was taking her class 12 board exams in Haryana’s Nuh district when the nationwide lockdown was announced to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in India in March 2020. Just like all the other activities came to a standstill, her exams were first postponed, and later, cancelled. Little did she know that the pandemic will put her dream to join a college and become a teacher on hold.
01-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu allows bursting of green crackers for two hours -- 6am to 7am & 7pm to 8pm -- on Diwali||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday said that the people of the state would be allowed to burst only green crackers for the festival of Diwali for two hours -- between 6am and 7am and from 7pm to 8pm -- on November 4.The time slots continue to remain the same since 2018 in the state following the Supreme Court verdict in 2018 in which it directed that crackers be manufactured using raw materials that cause less emission and recommended the manufacture and sale of green crackers.While asking the public to stick to the mentioned time slots for bursting crackers on the Diwali day, the state also said that bursting of crackers should be avoided in “silence areas” like hospitals, schools, courts and religious places, near huts and other fire-prone areas. It also said that joined firecrackers (serial crackers) which cause “huge noise pollution” should be avoided.Also read | Diwali 2021: Is bursting of crackers allowed in your state? Check here“People are advised to celebrate the festival responsibly so that their action does not lead to environmental pollution,” the government said in its press release. “Government of Tamil Nadu is making a sincere appeal to people to celebrate the festival of lights in harmony with nature,” it further said, wishing everyone a “very Happy Green Deepavali.”Further, the government also said that the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) would continue its awareness-creation activities this year along with several sectors of the society. “TNPCB shall take action to create awareness among the public through Schools, Colleges, Eco clubs and National Green Corps (NGC) with the help of School Education. Higher Education Departments. Micro. Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Department, Director General of Police, all District Collectors, Director of Environment and Commissioners of all Municipal Corporations in Tamil Nadu at State Level,” the government said.Earlier on October 15, chief minister MK Stalin wrote a letter to his counterparts in four states -- Delhi, Odisha, Rajasthan and Haryana -- which had then imposed a ban on firecrackers. He said that a blanket ban on firecrackers was “not reasonable” and when other states implement such a ban, it would severely impact the firecracker industry in TN’s Sivakasi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-allows-bursting-of-green-crackers-for-two-hours-6am-to-7am-7pm-to-8pm-on-diwali-101635773918202.html
01-11-2021||India||Pralhad Joshi asks Coal India Ltd to ensure power plants have 18 days of stock by November 2021||Union minister for coal Pralhad Joshi on Monday asked the Coal India Ltd (CIL) and its subsidiaries to make “all out efforts” to ensure at least 18 days of coal stock with thermal power plants by the end of November.The state-owned CIL has been prioritising the supply of coal temporarily to power producers to refill the reducing stocks of coal with them, news agency PTI reported.During his virtual address during the 47th foundation day of CIL, the minister also called upon the central government subsidiary to increase its production to one billion tonnes by the end of 2024.Addressed virtually the 47th Foundation Day of @CoalIndiaHQ. Appreciated the national miner's efforts towards assuring India's energy security and encouraged employees to attain 1 billion tonne coal production. pic.twitter.com/F4nbwe2ZF8“Addressed virtually the 47th Foundation Day of @CoalIndiaHQ. Appreciated the national miner's efforts towards assuring India's energy security and encouraged employees to attain 1 billion tonne coal production,” Joshi tweeted following the event.He also directed the CMDs of coal PSUs “to formulate revised targets and detailed strategy to attain this goal,” the Union ministry of coal said in a statement.Also read | Centre to ask states and discoms to clear their dues to Coal India: Power minister RK SinghDuring his address, the minister said that the international coal prices have more than tripled in recent times and led to a 38% reduction in coal imports to India. Also, the minister said that the demand for electricity had gone up by 24% “indicative of robust economic growth.”Joshi also lauded the manpower of CIL and said that even during the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19, “coal warriors worked round the clock to ensure the energy security of the nation,” recalling his recent visits to the various coal mines across the country.The minister had recently visited some coal mines in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand amid concerns about a coal shortage in the country and its impact on the power supply. Earlier on October 13, he visited the Dipka, Gevra and Kusmunda coal mines in Chhattisgarh and on October 14 visited various mines belonging to the Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) and the Bharat Coking Coal Ltd (BCCL) in Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pralhad-joshi-asks-coal-india-ltd-to-ensure-power-plants-have-18-days-of-stock-by-november-2021-101635773501707.html
01-11-2021||India||Counting of votes for bypolls to be held tomorrow: Know what's at stake||The counting of votes will be held on Tuesday in three Lok Sabha constituencies and 29 assembly seats where by-elections were held on October 30. These constituencies are spread across 13 states and the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli.The Lok Sabha constituency where bypolls were held are: Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh, Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. In all the three Lok Sabha constituencies, the sitting members had died.The assembly bypolls in five seats in Assam, four in West Bengal, three each in Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Meghalaya, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan and one seat each is in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram and Telangana recorded big turnout.Voting was scheduled to be held in Nagaland's Shamator-Chessore assembly constituency on October 30, but Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) candidate was elected uncontested from there on October 13.Out of the 29 assembly seats, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had won in around half a dozen constituencies, the Congress had nine, while the rest were with the regional parties.Here is a look at some of the key battles:Lok Sabha constituencies:Mandi: The seat fell vacant after the death of Ramswaroop Sharma of the BJP in March. In Mandi, Pratibha Singh is pitted against BJP's Khushal Singh Thakur, a Kargil War hero.Dadra and Nagar Haveli: The by-elections were held in the union territory due to the demise of Independent Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar. Seven-time independent MP Mohan Delkar's wife Kalaben Delkar contested as Shiv Sena candidate against BJP's Mahesh Gavit and Congress' Mahesh Dhodi from here.Khandwa: The bypoll in Khandwa was held due to the death of BJP member Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan. The ruling BJP and the opposition Congress are in a straight contest for Khandwa.Assembly seats:Haryana: The state saw bypolls in singe seat - Ellenabad - due to the resignation of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala as MLA in protest against the Centre's new farm laws. He contested against Congress' Pawan Beniwal and BJP-JP candidate Gobind Kanda. It is an important contest for the Chautalas as Abhay Chautala had won the 2010 bypolls from Ellenabad when Om Prakash Chautala vacated the seat, and then retained it in 2014 and also in 2019 assembly polls.Telangana: Huzurabad in the southern state saw triangular contest between the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS), opposition BJP and Congress. The by-election was held following the resignation of Eatala Rajender in June after his removal from the state Cabinet over allegations of land grabbing. Rajender, who dismissed the allegations, had quit the TRS and contested the by-election on a BJP ticket. The result is significant for the BJP as it aims at emerging as an alternative to the ruling TRS in the 2023 Legislative Assembly elections.Assam: Out of the five seats - Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra - the ruling BJP fielded candidates in three seats leaving the other two to alliance partner UPPL. The Congress put up nominees in all five, while its former allies, the AIUDF and the BPF, contested in two and one seats respectively.West Bengal: Ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) candidate Udayan Guha, a heavyweight, is looking to reclaim Dinhata seat. Bypoll was also held a Santipur, which is a prestige battle for the BJP as the party is grappling with an exodus of MLAs and senior leaders.Rajasthan: Both the BJP and the Congress are keen to win the bypolls in Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad to send a message across the state about the performance of the Ashok Gehlot government, which is facing a challenge from the Congress faction led by Sachin Pilot.Karnataka: The assembly bypolls were held in Sindgi and Hangal constituencies. The electoral battle is significant as it is the first test for chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who had replaced BS Yediyurappa.Counting of votes will also take place in Andhra Pradesh's Badvel seat, earlier held by the YSRC, Deglur in Maharashtra, which was held by the Congress, Tuirial assembly seat in Mizoram and Raigaon, Jobat and Prithvipur in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counting-of-votes-for-bypolls-to-be-held-tomorrow-know-what-s-at-stake-101635772839207.html
01-11-2021||India||Stalin writes to Modi seeking release of pending MGNREGS funds||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday said that he has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his attention towards the issue of delay in payment of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) wages. “The entire amount of ₹3,524.29 crore released from Government of India to Tamil Nadu during FY 2021-22 has been fully utilised by crediting into the workers account up to 15.09.2021. Since then no further funds has been released towards wages by Government of India which has led to the wage liability of ₹1178.12 crore upto 1-11-2021,” the letter read.Wrote to PM Narendra Modi calling his urgent attention to the issue of delays in payment of #MGNREGS wages which is causing hardships to rural households in Tamil Nadu. I've also requested him to release funds immediately considering the festival season: Tamil Nadu CM MK Stalin pic.twitter.com/DIgaSaa71lThe Tamil Nadu chief minister told Modi the delay in wage payment is causing hardship to thousands of rural households in the state, and may lead to disowning the scheme and prompt urban migration for employment opportunity.Stalin urged the Centre to release funds in view of the festive season. Earlier in June, the Centre allocated ₹73,000 crore at the Budget Estimate stage for the MGNREGS for the 2021-22 fiscal year. However, the allocated budget is 34% less than the revised estimate of ₹1,11,500 crore in 2020-21 financial year. However, in terms of budgetary allocation, there has been an increase of ₹11,500 crore, from ₹61,500 crore to ₹73,000 crore during the period under review.Andhra Pradesh has the highest number of beneficiaries enrolled under the MGNREGA scheme, followed by the states of Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-writes-to-modi-seeking-release-of-pending-mgnregs-funds-101635770654720.html
01-11-2021||India||National Mission for Clean Ganga gets registered in Guinness world records||The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) got registered in the Guinness Book of World Records on the first day of the Ganga Utsav -- the River Festival 2021 for the highest number of photos of handwritten notes uploaded on Facebook in an hour.Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat posted his message on the Ganga on Facebook, after which the Guinness activity was opened for the public at large."Lakhs of entries were recorded during the one-hour duration of the activity. The participation of people from all walks of life was particularly inspiring. Several people posted their self-created literary pieces on the event's Facebook page," a senior official said.The record was established on the first day of the Ganga Utsav -- the River Festival 2021 for the highest number of photos of handwritten notes uploaded on the social media platform in an hour.The official said the event was organised to raise awareness on Ganga rejuvenation and to give impetus to the reach of the Ganga Utsav -- the River Festival 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-mission-for-clean-ganga-gets-registered-in-guinness-world-records-101635771691288.html
01-11-2021||India||10 embarkment points, online application: Key announcements for Haj 2022||Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday announced the commencement of the online application process for Haj 2022. Announcing the pilgrimage at Haj House in Mumbai, the Union minister for minority affairs said that the entire Haj process has been made online and people can also apply online through the ‘Haj Mobile App’. The app includes frequently asked questions (FAQs) and videos giving information to applicants to fill up the form in a very simple manner, said Naqvi.The last date of applying for Haj 2022 is January 31, 2022.The minister said that the Haj pilgrims from India will be promoting ‘Vocal for Local’, a government campaign to switch to indigenous products, by purchasing bed sheets, pillows, towels, umbrellas and other items in India with Indian currency. He added that these goods will be available at about 50% lower prices as compared to Saudi Arabia. These items will be given to Haj pilgrims at their respective embarkation points in India.The embarkation points for Haj 2022 have been reduced to 10 from 21. Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Cochin, Guwahati, and Srinagar will be the 10 embarkation points for Haj 2022.Delhi embarkation points will cover Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, western districts of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-embarkment-points-online-application-key-announcements-for-haj-2022-101635771550016.html
01-11-2021||India||Actor Joju George caught in jam due to protest rebukes Cong, says was attacked||Thiruvananthapuram: Malayalam actor Joju George, 46, was allegedly attacked by Congress workers in Kochi on Monday after he questioned the party workers’ road blockade against recurring fuel price hikes. He said his vehicle was vandalised and he received minor injuries.The drama unfolded around 11 am after his vehicle was stuck in a traffic snarl due to the protest. Joju George said he came out of his vehicle and got into an argument with party workers, telling them that saying they were doing more harm than good to people. After this, he alleged, angry workers attacked his vehicle and a police inspector who was present at the scene saved him from angry workers.But Congress workers later alleged that he was drunk and misbehaved with women workers which the actor denied. “He was behaving in cinema style shouting at workers. He was also rude to women workers. He was dead drunk,” said Ernakulam district Congress committee president Mohammad Shiyas. But later a medical test established that he was not under the influence of liquor.George, known for his character roles, won the state best actor award for his role in film ‘Joseph’ in 2019. He also got a special mention in the national award list last year.The actor said he never expected such a treatment from the oldest party of the county. “Petrol price hike pinches us all. I told them gently that it was not the way to register protest pointing out some ambulances and other emergency vehicles. They attacked me instantly and broke rear glass of my car,” he said adding it was quite unfair to give a different twist to the incident. “You can check the visuals. I have a grown-up daughter and always hold women in high esteem,” he said.Later he filed a police complaint for the attack.Congress women workers also filed a cross-complaint alleging indecent behaviour. But police are yet to register a case against him saying they haven’t got enough evidence against the actor. Though he suffered minor injuries in the scuffle, Joju George said he did not want to get admitted to a hospital just to register a case.“I was stranded in the traffic for more than an hour. I was just advising the workers to adopt a different mode of protest. I never expected that they will react like this. It is really sad. I am not against protest and I don’t have political affiliation also,” he said after filing the complaint. He said his mother was an active Congress worker.Kochi DCP Aiswarya Dogra said two case s were filed against Congress workers for damaging the vehicle of the actor and for blocking the road.Congress leaders were divided over the issue.While a section defended party workers, there were others who said direct actions should have been avoided. “He acted like a street goonda. It is natural action will trigger reaction,” said state chief K Sudhakaran. Senior leader Kodikunnil Suresh MP also defended party workers.But AICC general secretary KC Venugopal said in Alapuzha that violent mode of protest is not the party’s style. “I think the state unit will look into it,” he said, Opposition leader V D Satheesan also said he is against such mode of protests. President of Democratic Youth Federation, youth wing of ruling CPI(M), A A Raheem condemned the attack on actor. “It exposes the new style of functioning of the PCC chief,” he said. Film bodies have also criticised attack on actor. “Some Congress leaders called him a criminal. It is highly objectionable. He reacted after seeing the plight of a chemo therapy patient in a nearby ambulance. He reacted like any other human being,” said B Unnikrishnan, director and general secretary of Film Employees Federation of Kerala. Later police provided protection to the house of the actor in Mala (Thrissur) after Youth Congress activists carried out a rally to his house. “I don’t want to make it an issue. After seeing the plight of the patient I reacted as a common man, not as an actor. I stick to my position. I personally feel nobody has a right to block roads like this,” said George.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-joju-george-caught-in-jam-due-to-protest-rebukes-cong-says-was-attacked-101635772409188.html
01-11-2021||India||Primary school classes likely to resume after Diwali in Odisha||Primary school classes for students of classes 1 to 7 are likely to resume in-person in a staggered manner after Diwali in Odisha.School and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said though no decision has been taken so far, it is likely that the physical mode of teaching would resume for these students after the festival.“We are taking all possible measures to ensure that classes are reopened in a graded manner. Already physical mode of teaching for classes 8 to 12 students are continuing in the state. As the possibility of a third wave seems remote, we can open classrooms for offline teaching,” said Dash. “We are hopeful that a decision will be taken by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on the reopening of schools after Diwali.”The Covid-19 cases have been declining in the state. On Monday, 316 cases were reported. There are now 4,237 active cases in the state.The Odisha government earlier allowed the resumption of classes in the physical mode for classes 10 and 12 from July 26. The classes for students of 11 and 8 resumed from October 21 and October 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/primary-school-classes-likely-to-resume-after-diwali-in-odisha-101635770128774.html
01-11-2021||India||Panel probing Bhima Koregaon violence suspends hearings||The judicial commission probing the violence near Pune’s Bhima Koregaon in 2018 has suspended its hearings saying the Maharashtra government is yet to provide it suitable accommodation in Mumbai despite a follow-up and several request letters.In a letter written by the commission’s secretary, VV Palnitkar, to the state government, a copy of which HT has seen, he said despite repeated letters, “nothing was heard from the government till October 31, 2021 about availability of suitable accommodation”. He added therefore, there is no other option but to suspend the hearing schedule till the government provides the accommodation. “Accordingly, the Commission hereby suspends all future hearings till the Government provides suitable accommodation at Mumbai.”The letter said the commission informed the government it had to postpone the hearings scheduled in March and April 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed to avoid crowding. ”In its seventh status report, the commission has stated that it is likely to examine about 40 more witnesses and expects further extension of at least six months.”The two-member commission, headed by retired high court justice J N Patel, was constituted by the then state government of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in February 2018 to probe into the sequence of events that led to violence on the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-probing-bhima-koregaon-violence-suspends-hearings-101635769709097.html
01-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Man commits suicide after killing his two children, attacking wife||A 32-year-old man died by suicide after allegedly killing his two children and injuring his wife in Chhattisgarh’s Nava Raipur on Monday. Police said he allegedly killed his seven-year-old daughter and three-year-old son by attacking them with a hammer. He later attacked his 28-year-old wife, who is critical.Police superintendent Prashant Agrawal said after killing his children and assaulting his wife, the man jumped off from their six-storey building and died on spot. “We have recovered a three-page suicide note from the spot in which he stated that his wife used to argue and doubt him for the death of stenographer of his department, whose body was found a month back near Raipur railway station.” He added the wife’s condition was critical. “We are investigating the case.”On October 27, a man died by suicide after killing his wife and two kids following an altercation in Chhattisgarh’s Rajanandgaon district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-man-commits-suicide-after-killing-his-two-children-attacking-wife-101635769353724.html
01-11-2021||India||‘Centre ignoring RBI pleas to reduce ‘regressive’ fuel tax’: P Chidambaram||The Modi government is ignoring repeated requests from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to reduce the tax on fuel, former Union finance minister P Chidambaram claimed, adding that tax on fuel was the most “regressive” form of taxation whose impact on the economy would be felt for years to come. Addressing a press conference in Goa, Chidambaram said that despite the RBI’s “blunt” requests, the central government failed to pay any heed. “The RBI’s October bulletin says that because of the (current) pump price, consumption of other items, including essential items, has gone down which means people are buying less milk, protein, fruits, vegetables because they are spending on petrol and diesel. Household debt has increased, savings have declined and the deficit has increased,” he said. “These are RBI statements. This is the fourth month that the RBI has asked the central government to reduce pump prices by cutting taxes. No central bank can be blunter. But this government is completely deaf,” Chidambaram said. “I don’t think the BJP cares if India is pulled down or not. The BJP only cares if its crony friends are making a huge killing in the stock market. I don’t know who they are helping. They are certainly not helping the people of India,” he said. “Fuel taxes are the most regressive taxes, they affect the rich and poor alike. If the government wants money and revenue, there are other ways to raise it through progressive taxes. Instead of resorting to progressive taxation, this government is resorting to regressive taxation. We condemn this in the strongest terms,” he said. Chidambaram’s comments come at a time amid escalating fuel prices, as the government, which had hiked central taxes on fuel back in March 2020 when international oil prices had crashed on account of worldwide lockdowns, has refused to roll back the tax hikes after international prices stabilised and began to increase. On Monday, fuel prices were hiked once again while the price of a commercial LPG cylinder was hiked by ₹266. “The Modi government has decided that (since) we are sucking the blood (of the people) anyway, why should we draw blood in drops? Let us draw large quantities of blood. What they’ve done and what they are doing is squeezing every Indian citizen - rich or poor. The poor of course suffer the most from these exorbitant, unconscionable and condemnable increases in prices. There is absolutely no economic justification for this rise in prices,” Chidambaram said. “This price rise is only because of high taxation. The effective rate of tax on petrol of central government tax alone is 33%. On diesel, it is 32%. On a single commodity to levy a 33% tax and a 32% tax is completely unacceptable. It is more than the corporate tax rate. Corporations that make billions of Rupees are taxed at a lower rate. Whereas petrol and diesel are taxed at 33% and 32%,” he added. The Congress said that the skyrocketing fuel prices will be a core election issue going into the upcoming Legislative Assembly elections in Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-ignoring-rbi-pleas-to-reduce-regressive-fuel-tax-p-chidambaram-101635769349961.html
01-11-2021||India||Govt asks farmers not to hoard fertilisers, says black marketers to be punished||Chemicals and fertilisers minister Mansukh Mandaviya has asked farmers not to hoard the commodities, assuring there will be more than adequate supply of crop nutrients. Mandaviya also promised strict action against black marketers.He also asked state governments to take strict action against hoarders."For November, a demand of 41 lakh MT urea, 17 lakh MT DAP and 15 lakh MT NPK was received from all states. We have planned to supply 76 lakh MT urea, 18 Lakh MT DAP & 20 lakh MT NPK in November," news agency ANI quoted Mandaviya as saying."I request farmers to not believe any rumour of shortage," he added.In a video message posted on Twitter, the minister said he held a meeting with officials of the department of fertilisers to review the availability of fertilisers across the country. The sowing of rabi (winter-sown) crops, including wheat and mustard, has already started from last month.The government is making available fertilisers, namely urea and 24 grades of P&K (phosphatic and potassic) fertilisers, to farmers at subsidised prices through manufacturers/importers.The subsidy on P&K fertilisers is being governed by the NBS (nutrient-based subsidy) scheme with effect from April 2010.In the case of urea, the Centre has fixed the maximum retail prices and reimburses the difference between the MRP (maximum retail price) and production cost in the form of subsidy.Last month, the government announced a net subsidy of ₹28,655 crore on P&K fertilisers to ensure that farmers get nutrients at affordable prices during the rabi sowing season.India imports a large quantity of urea, DAP and muriate of potash (MoP) to meet domestic demand.The government is reviving many closed urea fertiliser plants to make the country self-sufficient.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-farmers-not-to-hoard-fertilisers-says-black-marketers-to-be-punished-101635768770720.html
01-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Court sets aside 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyar community||The Madras high court on Monday set aside legislation granting 10.5% reservation to the Vanniyar community within the existing 20% quota for the most backward classes (MBC) in Tamil Nadu. Calling it unconstitutional, a bench of justices M Duraiswamy and K Murali Shankar passed the order in this regard on a batch of petitions challenging the law.The previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)-led government passed the Vanniyar Reservation Act in February before the model code of conduct came into effect ahead of the assembly polls held in April.After the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) formed the government in May, it issued a government order to fully implement the reservation following which the petitioners moved the court against it.The petitioners argued that this reservation for Vanniyars will leave little for the 25 other castes under the MBC. The state defended the enactment and submitted that institutions such as the Tamil Nadu Dr Ambedkar Law University had implemented the reservation and added that it would not affect the prospects of other communities.The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) called the order a disappointment and urged the DMK-led state government to move the Supreme Court.The AIADMK government introduced the quota after the PMK, a caste-based party with Vanniyars as its core vote bank, threatened to walk out of the then ruling alliance if its demand for reservation in all jobs and educational institutions for the community was not met.The DMK government, in its order issued in June, said the reservation which came into effect on February 26 will be applicable for new vacancies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-court-sets-aside-10-5-internal-reservation-for-vanniyar-community-101635768989904.html
01-11-2021||India||BJP, SP colluding ahead of assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Samajwadi Party (SP) were colluding ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. She slammed SP chief Akhilesh Yadav over his comment that appeared to equate Pakistan’s founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah with Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Vallabhai Patel.“The statement given by the SP chief in Hardoi yesterday about Jinnah and the BJP’s response to it is part of the collusion... and their well-thought-out strategy,” she tweeted on Monday.She added the politics of SP and BJP have been complementary to each other. “Since the thinking of these two parties is casteist and communal, their existence has been based on each other. That is why when SP is in power, BJP is strong whereas when BSP is in power, BJP is weak.”Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath lashed out at Yadav for his remark. He added it was “shameful” that Yadav “compared” Jinnah with Patel “. Adityanath said it is this “Talibani mentality” that divides the people.BJP leader CT Ravi questioned Yadav’s allegiance. He added Yadav said that Jinnah brought freedom. “Will he please clarify to which country Akhilesh Yadav owes allegiance to? Hindustan or Terroristan?” he wrote on Twitter.Uttar Pradesh minister Mohsin Raza said Yadav has insulted the country’s “great men” by saying that the divisive ideology of Jinnah is the same as that of Gandhi and Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-sp-colluding-ahead-of-assembly-elections-in-uttar-pradesh-mayawati-101635768568663.html
01-11-2021||India||India's Covid vaccination certificate gets 5 more recognitions, says MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Monday that five more countries have recognised the Covid-19 vaccination certificate given by India."Mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates continues! Five more recognitions for India's vaccination certificate, including from Estonia, Kyrgyzstan, State of Palestine, Mauritius and Mongolia," the MEA said on Twitter.Mutual recognition of COVID-19 vaccination certificates continues!Five more recognitions for India’s vaccination certificate, including from Estonia, Kyrgyzstan, State of Palestine, Mauritius and Mongolia.This comes days after foreign secretary Harsh V Shringla said that a discussion was held on mutual recognition of vaccination certificate during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Italy."Issue of vaccination certificate was discussed especially with EU representatives. There was a conversation on mutual recognition of vaccines...a doable mechanism to facilitate easier international travel... Details will be worked out bilaterally," Shringla had said on Friday."Fact of the matter is that the point PM tried to make (on vaccine certification) has been received. Most countries are quite happy with the idea of facilitating smoother international travel...and feel that we need to collectively work on it," he stated.Last month, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had informed that Hungary and Serbia agreed to India for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates.Some issue around recognising Covid vaccination certificate cropped up briefly between India and the United Kingdom. It started after the UK incorporated some changes in its travel rules from October 4 and did not initially mention made in India Covishield in the list of its accepted vaccines against Covid-19. Then the UK government accepted the Covishield vaccine as it is a formulation of the Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, already recognised by the UK regulatory authority, but did not accept India's vaccine certificates, generated by Cowin.Several rounds of talks were held between India and the UK government to resolve the issue. India took a reciprocal action and imposed similar restrictions on people coming from the UK.The issue was finally resolved with the UK lifting curbs on travellers from India on October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-vaccination-certificate-gets-5-more-recognitions-says-mea-101635768087874.html
01-11-2021||India||Former Miss Kerala and runner-up killed in car crash near Kochi||Former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer, 25, and runner-up Anjana Shajan, 26, were both killed in a road accident at Vytilla near Kochi on Monday when their car tried to avoid a motorcycle, lost control and overturned, according to police. While both of them died on the spot, two other passengers in the car were injured in the accident and their condition was serious, police said. Both the women gone visited Kochi for a fashion show, their relatives said.Police said the incident took place around 1.30am when driver in which the two women were travelling tried to avoid hitting a bike, lost control, hit a tree and turned turtle. The car was found in a mangled state. Police said they got hold of some CCTV visuals from the area, but it was not clear what exactly triggered the accident. Relatives of Kabeer and Shajan said they were close friends and worked together on several modelling projects. Kabeer, a resident of Thiruvananthapuram, had won the Miss Kerala title in 2019, and Shajan, reportedly a Thrissur native, finished runner-up that year..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-miss-kerala-and-runner-up-killed-in-car-crash-near-kochi-101635767610139.html
01-11-2021||India||Supreme Court sets aside Calcutta HC blanket ban order on firecrackers||The Supreme Court on Monday set aside Calcutta high court's order of putting a blanket ban on the sale, purchase and use of all firecrackers in West Bengal during Kali Puja and Diwali celebrations and other upcoming festivities this year to check air pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The Supreme Court also asked the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government to explore possibilities to ensure that banned firecrackers and related items are not imported to the state at the entry point itself.A special bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Ajay Rastogi was hearing the pleas against the October 29 high court order banning the sale, use and purchase of all types of firecrackers, limiting festivities to only wax or oil-based diyas.One of the petitions at the high court hearing had claimed that imposing a blanket ban on firecrackers within West Bengal was “patently erroneous” when the Supreme Court has allowed the use of green firecrackers in permissible limits across the country."The state should ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers of any type at all during Kali Puja, Diwali celebrations as well as Chhath Puja, Jagadhatri Puja, Guru Nanak’s birthday and Christmas and New Year’s eve celebrations this year," the high court had said.It had also directed police to maintain a strict vigil to ensure the same and take appropriate measures against those found violating the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-sets-aside-calcutta-hc-order-on-blanket-ban-of-firecrackers-101635763129328.html
01-11-2021||India||‘Mil baant ke malai khate hain’: Kejriwal's take on Cong-BJP corrupt tie-up||Delhi chief minister and the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said both the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were corrupt and working in collusion. Addressing a gathering in Goa where the AAP is looking to revive its fortunes in the next Assembly election, Kejriwal announced a number of freebies if voted to power, including free pilgrimage to Ayodhya for Hindus, similar trips to Velankanni for Christians, Ajmer Sharif for Muslims and Shirdi temple for Sai Baba devotees.  If we form Govt in Goa, we will arrange free pilgrimage to Ayodhya for Hindus and to Velankanni for Christians. For Muslims, we will provide a free trip to Ajmer Sharif and to Shirdi temple for those who revere Sai Baba: Delhi CM and AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal in Goa pic.twitter.com/vFKcPYMwi4Regarding the two national parties, Kejriwal said the Congress and BJP had an agreement wherein neither took action against each other when in power, Kejriwal said “mil baant ke malai khate hain (they share and enjoy all paybacks)”. He asked why no case had so far been filed against any Congress leader.Also read: ‘They didn’t take politics seriously’: Mamata’s fresh jibe at Congress in Goa“Both Congress and BJP are corrupt. This is why the Congress doesn't dare to speak against BJP because they know they would be sent to jail if they speak. Why hasn't a single case been filed against any ex-Congress CM or minister in the last 10 yrs of BJP rule?” Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Both the Congress and BJP are working in collusion. Mil baant ke malai khate hain. They have an agreement, as per which, neither takes action against another when they come to the government,” he added.Both Congress and BJP are working in collusion. Mil baant ke malai khate hain. They have an agreement, as per which, neither takes action against another when they come to Govt: Delhi CM and AAP Convener Arvind Kejriwal in Goa pic.twitter.com/Wgdaq9btw0On Sunday, the AAP head had taken to Twitter stating that he would speak to his Goan brothers and sisters a day later."In our lives, religious places and shrines have a significant role. Only through the blessings of God, we receive new energy and new direction to our life. I am coming to Goa tomorrow to speak with my Goan brothers and sisters," he said.During his previous visit to Goa last month, Kejriwal had promised employment for every once an AAP government was formed in the state.The party has seen a recent spate of large joinings of mass leaders like Dayanand Narvekar, Babu Nanoskar, Satyavijay Naik, Rajdeep Naik, Ganpat Gaonkar, Dominic Gaonkar, Ritesh Chodankar and Amit Palekar.Goa will go to Assembly polls early next year along with Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mil-baant-ke-malai-khate-hain-kejriwal-s-take-on-cong-bjp-corrupt-tieup-101635765934421.html
01-11-2021||India||In Cong’ UP poll pitch, slew of promises for women including govt jobs||Weeks after announcing 40% party tickets for women in the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra promised a bonanza of benefits for women, including two in every five government jobs for women in the state, if the party comes to power.Gandhi also announced that women would get 3 cooking gas cylinders annually for free and they won’t need to buy tickets in state government buses. She also promised scooters and smartphones for girl students—a leap from the usual poll promises of bicycles.Party insiders claimed that all these measures are aimed to create a class-based vote bank for the Congress that had rapidly lost its erstwhile vote-base in the post-Mandal politics to SP, BSP and the BJP in UP and Bihar.“Priyanka has established her as the face of the Congress in UP and many women look up to her as their favourite leader. She is also looking at the broader picture and trying to reach out to a broader section of the UP society,” said a senior strategist.A person familiar with the matter in the party also revealed that the women-centric announcements were a result of a strategy in which both Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi were involved.The most populous state will go for assembly polls in March next year.Among the other measures, Priyanka announced monthly ₹10,000 for all Asha and Anganwadi workers. The two are woman-led critical workforce for health and social welfare in the hinterlands of India. Gandhi also announced A widow pension of ₹1,000 per month and 75 vocational schools across the state.The poll promises also signal a new style of campaign and tactics to preempt the manifesto of other parties. Usually, Congress reaches out to many sections of the society for feedback and then stitches its manifesto trying to cater to a broader aspiration. But now, for UP at least, the poll manifesto is seeing a staggered release and the process has started when the election is still at least three months away.It still might be a tough challenge for Congress to win Uttar Pradesh. In the last UP assembly polls, the Congress bagged just 6.25% of popular votes and seven seats in UP. In the national election, the party got just one seat but maintained its vote share at 6.36%. The then Congress president Rahul Gandhi lost his family borough Amethi (he got elected in Wayanad) to Union minister Smriti Irani. Only Sonia Gandhi won from Raebareli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-cong-up-poll-pitch-slew-of-promises-for-women-including-govt-jobs-101635766049175.html
01-11-2021||India||Prez revokes suspension of DoT official who sought action against Kapil Mishra||President Ram Nath Kovind revoked the suspension of Department of Telecommunication (DoT) official Ashish Joshi, who had in 2019 asked the Delhi Police to take action against then rebel Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator, Kapil Mishra, over an alleged inflammatory video and a Twitter post.In the post, Kapil Mishra emphasised the need to attack India’s “internal enemies” like journalist Barkha Dutt, and activists Prashant Bhushan, Kavita Krishnan, and Shehla Rashid.Although back with the department of telecommunication that he was part of until his suspension, Joshi refused to comment when contacted by the Hindustan Times.Joshi was suspended on February 26, 2019, after he approached the Delhi police commissioner for action against Kapil Mishra for circulating an “incendiary video” and allegedly provoking people to attack "against traitors" on YouTube and Twitter in violation of the Information Technology Act and Indian Penal Code. He was the controller of communications account in Dehradun. Department of Telecommunications circular against the video uploaded by Mr. Kapil Mishra. It is copied to @DelhiPolice as it violates IPC and IT Act provisions. pic.twitter.com/tXJLK62QVaA week before that, the IAS officer had also reportedly an order to telecom operators to crack down on “offensive or obscene messages” and set up a helpline to receive complaints against such customers.Govt suspends DoT official #AshishJoshi for reporting hate speech by @KapilMishra_IND https://t.co/p1ZP2D0xUw @Secretary_DoT @BDUTT @Nidhi @sardesairajdeep pic.twitter.com/C0ra8ZCcl8Taking cognisance of his actions, the telecommunication department charged Joshi for what they claimed “misusing official letterhead for filing a complaint” against Mishra and also issuing orders to telecom operators on offensive messages with “malafide intent without having any jurisdiction or making any advance preparation to address complaints that would come in response to the order.” The telecom claimed that the IAS officer the civil services conduct rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-revokes-suspension-of-bureaucrat-ashish-joshi-101635764321969.html
01-11-2021||India||Chidambaram accuses Yogi Adityanath of ‘mocking’ women and their aspirations||Former Union minister and Congress veteran P Chidambaram on Monday hit out at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for what the former described as the latter ‘mocking’ women and their aspirations, when talking about Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's recent announcement of reserving 40 per cent tickets for women candidates for next year's assembly elections in the northern state."Also Read | Cong to give 40% tickets to women in UP polls, says Priyanka“UP CM Mr. Adityanath did not mock @priyankagandhi's announcement that 40% of Congress candidates in the UP elections will be women. He mocked women and their aspirations. It is in the DNA of the BJP to assert the superiority of men over women,” Chidambaram posted on Twitter.The former finance and home minister then dared the central government to move the stalled Women's Reservation Bill in Parliament. “The truth will be revealed if the Modi government moves the Bill in Parliament to reserve one-third of the seats in the Lok Sabha and State Assembly for women. Will Mr. Adityanath publicly declare his party's support for the passage of the Bill?” he questioned.
01-11-2021||India||Letter offers hefty rent, job against space for Wi-Fi towers; ‘fake’ says govt||The government has denied it issued an agreement letter promising hefty sum as rent and a government job to the family which will offer space for setting up Wi-Fi towers. The denial has been posted by PIB Fact Check on its Twitter handle along with the fake letter.The 'agreement letter' carries Digital India logo on top and the seal of compliance office (with incorrect spelling) and the text is written in Hindi for the people living in rural areas.The document also seeks a non-refundable payment of ₹730.In a tweet, PIB Fact Check clarified that the letter has not been sent by the Government of India and is fake.It is claimed in an approval letter that Govt of India is installing mobile towers under @_DigitalIndia Wi-Fi network. The letter is also asking a payment of ₹730 on the pretext of registration fee#PIBFactCheck▶️This is claim #FAKE▶️GOI has not issued this approval letter pic.twitter.com/JcBH2Wntks“It is claimed in an approval letter that Govt of India is installing mobile towers under @_DigitalIndia Wi-Fi network. The letter is also asking a payment of ₹730 on the pretext of registration fee," PIB Fact Check tweeted.The rent amount mentioned in the letter is ₹25,000, ₹30 lakh as advance and a 20-year agreement. It also promised permanent job to one with a monthly salary of ₹25,000.How to spot a fake letterThe documents usually circulated on social media platforms and messaging apps like WhatsApp have a lot of spelling and grammatical mistakes. Some instances have been found in the past where such letter carry incorrect spellings and the language is littered with grammatical and syntactical errors.The documents tweeted by PIB Fact Check is full of such errors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/letter-offers-hefty-rent-job-against-space-for-wi-fi-towers-fake-says-govt-101635762797137.html
01-11-2021||India||Witness Prabhakar Sail ready to cooperate in inquiry against Wankhede: Lawyers tell NCB||The lawyers of a controversial independent witness in the drugs-on-cruise case informed the Narcotics Control Bureau that their client will cooperate in the inquiry that was started against NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede based on his complaint. The witness, Prabhakar Sail, claimed to have overheard a conversation about an alleged payoff of ₹25 crore involving Sameer Wankhede in connection with the case. Based on the alleged conversation, Sail had claimed that ₹8 crore of the total payoff amount was to be given to Wankhede.The serious charges levelled by Sail prompted the anti-drugs agency to start an inquiry against Wankhede, who is also facing allegations of forging caste documents to get into the Indian Revenue Service (IRS), a claim he has dismissed as “baseless”. While the Mumbai Police recorded the state of Sail last week, the NCB said it was unable to contact the Panch witness to join them in the separate probe."We have tried our best to contact them but could not. Through the media, I would like to tell them they are free to join in two days and give evidence to special inquiry team which has been staying at CRPF mess at Bandra (West)," NCB's deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh said.Sail’s lawyers told the NCB that he is ready to cooperate in the inquiry but he hasn’t been served any summons yet, reported news agency ANI. Sail worked as a bodyguard for KP Gosavi, another controversial witness in the case who has been arrested after his name surfaced in multiple cheating cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/witness-prabhakar-sail-ready-to-cooperate-in-inquiry-against-wankhede-lawyers-tell-ncb-101635761621163.html
01-11-2021||India||MP home minister to Sabyasachi, Dabur: Don’t insult Hindu traditions again||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Monday warned designer brand Sabyasachi and consumer goods company Dabur against repeating the mistake of “insulting Hindu religious traditions” or else “direct action” will be taken without warning.The comments came a day after Sabyasachi on Sunday withdrew its mangalsutra advertisement amid a backlash, saying it was “deeply saddened” that it offended a section of the society. The designer brand faced flak on social media as well as from a section of politicians over the advertisement portraying a woman posing in an intimate position with a man.The campaign was withdrawn hours after Mishra issued a “24-hour ultimatum” to Sabyasachi to withdraw it or else face statutory action. Mishra called the advertisement an “objectionable and obscene” portrayal of mangalsutra, which is worn by married Hindu women.Watch: Sabyasachi receives backlash for mangalsutra ad campaignMishra told journalists on Monday that after his warning, Sabyasachi withdrew the advertisement. “After the apology, I ended this matter,” said Mishra. He added they would not allow any insult to Hindu religious tradition and faith. “It was for the first time... so, whether it is Sabyasachi or Dabur, we accept that it was a mistake but we would not tolerate recurrence of such things. Next time, we would not warn them but will take direct action.” Dabur earlier last week apologised and withdrew an advertisement featuring a same-sex couple celebrating the Hindu festival of Karwa Chauth after Mishra criticised it for showing “objectionable content” and warned of action if it was not withdrawn.Mishra on Monday called Hindu religion a “soft target” while accusing filmmakers and companies of continuously insulting it. He last week backed Bajrang Dal after it vandalised the set of web series Ashram 3 in Bhopal. Mishra said filmmakers will have to take prior permission for shooting “objectionable scenes” including those that may hurt the “religious sentiments”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-home-minister-to-sabyasachi-dabur-don-t-insult-hindu-traditions-again-101635762328626.html
01-11-2021||India||Aryan Khan drugs case: Sameer Wankhede visits SC panel with his caste documents||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede on Monday visited the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) to present his caste documents proving that he is a member of the Dalit community.Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, who made a series of allegations against Wankhede, last week claimed the officer is a Muslim but made a fake scheduled caste (SC) certificate through forgery to get into the Indian Revenue Service under the reserved category. Malik tweeted a copy of a birth certificate, which he claimed is of Wankhede. The document shows his father’s name is Dawood K Wankhede while it is Dnyandev Wankhede as per the NCB website.“We will see and verify his documents,” said Subhash Ramnath Pardhi, an NCSC member.Sameer Wankhede is leading the investigation into a drugs case that last month had led to the arrest of Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son.Also Read: Aryan Khan changed his Instagram DP after returning from jail? Here’s the truthNCSC vice-chairperson Arun Halder met Wankhede over the weekend and said he thinks the officer is from SC. “He has denied allegations of any religious conversion.”Malik said he will approach President Ram Nath Kovind against Halder’s “clean chit” to Wankhede.Wankhede has registered a complaint with the NCSC, which has initiated an inquiry into the matter. Wankhede has said his father is a Hindu while his late mother was a Muslim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-drugs-case-sameer-wankhede-visits-sc-panel-with-his-caste-documents-101635761382971.html
01-11-2021||India||Manmohan Singh's wife says ex-PM recovering from dengue at home, thanks AIIMS staff||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s wife Gursharan Kaur on Monday issued a statement thanking all staff of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, for the veteran Congress leader’s speedy recovery.Singh, who came back home from the premier hospital a day ago after a few weeks of treatment, was recovering from dengue fever, his wife said.In an official statement, Kaur said, “My family and I are pleased to inform our all friends and well-wishers that Dr Manmohan Singh is recovering from his bout of dengue fever."Also read | Mansukh Mandaviya faces heat over picture with ailing Manmohan Singh"We would like to convey our special thanks to all the doctors, nurses and support staff of AIIMS and numerous well-wishers for their whole-hearted support and hard work for his speedy recovery," she added.Singh was admitted to AIIMS on October 13 following a complaint of weakness and was under the observation of doctors since then.The 89-year-old leader had earlier been admitted to the premier hospital after testing positive for coronavirus in April this year. The two-time Prime Minister marked his birthday on September 26.Last year too, the widely renowned economist had received treatment at AIIMS after complaining of uneasiness.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-s-wife-says-he-is-recovering-from-dengue-thanks-aiims-staff-101635760212286.html
01-11-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait reiterates threat to escalate farmer protests||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday reiterated his threat to escalate protests against the three farm laws enacted last year, a day after he threatened to turn all government offices into grain markets if authorities dismantled their protest sites.“The central government has time till November 26. On November 27, farmers will reach the protest sites in Delhi on tractors and strengthen their fortifications,” Tikait tweeted in Hindi on Monday.Tikait, who has been at the forefront of the year-long agitation against the laws, earlier on Sunday tweeted his new protest plan. He later spoke to farmers at one of the farmer protest sites on Delhi borders in Ghazipur and asked them to be prepared. “If farmers are forcibly removed from the borders, then they will turn government offices in the country into grain markets,” Rakesh Tikait said in his tweet on Sunday.Also Read: Machines to control stubble not reaching farmers, claims UgrahanThousands of farmers have since November last year pitched tents at Singhu, Ghaziabad, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur for their protests against the laws.Tikait’s warnings have come days after the Delhi Police on October 29 started removing barricades and concrete barriers put up at the Gazipur and Tikri protest sites.The Supreme Court on October 21 said farmers have the right to protest but roads should not be blocked indefinitely. The observation came in response to a plea against the blockade of roads between Delhi and Noida due to farmers’ protests.Farmers have continued their sit-ins demanding the scrapping of the laws enacted to liberalise agricultural trade. The government has maintained the laws were necessary to boost the farm sector, which employs half of all Indians. Major farm unions have said the laws will leave cultivators at the mercy of big private companies.There has been no point of agreement between the government and the farmers despite 11 rounds of talks. The talks were last held on January 22 when the government offered to freeze the laws for 18 months. The farmers rejected the proposal.The laws seek to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce. They provide for setting up free markets, which will co-exist with regulated markets, and allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales. The laws lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. Farm unions say free markets under the laws will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and make them vulnerable to exploitation.The government has maintained the laws would not impact the current system of assured prices for cereals farmers are offered in government-run markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-reiterates-threat-to-escalate-farmer-protests-101635759268111.html
01-11-2021||India||Delhi's air quality expected to remain poor till Diwali, dip further from next day: IMD scientist||A scientist with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday said air quality in the national capital is likely to remain in ‘poor’ category till Diwali, following which it could dip to ‘very poor’ category due to northwesterly winds and bursting of crackers during the festival days. IMD scientist VK Soni's statement came amid severe concerns being expressed from across all corners over fall in air quality level over the past few days and upcoming festivities. Soni further said the minimum temperature will remain between 13-15 degrees Celsius for the next three days, according to an ANI report.The air quality in Delhi remained in the poor category on Monday morning as well. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) at 7am was 278 in the “poor” category. The average 24-hour AQI on Sunday was 289.Also read | Rain helps Delhi see best air quality in 4 years, even as few areas show concernMeanwhile, the high court said earlier in the day sale of firecrackers was not permitted in the national capital as per the orders passed by the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme CourtResponding to a plea from several traders against the complete ban on the storage and sale of all kinds of firecrackers, Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said the petitioners ought to approach the apex court or the NGT for any relief.Also read | Diwali 2021: Is bursting of crackers allowed in your state? Check here“Please go to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court is already looking into the issue today. Seek a clarification. (High court is the) Wrong forum. Inform NGT. They are a specialised body,” the judge was quoted as saying in a PTI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-may-remain-poor-till-diwali-dip-further-from-next-day-imd-101635758733873.html
01-11-2021||India||Zika virus in UP: Kanpur now has confirmed 10 cases, state steps up surveillance||The number of Zika virus cases in Uttar Pradesh rose to 10 on Monday with all the infections being reported from Kanpur, local officials said as the state government stepped up surveillance to check the spread of the disease.The tally, which was at four till Sunday afternoon, increased to 10 after six more samples tested positive for the virus that spreads through bites of infected mosquitoes. The first case of the disease was confirmed in the state on October 24.In view of the rising cases, the local administration said the state government is carrying out testing of samples on a large scale.So far, a total of 645 samples have been sent to the King George's Medical University (KGMU), news agency PTI reported. Out of these, 253 samples have been collected from people with symptoms of fever and 103 others are of pregnant women, the officials said.On Sunday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked the local administration to ensure strict surveillance to check the spread of the virus. The chief minister also asked the officials to conduct extensive door-to-door sanitisation and fogging drives to check mosquito breeding.He further said the health department is carrying out mass-scale sanitisation and state-wide surveillance drives. Spraying of anti-larva chemicals from time to time and carrying out regular fogging and cleanliness exercises are also underway, he said.People should be made aware of preventive measures and encouraged to maintain cleanliness, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-in-up-kanpur-now-has-confirmed-10-cases-state-steps-up-surveillance-101635758428160.html
01-11-2021||India||COP26: BASIC nations underline climate finance goal for developed countries||The bloc of four countries called ‘Basic’ - comprising Brazil, South Africa, India and China - is seeking a fresh long-term climate finance goal at the ongoing UN-led COP26 summit on climate change in Glasgow, Scotland.In a statement presented by India’s environment minister, Bhupender Yadav, on behalf of the Basic countries during the opening of the COP26, said the bloc highlighted a road map for the delivery of the promised $100 billion climate finance support for developing countries, and a carbon market mechanism that facilitates private sector engagement in the fight against climate change.The Basic grouping also said its views were aligned with the position taken by the western African country of Guinea on behalf of the G77 group of developing nations and China.“Delivered the Basic statement at the opening plenary of #COP26, underlining that developed nations have not only failed to meet the $100 billion goal per year of support to developing nations since 2009, but also continue to present it as a ceiling of their ambition all the way to 2025,” Bhupender Yadav tweeted on Monday.Also Read: As world leaders in Glasgow, a look at what COP26 aims to achieve“On the long-term temperature goal, the latest available science makes it clear that all parties need to immediately contribute their fair share,” the Basic statement said. “Achieving it will require developed countries to rapidly reduce their emissions and dramatically scale up their financial support to developing countries. Unfortunately, we have not made much progress on these issues. It is particularly disturbing.”The Basic nations said in the statement they are expecting a clear roadmap from developed countries on their existing obligations to mobilise $100 billion per year from 2021 to 2025… and the willingness to urgently initiate the process within the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) of setting a new collective quantified goal on finance.The Basic bloc also said it is expecting a market mechanism that facilitates private sector engagement in carbon markets in the larger fight against climate change.“Decisions particularly on climate finance and Article 6 (which pertains to cutting emissions) can significantly help enhance climate ambition,” the Basic statement said.In 2009, at the COP15 in Copenhagen, Denmark, developed nations committed to a goal of mobilising $100 billion a year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries.A finance delivery plan jointly led by Canada and Germany said developed countries will likely be able to mobilise $100 billion funding only in 2023 - with a delay of three years.Experts, meanwhile, have said it’s already time to increase the promised $100 billion climate finance. According to the UNFCCC’s standing committee on finance, developing countries need almost $6 trillion up to 2030 to implement their nationally determined contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-basic-nations-underline-climate-finance-goal-for-developed-countries-101635756268298.html
01-11-2021||India||Ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh appears before ED for questioning in money laundering case||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday to record his statement in connection with the money laundering case the central agency is probing against him. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) skipped at least four summons issued by the ED in the case.Deshmukh said that false allegations are being made against him that he is not cooperating with central agencies.“There were reports in section of media that I have not been cooperating with the ED and central agencies. It's not true. Whenever I received summons from the ED, I informed them about my pending petitions in High Court and the Supreme Court. I have replied them every time I received the summons,” Deshmukh said in a statement.“I attended two session of inquiry by the CBI. I am pained by the hardship my family members and associates are going through just because of the allegations levelled by the former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh,” he added.The ED is investigating the alleged bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra Police establishment that led to Deshmukh's resignation in April. It will record the statement of the 71-year-old NCP leader under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).Deshmukh appeared before the ED after the Bombay high court last week dismissed his plea, in which he claimed that the money laundering case was initiated against him out of political vendetta.“The applicant, without any valid reason, has refused to co-operate with the investigation by not attending the summonses issued by the authorities,” said the division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal.“The applicant has failed to establish the case of legal and factual malice on the part of the respondent/directorate in proceeding with the investigation in question,” it further noted.The NCP leader had moved the high court on September 1 questioning the repeated summons issued to him by ED and urged the court to allow him appear before the investigators through audio-video medium and produce documents sought by the agency through his representative.The ED case against Deshmukh and others came after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of bribe made by Param Bir Singh, the former Mumbai Police commissioner. Singh claimed that Deshmukh had instructed certain officers, including dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Waze, to collect a monthly sum of ₹100 crore from various establishments such as bars, dance bars and hookah parlours in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-appears-before-ed-for-questioning-in-money-laundering-case-101635754098043.html
01-11-2021||India||INS Visakhapatnam to be commissioned on Nov 18, followed by INS Vela sub||With the global focus on Indo-Pacific, defence minister Rajnath Singh is expected to commission guided-missile destroyer, INS Visakhapatnam, the first of the four of its class, on November 18 in Mumbai to add more teeth to the Indian Navy. The stealth P 15B destroyer was delivered to the Indian Navy on October 28 after all sea checks and trials.It is understood that INS Vela, the fourth out of six INS Kalveri class diesel attack submarines, will also be commissioned before the end of this month most likely by external affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar or by outgoing Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh. Both the vessels have been built by Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders with INS Vela being designed by the French naval group.According to the Indian Navy, all the four destroyers of the Visakhapatnam class including INS Mormugao, Imphal and Porbandar, will be launched by 2022 with the destroyers adding to the punch of Indian military might and coverage of the Indo-Pacific.Even though INS Vela is a diesel attack submarine, it will act as sea denial as well as access denial to the adversary. Designed on the Scorpene-class, the Exocet missile-carrying submarine may be fitted with DRDO designed air-independent propulsion technology at a later stage as part of its mid-life refit.According to the Indian Navy, the P15B destroyers incorporate new design concepts for improved survivability, sea denial, stealth and enhanced manoeuvrability. The stealth features have been achieved through new hull design and the use of radar transparent deck fittings which make these ships difficult to detect. The design around the bridge area appears to be the main design change compared to the preceding Kolkata class of destroyers. P15B ships will be equipped to carry and operate two US MH 60 R multi-role helicopters.The Visakhapatnam-class shares several sensors and weapon systems with its preceding design, the Kolkata-class (Project 15A) of destroyers: The IAI EL/M-2248 MF-STAR S-band AESA multi-function radar, Thales LW-08 D-band air search radar, BEL HUMSA-NG bow sonar are fitted on both classes. Like Project 15A, Project 15B will be fitted with 32x Barak 8 surface to air missiles (launched from VLS cells) as well as 16 BrahMos anti-ship and land-attack cruise missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-visakhapatnam-to-be-commissioned-on-nov-18-followed-by-ins-vela-sub-101635753692980.html
01-11-2021||India||'Talibani mentality': Adityanath attacks Akhilesh for 'comparing' Jinnah with Sardar Patel||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday lashed out at Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav for speaking against India’s first deputy prime minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Pakistan’s Muhammad Ali Jinnah in the same breath.Referring to the remark, the Uttar Pradesh CM said it was “shameful” of Akhilesh Yadav to “compare Jinnah with Sardar Patel”. He further said it is this “Talibani mentality” that divides the people.“The Samajwadi Party chief yesterday compared Jinnah to Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. This is shameful. It's a Talibani mentality that believes in dividing. Sardar Patel united the country. Presently, under the leadership of the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi], work is underway to achieve ‘Ek Bharat, Shresth Bharat’,” Adityanath said.Yadav made the remarks while addressing a public meeting in Uttar Pradesh's Hardoi on Sunday, also the day when India celebrated the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.Also read | Akhilesh Yadav not to contest next Uttar Pradesh assembly polls“Sardar Patel, Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle,” the SP leader said.Yadav's remark prompted criticism from a number of Bharatiya Janata Party leaders on Sunday. "Why is Akhilesh Yadav praising Muhammad Ali Jinnah on the birth anniversary of Sardar Patel?" BJP’s Uttar Pradesh unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh said in a tweet in Hindi.BJP's Rajya Sabha MP Brij Lal also attacked Akhilesh Yadav in a video message.“SP chief Akhilesh Yadav compared Iron Man (Sardar Patel) with Jinnah. Akhilesh Yadav must read history. Jinnah was involved in the mass murder of Hindus and also in the partition of the country. A day before the Sardar Patel anniversary, your father (Mulayam Singh Yadav) on October 30, 1990, had fired on Ram devotees in Ayodhya, and mother Saryu (river) became red,” Lal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talibani-mentality-adityanath-attacks-akhilesh-for-comparing-jinnah-with-sardar-patel-101635753305216.html
01-11-2021||India||'If he repeats it, then...': MP minister's latest warning to Sabyasachi after he withdraws mangalsutra ad||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Monday warned of "direct action" against the Sabyasachi Mukherjee, a day after the fashion designer withdrew his Manglasutra campaign, which drew a major backlash from some people in the country, including the minister. “Sabyasachi Mukherjee has withdrawn the objectionable advertisement after my post. If he repeats such a thing, then direct action will be taken. No warning will be given,” Mishra said, according to news agency ANI.“I appeal to him and those like him to not hurt sentiments of people,” Mishra added.Sabyasachi said on Sunday he “was deeply saddened" that the advertisement offended a section of the society as he withdrew the campaign featuring models in intimate poses with a mangalsutra on. "In the context of making heritage and culture a dynamic conversation, the Mangalsutra campaign aimed to talk about inclusivity and empowerment," Sabyasachi said on Sunday."The campaign was intended as a celebration," he added as he clarified his position.on his ad on the mangalsutra, which is a traditional necklace worn by married Hindu women in India.Following the launch of the campaign, the designer known for his exquisite designs faced flak on social media platforms as well as from a section of politicians from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the advertisement.As Mishra, who is also a BJP leader and a member of the legislative assembly from Datia constituency, also appealed to Sabyasachi and his likes to "not hurt sentiments of people."The latest row comes after a series of advertisements by various other brands also faced similar backlash and the companies were forced to withdraw their ad campaigns.Last week, FMCG major and wellness firm Dabur India withdrew its advertisement on the festival of Karva Chauth showing a lesbian couple celebrating in the campaign of its Fem Creme bleach and issued an unconditional apology. Dabur also faced backlash on social media platforms and also from the MP home minister, who also issued an ultimatum against the company.Before this, Fabindia was forced to rename its apparel collection 'Jashn-e-Riwaaz' due to the use of Urdu words usage. The campaign was launched ahead of the Diwali festival.In September, a campaign promoting gender equality with respect to the 'kanyadaan' marriage tradition, was targeted on social media for hurting Hindu sentiments. The ad had featured actor Alia Bhatt is seen questioning the old tradition of 'kanyadaan' in the video ad.Last year as well, jewellery brand Tanishq faced a backlash against an advertisement that showed an interfaith couple at a baby shower organised for the Hindu bride by her Muslim in-laws.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-he-repeats-it-then-mp-minister-s-latest-warning-to-sabyasachi-after-he-withdraws-mangalsutra-ad-101635752773252.html
01-11-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav not to contest next Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Monday that he will not contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections next year. He also announced an alliance between his party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) for the upcoming state elections.When asked about taking uncle Shivpal Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL) along in the polls, he told mediapersons during an interaction, "I don't have any problem in this. He and his men will be given due honour".Yadav is a Member of Parliament (MP) from Azamgarh in eastern Uttar Pradesh. He has never contested the assembly polls in UP.Yadav's Samajwadi Party was in the power in Uttar Pradesh before the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) dethroned it and captured power in 2017 assembly elections.This time, Yadav is aiming to defeat the BJP and for that, his party has forged alliance with Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), a former BJP ally-turned-rival. SBSP president Om Prakash Rajbhar was a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, but was dismissed by Adityanath in 2019 after he accused the state government of not doing enough for the backward castes. SP has also inducted a BJP legislator and six rebel Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs ahead of the polls.Addressing a meeting in Hardoi on Sunday, the SP chief claimed that all sections of people in Uttar Pradesh have made up their minds to bring his party to power in the state after the 2022 assembly elections.Taking a dig at the ruling BJP, Yadav said that the party has only one thing to do - renaming works carried out by the previous SP government. Yadav also said that the saffron party was “unlikely” to find ticket-seeking candidates due to people’s “anger” against the ruling party."All sections of people have made up their minds to elect an SP government in the assembly elections, following which Uttar Pradesh will get back on the path to growth and prosperity," said Yadav.Akhilesh Yadav has even launched a slogan 'Khadeda Hobe', based on Trinamool Congress' massively popular poll cry during West Bengal Assembly elections, to claim that the Adityanath-led government will be driven away from the state following the next Assembly election.He launched a statewide 'Vijay Yatra' from Kanpur earlier this month, which the SP said will "make people aware about the corrupt, autocratic and suppressive policies of the BJP government and to establish real democracy".Akhilesh became the president of the Samajwai Party for the second time in 2017, just ahead of the assembly elections. In the run-up to the elections, Akhilesh and his father Mulayam Singh Yadav - who founded the party - had a falling out that played out in public several times. However, Mulayam gave his blessings to Akhilesh before the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-not-to-contest-next-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-101635752011505.html
01-11-2021||India||Will give evidence of Nawab Malik's ties with underworld after Diwali: Fadnavis||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday hit back at Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik after he alleged he used to run a drug cartel in Mumbai during his tenure as the chief minister of the state. Fadnavis said that he will present the evidence of Nawab Malik's connection with the underworld after Diwali. “Those who have relations with the underworld should not speak about me,” news agency ANI quoted Fadnavis as saying.Malik also questioned the link between Fadnavis and a drug peddler named Jaydeep Rana and said the man enjoys good relations with Fadnavis.Malik, who is the Nationalist Congress Party leader, further alleged that Rana funded an album named ‘Mumbai River Anthem’ which was sung by Amruta Fadnavis, wife of Devendra Fadnavis, and Bollywood singer Sonu Nigam. The album was released in February 2018.Also read | On Wankhede’s ‘clean chit’ by caste panel official, Nawab Malik’s objectionNawab Malik then went on to wonder whether Fadnavis is the “mastermind behind the game of drugs in Maharashtra”, which could also be a reference to the sensational drugs-on-cruise case where Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others are facing trial. “Fadnavis’ role in the matter needs to be probed. We demand an investigation either through judicial commission or CBI,” Malik said.He further claimed Sameer Wankhede, who is leading the probe in the drugs-on-cruise case, was transferred to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) by Fadnavis.Malik has been attacking Wankhede ever since he raided the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and arrested Aryan Khan among others. The minister has repeatedly claimed that the NCB raid on the cruise ship on October 2 was "fake".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-evidence-of-nawab-malik-s-ties-with-underworld-after-diwali-fadnavis-101635746638511.html
01-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Australia decides to recognise Covaxin and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19 pandemic: Australia opens door to Indians vaccinated with CovaxinThe Australian government on Monday said it has decided to recognise Covaxin, India-based Bharat Biotech’s vaccine against Covid-19. Read moreKashmir bracing for further dip in temperatures, mild spell of wet weatherSrinagar recorded a maximum day temperature of 18.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, while it was 4.4 degrees Celsius during the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. Read moreRohit Sharma was told we don't trust you to face Trent Boult: Sunil Gavaskar on changes in India's batting order vs NZThe strategy did not work as India's top four failed to capitalise, and were dismissed cheaply. In the end, India could only muster 110/7 in 20 overs. Read moreJai Bhim movie review: Suriya headlines a powerful film about fighting for the oppressed and police brutalityJai Bhim movie review: Suriya lets his co-stars take the spotlight, doesn't let the star aura get in the way of telling an important story. Read moreBhumi Pednekar to Alia Bhatt-Sara Ali Khan, BTown divas are fans of red pantsuitMonday calls for a sultry check on boardroom uniforms and who better to take fashion cues from than our own Bollywood actors. Read moreUnder pressure to ‘deliver’, Ola pushes back new date to book electric scootersThe e-scooter startup plans to offer test rides to its customers from this month and start delivery of S1 and S1 Pro electric scooters soon. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-australia-decides-to-recognise-covaxin-and-all-the-latest-news-101635747873168.html
01-11-2021||India||In latest warning to Centre over farm laws, Rakesh Tikait gives November 26 ‘ultimatum’||In his fresh attack at the Centre, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, a key figure in the ongoing agitation against the three central agricultural laws, on Monday warned that the central government had time till November 26, after which farmers will arrive at protest sites in Delhi and fortify them further.“The Union government has time till November 26. After that, from November 27 onwards, farmers will drive their tractors from villages to protest sites surrounding Delhi. With solid fortifications, they will strengthen the movement, as well as tents at protest sites” a rough translation of Tikait's tweet, which was made in Hindi, read. केंद्र सरकार को 26 नवंबर तक का समय है, उसके बाद 27 नवंबर से किसान गांवों से ट्रैक्टरों से दिल्ली के चारों तरफ आंदोलन स्थलों पर बॉर्डर पर पहुंचेगा और पक्की किलेबंदी के साथ आंदोलन और आन्दोलन स्थल पर तंबूओं को मजबूत करेगा।#FarmersProtestThe Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader did not mention in his tweet whether November 26 is the deadline for the Centre to revoke the farm laws, or to invite farmers for the next round of talks. However, the day will mark one year since protests against the laws began on the borders of the national capital.This latest warning by Tikait comes just a day after he said that if an attempt was made to forcibly remove the protesters from the borders, then farmers would gherao police stations, as well as district magistrate offices across the country.Also Read | ‘Farmers will set up tents in police stations, DM offices’: Rakesh Tikait on attempts to remove them at GhazipurThe Delhi Police, last week, removed barricades and obstacles put up by it at the Ghazipur and Tikri borders, two of the three sites at which farmers have been protesting since November last year, Singhu border being the third. While Singhu and Tikri are Delhi's borders with Haryana, Ghazipur separates Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Tikait and his group have been agitating at the Ghazipur border.Total 11 rounds of talks between the Centre and farmers have failed to break the impasse; while farmers want laws to be revoked, the government is adamant there won't be a withdrawal. Discussions between the two sides last took place on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-latest-warning-to-centre-over-farm-laws-rakesh-tikait-gives-ultimatum-of-november-26-101635748105135.html
01-11-2021||India||Commercial LPG cylinder price hiked by ₹266; no change for domestic use||Oil companies have hiked the price of commercial Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders by ₹266 starting Monday. However, in a major respite for a common man, the hike will not be applicable on domestic LPG cylinders.With the latest revision in prices, the price of commercial use cylinders in Delhi has crossed the ₹2000-mark and will now be sold for ₹2000.50. Earlier, the 19kg cylinder was being sold at ₹1733.A 19 kg cylinder will be selling for ₹1950 In Mumbai and in Kolkata and Chennai, an Indane LPG cylinder will be available at the price of ₹2073.50 and ₹2133 respectively.Domestic LPG cylinder consumersFor domestic LPG cylinder consumers, the price will remain the same.In Delhi, a non-subsidised gas cylinder of 14.2kg is available for ₹899.50. Prices for the domestic LPG cylinders saw the last hike on October 6, when it was raised by ₹15. Before this, the rates of subsidised and non-subsidised LPG cylinders were hiked by ₹25 on September 1.The price of the LPG cylinder in Delhi was ₹694 in January this year, which was increased to ₹719 in February. On February 15, the price was increased to ₹769. After this, on February 25, the price of the LPG cylinder was reduced to ₹794. In March, the price of the LPG cylinder was reduced to ₹819. 834.50 in July, then on August 18, the prices increased by ₹25 to ₹859.50.The two main factors that determine the prices of LPG cylinders in India are the exchange rate of the rupee against the dollar and the global crude oil pricesThe hike in the price of cylinders coincides with the increase in rates of petrol and diesel. On Monday, the fuel prices in Delhi saw a hike of 35 paise following which, petrol was selling at ₹109.69 per litre and diesel is retailing at ₹98.42.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commercial-lpg-cylinder-price-hiked-by-rs-266-no-change-for-domestic-use-101635748799598.html
01-11-2021||India||Kashmir bracing for further dip in temperatures, mild spell of wet weather||The Kashmir region is bracing for a further fall in temperatures and another mild spell of wet weather as the met department predicted light snow and rains this week.Meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir said two mild western disturbances and winds from Mediterranean were expected to hit the region between November 2 and 5.“Their impact won’t be much. [Between] November 2 and 5, there are chances of scattered rains at isolated places. Mostly, the sky will be overcast,” Mir said.Met department director MeT Sonam Lotus on Sunday afternoon said that the weather in Jammu and Kashmir is most likely to remain cloudy from November 2 to 6. “Light rain and snow are likely at scattered places during the period,” he said.Mir said that there will be a fall in day temperatures. “Day temperatures may go down and hover at around 16-17 degrees Celsius, while there will be some increase in night temperatures,” he said.Srinagar recorded a maximum day temperature of 18.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday, while it was 4.4 degrees Celsius during the intervening night of Sunday and Monday.Jammu recorded 28.1 degrees Celsius as its maximum temperature on Sunday, and a low of 14.9 degrees Celsius during the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-bracing-for-further-dip-in-temperatures-mild-spell-of-wet-weather-101635748287806.html
01-11-2021||India||Former Miss Kerala, runner-up killed in road accident near Kochi||A former Miss Kerala and the runner-up in the same beauty pageant were killed in a road accident at Vytilla near Kerala’s Kochi after their car hit a motorcycle and turtled, police said on Monday.Thiruvananthapuram resident Ancy Kabeer and 25-year-old Anjana Shajan, a Thrissur native, were killed when their car allegedly swerved in a bid to avoid hitting a motorcyclist. Two other passengers in the car were also injured in the accident which took place around 1am on Monday."One another person who was with them in the car is admitted to a nearby hospital and his condition is serious. He hails from Mala in Thrissur," a police official told PTI.However, the condition of the fourth person is said to be stable. Police suspect that only the driver was wearing the seatbelt.Kabeer and Shajan were the winner and runner-up respectively in the 2019 edition of Miss Kerala and were good friends, their relatives said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-miss-kerala-runner-up-killed-in-road-accident-near-kochi-101635746408213.html
01-11-2021||India||PM Modi highlights transparency, trusted sources for better supply chains||In an apparent swipe at China, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has told a global summit on supply chain resilience that trusted sources and transparency are among key factors for enhancing global supply chains.The summit, convened on the margins of the G20 Summit in Rome by US President Joe Biden, was attended by leaders of the European Union, the UK, Australia, Canada, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, South Korea and Singapore. Though there were no direct references to China in the deliberations, the country and its outsize role in supply chains has been a concern for most of the countries that attended the meeting.“I believe three factors are most important to improve global supply chains – trusted source, transparency, and time frame. It is necessary that our supply should be from trusted sources. This is important for our shared security,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi. “Trusted sources should also be such that they do not have a reactive tendency so that supply chains are protected from a tit-for-tat approach. For the reliability of supply chains, it is also necessary that there should be transparency in them. Due to lack of transparency, today we are seeing that many companies of the world are grappling with the shortage of small things,” he said.There are large losses if supplies are not provided in time, and this was seen during the Covid-19 pandemic, when pharmaceutical and medical supplies were not provided on time, Modi said. “So, we will have to diversify our supply chains so that supplies are delivered within a time frame. And for this, alternative manufacturing capacity must be enhanced in developed countries,” he added.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccination: Narendra Modi to hold meeting with 40 district magistratesModi said India has built a reputation as a trusted source for pharmaceutical products and IT. “We are looking forward to play our part in the clean technology supply chain. I suggest that we instruct our teams to meet at the earliest to draw up an action plan based on our shared democratic values within a given time frame,” he said.India has increased the pace of Covid-19 vaccine exports to improve the global supply of doses and is working with its partners in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad to supply cost-effective vaccines to the Indo-Pacific region, he said. India plans to manufacture five billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the world next year and there should be no hindrance in the supply of raw materials to achieve this objective, he said.With the world preparing for post-pandemic economic recovery, problems in the supply of semiconductors and other commodities are hampering healthy growth, Modi noted.The US-led summit discussed near-term supply chain disruptions and ways to long-term resilience. “Secure, sustainable, and resilient global supply chains are foundational to our economic prosperity, national security, and collective interests. Countries expressed intent for working together to strengthen the resilience of our supply chains,” said a chair’s statement issued by the US White House.The meeting focused on strengthening four pillars of global supply chain resilience – transparency, diversity, openness and predictability, security, and sustainability.In his opening remarks, Biden said, “Now that we have seen how vulnerable these lines of global commerce can be, we cannot go back to business as usual. This pandemic won’t be the last global health crisis we face. We also need to increase our resilience in the face of climate change, natural disasters, and even planned attacks.”Biden said the US has been working with partners to bolster supply chains around the world since the beginning of the year. He also announced two new initiatives – additional funding to help US partners cut port congestion by slashing red tape and reducing processing times so that ships can get in and out of our ports faster, and an executive order to strengthen the management of US defence stockpiles for minerals and materials that will allow the country to react more quickly to shortfalls in the industrial base. “The best way to reduce current delays and build in greater resilience for the future is to work together across the entire supply chain, from raw materials to warehousing and distribution,” Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-highlights-transparency-trusted-sources-for-better-supply-chains-101635746427459.html
01-11-2021||India||‘For telling the truth’: Taslima Nasreen alleges her Facebook account banned for 7 days||Bangladeshi author Taslima Nasreen said on Monday that her account on Facebook has been banned “again for 7 days for telling the truth”. “Facebook has banned me for writing Islamists destroyed Bangladeshi Hindu houses & temples believing that Hindus placed Quran on Hanuman's thigh. But when it was revealed that Iqbal Hossain did that, not the Hindus, Islamists were silent, said and did nothing against Iqbal…’” Taslima Nasreen said in a post on Twitter.This is not the first time the author’s account has been barred by Facebook. Before this, Nasreen alleged on March 16 this year that Facebook barred her from using the platform for 24 hours.Facebook has banned me for writing '' Islamists destroyed Bangladeshi Hindu houses & temples believing that Hindus placed Quran on Hanuman's thigh. But when it was revealed that Iqbal Hossain did that, not the Hindus, Islamists were silent, said and did nothing against Iqbal...'"#Facebook banned me for 24 hrs. My crime was I liked the decision of Aarong, a Bangladeshi handicrafts store, for not hiring a Jihadi who refused to follow the rules of Aarong, to shave off his beard to work as a salesman. Islamists have been protesting against Aarong," she tweeted.The author's Facebook account was also allegedly disabled by the social media company in 2015.Facebook has said an account will be banned if anybody breaches its "hate speech" policy. "We define hate speech as a direct attack against people - rather than concepts or institutions - on the basis of what we call protected characteristics: race, ethnicity, national origin, disability, religious affiliation, caste, sexual orientation, sex, gender identity and serious disease," according to Facebook’s policy.Facebook has said that it defines attacks as “violent or dehumanising speech, harmful stereotypes, statements of inferiority, expressions of contempt, disgust or dismissal, cursing and calls for exclusion or segregation.”"We also prohibit the use of harmful stereotypes, which we define as dehumanising comparisons that have historically been used to attack, intimidate or exclude specific groups, and that are often linked with offline violence," it has said.On March 17, Taslima Nasreen claimed that the Bangladeshi governments banned her books."Governments ban my books, jihadists burn my books and threat booksellers not to sell my books. I've got only one platform to express my views in Bengali, that is #fb. But whenever I use my freedom to write on fb freely for my readers, fb bans me. No free-speech for freethinkers," she tweeted.Nasreen, who rose to fame for her powerful works on women oppression, such as Lajja (Shame) and her fearless criticism of religion, left Bangladesh in 1994 in the wake of death threat by fundamentalist outfits for her alleged anti-Islamic views. She has been living in exile since then and lives in New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taslima-nasreen-alleges-her-facebook-account-banned-for-a-week-101635744518362.html
01-11-2021||India||India sees 12,514 fresh Covid-19 cases and 251 deaths; tally at over 34.28 million||India's cumulative caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is at 34,285,914 as 12,514 more people tested positive for the viral illness in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said in its daily bulletin, on Monday. In the same period, 251 Covid-19 related fatalities were also recorded, taking the toll to 458,437, the bulletin showed. Of the fresh infections and deaths, 7167 (57 per cent) and 167 (67 per cent) were from the state of Kerala alone.Also Read | Bengal: Covid-19 safety norms take a back seat as local train services resumeMonday's data further showed that 12,718 more patients were discharged after recovering from the illness, taking the total number of such cases to 33,668,560. With this, the recovery rate improved further to 98.20 per cent. The number of active patients, meanwhile, dipped further to 158,817, falling by 455 cases, and comprise 0.46 per cent of the overall tally; this figure, as per the Union health ministry, is the lowest since March 2020, while the active caseload is the lowest in 248 days.The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.42 per cent as 881,379 samples were tested for Covid-19 on October 31. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), total 609,201,294 samples have been tested till now. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/3N8MBonU7xOn the vaccination front, nearly 1.28 million jabs were administered on Sunday, taking the total number of doses administered since January 16, when the nationwide inoculation drive commenced, to more than 1.06 billion.Also Read | PM Modi to take stock of slow Covid-19 vaccine drive in 40 districtsOn Monday, schools reopened in Delhi for all classes at maximum class strength of 50 per cent. Schools in Kerala reopened as well, for classes 1-7, 10 and 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-12-514-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-251-deaths-tally-at-over-34-28-million-101635740978486.html
01-11-2021||India||Teenage Stanford dropouts raise $60 mn for 10-minute grocery delivery app Zepto||Zepto, a 10-minute grocery delivery app startup founded by two teenage Stanford University dropouts has raised $60 million in funding from investors like Y Combinator and Glade Brook Capital to boost its presence in India’s crowded but fast-growing grocery delivery market. Established earlier this year by 19-year-olds Aadit Palicha and Kaivalya Vohra, Zepto is already backed by Nexus Venture, Global Founders and Silicon Valley angel investors Lachy Groom and Neeraj Arora, the Mumbai-based startup said in a statement Sunday. The firm is valued “between $200 million and $300 million,” Palicha, co-founder and chief executive officer, said on a call without revealing the exact valuation.Palicha and Vohra got admission into Stanford University’s vaunted computer science engineering program last year but decided to quit to pursue entrepreneurship. They zeroed in on grocery delivery -- an area that got a big boost amid the pandemic-led lockdowns in India -- and set about building a service which launched earlier this year.Zepto will be competing with multiple bigger online grocers such as the SoftBank Group Corp-backed Grofers and the Google-backed Dunzo for a slice of the rapid grocery delivery segment, the so-called Quick Commerce or Q-Commerce. With a network of micro-warehouses, known in the industry as cloud or dark stores, it aims to raise the game and deliver within 10 minutes in neighborhoods of Bangalore, Mumbai and Delhi.Besides expanding in these three cities, the startup also plans to start operations in others such as Hyderabad, Pune, Kolkata and Chennai in the coming weeks.  “Q-Commerce in India is an opportunity of epic proportions,” Palicha said in the statement. “We’re consistently growing 200% every single month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teenage-stanford-dropouts-raise-60-mn-for-10-minute-grocery-delivery-app-zepto-101635742362193.html
01-11-2021||India||Weather forecast: Light rain likely in western Himalayan region, parts of Punjab||Widespread and heavy rain is likely in Peninsular India and light and scattered rain in the western Himalayan region on Monday and Tuesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).There is a low-pressure area over Sri Lanka off the Tamil Nadu coast. It is likely to persist over the region for two to three days and then move westwards. Under its influence and strengthening of lower-level easterlies over north Peninsular India, heavy and widespread rain is likely in Peninsular India. Very heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely in the south interior and coastal Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal on Monday and Tuesday. Isolated heavy rainfall is expected in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe, South Interior Karnataka, Coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, and Rayalaseema during the next five days. Also Read: Untimely snow damages apple orchards in Kulgam, Shopian districts in KashmirIt is also likely in Telangana and coastal Karnataka till November 4. Scattered rainfall with isolated thunderstorms and lightning are likely in south Konkan and Goa, south Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, and Vidarbha till November 4.Under the influence of a fresh feeble western disturbance, isolated rainfall is likely in the western Himalayan region and adjoining north Punjab. Mainly dry weather is expected in the remaining parts of the country during the next five days.The IMD’s extended-range forecast for the next two weeks shows minimum temperatures are likely to be way below normal (-3.0 degrees Celsius to -4.0 degrees Celsius) at isolated places in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh, and western parts of Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weather-forecast-light-rain-likely-in-western-himalayan-region-parts-of-punjab-101635737847026.html
01-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt data reveals 31 children died by suicide every day in 2020, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion . Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.An average of 31 children died by suicide every day in India in 2020, according to the data by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), with experts blaming the coronavirus pandemic for accentuating their psychological stress on the children. Read morePresident Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished the people of Kerala on Kerala Day or Kerala Piravi for a bright future. “Greetings to the people of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Lakshadweep and Puducherry on the formation day. My best wishes to the residents of these States and Union Territories for their bright future,” President Kovind said in a tweet. Read moreFor a fan of Indian cricket, the team's defeat to New Zealand in their second Super 12 match of the T20 World Cup will be a hard pill to swallow. After suffering a 10-wicket drubbing to Pakistan, everyone expected India to perform better against the Black Caps. However, things weren't much different a week later as Virat Kohli's side lost by 8 wickets. Soon after, Harbhajan Singh put out a tweet, reminding people to stay respectful. Read morePriyanka Chopra is back in US and has reunited with husband Nick Jonas. The couple also had a reunion with the Jonas family as they all attended the Jonas Brothers Family Roast which will soon arrive on Netflix. The family had recently come together for the Jonas Brothers' concert last week. Read moreNamibia's pacer Ruben Trumpelmann became the first bowler to take three wickets in the first over of a T20I innings. Trumpelmann rattled Scotland with three wickets off his first four balls as Namibia won the match by four wickets in the T20 World Cup. In the exclusive interview with HT, Trumpelmann talks about his ‘potentially life-changing' hat-trick and the team’s T20 world cup journey. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-31-children-died-by-suicide-every-day-in-2020-reveals-govt-data-and-all-the-latest-news-101635736740160.html
01-11-2021||India||Deliver on your promises: Jairam Ramesh’s message to Bhupender Yadav||While Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is taking part in the COP26 climate talks in Glasgow, Scotland, former environment minister Jairam Ramesh took a dig at Bhupender Yadav, current environment minister, calling on him to deliver on his promises.“There’s a book from 2005, Supreme Court on Forest Conservation. One of its authors is now a top environmental lawyer - Ritwick Dutta. The other author is now the environment minister of India - @byadavbjp. Whether he will have the courage of his convictions remains to be seen,” Jairam Ramesh said in a tweet.Also Read: PM Modi in UK’s Glasgow. Here’s what is on the agendaIn another tweet, Jairam Ramesh also recalled former PM Indira Gandhi’s participation in the first ever UN summit on environment, which was also hosted by Stockholm in 1972. “World leaders will gather in Glasgow soon. But Indira Gandhi was the ONLY PM, other than the host, to attend first UN conference on environment in Stockholm in 1972. She made a historic speech and created a huge impact. She walked the talk on environment. We mark her death anniversary today,” Ramesh posted on Sunday, sharing a photo from the 1972 Stockholm summit. Indira Gandhi was assassinated on October 31, 1984 at her residence in New Delhi.Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has consistently criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the recent past. On October 22, he claimed that PM Narendra Modi will speak at the UN climate change summit in Glasgow, his government continues to “dilute all environment and forest laws”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deliver-on-your-promises-jairam-ramesh-s-message-to-bhupender-yadav-101635737126917.html
01-11-2021||India||On Kerala Day, President Kovind and PM Modi wish people a bright future||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished the people of Kerala on Kerala Day or Kerala Piravi for a bright future. “Greetings to the people of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Lakshadweep and Puducherry on the formation day. My best wishes to the residents of these States and Union Territories for their bright future,” President Kovind said in a tweet.“Kerala Piravi day greetings to the people of Kerala. Kerala is widely admired for its picturesque surroundings and the industrious nature of its people. May the people of Kerala succeed in their various endeavours,” PM Modi also posted on Twitter.
01-11-2021||India||Diwali 2021: Is bursting of crackers allowed in your state? Check here||Ahead of Diwali, several states have banned bursting firecrackers for the pollution-free festive season. Many states have, however, allowed the sale and bursting of green crackers, also called eco-friendly crackers as they cause less pollution and also help suppress dust when they are burst. India will celebrate Diwali on Thursday, November 4.Here's a list of states with full directives on the bursting of crackers this Diwali:The Delhi Pollution Control Committee has issued a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1, 2022."...There will be a Complete Ban on bursting and sale of all kinds of firecrackers up to 01.01.2022 in the territory of NCT of Delhi," read the order copy by the committee.The Haryana government has imposed a ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region (NCR) and imposed restrictions in other parts. The districts where a total ban has been imposed include Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendergarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonipat, as per the order issued by the State Disaster Management Authority.The order also mentions that in areas where ambient air quality is ‘moderate’ or better, only green crackers will be allowed for community bursting (by large groups in designated open spots). Even for weddings and other occasions, only green crackers are permitted. The sale of crackers shall only be through licensed traders, as per the order.Meanwhile, the state pollution control board will also release a list of cities where the bursting of firecrackers will be allowed.The Karnataka government has allowed the sale and bursting of only green crackers during Diwali and advised people to strictly adhere to Covid-19 norms. "Other than green crackers that have been permitted by the Supreme Court in its directions, no other crackers can be sold or burst," an order signed by chief secretary P Ravi Kumar said.Sellers who have taken necessary permits from concerned departments and authorities can only sell green crackers. The stalls selling green crackers can be opened only between November 1 to 10.The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) earlier said that green crackers will be allowed on the evening of Diwali and Kali Puja for two hours from 8pm to 10pm. Bursting of green crackers will be allowed for two hours on Chhat Puja from 6am to 8am, and for 35 minutes on Christmas and New Year's Eve, the notification by the Board further said.However, on Friday, the Calcutta High Court banned the sale, purchase and use of all firecrackers during Kali Puja, Diwali celebrations and other festivities this year to check air pollution. Passing the order on a PIL seeking a ban, the court said that the expression “firecrackers” will cover all types of sparklers as well as other similar materials, whether or not their bursting or burning involves any sound or light generation.The order thus nullifies the order by the West Bengal Pollution Control Board that allowed the use of "green" firecrackers for a limited period of time on Diwali and Kali puja.Authorities in Pune have banned the production, sale and possession of a firecracker commonly known as 'sutli' or 'atom' bomb, an official told news agency PTI. He said the sale of firecrackers has been allowed in the city from October 27 to November 7, but the department has urged people to not burst crackers that create noise higher than 125 decibels.The official further said that the bursting of firecrackers that create noise pollution will not be allowed between 10pm and 6am.The Chhattisgarh government has said that firecrackers can be burst during Diwali and Guruparva from 8pm to 10pm; from 6am to 8am on Chhath Puja, and from 11.55pm to 12.30am on New Year and Christmas, according to its guidelines.However, the sale of firecrackers that produce high-decibel sounds in violation of prescribed limits has been banned. The manufacturer risk losing its license if firecrackers are found to contain toxic elements like lithium, arsenic, antimony, lead and mercury. The online sale of crackers has also been banned.The Union territory has allowed the sale of firecrackers at low prices ahead of Diwali. Papsco, a government agency, has also set up shops across the UT to sell the firecrackers at subsidised rates. The agency is providing firecrackers at a 75 per cent subsidy to the general public.The Rajasthan government has permitted only the sale and use of green crackers this Diwali. The government has also issued the restricted timing of the bursting of crackers in the upcoming festive season.According to a revised release by the government, the crackers can be burst from 8pm to 10pm in festivals like Diwali and Guruparab, from 6am to 8am on Chhath Puja, and from 11:55pm to 12:30am on Christmas and New Year.It must be noted that the use of crackers would continue to be banned at the places having the Air Quality Index (AQI) in the “poor" zone or below.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diwali-2021-is-bursting-of-crackers-allowed-in-your-state-check-here-101635733483617.html
01-11-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination: Narendra Modi to hold meeting with 40 district magistrates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual summit with 40 district magistrates across the country where the Covid-19 vaccination coverage has been sluggish so far. A number of chief ministers are also expected to attend the meeting.“Immediately upon returning to the country after attending the… COP26 [in Glasgow, Scotland], Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting with districts having low vaccination coverage, on November 3 at noon via video conferencing,” a press statement issued the Prime Minister’s Office said.The meeting will focus on districts where less than 50% of their population has taken the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, and an even lower percentage has been doubly vaccinated against the disease.Also Read: No seating cap in Delhi cinema halls from today; 200 guests allowed at weddingsMajority of the districts with low Covid-19 vaccination percentages are in Arunachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Manipur, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Nagaland and a few others.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya recently held a review meeting with state health ministers, during which he announced the “Har Ghar Dastak (door-to-door campaign)” to boost vaccination numbers.“We are going to launch the vaccination campaign: “Har Ghar Dastak”. We decided that for the next one month, healthcare workers will go from door to door to vaccinate people eligible for the second dose, and also those who have not taken the first dose,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying following the meeting.He also reportedly noted that 48 districts across the country have been identified where the first-dose coverage was less than 50%.On Sunday, the health ministry said the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered under the country’s inoculation drive stood at 106.14 crore as of 7am.Also, 12,830 new cases of the coronavirus disease and 446 new deaths related to it were reported that day..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-narendra-modi-to-hold-meeting-with-40-district-magistrates-101635735326742.html
01-11-2021||India||PM Modi extends greetings to 5 states on their formation day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday extended his greetings to five states— Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh—on their respective formation day. "Greetings to my sisters and brothers of Andhra Pradesh on the state’s Formation Day. The people of AP are known for their skills, determination and tenacity. That is why they are successful in many fields. May the people of AP always be happy, healthy and successful," PM tweeted in his wishes for the southern state.PM Modi wrote for Kerala that is “widely admired for its picturesque surroundings and the industrious nature of its people. May the people of Kerala succeed in their various endeavours." "Kerala Piravi day greetings to the people of Kerala," PM Modi added."Best wishes on the special occasion of Karnataka Rajyotsava. Karnataka has made a special mark due to the innovative zeal of its people. The state is at the forefront of outstanding research and enterprise. May Karnataka scales newer heights of success in the times to come," the Prime Minister wrote in the following tweets.KeralaKerala celebrates its founding day as Kerala Piravi Day. It was formed on November 1, 1956, long after the Independence of the country. Before this, Kerala was part of three major provinces and several outlying regions under various rulers.Madhya PradeshSituated in the heart of the country, Madhya Pradesh was formed in 1956. Before this, Bhopal, presently the capital of MP, was a separate state. It evolved out of the princely state of Bhopal. Later, the government merged Bhopal with the neighbouring states and formed the state, now known as Madhya Pradesh.ChhattisgarhThe state celebrates its formation day as 'Chhattisgarh Rajyotsava.' Chhattisgarh was carved out of Madhya Pradesh and was declared an independent state by the government in 2000.KarnatakaOn November 1 in 1956, the government merged all the Kannada language-speaking regions of south and western India to form the present state of Karnataka. It was initially called Mysore but was renamed 'Karnataka' in 1973.HaryanaThe state which shares a border with the national capital was constituted in 1966. It was a result of the division of the former state of Punjab into two separate states—Punjabi-speaking Punjab and Hindi-speaking Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-to-5-states-on-their-formation-day-101635733320013.html
01-11-2021||India||31 children died by suicide every day in 2020, reveals govt data; experts blame Covid-19||An average of 31 children died by suicide every day in India in 2020, according to the data by National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), with experts blaming the coronavirus pandemic for accentuating their psychological stress on the children.The NCRB data shows that as many as 11,396 children died by suicide in 2020, which is an 18 per cent rise from 9,613 such deaths in 2019 and a 21 per cent rise from 9,413 in 2018, reported news agency PTI.The data mentions “family problems” as one of the main causes of these suicides attributing 4,006 deaths to it, followed by “love affair” (1,337) and illness (1,327). Other reasons behind suicide by children, as mentioned in the data, include ideological causes or hero-worshipping, unemployment, bankruptcy, impotency or infertility and drug abuse.c"While we as a society are cognisant of tangibles such as education and physical health for building national human capital, emotional wellbeing or psycho-social support often takes a back seat. The successively increasing number of suicides among children reflects a systemic failure," Prabhat Kumar, deputy director of Child Protection, Save the Children, said.Kumar said it is a collective responsibility of parents, families, neighbourhoods, and government at large “to provide a conducive ecosystem where children can look forward to realising their potential and fulfilling their dreams for a bright future.” “Committing suicide, on the contrary, is an antithesis,” he added."Stigma attached to mental health and an abysmally low number of per capita mental health professionals demand urgent attention. Covid-19, and the resultant school closures and social isolation coupled with anxiety among elders has further aggravated the issue and brought it to the forefront. Save the Children calls for a collective action to nurture an encouraging and supportive ecosystem for children and youth," he added.Another expert was of the view that the fear that the pandemic can impact children's mental health and psycho-social wellbeing has been there since the beginning of the outbreak of Covid-19. The NCRB data only provides further proof that the pandemic may have accentuated the psychological trauma faced by the children to a great extent."Children have gone through tremendous emotional stress and trauma due to home confinement and lack of interaction with friends, teachers or any other person in the position of trust due to prolonged closure of schools and limited social interactions," Priti Mahara, the director of policy research and advocacy at CRY-Child Rights and You, was quoted as saying by PTI.Mitra said that many children also fell victims to a hostile environment at home, with schools as a means of escape not an option anymore. Many children also had to deal with losing their loved ones to the pandemic, further impacting their mental well-being. Some were reeling under the deepening financial crisis at the family level, she further said. Many children have also experienced huge uncertainty related to the completion of curriculum, exams and results, leading to anxiety."A huge number of children, especially the ones living under the shadows of multi-dimensional poverty, struggled with attending online classes and were majorly impacted by the digital divide, while many others suffered from over-exposure to internet and the social media and were subjected to online bullying and allied cyber-crimes," she said."All of these, compounded with an overall anxiety of the uncertainty of the future, must have been too much to bear for their young and tender minds," she added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/31-children-died-by-suicide-every-day-in-2020-reveals-govt-data-experts-blame-covid19-101635728283964.html
01-11-2021||India||PM Modi to take stock of slow Covid-19 vaccine drive in 40 districts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold on November 3 a review meeting with senior officials from more than 40 districts in the country that continue to see a significant lag in coverage of adult population with the Covid-19 vaccine, the central government said on Sunday.During the meeting, which will also be attended by several chief ministers, the Prime Minister will interact with district magistrates of more than 40 districts where less than 50% of adult population has received at least one shot of the vaccine, and those districts that have low coverage of the second dose, officials said.According to government data, there are 48 districts in India that are still seeing a heavy lag in vaccination coverage as they are yet to administer even a single shot to more than half their adult population at a time when the national average for such coverage is more than 77%.“Immediately after returning to the country after attending the G20 Summit and COP26, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting with districts having low vaccination coverage, on 3rd November at 12 noon via video conferencing. The meeting will include districts with less than 50% coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of Covid vaccine,” said an official statement issued from the Prime Minister’s Office.“Prime Minister will interact with district magistrates of over 40 districts in Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, and other states with districts having low vaccination coverage. Chief ministers of these states will also be present on the occasion,” the statement read.The lowest coverage by at least one dose of the vaccine among these districts is 16.1% in Nagaland’s Kiphire, while at 49.6% Bihar’s Araria district fares slightly better in the list, as per government data from October 27. North West district in Delhi (48.2%), Aurangabad (46.5%), Nanded (48.4%), Akola (49.3%), Deoghar (44.2%) and West Singhbhum (47.8%) are some of the prominent districts among the identified 48 districts that have to catch up to the national average, according to government data.These districts are located across 13 states, and are a focus of Centre’s attention for faster scale-up of the vaccination coverage in coming days that includes launching a dedicated campaign for conducting door-to-door vaccinations.On Tuesday, Union health minister held an in-person review meeting with health ministers of all states to take up the issue and suggested way for a faster scale-up of the vaccination drive, especially focusing on those beneficiaries whose second dose is now overdue. There are currently 103.4 million beneficiaries are due for their second Covid-19 vaccine shot as per government data.These people have not taken their second shot even after the prescribed interval has passed for their respective vaccines.“We’re going to launch a mega vaccination campaign ‘har ghar dastak’. We’re decided that for the next one month, healthcare workers will go door-to-door to vaccinate people eligible for second dose and also those who have not taken the first dose, especially focusing on the poorly performing districts…” said Mansukh Mandaviya, Union health minister after the meeting.The health minister also assured states that adequate vaccine doses were available in the country to meet the required demand, and at least 120 million balance and unutilised vaccine doses remained available with states.The Centre procured about 280 million Covid-19 vaccine doses, including 220 million Covishield and 60 million Covaxin doses, in the month of October. The volume is likely to go up with the introduction of Zydus Healthcare’s ZyCoV-D vaccine in November, officials have said.“Ideally everyone should get vaccinated, but more important is to cover all of those who are at a higher risk of developing severe form of the disease. It has been well-established that vaccination against Covid significantly helps in averting death due to Covid and also reduces risk of hospitalisation,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology and sleep medicine department, New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-take-stock-of-slow-covid-19-vaccine-drive-in-40-districts-101635726393204.html
01-11-2021||India||No consensus on proposed change to Khasi inheritance law||Legislation proposed by the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC) to change the age-old custom of inheritance among Meghalaya’s Khasi tribe — where the youngest daughter in the family inherits the entire share of the parental property — has evoked mixed reactions among stakeholders with some welcoming it and others advising caution.A sizeable chunk of the indigenous population for whom the proposed Bill, (The Khasi Hills Autonomous District Khasi Inheritance of Property Bill, 2021) is intended, believes that the way it has been announced without proper and adequate consultation seems to imply a premature attempt to woo voters for the 2023 assembly elections.Among the matrilineal Khasis, lineage and inheritance are traced through the mother, and not the father. The community, which comprises nearly half of Meghalaya’s total population of 3,366,710 (according to Unique Identification Aadhar India, May 2020 data), follows the custom of the youngest daughter in the family becoming the custodian of the family’s land and assuming the responsibility of taking care of her parents, unmarried or destitute siblings.However, she isn’t the owner of the property and can only sell it off after getting consent from her maternal uncle. Over the years, there have been demands to amend the inheritance customs so that sons and other daughters can also get an equitable share of the family property.But a prominent group advocating for a patrilineal system since 1990, Syngkhong Rympei Thymmai (SRT) which was founded on the principles of the 1960/61 movement of ‘Ka iktiar longbriew manbriew’ (which means ‘The authority to live a proper life’ and was inspired by the book titled Thymmei Ka Longbynriew (‘Source of Humanity’). The book sought an answer to the question as to why Khasi men were lagging behind others, sociologically and economically and argued that this was due to matrilineal succession) from Sohra, advises caution about changing the custom.“It may have a detrimental effect if this law is activated right away as we feel that the majority of the Khasi males will misuse the wealth given to them as they haven’t been taught to be responsible by custom and may not be ready to handle wealth responsibly,” said SRT Advisor Keith Pariat. “...Imagine an alcoholic or drug addict inheriting money or property. What do you think he would do?”Echoing similar sentiments, Mait Shaphrang Movement (MSM), another civil rights group that came up in the 1980s, felt that this action of the KHADC has been one of the main agendas of the movement since its inception.Pointing out that the Meghalaya assembly had passed the Meghalaya Succession to Self-Acquired Property (Khasi & Jaiñtia) Special Provision Act, 1984, its convener Michael Syiem said MSM only wants an amendment to this Act to include “ancestral property” and not a new law. “The Khasi Pnar are one people. We want a common law, not two separate laws by two separate district councils. And before this amendment, we want wider consultations with all stakeholders and invite more inputs as this issue is serious and sensitive,” Syiem said, adding, “If people from the Garo tribe want to be included in this law, it justifies state legislation. This law will economically empower all children in the family.”Another organisation that has surfaced lately, the Saiñdur Tipkur-Tipkha Ïeng Ehrngiew Hynñiewtrep (STIEH), which has been focusing on various socio-economic issues of the indigenous population, feels that a lineage bill is more urgently needed. “Instead of making new bills why doesn’t the district council enact the pending Bill, Khasi Social Custom of Lineage Bill 2nd Amendment 2018, which will safeguard the Jaitbynriew (indigenous people)?” STIEH president D Tongper said, adding, “In many cases where a family is wealthy, we have seen that family property is also given to a son with mutual understanding between the parents and the elders.”KHADC chief executive member Titosstarwell Chyne sought to clear the air over the proposed Bill.“The objective of this Bill has been misunderstood. It is not mandatory that all the children will get an equal share of the parental property. It depends on the will of the parents to decide who will be the genuine heir of the property,” Chyne told HT over phone. He said that nowadays there are parents who give property shares to other siblings as well. “There is no problem if the youngest daughter does not object,” he said.A clause in the Bill states that the youngest daughter cannot claim to be the legal heir of the property if she does not take care of her parents. “This legislation will protect the will of the parents who want to equally distribute the share of the parental property with all their offspring,” Chyne said while expressing confidence that the passage of this Bill will empower the Khasi male to avail of bank loans against their inheritance.The CEM further said that another clause in the Bill specifies that an offspring who marries a non-indigenous person and adopts the culture and tradition of the spouse will not be entitled to any share of the property. Responding to observations that such a clause seemed too harsh, Chyne said the members of the Council can deliberate on this issue once the Bill is tabled in the House during the re-assembled autumn session on November 8.While proposing the Bill last Monday, the KHADC chief said so far there is no law to regulate the inheritance of property in the indigenous society. “We have no law to address issues concerning tribal parents who have only sons and parents without children or ‘Iapduh’. This has led to many disputes among families of different clans,” Chyne said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-consensus-on-proposed-change-to-khasi-inheritance-law-101635726627102.html
01-11-2021||India||PM Modi arrives in Glasgow; to attend COP26, hold bilateral talks with Boris Johnson||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has begun the United Kingdom leg of his European tour as he arrived in Glasgow on Sunday after concluding his three-day visit to Rome on the sidelines of the G20 Summit. PM Modi is scheduled to attend the 26th Conference of the Parties or COP26 and hold bilateral talks with his British counterpart Boris Johnson on the sidelines of the United Nations (UN) meet.This will be the first in-person meeting between Modi and Johnson after the UK prime minister cancelled his visit to India twice earlier this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read | COP26 opportunity for PM Modi, Johnson to review progress of 2030 Roadmap: Envoy“Landed in Glasgow. Will be joining the COP26 Summit, where I look forward to working with other world leaders on mitigating climate change and articulating India’s efforts in this regard,” Modi said on Twitter.Upon his arrival at his hotel in Glasgow, the Prime Minister was received by a large group of Indian diaspora representatives who chanted “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”.“Leaving for Glasgow after a fruitful G20 Summit in Rome. During the Summit, we were able to have elaborate deliberations on issues of global importance such as fighting the pandemic, improving health infrastructure, boosting economic cooperation and furthering innovation,” Modi said in an earlier tweet.According to a report in news agency PTI, PM Modi will begin the day with a meeting with community leaders and Indologists based in Scotland. He will then proceed for the opening ceremony of the World Leaders’ Summit (WLS) at the 26th Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at the Scottish Event Campus (SEC) in Glasgow, where he is also scheduled to address the summit plenary session.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination: Narendra Modi to hold meeting with 40 district magistratesFollowing this, Modi will hold a bilateral meeting with Boris Johnson. Johnson has said the summit will be the "world's moment of truth" and has urged world leaders to make the most of it. "The question everyone is asking is whether we seize this moment or let it slip away," he said ahead of the two-week conference.According to the PTI report, talks between PM Modi and Johnson are expected to centre on the UK-India climate partnership as well as a stock-take of the 2030 Roadmap for stronger UK-India Strategic Partnership – signed by the two leaders during a virtual summit in May this year.“Both governments remain committed to the implementation of the Roadmap, within prescribed timelines. Accordingly, we are looking to launch negotiations in November 2021 for an Interim Agreement to be signed in March 2022 and eventually a comprehensive agreement, if all goes according to schedule, by November 2022,” India’s high commissioner to the UK, Gaitri Issar Kumar, earlier said.The next thing on Modi's agenda will be a leader-level COP26 event entitled Action and Solidarity: The Critical Decade. During the event, Modi will deliver India’s national statement on the country’s climate action to the delegates.“India is among the top countries in the world in terms of installed renewable energy, wind and solar energy capacity. At the WLS, I will share India’s excellent track record on climate action and our achievements,” Modi said in a statement ahead of the summit.“I will also highlight the need to comprehensively address climate change issues including equitable distribution of carbon space, support for mitigation and adaptation and resilience-building measures, mobilisation of finance, technology transfer and importance of sustainable lifestyles for green and inclusive growth,” he said.After the World Leaders’ Summit, PM Modi will on Monday also join over 120 heads of government and heads of states at a special VVIP reception at Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum. Members of the royal family, including Prince Charles and his wife Camilla, are expected to be present at the reception.Tuesday will mark the last day of Modi's visit to the UK. He is scheduled to hold a series of bilateral meetings with leaders of Switzerland, Finland, Israel, Nepal, Malawi, Ukraine, Japan and Argentina, as well as a meeting with Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-arrives-in-glasgow-to-attend-cop26-hold-bilateral-talks-with-boris-johnson-101635725717891.html
01-11-2021||India||The invisible churn in India’s labour markets||One of the most basic concepts in economics is stock versus flow. Stock is a variable measured at a point in time. An individual’s net worth is a stock variable. Flow, on the other hand, is measured over a period of time. GDP, measured in a quarter or a year, is a flow variable.It makes little sense to compare stock and flow.In certain cases, neither stock nor flow may be to represent a certain concept. Labour markets are a good example. A country’s unemployment rate can increase or decrease over time, and people can move from one form of employment to another. But headline numbers on unemployment rate and kind of employment do not tell us about the degree of churn in the labour market.For instance, consider 100 workers and 50 unemployed people in an economy in a given period. Suppose this number changes to 105 and 45 in the next period. This could be a result of five unemployed persons joining the ranks of the employed or 40 employed persons joining the rank of the unemployed and 45 of those unemployed in the first period finding employment. As is obvious, the extent of churn in the labour market will be far greater in the second case than the first.Researchers, across disciplines, use something called the panel-data technique to track subjects within the population of interest – in this case not just the macro composition of the labour force but also the individual attributes of each member – across time. Study of labour markets, as is to be expected, uses panel-data technique extensively, provided it is available.India did not collect panel data for its labour markets until the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) was started in 2017-18. PLFS, in urban areas, changed this for good, as it started following a household for four consecutive quarters for studying their status in the week before the survey. However, there has not been any panel-data analysis of the Indian labour market thus far. The reason? Codes assigned to households – survey data identifies households by codes instead of, say, name of the head so that their identity is unique, among other reasons such as privacy of respondent – in PLFS data made it nearly impossible for researchers to track households.A working paper published this month, Indian urban workers’ labour market transitions, by Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, who teaches economics at Ambedkar University in Delhi has managed to solve the coding barrier in panel-data analysis of PLFS numbers for the first time. Researchers often spend long periods trying to clean data sets. A lot of PhD projects over many years basically do exactly this. Bhattacharya’s work, therefore, is not an insignificant contribution.The findings are worth taking note of, because they show that headline numbers in PLFS grossly underestimate the amount of churn in Indian labour markets and some of the pre-conceived notions based on these numbers are worth revisiting.Social stigma might be driving India’s low reported unemployment ratesQuality employment is India’s biggest challenge. There is a widespread consensus that official unemployment rates underreport the job-crisis in India. Bhattacharya’s paper offers an explanation for the low unemployment rates in India. The unemployed pretend that they are not even looking for a job. This, technically speaking, takes them out of the unemployment rate calculation, which is the share of unemployed persons in the total labour force (people working or looking for a job).The way in which the paper calls out the pretence of the unemployed (of not being unemployed) is by looking at the share of non-participants in the labour force who took up work in the next quarter. It is only slightly less than the share of unemployed taking up work, especially for women. This is only one of the entrenched gender disparities in India’s labour markets.Marriage and childbirth have opposite effect on the fortunes of men and women in the job marketThere are enough anecdotal accounts of women being forced to quit their jobs after getting married or giving birth to a child. While a stock analysis of married/unmarried women can give an idea of whether they work or not, panel data is more revealing as it can tell whether marital status leads to job loss and gain. Since PLFS still does not follow an individual for longer than four quarters, it is not possible to analyse a sufficient sample of women under-going marriage or childbirth.However, even keeping other factors unchanged, the paper’s findings confirm the anecdotal belief. Married women and those with children aged five years or below are more likely to lose their jobs. For men, the reverse seems to be true. To be sure, women are at a disadvantage even without being married or having children.A huge gig economy of the poorWith the advent of technology platforms and start-ups there is a lot of talk about the gig economy, where workers can work for multiple employers. What many people do not realise is that the Indian labour market is already a gig economy, where a large number of workers keep shifting jobs. Once again, the headline numbers, which capture the net flow within different types of jobs, do not capture this movement. However, a calculation of gross flows in the paper gives more clarity on this question.Of the average 34.37% men who were salaried or earning regular wage in a quarter, 32.12% remained regular in the consecutive quarter, and 2.25% changed their status from salaried to other working or non-working categories. This is to say that 6.55% (2.25/34.47) of salaried men left such work in the consecutive quarter. A similar calculation is possible for in-flows. Of the 34.45% regular workers in the successive quarter, 32.12% were those who were regular in the earlier quarter, and the rest 2.33% arrived from other working and non-working categories. That is to say, 6.79% (2.33/34.45) of salaried men in the successive quarter were in-flows.These gross inflows and outflows from the status of regular workers, the best paid, is the lowest among the three kinds of workers, for both men and women. These flows are the highest for casual workers, the worst paid workers in India. This means that it is the poorer worker who changes jobs more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-invisible-churn-in-india-s-labour-markets-101635721976389.html
01-11-2021||India||COP26 opportunity for PM Modi, Johnson to review 2030 Roadmap progress, diplomat says||The 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference will be an opportunity for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart Boris Johnson to review the implementation of the 2030 Roadmap launched for India-UK future relations, Indian envoy to the UK said on Sunday. Speaking to news agency ANI, India's High Commissioner to UK Gaitri Issar Kumar said that regional and global issues of shared interest, particularly in the healthcare sector, will be discussed.The 2030 Roadmap was launched in May during the India-UK virtual summit with an aim to re-energise trade, investment and technological collaboration, enhance defence and security cooperation for a secure Indian Ocean region and Indo-Pacific, and leadership in climate, clean energy and health.“This (COP26) will be a multilateral event but it will also be an opportunity for PM Modi and PM Johnson to sit together and review the implementation of the 2030 Roadmap,” the envoy told ANI.“We'll also have the opportunity to talk about regional and global issues of shared interest particularly in the healthcare sector, about vaccines, and of course, climate action,” she added.The two-week-long COP26 climate meet kicked off on Sunday under the presidency of the United Kingdom.PM Modi left for Glasgow after wrapping a three-day visit to Italy where he took part in the G20 Leaders’ Summit and held several bilateral meetings on the sidelines. Gaitri Issar Kumar said that the prime minister will launch two important initiatives under Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and International Solar Alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-opportunity-for-pm-modi-johnson-to-review-2030-roadmap-progress-diplomat-says-101635706538575.html
01-11-2021||India||Karnataka releases names for Rajyotsava awards||The Basvaraj Bommai-led government on Sunday announced the list of Karnataka Rajyotsava awardees that includes the head of state’s technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19, Dr Sudarshan, international tennis player Rohan Bopanna and former BJP MLC PV Krishna Bhatt. “Heartfelt congratulations to all awardees from the entire population of the state for 2020-21 ‘Kannada Rajyotsava Award’ and to all 10 organisations who won the country’s Amrita Mahotsava,” Bommai said in a post on twitter. There were a total of 66 awardees and 10 organisations that have been conferred the award, the government said on the eve of Rajyotsava celebrated across the state on October 31.. While Dr Sudarshan was named under the medical services category, Bopanna, who has represented India in the international stage and has won over 19 double titles was listed under the sports category. Gangavathi Pranesh, the standup comedian from Koppal district, was also in the list of winners. Former BJP MLC P V Krishna Bhatt, chancellor, central University of Orissa, has also been accorded the award for his contribution in the field of education. Popular theatre and film artist Prakash Belawadi as well as Kannada cinema actor Devraj also made it to the list. . Apart from them, Muniyappa Domlur, a watchman of a cemetery in Bengaluru was also named in the list for social service. Late union minister Ananth Kumar and his wife Tejaswini Ananth Kumar-led Adamya Chaitanya organisation was also among the awardees. “24 years of service, 470 million hot meals served & today Adamya Chetana Foundation has been recognised with the highest state honour of Karnataka - Rajyotsava Prashasti. I thank all the volunteers who have under the guidance of @Tej_AnanthKumar who made this possible,” Aishwarya Ananth Kumar said in a post on twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-releases-names-for-rajyotsava-awards-101635706046223.html
01-11-2021||India||Amid shortage fears, Centre forms team on fertiliser delivery||The Union government has formed a “crack team” to ensure priority movement of fertilisers to key food-bowl states as fears of shortage have triggered panic buying of crop nutrients, people familiar with the matter said.For the first time, a hub-and-spoke model is being implemented to take supplies from nearly 50 factories and ports to about 1,000 railheads, backed by real time tracking, as farmers scramble for key crop nutrients. The hub-and-spoke model aims at central coordination and management of supplies from a single central point. Officials are redirecting railway rakes, or wagons, to areas of shortage and are holding a series of meetings with fertiliser firms and their dealers to quicken shipments to Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the people cited above said. “We are sure there will be no crisis. The team is monitoring movement and dispatch of fertilisers and coordinating with port authorities and railways to ensure faster movement (of fertilisers),” an official in the fertiliser department said, requesting anonymity.Additional railway rakes, or train wagons, were being made available to ship fertilisers on a priority basis and at short notice, the official added.Escalating global prices and a supply-chain squeeze have hit the availability of fertilizers, threatening the oncoming winter-sown or rabi farming season. Cultivators have been making beelines for crop nutrients in many districts of states, such as Punjab, where they said some key farm chemicals were selling at higher than label rates.“I bought two bags for ₹1,400 each against the label price of ₹1,200,” said Lakhbir Singh of Nizampura Vegetable Growers Association in Punjab.Inventories of key crop nutrients, especially DAP (diammonium phosphate) and muriate of potash (MPO), have hit a five-year low, the managing director of one of India’s largest crop-nutrient firms said, requesting anonymity. “Rumours of a shortage have prompted farmers to panic and buy nutrients like DAP in excess quantities,” said Amrik Singh, an official of the Punjab agriculture department. DAP is an essential nutrient for the winter-sown wheat.A sharp increase in international prices, lower production of feedstock or raw materials during the peak pandemic phase and shipping bottlenecks are key reasons for the crisis.The Centre as well as state governments have pressed authorities to crack down on hoarding amid claims that some nutrients were being sold above the label price.On October 14, the Union government revamped parts of its subsidy regime for fertilisers and crop nutrients to continue providing them at below-market rates, while rolling over special discounts announced for the summer season to the oncoming winter months.International prices of raw materials for some crop nutrients, such as DAP and 22 grades of P&K fertilisers, have been increasing for over 18 months, trade data showed. Most of these fertilisers have seen a jump of over 50% in prices, forcing the government to expand subsidies.India offers subsidies to compensate fertiliser companies who sell them at below-market rates. The country imports up to a third of its fertilizers to meet domestic demand. China, the largest producer of DAP, is a key supplier of the nutrient to India.“Prices have gone through the roof and urea, for instance, is very very expensive to buy. That is the main issue,” said KS Raju, chairman of the board at Nagarjuna Fertilizers and Chemicals, a large conglomerate.Although the government has announced additional subsidies under the so-called nutrient-based subsidy regime -- the mechanism by which the Centre disburses the subsidy to manufacturers -- worth ₹28,602 crore, manufacturers could be buying at a slower pace.“Since extra capital is required because of higher global rates, purchase deferment is taking place, adding to the shortage,” said Ashok Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. He said shipments, however, were expected to increase.Data shows that India needs to ratchet up imports as stocks run low. During the summer-sown months, DAP demand outstripped availability by 13.6%, official data accessed by HT suggested. “Indigenous production of urea at 7.89 million tonne and DAP at 1.11 million tonne during April-July 2021 declined by 3.9% and 12.3%, respectively, over April-July 2020,” wrote Satish Chander, director general of Fertiliser Association of India, in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Fertilisers.The Union government has asked railways to increase railway rakes ferrying fertilisers to states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the fertilizer department official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-shortage-fears-centre-forms-team-on-fertiliser-delivery-101635706044813.html
01-11-2021||India||Bommai, BSY to lead BJP in 2023 Karnataka elections: Kateel||State president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka Nalin Kumar Kateel on Sunday said that the party will fight the upcoming 2023 assembly election under the leadership of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and his predecessor BS Yediyurappa. “With current chief minister (Basvaraj Bommai) and BS Yediyurappa’s guidance we will go to the next elections. It will be a collective effort,” Kateel told a local newspaper in Karnataka’s Kodagu district, about 225 kms from Bengaluru. The statement comes even as the BJP is undecided on how it will move forward in the 2023 assembly polls and under whose leadership. While Bommai is the chief minister, he is yet to get the full support of his colleagues in the state, who believe they were overlooked for the top post when Yediyurappa was forced to step down on July 26. Ever since Bommai took over, there has been simmering dissent within the state unit of the BJP and its senior leadership who have looked to make an impression with Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led national leadership. There are several leaders like Murugesh Nirani, KS Eshwarappa, R Ashok, CT Ravi, B Sriramulu among several others who aspire for the top job. Some of them had openly dismissed the statements by union home minister Amit Shah on September 2 in Davangere. “I have full confidence that under Bommai’s leadership, BJP will return to power with a full mandate,” Shah had said. Bommai has been in the BJP for just 13 years and was named as successor by Yediyurappa, who himself had shared a tempestuous relationship with the central leadership. Bommai is also alleged to be still working under the leadership of Yediyurappa, who he meets on a regular basis. Most of the members in Bommai’s cabinet were choices put forward by Yediyurappa who still wields significant influence over the party and the support base of the BJP. The former chief minister has also taken it upon himself to bring back the BJP to power on its own in 2023 assembly polls--a proposal that has yet to get the backing of the party. Yediyurappa has been a strong proponent of caste-based politics while the BJP has been trying to make a push towards Hindutva in the state, its only base in the south. Bommai has also found himself in the thick of a possible scam after Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday accused the former of money laundering. People aware of the developments have even claimed that Kateel and Bommai had purchased Bitcoins to the tune of several thousand crores. Bommai has denied the allegations and said that the case has been referred to the central bureau of investigation and the interpol. He also faces the challenge of growing pressure from dominant groups like Panchamasali and other communities for reservation, rise in incidents of moral policing, communal violence and hate crimes among others. Kateel said that the law and order situation is strongly in place to tackle any such incidents. “Law is in place. Anyone who has specific problems should fight it out legally. Moral policing does not have our support,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-bsy-to-lead-bjp-in-2023-karnataka-elections-kateel-101635705992636.html
01-11-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Delhi reopens schools; Modi to review districts with low vaccination coverage||Today is a key day in the Covid unlock process for the Captial’s schools: The Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowed reopening of all classes November 1 onwards, and most of them are busy getting everything right. While only a handful of public and private schools will reopen from Monday, most of them plan to reopen after Diwali to ensure there is no break in between and schools get sufficient time to prepare. This is crucial as this is the first time in 19 months that students of all classes are being allowed to return for in-person classes. Since March last year, the Delhi government has twice allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to return to school – the first time in January and February this year and the second time in September. While the Delhi government has allowed plying of school buses and vans, many schools are still contemplating whether running those services – amid staggered class timings and 50% occupancy in vehicles – would be financially viable or not.Covid is still top of mind in the policy corridors. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting with districts having low Covid-19 vaccination coverage, on November 3 at noon via a video conference. The meeting will include districts with less than 50% coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose. There are 48 such districts that have first dose coverage less than 50%. National coverage is above 70%.But first, PM Modi will address the World Leaders Summit on Monday at the Glasgow climate change conference (COP26) on Monday. India’s goal of achieving 450GW renewable energy by 2030 is likely to be the highlight of the country’s contribution to climate change mitigation at the UN-led COP26 summit. India may also update its nationally determined contribution (NDC) under the Paris Agreement. Most countries have either updated their NDCs or announced net zero emissions targets as a long term goal.Politically, it will mostly be about bypolls in 29 assembly and 3 Lok Sabha constituencies would be held on November 2, which is being touted as a direct contest between the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress. This is a major by-poll before 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur.The states too have an active unlock process this week. From November 1, hostels of residential schools in Assam will reopen. Offline classes for school and college students are already taking place across the state. Also, on the same day, COVID19 restrictions set to be lifted to boost tourism sector. In West Bengal, the state education department is likely to announce the schedules of the Class X and XII board exams for 2022. In 2021 the exams had to be cancelled. Local train services will resume on Monday with 50% capacity after a gap of six months. Even though, officially, they were to start on October 31 (Sunday), the rush is expected on Monday, the first day of the week.An important development in the Madras high court on Monday, when it will deliver its judgement on the validity of the 10.5% internal reservation allocated for the Vanniyar community in public jobs and education by the previous AIADMK regime earlier this year. This reservation was followed by the DMK that formed the government in May by passing a government order. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Kedarnath shrine on November 5, a day before the closing of portals of the highly revered shrine in the state. During his visit, he will also unveil the statue of Adi Shankracharya at Kedarnath temple premises along with inaugurating restoration and works worth about ₹250 cr.In sports, the Khel Ratna and Arjuna Award trophies will be presented to the athletes on Monday. After a dismal Sunday loss to New Zealand by 8 wickets, India play Afghanistan on Wednesday and face Scotland on Friday in the T20 World Cup.Football lovers may love the UEFA Champions League matchups on Tuesday and Wednesday night: Manchester United v Atalanta; Bayern Munich v Benfica; Liverpool v Atletico; PSG v Leipzig.On Sunday, the Formula One Mexican GP could see Max Verstappen can extend his lead over Hamilton. Will he, or won’t he?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-delhi-reopens-schools-modi-to-review-districts-with-low-vaccination-coverage-101635705991357.html
