02-11-2021||India||School principal, top prisons dept officer fired in J&K over ‘terror' links||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday expelled two top government officials over alleged terror links, news agency PTI reported citing officials.Feroz Ahmad, the deputy superintendent of the prisons department, and Javid Ahmad Shah, principal of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, were sacked from their respective services for allegedly actively working with terrorist outfits.The Valley administration invoked Article 311 of the Constitution under which no inquiry is carried out before sacking employees.The move came a week after the administration ordered the premature retirement of eight of its staff following a review. In an order, the administration said the employees were found to be inefficient and “acting against public interest”.The Union territory (UT) has lately been plagued with terrorist attacks, especially against migrants living in the region. As many as 11 civilians were killed last month. Several of these victims were migrants from Bihar. So far, this year, 32 civilians have been shot dead in Kashmir by terrorists.Also Read | Security tightened, searches intensified after J&K civilian killingsThe probe into six civilian killings has been handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) with The Resistance Front (TRF) – an arm of the Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), coming out as the perpetrators of most of the attacks, Hindustan Times had earlier reported.In counter-attacks carried out in the restive terrain, at least 13 terrorists, including a top LeT commander, have been shot dead by security forces. Last Thursday, the Jammu and Kashmir Police a terrorist, who was allegedly involved in the killing of two migrant labourers in the Valley, was gunned down.In a series of tweets, the J&K Police said the terrorist, Javid Ahmad Wani, was killed before he could target a shopkeeper in Baramulla region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-principal-top-prisons-dept-officer-fired-in-j-k-over-terror-links-101635876333330.html
02-11-2021||India||Tripura changes rule on allowances for ex-MLAs after BJP lawmaker joins TMC||AGARTALA: Tripura’s Biplab Kumar Deb government on Tuesday decided to scrap its 2019 decision that entitles the state’s lawmakers to pensionary benefits if they serve as a legislator for even a day. Former legislators will be entitled to benefits and allowances only if they have completed a five-year term, the state government announced after a cabinet meeting.The decision reverses a 2019 amendment to the rules that ended the requirement for ex-legislators to serve as a lawmaker for at least four years to entitle them to a monthly pension - the amendment also hiked it from ₹17,250 to ₹34,500 - besides medical cover for their families. After the 2019 amendment came into force, ex-legislators were entitled to the pension and medical cover if they served as MLA for just a day.Tuesday’s decision requiring MLAs to serve a full term means first-time legislators who quit their seats to cross sides, or are disqualified, will not get the pensionary benefit.“This is a positive move of the state government taken during the cabinet meeting today. We believe that the accountability and integrity towards the government among the legislators will improve with the decision,” cabinet spokesperson and information and cultural affairs minister Sushanta Chowdhury told the reporters at the civil secretariat on Tuesday evening.Chowdhury added that it would be applicable to all those who became legislators in 2018.The decision comes days after Ashish Das, who was elected on a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket from Surma constituency in Dhalai district in the 2018 state elections, crossed over to Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress. Das formally made the switch at a public meeting addressed by TMC general secretary Abhijit Banerjee on October 31. But he had made his intention clear during his visit to Kolkata last month when he tonsured his head, took a dip in the Ganga and called it “an act of penance” before joining West Bengal’s ruling party.Just a few hours before the cabinet signed off on the change in the rules, assembly speaker Ratan Chakraborty sent out a notice to Ashish Das under the anti-defection law.Chowdhury did not give a direct response when asked if Ashish Das’s exit was the provocation for the change in rules. He reiterated that it will be applicable for current members too.Chowdhury also linked TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee’s public meeting in the West district on October 31 to an increase in the Covid-19 positivity rate in Tripura’s West and North district, saying many people from different states including neighbouring Assam entered the state through Churaibari in North district.Over the past three days, he said, the positivity rate in the West district has risen from 0.40% to 0.72%, and from 0.21% to 1.04% in the North district.“The state has controlled Covid-19 graph through vaccines and also mandated RT-PCR tests at all the entry points for the outsiders. But the political party concerned tried to malign the government by politicising our implementation of the Covid-19 guidelines. We condemn this,” Chowdhury said.Only 500 people were allowed to attend Banerjee’s first public rally on Sunday as per Tripura high court order following a TMC petition after state police told the party to shift their venue to Swami Vivekananda Maidan. The state also mandated all the passengers coming from states with 5% or above positivity rate to produce negative RT-PCR reports irrespective of their Covid-19 vaccination status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-changes-rule-on-allowances-for-ex-mlas-after-bjp-lawmaker-joins-tmc-101635876647770.html
02-11-2021||India||Delhi's AQI may enter 'severe' zone due to crackers, farm fires on Diwali: SAFAR||Delhi's air quality is likely to enter the 'severe' zone on Diwali night and the share of stubble burning in its PM2.5 pollution may go up to 40 per cent the day after, according to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality forecast agency SAFAR.Under the zero firecracker emission scenario, Delhi's PM2.5 concentration is predicted to be in the upper end of the 'very poor' category from November 4 to November 6."However, even if we consider 50 per cent of firecracker-related emissions of 2019, the AQI is predicted to degrade to the 'severe' category from November 4 night and will remain so till November 5," SAFAR said.The PM2.5 concentration in the national capital can surpass 300 micrograms per cubic metre on November 5. The safe limit is 60 micrograms per cubic metre.The contribution of farm fires in Delhi's air pollution has remained low this season so far due to the record-breaking rainfall in October and "unfavourable" wind direction.However, it is likely to go up to 40 per cent by November 5 as the wind direction is expected to change northwesterly after Diwali, said Gufran Beig, the founder project director of SAFAR.Northwesterly winds carry smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana towards the national capital.Farm fires accounted for six per cent of the PM2.5 pollution in the national capital on Tuesday. The contribution will remain marginal (less than 10 per cent) until November 3 despite a higher fire count due to unfavourable wind direction, SAFAR said."Stubble fire share in Delhi's PM2.5 is predicted to be 20 per cent to 40 per cent during November 4-6," SAFAR said adding the peak could be recorded on November 5 if the fire counts are assumed to be 4,000 as expected.Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi's pollution had peaked at 42 per cent on November 5. In 2019, crop residue burning accounted for 44 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on November 1.The air quality in the national capital entered the very 'poor' category for the first time this season on Tuesday owing to unfavourable conditions for dispersion of pollutants, authorities said.Stubble burning accounted for six per cent of the PM2.5 pollution in Delhi on Tuesday. The rest of the pollution is due to local sources, Beig said.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the capital recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 303. It was 281 on Monday, 289 on Sunday and 268 on Saturday.The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (306), Ghaziabad (334) and Noida (303) also recorded very poor air quality.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-aqi-may-enter-severe-zone-due-to-crackers-farm-fires-on-diwali-safar-101635871122004.html
02-11-2021||India||NE people reposed faith in PM Modi's leadership: Assam CM after bypoll win||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday said that BJP's won in the five Assembly seats that went to the by-election on October 30 with a huge margin indicated that people of the North East have reposed their faith in the leadership of PM Narendra Modi.People of North-East reposed faith in PM Modi's leadership, says Assam CM after bypoll win in all 5 seatsThis is the big win for the BJP government after Sarma was sworn in as the chief minister of the state.Speaking to reporters, CM Sarma said, "We won all 5 seats with a huge margin. Today's electoral victory in Assam isn't an ordinary victory as in every seat we won by a margin higher than in general elections. People of North East have reposed their faith in the leadership of PM Modi."The BJP won all the five Assembly seats that went to bypoll on October 30.BJP's Sushanta Borgohain won the Thowra assembly seat. BJP's ally UPPL candidate Jiron Basumatary and Jolen Daimary won the Gossaigaon and Tamulpur seats while the party's Phanidhar Talukdar won the Bhabanipur seat. The Mariani seat was won by Rupjyoti Kurmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ne-people-reposed-faith-in-pm-modi-s-leadership-assam-cm-after-bypoll-win-101635873408626.html
02-11-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir BJP sacks party secretary Vikram Randhawa over provocative remarks||JAMMU: Vikram Randhawa, the secretary of Jammu and Kashmir unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Tuesday was removed from all party posts over his provocative remarks calling for violence against Kashmiri Muslims who celebrate Pakistan’s victory over India in the recent T20 cricket world cup match.A statement issued by the state BJP unit said the decision was taken in view of the “huge impact of the reckless statement” and the “bad name it brought to the party”.“Disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against Vikram Randhwa, State Secretary Jammu and Kashmir Union Territory, in reference to making of reckless and defamatory remarks against particular community and women,” the statement said.The Jammu and Kashmir police earlier registered a First Information Report (FIR) against Vikram Randhawa after a widely-circulated video allegedly showed him making derogatory remarks against Kashmiri Muslims following the Pakistan cricket team’s win against India in the T20 World Cup match.The Jammu and Kashmir unit of BJP also served a show-cause notice to Randhawa. Party chief Ravinder Raina said the former member of the legislative council’s remarks were against the basic principles of the party, which believes in respecting all faiths.A disciplinary committee headed by Sunil Sethi has given an interim report to the party on Randhawa’s speech.The report has been examined by J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina and it has been decided to agree with interim recommendations made by the disciplinary committee.Raina also strongly felt that disparaging remarks have been made against women as well as a particular community and have hurt the “religious sentiments of our brothers and sisters”, his party said, adding that the state unit found it “unacceptable” that a person occupying a senior position in the party makes a statement which hurts religious sentiments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-bjp-sacks-party-secretary-vikram-randhawa-over-provocative-remarks-101635873829909.html
02-11-2021||India||Telangana, Andhra bypolls: Rajender wins in Huzurabad, YSRC retains Badvel||The twin Telugu states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh brought mixed results for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and YSR Congress Party (YSRC), respectively, in the bypolls held on October 30.While Eatala Rajender, a former minister in Telangana, won as a candidate of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from the Huzurabad seat, the YSRC’s Dasari Sudha defeated BJP's Panathala Suresh by a margin of 90,533 votes in the Badvel seat.In Huzurabad, Rajender won the election by a margin of 23,855 votes against Gellu Srinivas Yadav of the TRS.The seat fell vacant after Rajender, a former health minister, resigned from the ruling TRS and joined the BJP. Rajender tendered his resignation earlier in June after he was sacked from the state council of ministers over allegations of land encroachment.“Despite the fact that the ruling TRS spent hundreds of crores of rupees in this election, people of Huzurabad voted for BJP candidate Etela Rajender. I thank the people of Huzurabad for rejecting money power and voting for BJP,” Union minister G Kishen Reddy was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“People of Telangana are confident about the BJP and they believe this is the only effective and dynamic party that can counter the misrule of the TRS government,” Ponguleti Sudhakar Reddy, BJP's national co-incharge for Tamil Nadu, was quoted as saying by PTI. Reddy said the BJP was exposing the TRS-led government for a long time.Meanwhile, in Andhra, the Jagan Mohan Reddy-led YSRC retained the Badvel seat, which is reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates. YSRC's Dasari Sudha polled 1,12,211 votes, while Suresh secured only 21,678 votes. In 2019, Venkata Subbiah, Sudha’s husband, had won the seat by 44,734 votes from the Badvel seat.In a tweet, Reddy thanked the voters of Badvel constituency and complimented Sudha and party workers for the victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-bypolls-rajender-wins-in-huzurabad-ysrc-retains-badvel-101635872370760.html
02-11-2021||India||New impetus for setting up theatre commands, key deadline advanced||The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands, and submit comprehensive reports within six months, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday on the condition of anonymity.The deadline for submitting reports focusing on finalising the joint structures has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022, one of the officials said.On Monday, Rawat held a meeting with the three service chiefs and top three-star officers, who are conducting the studies, to chart out a road map to accelerate the theaterisation plan, said a second official.The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands -- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command, and a maritime theatre command -- to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations. The creation of theatre commands could take up to two years, a second official said.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them.The earlier India sets up theatre commands, the better, said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), former director, Centre for Joint Warfare Studies (CENJOWS). “Setting a deadline for theaterisation is critical as delay will only cause disruption. We need to optimise our combat effectiveness in view of the emerging geostrategic equations,” Bhatia added.In June 2021, the government formed an eight-member panel under CDS to fine-tune the theaterisation plans and bring all stakeholders on board, especially IAF, for speedy roll-out of the new joint structures.IAF’s earlier reservations to the move revolved around asset split, leadership and dilution of the powers of the service chiefs. However, on October 5, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari said that the air force was fully committed to tri-service integration and its concerns about the theaterisation model had been factored into the planning process. He hoped that the new structures would cater for joint planning of operations at all levels.The armed forces currently have 17 single-service commands spread across the country, apart from the tri-service Andaman and Nicobar Command and the Strategic Forces Command. The army and IAF have seven commands each, while the navy has three. Creating theatres would involve merging the existing commands (except the Northern Command).The army’s Udhampur-based Northern Command is the only single-service command that will stay outside the scope of the military’s theaterisation drive due to its unique role. It is responsible for guarding the country’s borders with Pakistan and China in the north, and is also the nerve centre of counterterrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-impetus-for-setting-up-theatre-commands-key-deadline-advanced-101635872449327.html
02-11-2021||India||18th-century idol of Annapurna to start its journey for Kashi Vishwanath Temple on Nov 11||An 18th-century idol of Hindu goddess Goddess Annapurna Devi retrieved from Canada begin its journey for Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, the ministry of culture announced on Tuesday. The idol was smuggled out to Canada over 100 years ago and was part of the University of Regina’s collection in its MacKenzie Art Gallery.The university decided to return the idol after it, according to a release from the Indian high commission, discovered that the statue may have been acquired “under suspicious circumstances and did not conform to current principles of ethical acquisition”. The statue was handed over by the vice-chancellor of the university to India’s high commissioner to Ottawa, Ajay Bisaria, during a virtual event last year.The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) received the idol on October 15 and will be placed at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple.Also Read | Canada to return 18th century Annapurna statue to IndiaThe Union minister for culture and tourism G. Kishan Reddy said that he will provide further details of the journey of Goddess Annapurna’s idol on Wednesday during a media briefing at Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s official residence in Lucknow. He will also highlight the efforts made by the Narendra Modi-led Central government to retrieve and bring home the idols and antiquities from various countries.The ministry said that the idol will be taken from Delhi to Aligarh on November 11 and then to Kanauj on November 12 and reach Ayodhya on November 14. Finally, the statue will reach Varanasi on November 15 where it will be placed at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple after the appropriate rituals.The ministry further stated that it is working closely with the ministry of external affairs to repatriate the antiques which hold heritage value and have local importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18thcentury-idol-of-annapurna-to-start-its-journey-for-kashi-vishwanath-temple-on-nov-11-101635871409186.html
02-11-2021||India||Haryana bypolls: INLD’s Abhay Chautala calls win farmers’ victory||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) candidate Abhay Singh Chautala on Tuesday won Haryana's Ellenabad assembly by-election defeating his nearest rival, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Gobind Kanda by a margin of over 6,700 votes.The victory was crucial for Chautala and the INLD as he is the the lone party MLA in the 90-member Haryana assembly. Ellenabad, a traditional stronghold for the Chautala family, voted for the INLD leader, marking his fourth win from here and fifth electoral win in an assembly poll.Chautala had earlier resigned from the state legislative assembly over the three farm laws. After his victory, Chautala said the win belonged to the farmers. “This is not my victory. It is a win of the farmers and people of Ellenabad,” he was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Chautala said the BJP and Congress had colluded to defeat him. “My margin was going to be very big. I would have won by over 50,000 votes had the BJP-JJP not indulged in horse-trading and had the Congress not colluded with them. Money power was used to lure voters, the official machinery was misused. We made 15 complaints to the Election Commission, but we did not get any response,” Chautala said.Haryana minister Anil Vij said Chautala’s win was not a reflection of people’s rejection of the central farm laws. “The issue on which he resigned from the Assembly has been completely negated by the people of Ellenabad. If that issue was so strong, then his victory margin would have increased. The fact that his margin this time has reduced only proves that people have rejected the issue for which he resigned,” Vij said.Chautala polled a total of 65,992 votes, BJP’s Kanda who came in second secured 59,253 votes, while Congress’ Beniwal got 20,904 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-bypolls-inld-s-abhay-chautala-calls-win-farmers-victory-101635869189873.html
02-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP wins 2 seats; Cong retains 1 in MP assembly bypolls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Madhya Pradesh bypolls: BJP wins 2, leads in Khandwa; Congress retains 1 seatThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday emerged victorious in the by-elections to the Jobat (ST) and Prithvipur assembly seats, while the Congress retained the Raigaon constituency. Read MoreAhead of Diwali, air quality deteriorates in most Haryana citiesAhead of the Diwali festival, the air quality of Haryana’s Faridabad and Bahadurgarh cities has slipped to ‘very poor’ category while residents of 10 other cities were breathing ‘poor’ quality of air, as per the official data. Read More10 Pak fishermen released after completing jail termhe Centre on Tuesday released ten Pakistani fishermen, who had been arrested in Gujarat for illegally crossing over to the Indian territory. Read More'In 2007 World Cup, Sachin batted at 4 and see what happened': Sehwag's classic example as India demote Rohit to No. 3Virender Sehwag has given a classic example from the 2007 50-over World Cup and explained how India possibly committed a similar mistake by making Rohit Sharma bat at No. 3. Read MoreAryan Khan not allowed to talk to Arbaaz Merchant, Aslam Merchant says 'They will stay away from each other'Aryan Khan and his friend Arbaaz Merchant were released on bail last week after spending close to a month in judicial custody. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-wins-2-seats-cong-retains-1-in-mp-assembly-bypolls-and-all-the-latest-news-101635865569366.html
02-11-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh bypolls: BJP wins 2, leads in Khandwa; Congress retains 1 seat||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday emerged victorious in the by-elections to the Jobat (ST) and Prithvipur assembly seats, while the Congress retained the Raigaon constituency.BJP's Sulochana Rawat won from the Jobat against Congress candidate Mahesh Rawat Patel by 6,104 votes. Prithvipur saw BJP’s Shishupal Yadav defeat Congress’ Nitendra Singh Rathore by a margin of 15,687 votes.In Raigaon (ST constituency), BJP candidate Pratima Bagari lost to Congress' Kalpana Verma by a margin of 12,290 votes.BJP’s Gyaneshwar Patel is also leading in the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency against Congress candidate Rajnarayansingh Purni, who is trailing by more than 80,000 votes. The bypoll in Khandwa was necessitated due to the death of sitting BJP MP Nandkumar Singh Chauhan.All the four seats went to bypolls on October 30. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan heaped praises on the winning candidates and said the results are reflective of the work done by the BJP at the central and state levels.“Results of the bypolls in Madhya Pradesh are unprecedented for BJP. We are not only winning the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, but also Jobat Assembly seat where over 90 per cent of the people are STs. The BJP won it only twice in 70 years. The results put a stamp on work done by the Central and state governments,” Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Chouhan also said Jobat, a seat reserved for the Scheduled Tribe communities, is very important for the BJP. A report in HT highlighted that the 3.89 per cent voters in Jobat voted for NOTA (none of the above), making it the third-most popular option among voters after the BJP and Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-bjp-wins-2-leads-in-khandwa-congress-retains-1-seat-101635862490693.html
02-11-2021||India||NOTA finishes third in tribal-dominated seat in Madhya Pradesh||About 3.89% of voters rejected all the candidates and opted for ‘none of the above (NOTA)’ in a scheduled tribal reserved seat in Jobat, Madhya Pradesh. BJP candidate Sulochana Rawat won from the seat with a margin of 6104 votes against Mahesh Patel of Congress. NOTA finished third with 5611 votes. While in the other two assembly seats- Raigaon and Prithvipur - only 1% of people opted for NOTA, officials said. In the last election, an independent candidate, Vishal Rawat, son of Sulochana Rawat, finished third with more than 22,000 votes. A Gujarat based Bhartiya Tribal Party also tried luck in this election from Jobat. The candidate Sardar Parmar of the party received 3056 votes only. Experts said tribals are getting aware of their rights and know how to exercise their voting power. “Tribals have started discussing the capability of candidates. Now, educated members of the tribal community want to talk about their rights. But candidates of political parties’ are still busy taking the agenda of their party ahead. They failed to impress voters which resulted in people opting for NOTA,” said Vikram Achaliya, a tribal expert. Jai Adiwasi Yuva Sangathan’s Anand Rai said, “Now, tribals want a party which focuses on the core issues of the tribals because they realize that Congress and BJP are not concerned about their issues. Even, these parties want to finish their identity so some people exercised their vote in favour of NOTA.” However, Congress leaders said the administration played a game and diverted the votes of Congress to NOTA. Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “On the machine, the first button belongs to Congress candidate Mahesh Patel and last button to NOTA. When a layman asks for assistance to vote for Congress, the official would ask them to press the first button without mentioning whether from the top or bottom. People pressed NOTA and that’s why it finished third.” Similarly, BJP feels that people pressed NOTA because they were unhappy with Congress. “The voters are unhappy with fake promises of Congress and that’s why they opted for it to ensure the defeat but the trend will change as after the BJP candidate wins the election, these people will realize that BJP is a fair option for the development of the belt,” said Ashish Agrawal, spokesperson BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nota-finishes-third-in-tribal-dominated-seat-in-madhya-pradesh-101635861587722.html
02-11-2021||India||Firecrackers ban: Calcutta HC to hear plea seeking implementation of SC order||The Calcutta high court will on Wednesday again hear a petition seeking directions for proper implementation of Supreme Court order on the regulations imposed for burning of firecrackers during Diwali, Kali Puja and other upcoming festivals.The new petition, moved by the original petitioner, comes in light of the apex court setting aside the Calcutta high court order on a blanket ban on the sale, purchase and usage of firecrackers, including green crackers, in the state of West Bengal.A special bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Ajay Rastogi of the Supreme Court had on Monday said there is no need for a blaanket ban on the use of firecrackers and only those fireworks that contain Barium salts are prohibited.It had ruled that the high court departed from the legal regime established under the top court’s orders without any material to show inaction on part of the state or collusive approach by the authorities at the ground level.On October 29, the Calcutta high court had ordered a blanket ban on firecrackers, limiting festivities to only wax or oil-based diyas, to check air pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic. One of the petitions at the high court hearing had claimed that the blanket ban within West Bengal was “patently erroneous” when the Supreme Court has allowed the use of green firecrackers in permissible limits across the country.The Supreme Court order was welcomed with a cheer by fireworks traders in West Bengal who make nearly 75-80 per cent of their annual sale, estimated to be around ₹5000 crore, during this festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firecrackers-ban-calcutta-hc-to-hear-plea-seeking-implementation-of-sc-order-101635857931687.html
02-11-2021||India||'Nobody gives them any love’: Rahul Gandhi asks Virat Kohli to ‘forgive’ trolls||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli to “forgive” those trolling him for India’s performance in the ongoing T20 World Cup being held in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). “Dear Virat, these people are filled with hate because nobody gives them any love. Forgive them,” Rahul tweeted.Kohli has been at the forefront of brutal online trolls following India’s back-to-back defeats in the hands of Pakistan and New Zealand.
02-11-2021||India||Bengal bypolls: BJP's Dilip Ghosh says cops get voting done here||Candidates of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) never get adequate infrastructure during by-elections in West Bengal where police get the voting done in a one-sided manner, said the party’s national vice-president, Dilip Ghosh, on Tuesday.Ghosh’s statement came in response to the ruling Trinamool Congress’ sweeping victory in all the four seats where bypolls were held on October 30. The senior BJP leader, however, added that his party was declared winner in the same seats where it had lost previous by-elections.“BJP candidates never get cars, mics, or accommodation during the by-elections here. Police get the voting done, which is one-sided and not neutral. Earlier, too, we lost the by-elections but won the general elections at the same place,” Ghosh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress romped home a 4-0 clean sweep in the by-elections having wrested the Dinhata and Santipur seats in Coochbehar and Nadia districts respectively, from the BJP, and retaining Khardah and Gosaba by huge margins. The ruling camp’s tally was now raised to 215 in the 294-member West Bengal assembly, while the BJP saw its tally come down to 75 from an earlier 77.The Trinamool Congress, in total, bagged 75.02 per cent of the votes cast, whereas the BJP got some 14.48 per cent votes, in the four assembly segments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bypolls-bjp-s-dilip-ghosh-says-cops-get-voting-done-here-101635859519058.html
02-11-2021||India||'Acolyte of Pak deep state': Amarinder Singh quits Congress, targets Sidhu||Amarinder Singh, who formally resigned from the Congress party, attacked Navjot Singh Sidhu with whom he fought an ugly public battle before resigning as Punjab chief minister in September. In his seven-page resignation letter sent to party chief Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday, Singh called the cricketer-turned-politician "an acolyte of the Pakistani deep state" and "a person of unstable mind"."Despite my profound reservations and over the unanimous advice of almost all the MPs from Punjab, you chose to appoint an acolyte of the Pakistani deep state Navjot Sidhu who had publicly hugged the Pakistan Army Chief Gen Bajwa and Prime Minister Imran Khan, as the President of the Punjab Congress Committee. Khan and Bajwa are the people responsible for sending terrorists across the border to kill Indians," Singh said in his resignation letter.Singh posted a copy of the letter on his Twitter handle.I have today sent my resignation to @INCIndia President Ms Sonia Gandhi ji, listing my reasons for the resignation.‘Punjab Lok Congress’ is the name of the new party. The registration is pending approval with the @ECISVEEP. The party symbol will be approved later. pic.twitter.com/Ha7f5HKouq"Sidhu's only claim to fame was that he would abuse me and my government on a regular basis. I am old enough to be his father but that did not stop him from using the filthiest and most vile language against me both publicly and privately," he further said.The former chief minister also took on Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi. "Unfortunately rather than being reined in, he was patronised by Rahul and Priyanka, while you chose to turn a blind eye to the shenanigans of this gentleman," said Singh in the letter.He then talked about the most “egregious” act - calling a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting over his head at the dead of the night and that too through Twitter. Terming it a "midnight conspiracy", Singh told Sonia Gandhi it was "carried out against me at your and your children's behest".Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister on September 18 after a bitter tussle with Sidhu amid infighting in the state Congress. The party later picked Charanjit Singh Channi as the next chief minister of the state.Sidhu too was elevated to the position of Punjab Congress president. After resigning hours before the CLP meeting, Singh had said he felt "humiliated".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acolyte-of-pak-deep-state-amarinder-singh-targets-sidhu-in-resignation-letter-101635859194378.html
02-11-2021||India||India, Russia likely to hold 2+2 dialogue this month; defence, trade pacts on cards||India and Russia are expected to hold their first 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers in Moscow by mid-November, and this could be followed by the annual summit in December.A number of agreements in the defence, economic, trade, and science and technology spheres are expected to be signed during the summit, India’s outgoing ambassador to Russia, BV Varma, said. The two sides are also set to announce the joint commission on technology and science and extend their military-technical cooperation for the period 2021-2031, Varma said in an interview with TASS news agency.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar are expected to travel to Moscow for the first 2+2 dialogue with Russia. India has similar dialogues only with the US, Japan and Australia.Varma said both sides are working to take forward cooperation in diverse areas during the bilateral summit. “Both sides are actively working on it. There is a high possibility that the summit is taking place in December,” he said.Referring to the 2+2 dialogue, Varma said it was “important for friends like India and Russia to have an additional level of consultations”.“For example, India and Russia can have more focused cooperation in Central Asia, in the Indian Ocean region. A number of developments, including those relating to Afghanistan, have created new challenges. And I think the 2+2 dialogue will be a very important addition to the architecture of dialogue that you have rightly pointed out already exists,” he said.Varma said there has been a diversification of India-Russia relations in recent years, and the Indian side is considering major projects in the energy sector and long-term arrangements for coking coal and fertilisers. In the defence field, the value of contracts had gone up from about $2-3 billion dollars a year in 2018 to about $9-10 billion dollars, he said.“We have major defence contracts already under implementation. The S-400 is one of them. We also have a contract relating to the manufacture and production of 1135.6 frigates...,” Varma said.The production of more than 700,000 AK-203 rifles will be done in India, and New Delhi is going to buy additional Su-30-MKI and MiG-29 jets and 400 more T-90 tanks, the envoy said. “Russia has moved back again as the top defence partner of India,” he added.Asked about a meeting between Indian officials and Taliban leaders on the margins of the Moscow Format meet last month, Varma said, “There was a meeting with the Taliban. We put forward our points of view, the Taliban put forward their points of view. This is the dialogue that we continue. “No decisions were taken either way on both sides. But I think India will engage in the humanitarian situation because the humanitarian situation is quite serious and India’s always placed the well-being of the Afghan people as the topmost priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-likely-to-hold-2-2-dialogue-this-month-defence-trade-pacts-on-cards-101635859307551.html
02-11-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh bypolls: Congress sweeps Mandi Lok Sabha, all 3 assembly seats||Ahead of the Himachal Pradesh assembly elections next year, the Congress on Tuesday secured major victories in the bypolls which were held on October 30. It not only wrested the Mandi Lok Sabha seat from ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but also won all three assembly seats - Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai.Congress candidate Pratibha Singh won by 7,490 votes from Mandi, defeating Khushal Thakur of the BJP. Singh, wife of former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh defeated Kargil war veteran Brigadier Khushal Thakur. In the 2019 parliamentary polls, BJP's Ram Swaroop Sharma had emerged victorious by a whopping 4,05,000 votes. In Jubbal-Kotkhai, Congress' Rohit Thakur emerged as the victor by 6,293 votes.Congress also retained Fatehpur and Arki legislative assembly constituencies where its candidates Bhawani Singh and Sanjay Awasthi emerged victorious respectively. While Singh defeated his BJP rival Baldev Thakur by 5,789 votes in Fatehpur, Awasthi defeated the saffron party's Rattan Pal by 3, 219 votes.Congress, invigorated with these wins, demanded the resignation of Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on moral grounds. “Thakur even failed to retain the BJP's seat in his home district Mandi,” Himachal Pradesh Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore said.“This is a vote for change, against the anti-people policies of the BJP's Union and Himachal Pradesh governments. It is a mandate expressing people's solidarity with the pro-people stance of our leaders Soniaji and Rahul Gandhi ji,” Congress Himachal Pradesh in-charge Sanjay Dutt.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, meanwhile, accepted the people’s mandate but pledged to take action against cadres of the BJP who may have worked against the party. “The BJP will introspect the causes which led to its defeat, will formulate a strategy to overcome its shortcomings and do everything possible to ensure victory in the 2022 assembly elections,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He also congratulated the bypoll winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-bypolls-congress-sweeps-mandi-lok-sabha-all-3-assembly-seats-101635857194702.html
02-11-2021||India||Swapna Suresh gets bail in UAPA case, to walk out after 15 months in jail||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Swapna Suresh, the former secretary at UAE’s consulate general’s Thiruvananthapuram office arrested in July 2020 on charges of running a gold smuggling racket, was granted bail along with seven others by the Kerala high court on Tuesday in a case investigated by the National Investigation Agency under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.Tuesday’s ruling by the bench of justices Vinod Chandran and C Jayachandran will enable Swapna Suresh to walk out of prison after 15 months. She was earlier granted bail in related cases registered by the Enforcement Directorate and Customs department. Last month, a different bench of the high court also set aside the detention order issued under Cofeposa (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act).“I feel she is innocent and made a pawn by others,” said Swapna Suresh’s mother Kumari Prabha after Tuesday’s bail order.The other seven also granted bail are PS Sarith, Rabins Hameed, KT Ramees, KT Sharfuddin, Mohammad Ali, Rabins Hameed and AM Jalal. At one point, NIA officials alleged that KT Ramees and M Sharafuddin visited Tanzania on several occasions and met Dawood Ibrahim’s contact Feroze ‘Oasis’ to discuss ways to smuggle firearms into the country.Additional solicitor general SV Raju, who appeared for NIA, opposed the bail plea by the eight suspects, saying they were kingpins behind a thriving smuggling racket and charges against them were grave. NIA said Swapna Suresh and others committed a terrorist act by smuggling 167 kg of gold into India from UAE between November 2019 to June 2020 as they knew that doing so would threaten the security and economic stability of the country.But the suspects countered the NIA accusation, underscoring that the charge sheet filed against 20 people by the federal agency did not mention terror funding or involvement of transnational forces.The high court relied on observation of another bench in February that a mere act of gold smuggling, covered under the Customs Act, will not amount to a terrorist act under the provisions of the UAPA. The court observed that smuggling was done for mere profit motive and that will not come under the ambit of the UAPA. Besides, the trial in the case is not likely to begin in near future and they can’t remain in jail till then, the court said in February.The gold smuggling case surfaced in July 2020 after the seizure of 30 kg gold hidden in bathroom fittings in one of the consignments camouflaged as diplomatic baggage in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital. The case was later handed over to the National Investigation Agency and it arrested Swapna Suresh and her accomplice Sandeep Nair from Bengaluru. Five central agencies are probing the case; NIA, ED, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Customs and Income Tax.The case invited much embarrassment to the left front government after the CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was arrested by the ED after his alleged liaison with Suresh surfaced. Later he secured bail from the high court.The union and state governments locked horns several times over the case and the latter even constituted a judicial commission against the ED, a first of its sort, alleging a bid to implicate many senior leaders including CM Pinarayi Vijayan in the case. But later the HC had quashed the judicial commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swapna-suresh-gets-bail-in-uapa-case-to-walk-out-after-15-months-in-jail-101635856965653.html
02-11-2021||India||Himachal bypolls: CM Jai Ram Thakur accepts verdict as Congress wins all seats||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday said he humbly accepted the people’s verdict in the state’s by-election in which candidates of the Opposition Congress were declared winners in all three Assembly seats and one Lok Sabha constituency. Thakur, however, added the results of the bypolls were not as per expectations.The Congress won all three Assembly seats of Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai and the Mandi Lok Sabha seat, where bypolls were held on October 30.Thakur also raised allegations of some BJP workers operating against the party candidates. "Action will be taken against them," he said. "The BJP will introspect the causes which led to its defeat, will formulate a strategy to overcome its shortcomings and do everything possible to ensure victory in the 2022 assembly elections," the chief added.The Congress retained Fatehpur and Arki Assembly seats, while it wrested Jubbal-Kotkhai seat from the BJP, according to poll results announced by the Election Commission on Tuesday.In Mandi, former chief minister Virbhadra Singh's wife Pratibha Singh defeated BJP’s Brigadier Khushal Thakur, a Kargil war hero.In the 2019 parliamentary polls, BJP's Ram Swaroop Sharma had emerged victorious by 4,05,000 votes.Congress candidates Bhawani Singh Pathania, Sanjay and Rohit Thakur have won from Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly constituencies, respectively.Meanwhile, state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore demanded Thakur’s resignation on moral grounds for the BJP's defeat.He told reporters that the Congress has won the "semifinal" and will also emerge victorious in the Assembly elections in December next year.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-bypolls-cm-jai-ram-thakur-accepts-verdict-as-congress-wins-all-seats-101635855687178.html
02-11-2021||India||Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh officially resigns from Congress, announces name of new party||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday sent his resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Singh also announced the name of his new political party - Punjab Lok Congress- months before the assembly elections in the state.Singh's seven-page resignation letter comes days after he said that the time for rapprochement was over and his decision to leave the Congress party was final.He had also dismissed reports of “back-end talks” with the Congress.“Reports of back-end talks with @INCIndia are incorrect. The time for rapprochement is over. The decision to part ways with the party was taken after much thought and is final. I’m grateful to (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now,” Singh’s media advisor, Raveen Thukral, quoted him as saying in a Twitter post on Saturday.The tweet was in response to media reports that Singh was engaged in some backchannel talks with senior Congress leaders, who want him to stay in the party.Last week, Singh had announced that he would launch his own political party as soon as the Election Commission clears the name and the symbol. He had also said that his party would contest all 117 seats in Punjab.Punjab goes to polls early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-officially-resigns-from-congress-announces-name-of-new-party-101635853708087.html
02-11-2021||India||Abhishek Banerjee wishes BJP ‘happy Diwali’ after TMC’s greenwash of Bengal bypolls||Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Monday took a satirical jibe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) following the Mamata Banerjee-led party completely wiping out the bypolls to all four assembly constituency seats in West Bengal, in their favour.“A cracker free Diwali in true sense. Wishing folks at BJP a very happy Diwali,” Abhishek tweeted.
02-11-2021||India||Samajwadi Party’s Dalit lawmaker joins BJP||Subhash Pasi, a two-time Dalit Samajwadi Party (SP) lawmaker from Saidpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur, joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday.He defected to the BJP after the SP expelled him for alleged anti-party activities even as he claimed to have resigned from the party. The BJP has not won the Saidpur assembly seat since 1996.Pasi, who joined the BJP in presence of the party’s state chief Swatantra Dev, is also an influential transporter with businesses in Mumbai. He contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Mumbai.His defection comes days after BJP lawmaker Rakesh Rathore, who belongs to an other backward caste, joined the SP.Pasi joined the BJP days after the SP named his wife, Reena, as the national secretary of the party’s women wing.Union home minister Amit Shah is believed to have met Pasi before he joined the BJP.As he inducted Pasi into the party. Dev slammed SP chief Akhilesh Yadav for his remarks that appeared to equate Pakistan founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah with Sardar Patel and Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-s-dalit-lawmaker-joins-bjp-101635853295059.html
02-11-2021||India||Telangana bypolls: BJP workers celebrate as ex-minister Eatala Rajender maintains lead in Huzurabad||Celebrations were underway at offices of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Hyderabad on Tuesday as news started coming in of their party candidate and former minister Eatala Rajender leading in Huzurabad by-election.According to latest updates, Rajender is ahead of his nearest contender and former party colleague from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Gellu Srinivas Yadav by over 10,000 votes. While the former minister has won 68,728 votes, Yadav has so far polled 57,458 votes.The by-election was necessitated in Huzurabad following Rajender’s resignation in June following his removal from the state Cabinet over allegations of land-grabbing.Telangana: BJP workers celebrate in Hyderabad as former minister and BJP candidate Eatala Rajender leads in Huzurabad Assembly by-election pic.twitter.com/HuQM0xXnUBRajender, who dismissed the allegations, had quit the ruling TRS and joined the BJP and is seeking re-election on a ticket from the saffron partyWhile the bypoll is a do-or-die battle for Rajender with a lot at stake, it would be significant for the BJP that has been aiming at emerging as an alternative to K Chandrashekhar Rao-led TRS in the 2023 legislative assembly election.It is crucial for the TRS as well as it would like to demonstrate that its dominance in state politics continues unchallenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-bypolls-bjp-begins-celebration-as-ex-minister-eatala-rajender-leads-101635852419468.html
02-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Defence buys worth ₹7,965 cr cleared in Make-in-India push and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Military purchases worth ₹7,965 crore cleared in Make-in-India pushThe country’s Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) on Tuesday cleared the purchase of locally produced military hardware worth ₹7,965 crore, including light utility helicopters (LUH) for the army and the air force, fire control systems for the navy, super rapid gun mounts (SRGM) for warships, and the upgrade of Dornier aircraft for coastal surveillance, the defence ministry said. Read moreIncome Tax dept attaches properties allegedly linked to Ajit PawarThe Income Tax department has provisionally attached properties in Maharashtra, Delhi, and Goa allegedly linked directly and indirectly to Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, officials aware of the matter said on Tuesday. Read more19 dead, 50 injured in blasts, gunfire near Kabul military hospitalAt least 19 people died and over 50 have been wounded in two explosions heard on Tuesday near the Sardar Mohammad Daud Khan military hospital in Afghanistan's capital city Kabul, followed by the sound of gunfire, media reports stated. Read moreAlia Bhatt’s fans discover her lookalike, do a double take at ‘same smile’. Watch videoActor Alia Bhatt's fans have discovered a doppelganger of the actor, an Assamese girl named Celesti Bairagey. Fans were left confused after a video of hers went viral online. Watch here'For the first time, I saw apprehension, if not fear, on their faces: Laxman says India looked 'hesitant and uncertain'Former batsman VVS Laxman feels India were woefully off-colour in their T20 World Cup match against New Zealand on Sunday and that as the mind can recollect, he has never seen the kind of timid approach which he witnessed in Dubai. Read moreAyurveda day: ‘My way of life,’ writes Mira RajputMira Rajput lives by Ayurveda. Ayurveda Day is being celebrated on November 2 for this year. Every year, Ayurveda day is observed on Dhanwantri Jayanti with the aim of creating awareness in today’s generation on the power of Ayurveda and promoting the principals of Ayurveda on healing. Read moreSkoda Slavia design revealed in first official image without camouflageSkoda has released the first look of the Slavia sedan. The sketch, shared on social media, gives the first naked look at the premium mid-size sedan which will make its debut on November 18. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-defence-buys-worth-7-965-cr-cleared-in-make-in-india-push-and-all-the-latest-news-101635850873183.html
02-11-2021||India||YSR Congress wins Badvel seat in Andhra; BJP, Cong lose deposits||The ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh has retained the Badvel assembly seat in Kadapa district in the by-elections with a record majority of more than 90,000 votes over its near rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The polling for the by-elections was held on October 30 and the counting of votes took place on Tuesday.YSRCP candidate Dr Dasari Sudha, a practising doctor, was declared elected with a huge margin of 90,411 votes over Panathala Suresh of the Bharatiya Janata Party. While Sudha secured 1,12,072 votes, the BJP candidate polled only 21,661 votes. Congress candidate, former MLA P M Kamalamma, finished third with 6,217 votes. Both the BJP and the Congress lost their deposits.The by-election was necessitated with the death of Sudha’s husband and sitting MLA Dr Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah due to illness in March this year.“I am overwhelmed by the affection shown by the people of Badvel who blessed me with double the majority my husband got in the 2019 assembly elections. It reflects the people’s endorsement to the governance of our chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy,” Sudha told reporters after being declared elected by the returning officer.In the 2019 assembly elections, Sudha’s husband Venkata Subbaiah secured a majority of around 45,000 votes over then Telugu Desam Party candidate Obulapuram Rajasekhar.However, the victory of YSRCP in the Badvel by-election was a foregone conclusion as the party had been representing the constituency for the last two terms. Secondly, Kadapa district had been the bastion of Jagan’s family since the days of his father late Dr YS Rajasekhar Reddy, former Congress chief minister.When YSR was alive, Kadapa was dominated by the Congress and after the bifurcation of combined Andhra Pradesh, the Congress lost its hold as all the party cadre shifted loyalties to the YSRCP. In the last general elections, the YSRCP won all the 10 assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats in Kadapa.This time, the TDP opted out of the contest on the grounds of upholding the tradition of not fielding a candidate against the spouse of the deceased MLA in any by-election. So did Jana Sena Party led by popular Tollywood actor Pawan Kalyan.However, the BJP and the Congress contested the Badvel by-elections, despite the fact that they lacked enough strength to take on the YSRCP.The BJP, however, campaigned extensively in the by-election only to test its strength. Several BJP leaders including state party president Somu Veerraju, BJP national general secretary Daggubati Purandeshwari, BJP national in-charge of AP Sunil Deodhar, MPs C M Ramesh and GVL Narasimha Rao and BJP state secretary Satya Kumar campaigned for the BJP candidate.Congress candidate Kamalamma said the polling in Badvel did not take place in a free and fair manner. “The YSRC leaders intimidated the rivals, rigged the elections by bringing voters from neighbouring areas and influenced voters with its money and muscle power,” she alleged.The BJP leaders could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-wins-badvel-seat-in-andhra-bjp-cong-lose-deposits-101635852576410.html
02-11-2021||India||‘I am the biggest environmentalist, but…’: Gadkari defends Goa infra projects||PANAJI: Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said that opposition to infrastructure projects in Goa was coming in the way of economic development that could help people get jobs and come out of poverty. “I am the biggest environmentalist. I do not write books. I have an NGO which works in water conservation. It has also won an award. Ecology and the environment have to be protected. I brought alternative fuel to India. Ethanol, methanol, biodiesel, bio CNG, electric and now green hydrogen. We all should do better to obtain international benchmarks, but the economy is also important so that people can get jobs and poverty is alleviated. There has to be a balance between both, hand in hand,” Gadkari told reporters at a Press conference.Gadkari pointed to his green initiatives including introducing ethanol-blended motor spirit, and promoting CNG and electric buses, to indicate that the environment and economy need to go hand in hand. Union minister Nitin Gadkari’s remarks were a reference to opposition to infrastructure projects in Goa including the railway line double-tracking, widening the Goa-Hubli (Karnataka) highway to four lanes and a new power line. The three are proposed to pass through the Western Ghats.Goa has seen massive protests against the projects, particularly the railway project fearing that with a double line, more coal and coal dust will be moved across the railway spewing dust in the port town as well as in the villages that lie along the route.The railway line, by far the biggest of the three, will also lead to the diversion of 114 hectares of Western Ghat forest land from the protected area and the felling of 18,541 trees.The second is the plan to upgrade a two-lane highway constructed by the Portuguese colonial government between Panaji in Goa and Belgavi in Karnataka. According to the government’s plan, since there are long stretches where it would not be possible to widen the existing road due to the difficult terrain, it is proposed to build new roads on viaduct structures parallel to the existing highway in such places,This highway expansion project is projected to cost the tiny coastal state 31.015 ha of forest land and 12,097 trees.Thirdly, a 400KV power line, 3.5 km of which passes through the protected forest, to augment power supply between Goa and Karnataka to provide additional feed to Goa is also proposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-am-the-biggest-environmentalist-but-nitin-gadkari-defends-goa-infra-projects-101635851854510.html
02-11-2021||India||UP polls: Adityanath among ‘panna pramukhs’ for micro-level voter contact||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his Cabinet colleagues and top ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionaries are among five million “panna pramukhs” nominated for micro-level contact with voters listed on each page of the electoral list for the state elections, people aware of the matter said. The polls in the country’s most populous state that sends the biggest contingent of lawmakers - 80 - to the Parliament are due early next year and are seen as crucial for the BJP’s prospects in the 2024 national polls. Union home minister Amit Shah is seen as the originator of the micro-level poll management that has been credited as one of the reasons for the BJP’s electoral successes. Also Read: Ahead of UP polls, SP chief Akhilesh’s Jinnah remark triggers political rowHe introduced the “panna pramukh” concept in 2007 in Gujarat. It was first implemented nationally in the 2014 national polls and also in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections, which Shah was in charge of. The BJP, which managed to win just 47 seats in the 2012 poll, swept to power in the state with 325 seats in the 403-member House in 2017. The party won 71 out of 80 Lok Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh in 2014. It swept the national polls again in 2019 in the state by winning 64 seats despite a formidable alliance between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).BJP functionaries said a “panna pramukh” is expected to reach out to between 27 to 60 voters and galvanise them in the BJP’s favour through personal visits. The concept has been scaled up with the inclusion of top leaders for the first time in Uttar Pradesh. Adityanath has accordingly been named as the “panna pramukh” of booth No. 246 of the Gorakhpur (urban) assembly seat, while his deputy, Keshav Prasad Maurya, that of booth No. 254 in Prayagraj. Other prominent “panna pramukhs” include deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev, Union ministers Mahendra Singh and Sanjeev Balyan.“All the 60 ministers including the chief minister are panna pramukhs of their respective polling booths. So are nearly all the party functionaries,” said BJP leader Chandramohan, who is also among the “panna pramukhs”.A second BJP leader said that “panna pramukhs” would reach out to the voters listed on each page of the voter list and tell them about the BJP’s ideology, stance and commitment to various issues. “[They will] also clear misconceptions, and any doubts that the voter may have and to encourage two-way interaction.” The second leader said there would also be a “panna” panel for better voter outreach.The BJP has also launched “main bhi panna pramukh (I too am a panna pramukh)” campaign on Facebook to mobilise its cadres.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, in an address to the BJP’s state executive committee in March in his Lucknow Lok Sabha constituency, said the position of a “panna pramukh” is as important as that of the party chief.BJP leaders said the party is also appointing heads at the level of all 16,30,00 polling booths as it is up against spirited opposition.The party faces a major challenge in western Uttar Pradesh, which has emerged among the strongholds of the agitation against the three farm laws enacted last year. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been at the forefront of efforts to revive her party in the state, where it has been out of power for over three decades. She has over the last few weeks met the families of the protesting farmers, who were run over by a car in Lakhimpur Kheri, as well as the kin of a sanitary worker allegedly killed in police custody in Agra and farmers, who died in Bundelkhand, amid alleged fertiliser shortage.The BSP has been wooing the Brahmins, who are counted among the BJP’s core supporters, to replicate its success in the 2007 assembly elections.A third BJP leader referred to Shah’s visit to Lucknow last week and said he asked the cadres to ensure they visit each household to convey the party’s message. “It is part of a well-thought plan by the party leadership... they would have mapped each locality. The data the party has about voters in each area is being verified through such physical visits which would also help provide feedback to the party for the manifesto for 2022 polls.”The BJP strategists are hoping that such contacts involving top leaders will raise the voter turnout in the party’s favour. “The idea is to have several ground-level cadres at the booth level of varying backgrounds to maximise the outreach,” a fourth party leader said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-polls-adityanath-among-panna-pramukhs-for-micro-level-contact-with-voters-101635851614791.html
02-11-2021||India||When will India peak before reaching net zero emissions? Top experts weigh in||India’s announcement at the COP26 summit on climate change in Glasgow on transitioning to net zero emissions by 2070 has generated a lot of excitement among economists, environmentalists and energy researchers, particularly because as an emerging economy with extremely low per capita emissions, India has declared a move towards gradual decarbonisation.But this comes with anxiety over disruption in the energy sector and debates over when India should “peak”, the time till when a country’s emissions rise before gradually falling and achieving net zero emissions. The timing of when individual countries’ emissions peak and then decline - especially those of major emitters such as the US and China - is critically important in determining whether the most dangerous climate impacts can be avoided, according to the World Resources Institute.Also Read: Small island nations at biggest threat from climate change: PM ModiChina, in its nationally determined contributions (NDCs), for example, has said it will peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. It plans to lower its carbon intensity by over 65% from the 2005 level by 2030. China seeks to bring installed capacity of solar and wind to over 1,200GW by 2030, and increase the share of non-fossil fuels in primary energy consumption to 25%, among other plans.“India’s pledge is very significant. Realistically speaking India should peak by 2040-2045. It takes a pretty long time to change our energy systems. I think 30 years is a reasonable time. So, there will be a lot of growth in the near term,” said Vaibhav Chaturvedi, an economist, who leads Council on Energy, Environment and Water’s work on Low-Carbon Pathways. India’s short-term targets include increasing non-fossil fuel power capacity to 500GW by the end of the decade from 450GW. Half of India’s energy will come from renewable sources by 2030. India’s 2030 carbon intensity goal — measured as carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gross domestic product — will be increased from 35% to 45%. The country will also strive to produce half of its electricity using renewable energy and cut carbon dioxide emissions by 1 billion tons l by 2030. The targets will require major financial investments and skilled workers for the deployment of renewable energy.“We are trying to clarify with the government if it is talking about meeting 50% of India’s energy requirements from renewable energy by 2030. It is not possible. Then you are referring to all sectors. Realistically speaking I think they are referring to 50% installed capacity for electricity from renewable energy,” Chaturvedi said. India’s installed capacity from renewable energy sources is already 39.8%. Chaturvedi said when it comes to cutting CO2 emissions by 1 billion tonnes, the government may be referring to the cumulative emissions that will be avoided by 2030 because of India’s rapid deployment of renewable energy.“This is an unprecedented bold announcement from the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi]. This is more ambitious than either the EU and Chinese announcements. For an economy that is expected to grow fast for the next two decades, even peaking in the next 20 years is not an easy feat. This announcement will shake Indian and global energy markets and give a sense of much-needed long-term certainty to investors in the energy domain.” Chaturvedi said the enhanced ambition of the 2030 target makes the net zero announcement even more credible. “The Prime Minister has stamped India’s leadership in the climate discourse. Any ambitious target would have its share of challenges.” He said the biggest near-term challenge is in electricity market design and distribution sector reforms. “For the longer term, it would be managing the human resources in the coal sector. Skilled human resources for the new shape of energy markets would be critical. So, challenges galore, but strategic planning would help see us through.”Nicholas Stern, chair of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, London School of Economics and Political Science, said India’s annual greenhouse gas emissions will peak by 2030.In a statement on Monday, he said, “This was a very significant moment for the summit, with Prime Minister Modi pledging stronger action by India on climate change, with five new targets. These include a further increase in clean energy to 500 gigawatts by 2030, a reduction in the emissions intensity of its economy by 45% by 2030, and net zero emissions by 2070.” He added together this might mean that India’s annual emissions of greenhouse gases could peak by 2030.The statement called on the developed countries to follow India’s example. “This demonstrates real leadership, based on a track record of action and ambitious targets, that can deliver on both economic development and climate change, from a country whose emissions per capita are about one-third of the global average.” It added the rich world must respond to Modi’s challenge to deliver a strong increase in international climate finance.Sandeep Pai, who studies energy security and climate change at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said achieving India’s short-term targets will require major reforms and large-scale finance.“India’s net zero pledge is bold. For a developing country that has not even carbonized to talk about decarbonization is ambitious and sets the targets clearly. However, the devil will be in the details or in other words what would be the exact plans to achieve this target. In the absence of these plans, this pledge will not mean much. By when India will have to peak to meet the pledge will really depend on the sectoral pathway the country will follow. For example, when will the coal use peak in the power sector?” Pai added India’s 2030 targets are achievable but not easy at all. “From DISCOM reforms, raising large-scale finance for the deployment of renewables, managing land issues, to aligning Centre-state climate policies will be key determinants of whether India will be able to meet its 2030 targets or not.”India needs to adopt transformational changes in its energy mix to be able to transition to net zero emissions by the mid-2060s, according to the India Energy Outlook report by the International Energy Agency (IEA) released in February. For India to achieve net zero emissions, energy demand in 2040 should fall nearly 30% below the projected level, based on current policies, with a complete switch from traditional biomass-based energy. India will have to shift away from coal. Solar photovoltaic cells will have to take up coal’s share of electricity generation a full decade ahead of what current policies envisage, the IEA report said.In a tweet, Sunita Narain, the director general of Centre for Science and Environment, said India enhanced NDC is a challenge to the world to step up. “We will reduce 1 billion tonnes by 2030; 22% reduction in BAU; per capita will be 2.31 tonnes/as against US 9.4 t/per capita and China 9 t/per capita. No question that this is running the talk #COP26 ,” she tweeted. “Yes, and for the world to go #netzero in 2050; China should go by 2040 and OECD countries by 2030. This is why #NetZero is inequitable and makes combatting #climatechange unambitious and ineffective. We deserve better #COP26Glasgow. RE target of 50%; non-fossil fuel 500 GW; carbon intensity of 45% are all pathways to get to 1 billion tonne carbon emission reduction by 2030. India has laid out its roadmap; this is more than OECD and certainly what China has done.”Many experts said China has not committed to much more than what it had promised in 2016. Lauri Myllyvirta, the lead analyst at the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, tweeted: “China’s new climate commitment under the Paris agreement has been published. It turns the 2060 carbon neutrality target and CO2 emissions peak before 2030 into new formal pledges but doesn’t shed more light on the emissions trajectory over this decade.”China’s role gains importance considering the carbon budget numbers. A carbon budget is the cumulative amount of CO2 emissions permitted over a period of time to keep within a certain temperature threshold, according to Carbon Tracker. According to a recent analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment, in the coming 10 years, China will take up 33% of the remaining carbon budget of 409 GtCO2 and India may occupy only 9.54%. Between 1870 and 2019, China occupied 13.4% of the global carbon budget; India 3.16% and the seven historical polluters - United Kingdom, US, European Union, Russia, Japan, Australia, and Canada - 60.53%.The share changed quite a bit between 1990 and 2019 when China occupied nearly 21% of the carbon budget. This means China went through a very intense phase of development mainly dependent on fossil fuels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-india-peak-before-reaching-net-zero-emissions-top-experts-weigh-in-101635850474595.html
02-11-2021||India||Govt orders all ministries, departments to put preamble wall in office premises: Report||The central government has ordered all the ministries and departments to “put up a preamble wall” in their office premises and submit their ‘action taken report' (ATR), news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The directions by the Union government came amid the ongoing 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' event being organised across the country.The coordination division in all the ministries and departments have been asked to furnish the ATR on the subject "all ministries/ departments to put up a preamble wall in their office premises" in the e-Samiksha Portal.The portal is a real-time online system, directly monitored by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Cabinet Secretariat to check the progress of schemes and projects in all ministries. It plays a key role in measuring performance in the government.The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has also directed all the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) to "put up a preamble wall" in their office premises and submit their ATR to the ministry by this evening, reported ANI further.The recent directions to the Forces follow the October 28 order, where the MHA directed Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Security Guard (NSG) and Assam Rifles to "furnish the action taken report" in respect of their organisation to it through e-mail.However, the order does not mention any specific criteria of preamble wall, all the CAPFs are engaged in the process to fulfil the direction on time.The then minister Prakash Javadekar on November 26, 2020, had inaugurated the preamble wall at the premises of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change on the occasion of Constitution Day. The same year, the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, as well as the department of personnel and training, also unveiled it. Similarly, some other ministries and departments also unveiled preamble walls in their office premises as per the Centre's order.The preamble mentions "we, the people of India, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a sovereign, socialist, secular, democratic, republic and to secure to all its citizens: Justice, social, economic and political; liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship; equality of status and or opportunity, and to promote among them all; fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the nation""In our constituent assembly this twenty-sixth day of November 1949, do hereby adopt, enact, and give to ourselves this constitution," mentions the preamble.The order was again sent to all the ministries and departments as we celebrate Constitution Day, also known as National Law Day, in India on November 26 every year to commemorate the adoption of the Constitution of India, as well as at the same time we are celebrating Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav.The official journey of "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav" commenced on March 12 this year which started a 75-week countdown to India's 75th anniversary of independence and will end post a year on August 15, 2023.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-orders-all-ministries-departments-to-put-preamble-wall-in-office-premises-report-101635846840946.html
02-11-2021||India||Money laundering case: Anil Deshmukh sent to ED custody till November 6||A sessions court in Mumbai sent former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to the Enforcement Directorate's custody till November 6 in connection with a money laundering case. The agency had sought extended custody of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, whom they arrested after 12 hours of questioning late on Monday.The court allowed Deshmukh's application for home food and medicines during his ED custody and the presence of his lawyer during the interrogation by the agency.Deshmukh has been booked under various sections of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).He was produced before additional sessions judge PB Jadhav, who presided over the special holiday court, a little after noon.While Additional Solicitor General of India (ASG) Anil Singh and Hiten Venegaonkar argued for the Enforcement Directorate, senior counsel Vikram Chaudhary and Aniket Nikam defended the former Maharashtra home minister.Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered an FIR against Deshmukh on charges of bribery, corruption and criminal conspiracy after allegations were made against the politician by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh who said that the NCP leader asked dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore from hotels and bars in Mumbai every month. Deshmukh resigned in April after the FIR was registered.ED started its investigation based on the CBI's case.NCP leader Nawab Malik said on Tuesday that the action against Deshmukh is politically motivated and meant to defame the three-party ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance in Maharashtra."After exploring all the legal means, he appeared before ED. He is being framed. The one who made the allegations against him (Anil Deshmukh) is absconding," said Malik."Where is Param Bir Singh? He left for Chandigarh and never returned to the city since then. There are only three ways to escape, of them one is by air and another is by road. A person can go to Nepal by road either through Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh or Bihar and BJP is in power in all these three states. Was Param Bir Singh helped to escape; MVA was defamed through him? BJP needs to answer all these questions,” he added.Deshmukh, 71, appeared before the ED on Monday after skipping multiple summons. In a video message released yesterday, he said that all the allegations against him are false. "Today, I have presented myself before the Enforcement Directorate. Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh made false allegations against me. Where is he today? As per media reports, he has left the country," said Deshmukh.The NCP leader appeared before the investigating agency after the Bombay high court on Friday rejected his petition challenging the ED summons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-anil-deshmukh-sent-to-ed-custody-till-november-6-101635849997130.html
02-11-2021||India||Kerala HC refuses to entertain former SFI leader’s habeas corpus plea||A division bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday declined to entertain a habeas corpus petition filed by former leader of the Students Federation of India (SFI) Anupama S Chandran seeking to produce her baby who was given up for adoption by her parents last year. A division bench of Justices Vinod Chandran and C Jayachandran observed that the child was not in illegal custody but with adoptive parents now. Besides this, the family court in Thiruvananthapuram is hearing the issue in detail and there is no need of any intervention at this juncture. The court directed the counsel for Chandran to either withdraw the petition or it will be rejected on Wednesday when it takes it up again. In the petition, Chandran argued that the newborn was given for adoption without her knowledge and all norms were flouted. She said she was in the dark about the baby for more than a year and often her parents give conflicting information about the adoption. She said the baby was forcibly removed from her on the third day of delivery and given up for adoption in August with the connivance of officials of the state council for child welfare. Police had registered a case on Oct 20 after Chandran approached them complaining that her parents forcibly took away the newborn last year and gave it for adoption in a hurry, bypassing her request to live with the newborn. Later, the police registered a case against six people including her parents. On Monday, a family court in the state capital ordered a DNA test to resolve the complaint about the controversial adoption of the newborn. Her father, Jayachandran, said he sent the baby to the government-run children’s home with his daughter’s consent. She signed on a stamp paper to that effect, he said, but the former said she did so under duress. Chandran’s one-day fast before the state secretariat last week for her child attracted national attention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-refuses-to-entertain-former-sfi-leader-s-habeas-corpus-plea-101635848437882.html
02-11-2021||India||'Turnout less than 2,000': Khalistan referendum in London a damp squib||The Khalistan referendum, which was held in London on Sunday, turned out to be a damp squib. According to UK watchers, the claims of high turnout in the voting to decide whether Khalistan should be carved out of Punjab is being projected by Pakistani media.A majority of the voters were backed by Pakistan, the people cited above said, adding that the total number was less than 2,000.The Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), which organised the referendum, failed to get even 100-150 voters in the first half and various outfits associated with the Khalistan movement - like Federation of Sikh organization (FSO) and World Sikh Parliament (WSP) - pressed their workers to come and vote, said UK watchers. SFJ is a banned organisation in India.The organisers had pressed into service buses to ferry people from different parts of the UK, but even they couldn't bring a large number of people, said the people cited above.The UK watchers further said that there were just 53 buses, which brought people from different parts of the UK to the voting centre. The location was Westminster in central London, but not even 50 people turned up with their private vehicles, they said.The diplomats based in London said that there was no verification if the persons arriving for the referendum were Sikhs, Pakistanis or Afghans. Coverage of the event also showed that the same set of people were brought in to vote repeatedly, they added.The SFJ had called all the Sikhs above the age of 18 to vote in the referendum. Those who indeed came to take part in the exercise shouted pro-Khalistan slogans and carried the Khalistan flag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/turnout-less-than-2-000-khalistan-referendum-in-london-a-damp-squib-101635847760168.html
02-11-2021||India||Bye-polls: Election Commission issues reminder of ban on victory processions||With counting for bye-election results underway on Tuesday, the Election Commission of India earlier reminded chief electoral officers of the states and union territories of an existing ban on election-related victory processions in light of the Covid-19 situation across the country.In a letter issued by the Election Commission’s senior principal secretary to chief electoral officers of 14 states and 2 union territories, the country’s poll watchdog said instructions issued in April that includes a ban on victory processions will apply to the just concluded bye-elections. “No victory processions after the counting shall be permissible; and not more than two persons shall be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or their authorised representative while receiving the election certificate from the returning officer,” the EC said in the letter stated, citing the April 27 directions.Also Read: Bihar bye-elections: RJD seeks removal of returning officer at Kusheshwar AsthanThe EC also said in the letter, “The instruction shall also be… applicable to the ongoing bye-elections in various states and union territories in 2021.”This notice was directed towards Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Haryana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Rajasthan, Telangana, Bengal, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu where bye-polls were held on October 30. Counting was underway held for bye-elections for 29 assembly and three Lok Sabha seats.These instructions were issued earlier this year when there was a surge in Covid-19 cases right after the counting for assembly elections held in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Bengal and Kerala. The EC had banned victory processions during or after the declaration of election results after the Madras high court held the election monitor accountable for the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/byepolls-election-commission-issues-reminder-of-ban-on-victory-processions-101635847054565.html
02-11-2021||India||Kerala gold smuggling case: HC grants bail to key accused Swapna Suresh||The Kerala high court on Tuesday granted bail to prime accused in the sensational gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh. The bail was granted in a case filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Suresh, who has been behind the bars since June 2020, was granted relief on a bail bond of ₹25 lakh and two solvent sureties.Kerala Gold Smuggling Case | Kerala High Court grants bail to prime accused Swapna Suresh in the case registered by NIA under UAPA. Bail granted to her on a ₹25 Lakhs bail bond and 2 solvent sureties. pic.twitter.com/dslNMH5ozwThe high court order would now pave the way for her release from the jail. She had earlier secured bail in cases filed by the customs department and Enforcement Directorate (ED).The court also granted bail to seven other accused -- Sarith PS, Mohammed Shafi P, Jalal AM, Rabins Hameed, Ramees KT, Sharafudeen KT and Mohammad Ali -- in the case. However, three of the accused, Rabins Hameed, Mohammad Shafi P and Ramees KT, will remain in prison till their Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities (COFEPOSA) Act period ends. Also read | High court quashes charges against key accused in Kerala gold smuggling caseFive central agencies are probing the high-profile smuggling case which had surfaced after the seizure of 30 kg gold that had reached the UAE consulate in the state capital of Thiruvanthapuram camouflaged as diplomatic consignment.On Monday, the high court’s division bench, comprising Justice K Vinod Chandran and Justice C Jayachandran, had reserved its judgment in the appeals filed by Suresh and another accused Sarith PS against the verdict of the special NIA court that had dismissed their bail applications.During the hearing, the accused had said the NIA had failed to make a case for prosecuting the petitioners under the UAPA. “The offence alleged against them was gold smuggling while UAPA predominantly dealt with the offence of counterfeiting high-quality currency. The prosecution case even if proved, only amounts to an offence of smuggling of gold, which will come under the Customs Act and not UAPA. It is only a Customs offence, at the worst. And for the Customs offence, the petitioners have already been granted bail," Suresh’s lawyer had said."There is no legal evidence of an expert witness that the alleged activity will lead to the destruction of economic stability under Section 15 of UAPA. The final report filed by the NIA at the Special Court does not include any evidence whatsoever that such proceeds have been utilised to finance terrorism as alleged," the lawyer added."While some of the accused in the matter were released on bail already, the rest were denied bail on the sole ground that a deeper probe was necessary for the facts narrated in the FIR, regarding funding terrorism and involvement of transnational forces. From the final report, it becomes clear that no such links with terrorism or transnational links could be established by the investigating agencies," the petition said. (With inputs from bureau) and agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-hc-grants-bail-to-key-accused-swapna-suresh-101635843261617.html
02-11-2021||India||Income Tax dept attaches properties allegedly linked to Ajit Pawar||The Income Tax department has provisionally attached properties in Maharashtra, Delhi, and Goa allegedly linked directly and indirectly to Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, officials aware of the matter said on Tuesday.The action was taken after the department allegedly discovered unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore during searches it carried out at 70 premises of two Mumbai-based real estate groups, individuals, and entities allegedly linked to Pawar and his family in Mumbai, Pune, Baramati, Goa, and Jaipur last month. The department said incriminating documents, evidencing the unaccounted income were found during the raids.The department is yet to issue any statement on the attachment but officials cited above said the action was taken under the Prohibition of the Benami Property Transactions Act. The attached assets include an office building at a prime location in Mumbai, a flat in a posh Delhi locality, a resort in Goa, agricultural land, and a sugar mill in Maharashtra, the officials said.Also Read: I-T dept rolls out new annual info statement; taxpayers can give feedbackFunds obtained in a “dubious manner” were allegedly utilised for the acquisition of these properties, they added.HT has reached out to Pawar for comments and the copy will be updated accordingly.After the searches, the department claimed there was a suspicious flow of funds allegedly involving an “influential family from Maharashtra,” without naming Pawar or his family. The department officials, who spoke off the record, said the influential family was that of Pawar.The department carried out searches including at the residences of Pawar’s three sisters and son, Parth. Pawar then called the agency’s action harassment. He alleged the department was being misused against his family for political reasons.The agency said the searches led to the identification of transactions by business groups with a web of companies that, prima facie, appear to be suspicious. “A preliminary analysis of the flow of funds indicates that there has been an introduction of unaccounted funds in the group by way of various dubious methods like the introduction of bogus share premium, suspicious unsecured loans, receipt of unsubstantiated advance for certain services, collusive arbitration deals out of non-existent disputes, etc,” the agency said in its statement last month.It added the value of assets allegedly acquired through funds obtained in a “dubious manner” was about ₹170 crore. The department claimed to have seized unaccounted cash of ₹2.13 crore and jewellery worth ₹4.32 crore during the five-day search operation.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and Ajit Pawar’s uncle, Sharad Pawar, reacted strongly to the searches saying the action reeks of abuse of power. He linked it to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) reaction to his position on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Sharad Pawar likened the violence to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre during the Indian national movement.Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son has been arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence that was triggered after a car ran over a group of protesting farmers.NCP is part of the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra, which has had frequent run-ins with the BJP-led central government over the alleged misuse of central agencies.BJP leader Kirit Somaiya alleged Pawar and his family own the properties attached. “The properties include Jarandeshwar sugar factory worth ₹600 crore, an office owned by Parth Ajit Pawar in South Mumbai worth ₹25 crore, a flat in south Delhi worth ₹20 crore, and a resort named NIlaya in Goa worth ₹250 crore. The properties... are owned by Ajit Pawar, his wife Sunetra, his mother, his son, sisters, and Mohan Patil, son-in-law.”Ajit Pawar last month refuted allegations that he and his family bought the sugar factories for paltry prices. “There are no irregularities involved in the purchase of any sugar factories. The factories were auctioned following all norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-department-attaches-properties-allegedly-linked-to-ajit-pawar-101635843214039.html
02-11-2021||India||Telangana: TRS gains slender lead of 162 votes over BJP in Huzurabad||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav secured a slender lead over Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eatala Rajender on Tuesday as counting of votes is underway for the Huzurabad bypoll in Telangana. Yadav gained a lead of 162 votes after the eighth round of counting.After the initial three rounds of counting, the BJP leader was maintaining a lead by more than 1,600 votes. According to the Election Commission, Rajender has garnered 27,225 till 1:40 pm.Click here for live updates on bypoll countingThe counting of votes began at around 8am and the voting was held on October 30. The counting would be conducted in 22 rounds, according to officials. The exercise began Tuesday morning at the SRR Government Degree College in Karimnagar.Though as many as 30 candidates are in the fray, the main contest is among Gellu Srinivas Yadav of TRS, BJP's Rajender and Venkat Balmoori of Congress who is trailing with 992 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-trs-gains-slender-lead-of-162-votes-over-bjp-in-huzurabad-101635842380722.html
02-11-2021||India||People's victory, Mamata tweets after TMC takes massive lead in Bengal bypolls||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday extended her best wishes to all the candidates of her Trinamool Congress party who have taken lead in the four assembly constituencies in West Bengal, where by-polls were held on October 30. The counting of votes to Khardah, Santipur, Gosaba and Dinhata assembly seats is underway amid tight security.“This victory is people's victory, as it shows how Bengal will always choose development and unity over propaganda and hate politics. With people's blessings, we promise to continue taking Bengal to greater heights!" Mamata tweeted.Also read | Khela sesh: TMC's Udayan Guha snatches assembly seat from BJP in Bengal bypollsAccording to updates, Trinamool Congress's Udayan Guha has been declared the winner of Dinhata assembly constituency in the Coochbehar district. Udayan Guha has won from the Dinhata assembly seat with a massive margin of 163,005 votes, reports said.Trinamool Congress's Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who vacated Bhabanipur seat earlier, has also won from the Khardaha assembly constituency with over 93,000 votes. Chattopadhyay vacated his Bhabanipur seat for Mamata Banerjee to contest as she lost the Nandigram seat to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari during West Bengal assembly election 2021.The TMC's Subrata Mondal won the Gosaba assembly by-poll by a massive margin of 1,43,051 votes. Subrata Mondal secured 1,61,474 votes, whereas BJP's Palash Rana, his nearest rival, garnered mere 18,428 votes. Meanwhile, the TMC also bagged the Shantipur assembly constituency, with its candidate Braja Kishor Goswami garnering over 60,000 votes from there, an Election Commission of India (ECI) official informed.The bypolls were necessitated as the BJP MLAs for Dinhata and Santipur resigned to retain their MP seats while the TMC legislators of Kharadah and Gosaba died.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-will-always-choose-development-over-propaganda-mamata-after-tmc-takes-massive-lead-in-bypolls-101635839024287.html
02-11-2021||India||DCW issues notice to Delhi Police over online threats to Virat Kohli's family, daughter||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) informed on Tuesday it had taken suo motu cognisance of media reports of online threats being made to Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli's family, including his nine-month-old daughter. Issuing a notice to the Delhi Police, the women's body described this as a matter of “serious concern,” which, it said, deserves “immediate attention.”Also Read | T20 World Cup: Virat Kohli slams trolls of Mohammed Shami as ‘pathetic’“DCW has issued a notice to police over a threat made on Twitter to rape Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma's daughter. Our chairperson Swati Maliwal has called this ‘shameful,’ and called for immediate arrest of the accused,” the commission posted on Twitter, sharing an image of its letter addressed to the cyber-crime branch of the Delhi Police. भारतीय क्रिकेट टीम के कप्तान @imVkohli और @AnushkaSharma की बेटी को ट्विटर पर बलात्कार की धमकी मिलने के मामले में दिल्ली महिला आयोग ने भेजा पुलिस को नोटिस।DCW अध्यक्ष @SwatiJaiHind ने बताया घटना को शर्मनाक, आरोपी की गिरफ्तारी की मांग pic.twitter.com/qUEWeLeyLxIn particular, the commission took note of a tweet posted by a user threatening to rape the couple's daughter. The post was made from the account @Criccrazygirl; the handle has since been deleted. However, some netizens have claimed that the tweet was made from a Pakistani account.In its notice to the police, the DCW sought to be informed, by November 8, on the following counts: Copy of FIR registered in the matter, details of accused identified and arrested, details of steps taken to arrest the accused if no arrest made thus far, and detailed action taken report.While Kohli's captaincy, and the Indian team's performance at the ongoing World Twenty20 event in the UAE has triggered criticism from fans, it was his support for teammate Mohammed Shami that triggered the ire of a section of social media. On October 30, a day before India's second match in the tournament, against New Zealand, the India number three had thrown his weight behind pacer Shami, the only player Muslim in the side, following the team's 10-wicket defeat in its opening fixture vs arch-rivals Pakistan, on October 24.This was India's first-ever defeat to Pakistan in a World Cup, 50-over or 20-over; the Men in Blue's head-to-head record in World Cup matches against the neighbours now reads 12-1. Follwing its defeat in the second match as well, the team now needs to win all three of its remaining fixtures, by huge margins, to have any chance of qualifying for the semifinals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcw-issues-notice-to-delhi-police-over-online-threats-to-virat-kohli-s-family-daughter-101635839724082.html
02-11-2021||India||‘Terrorist party’: YSR Congress leaders meet President, seek TDP's derecognition||The fight between the ruling YSR Congress and opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in Andhra Pradesh reached the President's doorstep when a delegation of the former visited Rashtrapati Bhavan on Tuesday. The YSR Congress leaders requested President Ram Nath Kovind to derecognise TDP."All our MPs met President today and explained to him the filthy language used by TDP functionaries, particularly Chandrababu Naidu, his son Lokesh and spokesperson Pattabhi against our party and leader Jagan Mohan Reddy. We've requested the President to derecognise TDP," said YSR Congress leader and Member of Parliament V Vijayasai Reddy, who was part of the delegation."TDP has become a terrorist party, an anti-social party. It doesn't have confidence and doesn't follow democratic principles. Therefore, a party that doesn't believe in democracy loses the moral right to contest elections," Reddy told reporters outside the President's House.The YSR Congress leader also said that they have urged the President to direct the law minister to bring contempt legislation similar to Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 to punish the Andhra Pradesh opposition party leaders for using such filthy language.The visit comes a day after TDP leaders met Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra and demanded the ruling YSR Congress Party be derecognised for "provoking anarchy and giving rise to state-sponsored terror" in Andhra Pradesh.In their representation to the chief election commissioner (CEC), the TDP leaders accused the YSRCP of promoting enmity in the name of caste and religion to divert people's attention, and violating multiple legislations governing the conduct of lawmakers and executive bodies.The YSR Congress too had sought a similar step against the opposition TDP in a meeting with the CEC.The issue came to limelight last month when thr YSR Congress accused TDP spokesperson of making objectionable comments against chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in a press conference.The caustic remarks were made by TDP spokesperson K Pattabhi Ram in reaction to police notices sent to former minister Nakka Ananda Babu.The YSR Congress workers ransacked TDP's headquarters at Mangalagiri, offices at Visakhapatnam and other places over the issue.TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu had met President Kovind last month, demanding that President's Rule be imposed in the southern state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-party-ysr-congress-leaders-meet-president-seek-tdp-s-derecognition-101635840548856.html
02-11-2021||India||J&K home department gives go-ahead for formation of State Investigation Agency||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) home department has given its go-ahead for the formation of the State Investigation Agency (SIA), which will work as a nodal body for coordination with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other central agencies.“[The SIA] shall take such other measures as may be necessary [for] speedy and effective investigation and prosecution of terrorism-related cases,” said special secretary Khalid Mehraj in an order.A director will head the SIA and it will be mandatory for all security agencies to bring to its notice cases or arrests made in connection with counter-insurgency.The order said the officers in charge of police stations shall mandatorily intimate the SIA immediately upon registration of terrorism-related cases. It said the cases where the investigation is not transferred to the SIA, the police shall ensure it is kept informed about the progress of the investigation at regular intervals, preferably on fortnightly basis. “The SIA shall also be the agency for investigation and trial of offences in cases that are transferred to the state government in terms of Section 7 of the National Investigation Act, 2008.”The NIA is investigating dozens of cases in J&K and has been conducting raids with the help of other security agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-home-department-gives-go-ahead-for-formation-of-state-investigation-agency-101635839974205.html
02-11-2021||India||PM Modi extends greetings on 'special occasion' of Dhanteras||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended greetings to people on the occasion of Dhanteras. "Greetings to everyone on the special occasion of Dhanteras," the Prime Minister said on Twitter in the morning.Dhanteras is an auspicious festival that marks the beginning of the five-day-long festivities of Diwali. On this day, people buy gold and silver jewellery, utensils, home appliances, and other precious objects. They also mark the festivities by offering prayers to Lakshmi who is considered the goddess of wealth and prosperity.According to the Hindu calendar, the day is observed on the 13th lunar day of Krishna Paksha, also known as the dark fortnight. Literally, Dhanteras means 'dhan' or wealth, while 'teras' is the 13th day of the moon cycle.The day is believed to be the day when Dhanvantri, the God of Ayurveda, was born. Lord Kuber Maharaj is also worshipped on the occasion of Dhanteras. People pray to them for good health, wealth and prosperity in their lives.According to legends, on this day, Goddess Lakshmi emerged out of the ocean during the Sagar Manthan (churning of the milky sea) along with Lord Kubera, the God of wealth and hence the two are worshipped on Dhanteras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-special-occasion-of-dhanteras-101635839625611.html
02-11-2021||India||Money laundering case: Anil Deshmukh produced in court, ED seeks 14-day custody||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh was produced before a special court in Mumbai by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which questioned him in connection with a money laundering case on Monday. Deshmukh was arrested late on Monday after 12 hours of questioning.Watch: Anil Deshmukh arrested by EDDeshmukh was produced for remand before additional sessions judge P B Jadhav, who is presiding over the special holiday court, a little after noon.Additional Solicitor General of India (ASG) Anil Singh is arguing on behalf of the ED before the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court. The agency, which is investigating the case, has sought 14-day custody of Deshmukh. The politician will oppose the remand.Before producing him in court, the prosecuting agency had taken the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader to the state-run JJ Hospital in Mumbai for a regular medical checkup.Deshmukh appeared before the ED for questioning afte skipping at least four summons. He was questioned over the alleged ₹100 crore extortion and money laundering case.The ED's case is that Deshmukh, while serving as Maharashtra's home minister, misused his official position and through dismissed cop Sachin Waze collected ₹4.70 crore from various bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The money was allegedly laundered to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, an education trust controlled by the politician's family.Earlier on Friday, Bombay High Court rejected Deshmukh's petition challenging the ED summons for him to appear before the agency.The allegations of extortion against Deshmukh were first made by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh who said the NCP leader asked dismissed assistant inspector Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore from hotels and bars in Mumbai every month. Deshmukh had to resign in April following the allegation.He has refuted these allegations saying the agency's whole case was based on malicious statements made by a tainted cop (Waze).The ED registered a case against Deshmukh and others based on a corruption case filed against him by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/money-laundering-case-anil-deshmukh-produced-in-court-ed-seeks-his-custody-101635838699491.html
02-11-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Guyana recognises Covaxin, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.The South American nation of Guyana is the latest to recognise Covaxin, India's first indigenous vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Indian high commission to the country announced on Tuesday. Taking to Twitter, the high commission, based in the capital city of Georgetown, described this is an ‘important step' in ties between the two countries. Read moreIn 2019 June, India's star allrounder Yuvraj Singh shocked the world when he came out for a press conference and announced his international retirement. The left-handed batsman was regarded as one of the top batsmen in the world at the time, and while he was in and out of the team at the time, and his best years were behind him, many believed that the Yuvraj still may get to play one more series and announce his retirement in style. Read moreShilpa Shetty took to Instagram Stories to share an excerpt from a book on the ‘wilderness of intuition’. Her note comes shortly after her husband Raj Kundra deleted his Twitter and Instagram accounts. Read moreThe festival of lights is almost here. Every year, Diwali is celebrated around October or November. This year, Diwali will be celebrated on November 4. The festival of lights marks the invitation of wealth and prosperity to come home. The houses deck up in colours and lights and people are filled with happiness. Read moreMaruti Suzuki Celerio is all set to hit Indian roads in its latest avataar and the company on Tuesday announced it has opened bookings for the vehicle at ₹11,000. 2021 Maruti Celerio promises to have a number of significant updates, from its exterior design to cabin comfort as well as feature list. Read moreAt COP26, PM Modi reiterated India's commitment to work closely with the UK in various areas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a bilateral meeting with the UK PM Boris Johnson. Both discussed several regional, global issues including Afghanistan, counter terrorism and Indo-Pacific. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-guyana-recognises-covaxin-and-all-the-latest-news-101635836301837.html
02-11-2021||India||PM Modi’s climate action commitments leave room for India's economic growth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment towards climate action with India promising to achieve net zero emissions by 2070 appears to have been taken with global strategic landscape in mind. His speech at the COP26 indicates that India is all for saving the planet without inhibiting India's economic growth and at the same time monitoring other countries walk the talk on countering climate change.Coming straight to Glasgow from G-20 summit in Rome, PM Modi's statement takes into account the reality that India has the lowest per capita income in the top twenty grouping with Indonesia, South Africa ahead on multiple figures and China nearly four times ahead. That PM Modi did not spell out the peaking year also indicates that India has lot of economic growth potential in near future. And with better technology options available to India during the projected period of growth, the country will be in far more synergy with the global climate change objectives.“PM Modi has tried to balance climate action with realistic assessment of resource position. He has made commitments by keeping the space for India’s economic development. The commitments are etched in stone unlike others who are all talk and no action,” said a former foreign secretary.The fact is that PM Modi not only spoke for India but took upon himself to be the voice of global south at both the G-20 and the COP26. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday night tweeted: “When it comes to climate action, India has delivered on its Paris commitments and has now set out ambitious goals at Glasgow. This reflects in our determination to shape key global outcomes and make our fullest contributions. India will count where it matters. When it comes to climate justice, we will speak our mind and flight for Global South. History shall not be repeated.” EAM Jaishankar also asked that countries which makes promises of greater climate finance should also be held accountable and that financing like mitigation should be monitored closely.Climate change was also one of the main agendas at the G-20 conference with covid vaccine, Afghanistan and Islamic radicalization being the other big issues facing the world. But the global order, trust and transparency and resilient supply chains in the context of Indo-Pacific was the under-current of the Rome summit.While PM Modi met key leaders at the G-20 and the COP26 including French President Emmanuelle Macron and Australian PM Scott Morrison, EAM Jaishankar had a nuts and bolt meeting with his US counterpart Antony Blinken with detailed step by step focus on Afghanistan and the growing Islamic radicalization in the Indian sub-continent as well as the Indo-Pacific.While the response to PM Modi’s climate action is expected to be revealed later today, it is quite evident that India has put up a positive agenda at the COP26 with a room for maneuvering country’s future economic development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-climate-action-commitments-leave-room-for-india-s-economic-growth-101635836056163.html
02-11-2021||India||Guyana recognises Covaxin; Indian high commission hails ‘important step’||The South American nation of Guyana is the latest to recognise Covaxin, India's first indigenous vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Indian high commission to the country announced on Tuesday. Taking to Twitter, the high commission, based in the capital city of Georgetown, described this is an ‘important step' in ties between the two countries.“#Guyana has recognised #India's indigenous vaccine #COVAXIN--important step forward in the post-Covid partnership between Indian and Guyana,” India in Guyana tweeted, also attaching with the tweet an image of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Guyanese President Irfaan Ali at the ongoing UN climate summit in Glasgow, Scotland. #Guyana has recognized #India's indigenous vaccine #COVAXIN-important step forward in the post-COVID partnership between 🇮🇳&🇬🇾 @PMOIndia @narendramodi @OTPGY @mfaguyana @DrSJaishankar @M_Lekhi @MEAIndia @IndianDiplomacy @DrMohamedIrfaa1 @ANI @PIB_India @drkjsrini @BharatBiotech pic.twitter.com/KJQj3lpMENGuyana, which has a population of just over 700,00 and which is the only country in South America with English as official language, earlier recognised the following Covid-19 vaccines: Oxford-AstraZeneca, Sputnik V, Sinopharm, Sinovac, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Jansen. According to the country's guidelines, a person is ‘vaccinated’ if they have taken at least one dose of any of the aforementioned jabs.In recent days, countries such as Australia and Oman have added Covaxin to their respective lists of approved vaccines. Other nations, which have approved the Bharat Biotech International Limited-developed vaccine include Mauritius, Philippines, Nepal, Mexico, Iran, Sri Lanka, Greece, Estonia and Zimbabwe.Covaxin is among six jabs granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) in India for the nationwide inoculation drive, which began on January 16. On November 3, the World Health Organization (WHO) will hold a review meeting to discuss granting emergency use listing (EUL) to Covaxin. Members of the global health body's technical advisory group (TAG) met on October 26 to discuss the issue, but concluded that more clarifications were required from Bharat Biotech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guyana-recognises-covaxin-indian-high-commission-hails-important-step-101635833565496.html
02-11-2021||India||YSR Congress’ Dasari Sudha wins by-election to AP’s Badvel assembly seat||YSR Congress party candidate Dr Dasari Sudha on Tuesday won the by-election to the Badvel assembly seat in Andhra Pradesh's Kadapa district. She defeated her nearest rival P Suresh of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with a massive margin of 85,505 votes.However, an official declaration is yet to be made. Sudha is the wife of and sitting YSRC MLA G Venkata Subbaiah, who died after a prolonged illness in March this year.Follow live updates hereFifteen candidates were in the fray for the October 30 by-election to the Badvel (SC) assembly constituency, which saw a triangular contest among the three main political parties in the state.Apart from the ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party, the BJP and the Congress fielded their candidates for the by-election necessitated after the death of sitting legislator G Venkata Subbaiah. The main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) opted out of the contest as the YSRC fielded the widow of the deceased legislator for the contest.Former MLA PM Kamalamma, the Congress nominee, represented the constituency from 2009 to 2014. The BJP fielded youth leader Panathala Suresh for the Badvel contest. Suresh unsuccessfully contested the 2019 election from the Railway Koduru constituency in the Kadapa district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysr-congress-dasari-sudha-wins-by-election-to-ap-s-badvel-assembly-seat-101635834597303.html
02-11-2021||India||West Bengal bypolls: Trinamool on path of victory in all 4 constituencies||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) was on the path of victory in all the four assembly constituencies in West Bengal where bypolls were held on October 30, as the counting of votes continued on Tuesday.The bypolls were held in four assembly constituencies in West Bengal, including Dinhata, Gosaba, Khardaha and Santipur. The Trinmaool Congress secured 76.3% of the votes polled while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) could manage only 14.21% of the ballots cast, data from the Election Commisison of India showed even as the counting continued.In Dinhata, Trinamool Congress heavyweight Udayan Guha contested against Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Ashok Mandal to reclaim the seat that the BJP had won by a thin margin in the assembly elections held earlier this year. Guha was leading by 146,226 votes after the 15th round of counting.The bypoll to Dinhata was necessitated after BJP's Nisith Pramanik was elevated as a Union minister of state during the recent Union Cabinet reshuffle. Pramanik vacated his seat to be at the Parliament.Similarly, the bypoll to Santipur assembly constituency was held after BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar gave up his assembly seat to retain the Lok Sabha membership. At the bypolls, TMC's Braja Kishor Goswami was leading by 37,026 votes after the 11th round of counting.However, the Khardaha constituency is being touted as the most high-profile seat at this bypoll. Veteran Trinamool Congress leader and state minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay fought the seat against BJP's Joy Saha as the election to the constituency was necessitated after TMC MLA Kajal Sinha died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) days after the assembly polls.Sovandeb Chattopadhyay was leading by 70,080 votes against his nearest contender, BJP's Joy Saha, after the 12th round of counting.Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who had earlier won the Bhabanipur assembly constituency, vacated the seat for West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to contest during the September 30 bypolls, to retain her membership of the state assembly. Mamata Banerjee won the seat with a thumping majority and decimated BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal.ALSO READ | How TMC pulled off a massive win against formidable BJPGosaba assembly which went to the polls after the seat became vacant following the death of Trinamool Congress' Jayanta Naskar from Covid-19, also saw the ruling party's candidate Subrata Mondal leading by 141,893 votes against BJP's Palash Rana after the 16th round of counting. If the trends in West Bengal assembly bypolls continue, the ruling Trinamool Congress will add two more seats to its kitty, assuming it wins Dinhata and Santipur seats.In the assembly polls held earlier this year, Trinamool Congress won 213 seats and BJP clinched 77 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-assembly-bypolls-trinamool-congress-leading-early-trends-counting-on-101635825709215.html
02-11-2021||India||Indian Railways makes it easier to get permits for filming on its premises||The railways have created an integrated single-window online mechanism for permissions for film shootings on its premises and to make them more streamlined and efficient.“Indian railways share a long association with Indian cinema. It has always lent support to Indian cinema for shootings... We welcome filmmakers to apply online for filming... and hope the railways will continue to be featured... in screenplays,” said Railway Board chairman and CEO Suneet Sharma.Filmmakers earlier needed to seek permission from 17 zonal chief public relations officers and the Railway Board by submitting applications. Now with the setting up of the Film Facilitation Office, applications can be submitted through a web portal. The portal can be used for permissions for shooting feature films and TV/web shows.Producers will have to apply offline for shooting documentaries, music videos, and commercials, the railways said in a press release.Also Read: Indian Railways to run superfast special festive train from today. Check details“The idea is to create value for filmmakers by easing filming across various jurisdictions like the railways, which offer unique, distinctive locations that enhance the filming narrative,” said information and broadcasting secretary Apurva Chandra. “The railways have also been an important part of India’s cinematic history and filmmakers must leverage this newly created ecosystem to weave India’s sprawling and picturesque railway network into their narrative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-makes-it-easier-to-get-permits-for-filming-on-its-premises-101635826053107.html
02-11-2021||India||Assam bye-elections: Counting of votes underway for five assembly seats||The counting of votes following bye-elections for five assembly seats in Assam started on Tuesday at 8am. A total of 31 candidates are in the fray for the five seats, voting for which took place on Saturday. According to the office of the chief electoral officer, all necessary preparations including security arrangements and Covid-19 safety protocols were in place at the counting centres. “Foolproof security measures are taken to ensure smooth conduct of the counting process. Counting will take place at 18 counting halls for the five seats where arrangements for 98 counting tables have been made,” the chief electoral officer said in a statement. LIVE: Bjp takes lead in Assam, early trends showIn view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Election Commission has banned victory processions in Assam after results are declared. Also, a maximum of two persons will be allowed to accompany the winning candidate or an authorised representative to collect the certificate of election from returning officers. The five seats for which the bye-elections were held recorded 73.77% voting, with Thawra seeing the highest at 77.56%. Two of the five seats, Tamulpur and Gossaigaon, had fallen vacant due to deaths of Opposition Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and ruling United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) legislators due to Covid-related complications. The other three seats went to polls as two Congress MLAs, from Mariani and Thawra, and an All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur resigned from their parties and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The ruling BJP currently has 59 MLAs, the UPPL has five, and Asom Gana Parishad has nine, while the Opposition Congress has 27 MLAs, the AIUDF has 15, the BPF has three, the CPI(M) has one and the newly floated Raijor Dal has one seat in the 126-member House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-bye-elections-counting-of-votes-underway-for-five-assembly-seats-101635825333211.html
02-11-2021||India||Weather forecast: Heavy and widespread rainfall likely in Peninsular India||A low pressure area that is likely to head into southeast Arabian Sea is expected to bring widespread and heavy rain in Peninsular India, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low pressure area was lying over Kanyakumari and the northern part of the Sri Lankan coastline. It is likely to head towards the southeast Arabian Sea during the next 48 hours, after which, it is likely to move northwestwards and intensify during the subsequent 48 hours.Under the influence of the system, very heavy rainfall at isolated places is likely in southern and coastal Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala. Karnataka, Lakshadweep, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are also expected to get rainfall.Scattered rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning, is also likely along the southern Konkan coastline, Goa and parts of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weather-forecast-heavy-and-widespread-rainfall-likely-in-peninsular-india-101635823952930.html
02-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ Covid-19 vaccination drive to be launched today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Har Ghar Dastak’: India to launch mega-vaccination drive today against Covid-19The Centre will on Tuesday launch the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ mega-vaccination campaign against Covid-19 on the occasion of Dhanwantari Diwas. Read moreKerala’s Sabarimala temple to reopen today for monthly poojaDevotees who were unable to visit the shrine in October due to the flood situation and had booked their slot, are also being permitted entry. Explained: All scenarios in which Virat Kohli's India can still qualify for T20 World Cup semi-finals or get knocked outIf India were to get knocked out, it will be the first time in eight years and eight ICC tournaments that India will fail to reach the final four. Read moreWhen Shah Rukh Khan said 'I bring a lot of unwanted nuisance into my family’s life', praised Gauri Khan's 'tough job'Shah Rukh Khan had once spoken about how ‘tough’ it is to live with an actor. He had also praised his wife Gauri Khan. Read more'Babli' Sharvari Wagh in crop top and skirt goes uber-glam with 'Bunty' Siddhant ChaturvediSharvari Wagh and Siddhant Chaturvedi go uber-glam for the promotional event of their song Luv Ju from Bunty Aur Babli 2. Read moreElon Musk offers $6 billion to 'end world hunger' but with a challenge to UNThe statement came after UNWFP chief David Beasley said people like Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos can solve world hunger. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-har-ghar-dastak-covid-19-vaccination-drive-to-be-launched-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101635820106370.html
02-11-2021||India||Kerala’s Sabarimala temple to reopen today for monthly pooja||The Sabarimala temple dedicated to Lord Ayyappa in Kerala’s Pathanamthitta district will reopen on Tuesday for the Chithira Aattathirunal festival and due to the Covid-19 norms in place, devotees will be required to pre-book their slot of visit.It is also mandatory for devotees arriving at the temple to be double vaccinated against coronavirus disease. Those who are not yet vaccinated or have been partially vaccinated will be asked to show a negative RT-PCR report for the Covid-19 test.Devotees who were unable to visit the shrine in October due to the flood situation and had booked their slot, are also being permitted entry.The hill-top shrine will be closed by 9pm after the Harivarasanam rituals. After the monthly puja, the Sabarimala temple will reopen on November 15 for the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku festival.On Saturday, Kerala Devaswom minister K Radhakrishnan said that all arrangements for the annual Sabarimala pilgrimage would be completed in a time-bound manner. A high-level evaluation meeting has also been held by the officials to take stock of the arrangements in the districts of Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Idukki.In view of the coronavirus pandemic, only 25,000 devotees will be allowed to visit the shrine per day during the festival. "Over 10 lakh devotees have already registered for the pilgrimage this time," K Radhakrishnan informed.The health department will also set up a Covid-19 testing centre at Nilakkal and there will be five emergency medical centres for immediate assistance to devotees. "Emergency medical centres and oxygen parlours have been set up at five places along the Pampa- Sannidhanam route. These medical centres will have facilities for first-aid, monitor blood pressure and automated external defibrillator for those who face the risk of heart attack," the health department said in a press release on Saturday.The administration has also made arrangements for as many as 470 buses of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) that would ply for pilgrims this year. Out of this, 140 buses would conduct chain service between Nilakkal and Pampa base camps.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-sabarimala-temple-to-reopen-today-for-monthly-pooja-101635822539838.html
02-11-2021||India||Support for BJP fell after 2019 Pulwama terror attack, claims new study||A new study published in the American Journal of Political Science (AJPS) has concluded that the 2019 terror attack in Kashmir’s Pulwama district - in which 40 members of India’s security forces were killed - had a negative impact on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) support base in areas where it was the incumbent party.Milan Vaishnav, a senior fellow and director of the South Asia Program at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and Jamie Hintson, junior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, jointly wrote the research paper titled: “Who Rallies Around the Flag? Nationalist Parties, National Security, and the 2019 Indian Election”.Vaishnav, who rolled out the paper’s argument in a series of tweets, wrote, “At a macro level, it’s widely accepted that the 2019 Pulwama terror attacks in Kashmir generated nationalist rallying that aided the BJP’s re-election campaign. Yet, we find those most acutely affected by the attacks were much less likely to rally behind the BJP.”Also Read: NIA raids multiple locations in J-K in Jamaat-e-Islami caseThe study claimed that nationalist governments in general are often well-placed to make the most of security-related crises and they are inclined to have hawkish views on national security policy.However, Vaishnav argues in his paper, “Using granular booth-level data on electoral outcomes and village-level data, we find that proximity to the Pulwama victims’ funeral processions substantially ‘reduced’ BJP support in areas where it was the incumbent.”“Our effects cannot be explained by prior electoral behavior, spatial correlation or personal connections to victims,” Vishnav wrote. “While several mechanisms could be at work, the preponderance of available evidence points to anti-incumbent blame as the principal driver [behind the presumed fall in BJP support].”BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal played down the research paper’s argument, saying that such a sweeping conclusion cannot be drawn on the basis of just one survey.“There are very huge negative impacts of the Pulwama attack. But the strong action taken by the government had brought out a very positive image of [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi that he means business,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/support-for-bjp-fell-after-2019-pulwama-terror-attack-claims-new-study-101635822572977.html
02-11-2021||India||Boris Johnson accepts Modi's invite to India, to plan visit soon||Boris Johnson, the prime minister of the United Kingdom, has accepted Prime Minister Narendra Modi's invitation to come to visit India, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday, adding that the British premier will be planning his visit as soon as the circumstances allow. Prime Minister Modi extended the invite to Boris Johnson on the sidelines of the COP26 climate summit on Monday, as both the leaders discussed ways to enhance bilateral cooperation in sectors like green hydrogen, renewables and clean technology, economy, and defence.Also Read | 'Ticking doomsday device': UK PM Boris Johnson warns world leaders as COP26 begins in GlasgowNotably, Boris Johnson was earlier scheduled to visit India as the chief guest of the Republic Day parade in January this year, but his visit was cancelled due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. The meeting between Modi and Boris Johnson at the COP26 summit in Glasgow was the first in-person interaction between the two leaders ever since the British premier's visit to India was cancelled twice.The leaders talked about a host of subjects, including bilateral cooperation to mitigate climate change. It was during this interaction that Prime Minister Modi reiterated his desire to welcome Johnson in India soon, an official release stated. Within a day, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla confirmed that the British prime minister has accepted the invite.According to people familiar with the matter, the relatively short interaction focussed on exchanging views and taking stock of the bilateral relationship.Also watch | PM Modi, UK’s Boris Johnson hold bilateral talks at COP26 
02-11-2021||NA||Bengal bypoll result highlights: TMC's Sovandeb Chatterjee wins Khardah||The counting of votes for four assembly seats in West Bengal is being today. The constituencies of Dinhata, Khardaha, Gosaba (SC), and Santipur went into bypolls on October 30. It’s a direct battle between the primary opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).The bypoll in Dinhata and Santipur was necessitated after winning candidates from the BJP Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, respectively, chose to not take oath in order to remain in the Parliament.Meanwhile, the seats of Gosaba and Khardaha fell vacant after the winning TMC candidates died. Kajal Sinha, who won from the Khardaha seat, succumbed to Covid-19 before the Assembly election results were declared in West Bengal on May 2. In Gosaba, TMC veteran Jayanta Naskar, who bagged the seat since 2011 and clinched it for the third time this year, passed away.TMC fielded Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who had originally bagged the Bhabanipur seat in Kolkata, from Khardaha. He had vacated Bhabanipur for TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to contest the bypoll on September 30 after she lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram in the Assembly polls 2021. Joy Saha is taking on Chattopadhyay in Khardaha by the BJP.In Dinhata, TMC’s Udayan Guha and BJP’s Ashok Mondal are competing against each other. In Santipur, BJP has fielded Niranjan Biswas against TMC’s Brajakishore Goswami. Meanwhile, BJP has fielded Palash Rana, a debutant in elections, against the ruling party’s Subrata Mondal, who is a local leader.Follow all the updates here:State minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay wins Khardah with a margin of over 93,000 votesSovandeb Chattopadhyay, who vacated the Bhabanipur seat for Mamata Banerjee, wins the Khardah constituency with a margin of over 93,000 votes.TMC's Udayan Guha wins by a margin of over 163,000 votesTMC's Udayan Guha declared winner of Dinhata assembly constituency with a margin of 163,005 votesTMC leading by 155,837 votes in DinhataDinhata assembly constituencyTrends:Round: 18th Round complete(Total Rounds: 19)1. AITC - 1799102. BJP - 240733. AIFB - 59614. NOTA-3764Leading Party - AITC leading by 155,837 Votes.Dinhata: Udayan Guha takes massive lead by over 96,000 votes#WATCH | TMC workers celebrate outside a counting centre in Dinhata, Cooch Behar as the party leads on all 4 seats in the by-polls to the State Assembly.TMC's Udayan Guha is leading in Dinhata with 96,537 votes so far.#WestBengalBypolls pic.twitter.com/k0GyQ3XC87Sovandeb Chatterjee leading in Khardah by 18,000 votesAt the end of the fourth round of counting in Khardah, West Bengal minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay reportedly crossed his nearest opponent by 18,000 votes. BJP candidate Joy Saha has, on the other hand, shifted to the third spot.TMC's Udayan Guha leading in Dinhata by over 62,000 votesAfter eight rounds of counting, Trinamool Congress candidate Udayan Guha was found leading by over 62,000 votes, reported HT Bangla.TMC leading in all four assembly constituenciesBy-election to Assembly constituencies across 14 states | TMC leading on all 4 seats in West Bengal. pic.twitter.com/WSZYXjG5JqWest Bengal minister and veteran TMC leader Sovandeb Chatterjee was also reported to be leading in Khardah assembly, while the party has also taken the lead in the Santipur assemblyTMC's Udayan Guha leading in DinhataTrinamool Congress' Udayan Guha was reported to be leading in the Dinhata assembly constituency by more than 38,000 votes, while the party's candidate in Gosaba, Subrata Mondol, was also reported to be leading by more than 20,000 votes.Who are the candidates in Dinhata?In Dinhata, TMC’s Udayan Guha and BJP’s Ashok Mondal are competing against each other. The Left Front has fielded Abdur Rauf of the All India Forward Block.Bengal bypolls: Visuals from Dinhata counting centreWest Bengal: Results of four assembly seats -- Dinhata, Khardaha, Gosaba (SC), and Santipur -- that went into bypolls on October 30 will be announced today; visuals from Dinhata College counting centre. pic.twitter.com/5NZgErIotNWest Bengal: Results of four assembly seats -- Dinhata, Khardaha, Gosaba (SC), and Santipur -- that went into bypolls on October 30 will be announced today; visuals from Dinhata College counting centre. BJP, TMC locked in tough contestSantipur and Dinhata seats fell vacant after BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar and Nishith Pramanik resigned from the assembly, respectively.Whereas, elections on the other two seats are being held as All India Trinamool Congress' (TMC) MLAs Kajal Sinha (Khardaha) and Jayanta Naskar (Gosaba) died due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-bypolls-results-2021-live-updates-101635814326567.html
02-11-2021||India||UP assembly polls: With focus on women, Congress changes strategy||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday promised a bonanza of benefits for women including two in every five government jobs for women in the state if the party comes to power, ahead of the state elections slated for early next year. The announcement comes weeks after the party promised 40% tickets for women.Gandhi also announced that women would get annually three cooking gas cylinders for free and they won’t need to buy tickets in state government buses. She also promised scooties and smartphones for girl students—a leap from the usual poll promises of bicycles. Party insiders claimed that all these measures are aimed to create a class-based vote bank for the Congress that had rapidly lost its erstwhile vote-base in the post-Mandal politics to Samajwadi Party, BSP and the BJP in UP and Bihar.“Priyanka has established her as the face of the Congress in UP and many women look up to her as their favourite leader. She is also looking at the broader picture and trying to reach out to a broader section,” said a senior strategist, requesting anonymity.A party insider also revealed that the women-centric announcements were a result of a strategy in which both Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi were involved. Among the other steps, Priyanka announced monthly ₹10,000 for all Asha and anganwadi workers. Gandhi also announced widow pension of ₹1000 per month and 75 vocational schools across the state.The poll promises also signal a new style of campaign and a tactics to pre-empt the manifesto of other parties. In the last UP assembly polls, the Congress bagged just 6.25% popular votes and seven out of 403 seats in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-assembly-polls-with-focus-on-women-congress-changes-strategy-101635814357331.html
02-11-2021||India||Private sector firm set to make small arms||Indian weapons company SSS Defence will begin manufacturing and testing small arms at its new facility that will be operational in Bengaluru in January 2022, with the complex also housing a first-of-its kind underground weapons testing tunnel to determine their effectiveness, the firm’s CEO Vivek Krishnan said on Monday.“This will be our first full-fledged facility where we will carry out integrated research and development, manufacturing and testing of weapons,” he said. Security audits by the ministry of home affairs are currently on at the manufacturing unit.In a needed boost to the government’s Make in India campaign, the weapons factory will make SSS Defence the second private sector company in India to manufacture small arms for the local and export markets after PLR Systems Ltd (PLR), a joint venture between Adani Group and Israel Weapon Industries (IWI).The 150-metre-long tunnel will be the first underground facility to be set up by a private sector company in the country for testing and evaluation of weapons ranging from pistols and assault rifles to carbines and sniper rifles, people familiar with the matter said. The testing process allows manufacturers to gather crucial tactical weapon data including muzzle velocity, action time and consistency.Experts said the development was an indicator of the small arms manufacturing business coming of age in the private sector and the Indian military and paramilitary would have cheaper indigenous options to choose from.The four-year-old firm SSS Defence emerged as the lowest bidder for a contract to upgrade a small number of Indian Army’s AK-47 assault rifles, beating off competition from established Israeli rival Fab Defense, as reported by Hindustan Times on Sunday.Thus far it has built prototype weapons such as assault rifles and sniper rifles at a ‘bridge’ or make-shift facility in Bengaluru, and the new facility will allow the Bengaluru-based firm to ramp up annual production to 20,000 assault rifles and 3,000 sniper rifles depending on orders, Krishnan said.PLR is working on its first order to supply Masada 9mm pistols to the Indian Navy’s elite marine commandos, said one of persons cited above. The JV is manufacturing at its Gwalior facility the complete range of IWI weapons such as Tavor assault rifles, X95 assault rifles, Galil sniper rifles, Negev light machine guns and Uzi submachine guns.The weapons to be manufactured at SSS Defence’s eight-acre unit at Jigani near Bengaluru’s well-known technology hub, Electronic City, include the Viper and Saber sniper rifles, P-72 assault rifles and the P-72 carbines, Krishnan said. The weapons facility represents an investment of around ₹200 crore.The company is also setting up an ammunition manufacturing plant at Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh that is expected to be operational next year.Achieving self-reliance in the small arms sector is critical, said military affairs expert Lieutenant General DB Shekatkar (retd).“Apart from the military, paramilitary organisations and state police forces need to be equipped with quality small arms for better response,” said Shekatkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/private-sector-firm-set-to-make-small-arms-101635814498850.html
02-11-2021||NA||Highlights: BJP wins Prithvipur assembly seat in MP bypolls||Election officials on Tuesday started counting votes for the bypolls held in three Lok Sabha and 29 assembly constituencies spread across 13 states and the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The voting for these seats was held on October 30.  The results of the Bengal assembly constituencies Dinhata and Gosaba are out and the Trinamool Congress is victorious in both seats. In Assam, the Bharatiya Janata Party won the Thowda assembly consituency. Congress won the Dhariawad assembly seat in Rajasthan. In the Dadra and Nagar haveli Lok Sabha seat, Shiv Sena is leading by 40,000 votes. Follow all the updates here:BJP wins Prithvipur assembly seat in MP bypollsBJP won the Prithvipur assembly seat in Madhya Pradesh and defeated Congress by a margin of 15,687 votes, an Election Commission official told news agency PTI.Congress' Preeti Shaktawat wins Vallabhnagar Assembly seatCongress candidate Preeti Shaktawat won the Vallabhnagar Assembly seat in Rajasthan bypolls by a margin of 20,606 votes.Congress' Pratibha Singh wins by 7,490 votes in Mandi bypollsCongress candidate Pratibha Singh won the Mandi Lok Sabha bypoll on Tuesday by a margin of 7,490 votes. BJP loses in HanagalBJP lost the Hanagal bypoll to Congress. Hanagal is located in chief minister Basavaraj Bommai's home district of Haveri. TMC wins all 4 seats in West Bengal bypollsRuling Trinamool Congress (TMC) won all four assembly constituencies-Santipur, Gosaba, Khardaha, and Dinhata in the bypolls.In Karnataka bypolls, BJP and Congress win 1 seat each, reports ANIBJP and Congress won one seat each in the Karnataka bypolls, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The ruling BJP won Sindgi with a margin of 31,185 votes, while Congress won Hangal with a margin of 7,373 votes.UPPL wins Tamulpur, Gossaigaon; BJP wins ThawraJolen Daimary of ruling UPPL wins Tamulpur seat by defeating Independent candidate Ganesh Kachary by over 50,000 votes. Jiron Basumatary of ruling UPPL wins Gossaigaon seat beating Congress's Jowel Tudu by a margin of 28,252 votes. BJP's Sushanta Borgohain wins Thawra assembly seat with 54,956 votes, by a margin of 30,561 votes over Dhaijya KonwarCongress wins in Dhariwad bypollsCongress' Nagraj wins Dhariawad seat with over 18 000 votes. Independent Thawarchand comes second. TMC's Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay  wins Bhabanipur with over 93,000 votesTMC's Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who vacated Bhabanipur seat for Mamata Banerjee, wins Khardaha constituency in West Bengal with over 93,000 votes. Khela sesh: TMC's Udayan Guha snatches assembly seat from BJP in Bengal bypollsTrinamool Congress (TMC) candidate for Dinhata assembly constituency in northern West Bengal defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) contender by a record margin of 163,005 votes to wrest control of the seat, counting of votes at the end of 19th round on Tuesday showed. Read More‘Heartiest congratulations to all the four winning candidates': Mamata BanerjeeeMy heartiest congratulations to all the four winning candidates! tweets TMC chief Mamata Banerjee. “This victory is people's victory, as it shows how Bengal will always choose development and unity over propaganda and hate politics. With people's blessings, we promise to continue taking Bengal to greater heights!" she also wrote.TMC's Udayan Guha declared winner of DinhataTMC's Udayan Guha declared winner of Dinhata assembly constituency with a margin of 163,005 votes.Congress gains lead in all 3 seats in Himachal PradeshCongress moves ahead, takes lead on all three seats in Himachal Pradesh. The counting og votes is being held for Mandi parliamentary seat and in the assembly constituency of Arki and Fatehpur.Congress leads on both seats in RajasthanCongress leading on both seats in Rajasthan. In Vallabhnagar seat, Congress' candidate Preeti Shaktawat leading 6458 votes. RLP candidate Udai Lal Dangi is trailing until the eighth round of counting. Nagraj Meena is ahead with 15960 votes in Dhariyawad seat, while BJP Khet singh trails.In Himachal, Congress continues to lead on 2 seats In Himachal Pradesh, Congress leading on two seats out of three setas. BJP is ahead on one seat RJD's Arun Kumar continues to hold lead over JD(U)The RJD's nominee Arun Kumar continued its lead over is nearest rival of the JD(U) Rajeev Kumar Singh at Tarapur by maintaining a lead of 2551 at Tarapur in Munger. In Kushweshwar Asthan, the JD(U) nominee Aman Bhushan Hazari had maintained its lead of 8074 votes over his nearest rival Ganesh Bharti of the RJD after completion of 12 round of counting, as per ECI update and reports from Kushweashwar Asthan counting centre till 12 pm.Haryana byelection: INLD’s Abhay Chautala leading in EllenabadIndian National Lok Dal (INLD) candidate Abhay Singh Chautala is ahead of his BJP rival Gobind Kanda by more than 6,000 votes after the fourth round of counting for the October 30 Ellenabad byelection. Read MoreHimachal byelections: Congress leads in Mandi, Arki, FatehpurCounting is underway in the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency and Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur assembly segments of Himachal Pradesh, where byelections were held on October 30. Read MoreYSR  Congress candidate wins Badvel, defeats BJP by 85.505 votesYSR Congress party candidate Dr Dasari Sudha wins the by-election to Badvel assembly seat in Andhra Pradesh's Kadapa district. She defeated her nearest rival P Suresh of Bharatiya Janata Party with a massive margin of 85.505 votes.However, official declaration is yet to be made.In Huzurabad assembly by-polls in Telangana, BJP candidate and former state health minister Eatala Rajender is leading by a margin of 2,169 votes at the end of fifth round.RJD gains lead in Tarapur; JD(U) ahead in Kusheshwar AsthanRJD's nominee Arun Kumar maintained its lead in Tarapur against In JD(U)'s Rajeev Kumar Singh by 2712 votes at the end of round five. At the end of 9 th round, JD (U) candidate Aman Bhushan Hazari leads over RJD Ganesh Bharti by 7501 votes at Kusheshwar Sthan.TMC workers celebrate outside a counting centre in Dinhata#WATCH | TMC workers celebrate outside a counting centre in Dinhata, Cooch Behar as the party leads on all 4 seats in the by-polls to the State Assembly.TMC's Udayan Guha is leading in Dinhata with 96,537 votes so far.#WestBengalBypolls pic.twitter.com/k0GyQ3XC87Seventh round of counting concludes in HyderabadAt the end of seventh round, YSRC is leading by a massive margin of 60785 votes over the BJP candidate P Suresh in Badvel assembly bypolls in Andhra PradeshIn Telangana's Huzurabad assembly bypolls, BJP candidate Eatala Rajender is leading by a margin of 2968 votes over TRS candidate G Srinivasa Yadav at the end of the fourth roundTarget to defeat the BJP in the by-polls by 57,000 votes: TMC's Udayan Guha“In the assembly elections we lost by 57 votes. We set a target to defeat the BJP in the by-polls by 57,000 votes. But as the by-elections came closer our workers became charged up and we increased our target to defeat the BJP by a margin of at least 100,000 votes,” said Udayan Guha, TMC candidate from Dinhata.NDA ahead in northeastIn Meghalaya, Ruling NPP candidate Md. Abdus Saleh leading by 188 votes in Rajabala seat. In Assam, BJP's Phanidhar Talukdar extends lead in Bhabanipur. Mizoram's ruling MNF candidate is leading opposition ZPM candidate by 597 votes after end of second round of counting.BJP leads with slender margin in Telangana's HuzurabadIn Badvel by-poll in Andhra Pradesh, YSRC candidate Dasari Sudha is leading by 41,099 votes after the fourth round over her nearest BJP rival P SureshIn Huzurabad bypoll in Telangana, BJP candidate Eatala Rajender is leading over the nearest TRS rival G Srinivasa Yadav by a margin of 1,269 votes at the end of third roundWill ‘win by handsome margin': RJD's Tejashwi Yadav While RJD trails in counting, party leader Tejashwi Yadav exudes confidence; says “we'll win by handsome margin." “If administration or other people will try to create any disturbance, I'm here in Darbhanga. I'll not let the mandate be stolen by anybody. Our teams are here and overseeing everything," ANI qouted Yadav as saying.Karnataka: Congress trails in Sindgi, leads in HaveriKarnataka trends: Ashok Managuli from the Congress is trailing with 11227 votes in Sindgi against Ramesh Busanur of the BJP who has secured 18235 votes, according to ECI. Niyaz Angadi of the JD(S) has secured 710 votes. In Hanagal, that comes under chief minister Basavaraj Bommai's home district of Haveri, Srinivas Mane of the Congress is leading with 18019 votes while Shivaraj Sajjanar is trailing with 17769 votes. Niyaz Sheikh of the JD(S) has secured 149 votes. TMC workers celebrates after steady lead on all 4 seats TMC workers have started celebrating in some areas as the party maintains steady lead in all four seats in West Bengal. Crackers being bursted. Workers playing with green Abir.JD(U) gains leads in BiharJD (U) forges ahead of RJD at Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan both. As per early  trends by EC, RJD's Ganesh Bharti is leading in Kushweshwar Asthan against his nearest rival Aman Bhushan Hazari of the JD(U) by 670 votes. In Tarapur, JD(U) nominee Rajeev Kumar Singh is leading by 224 votes against his nearest rival Arun Kumar of the RJD.RJD leads over ruling-JD(U) in BiharIn Bihar, second round of voting is underway. As per early trends, RJD is leading over JD(U) candidate in Tarapur assembly seat. At Kusheshwar Sthan assembly seat as well, RJD is leading over JD (U) but the margin of lead has narrowed down.Early trends for 3 parliamentary constituenciesBy-poll to 3 parliamentary constituencies | Congress now leading in Himachal Pradesh's Mandi, the BJP is ahead in Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa and the Shiv Sena in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, according to early trends.BJP gains lead in Khandwa Lok Sabha seatIn Madhya Pradesh's Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, BJP candidate Gyanishwar Patel has gained a lead after early rounds of counting. BJP leading in all four seats in MPIn Madhya Pradesh, BJP candidate Pratima Bagri leading with 269 votes in Raigaon. BJP candidate Sulochana Rawat leading with 1590 votes in Jobat assembly constituency.In Prithvipur assembly constituency, BJP candidate Shishupal Yadav leading with 429 votes.TMC leading on all four seats in West BengalTrinamool Congress leading on all four seats of West Bengal, according to the Election Commission. In Gosaba, Subrata Mondol leading by more than 20,000 votes. Udayan Guha leading by more than 38000 votes in Dinhata. State minister and veteran TMC leader Sovandeb Chatterjee leading in Khardah assembly.Congress candidate Nagaj Meena takes lead in Rajasthan's PratapgarhIn Rajasthan, Congress candidate Nagaj Meena is leading with a margin of 38 votes in Dhariawad assembly constituency in Pratapgarh district.BJP candidate Khet Singh is trails.Early trends from Himachal, Bihar and KarnatakaAccording to a report by ANI, RJD leadng in one out of two seats in Bihar, Congress in one out of three seats in Himachal Pradesh and BJP and Congress on one each in Karnataka.ZPM candidate leads in Mirzoram's Tuirial seatIn Mizoram, opposition Zoram Peoples Movement (ZPM) candidate Laltlanmawia has a slight lead over ruling Mizo National Front candidate K Laldawngliana in Tuirial assembly seat.NPP takes intial lead at Mawryngkneng; UDP leading in MwphlangIn Meghalaya, Ruling National Peoples Party (NPP) candidate PN Syiem leading in Mawryngkneng seat. United Democratic Party (UDP) candidate Eugeneson Lyngdoh leading in Mwphlang seat. Congress candidates trailing in both seats.Early trends emerge for KarnatakaIn Karnataka, BJPs Shivaraj Sharanappa Sajjanar is trailing with 4296 votes as against Srinivas Mane of the Congress at 4478 votes, according to Election Commission.Ramesh Bhusanur of the BJP leads in Sindgi with 5255 votes as against 2054 so far by the Congress candidate Ashok Managuli.cBJP takes lead in Assam, early trends showBJP candidates Phanidhar Talukdar (Bhabanipur) and Sushanta Borgohain (Thawra) leading after first round of counting.Why bypolls were necessitated in Assam?Two of the five seats where bye-elections were held, Tamulpur and Gossaigaon, had fallen vacant due to deaths of opposition Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and ruling United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) legislators from COVID19 –related complications.The other three seats went to polls as two Congress MLAs, from Mariani and Thawra, and an All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur resigned from their parties and joined BJP.Counting of votes begins for bypolls in 3 Lok Sabha, 29 assembly seatsThe counting of votes begin at around 8am on Tuesday for bypolls in 3 Lok Sabha, 29 assembly seats.Counting to be held amid strict Covid normsIn view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all polling personnel and election officials including the private persons engaged in the election duty were double vaccinated before taking their services ahead of coutnting. One health worker was appointed as COVID nodal officer for each polling station.Which party stands where?Out of the 29 assembly seats, the Bharatiya Janata Party had grabbed around half a dozen; the Congress party nine and the rest were grabbed by regional parties.Counting of votes for bypolls today in 3 Lok Sabha, 29 assembly seatsThe assembly by-elections which saw a high turnout were held in five seats in Assam, four in West Bengal, three each in Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Meghalaya, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan and one seat each is in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram and Telangana. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-results-2021-live-updates-assembly-by-election-results-101635814845032.html
02-11-2021||India||Counting of votes for bypolls today in 3 Lok Sabha, 29 assembly seats||Votes will be counted on Tuesday in three Lok Sabha and 29 assembly constituencies spread across 13 states and the Union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli where by-elections were held on October 30.The assembly by-elections which saw a high turnout were held in five seats in Assam, four in West Bengal, three each in Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Meghalaya, two each in Bihar, Karnataka and Rajasthan and one seat each is in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra, Mizoram and Telangana.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) grabbed around half a dozen constituencies out of the 29 assembly seats, the Congress party nine and the rest were grabbed by regional parties.Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mandi in Himachal Pradesh and Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh saw bypolls for Lok Sabha seats after the sitting members died.The Dadra and Nagar Haveli fell vacant after the demise of Independent Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar, in Mandi, the BJP’s Ramswaroop Sharma died in March and the by-election to the Khandwa parliamentary constituency was necessitated following the death of BJP member Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan.Also read | Himachal bypoll: BJP to act against black sheep after Tuesday’s outcomeCounting of votes will also take place in Andhra Pradesh's Badvel seat, earlier held by the YSRC, Deglur in Maharashtra, which was held by the Congress, and Tuirial assembly seat in Mizoram.Counting will also be held in Himachal Pradesh, where polls were held on three seats in Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai, Karnataka’ Sindgi and Hangal, Madhya Pradesh’s Prithvipur, Raigaon (SC), Jobat (ST) seats and Maharashtra’s Deglur (SC) seat.Meghalaya also held assembly bypolls for the Mawryngkneng (ST), Mawphlang (ST) and Rajabala constituencies. Polls took place in Mizoram’s Tuirial (ST) assembly constituency and Nagaland’s Shamtorr-Chessore (ST) assembly seat.Lok Sabha seatsSeven-time independent MP Mohan Delkar's wife Kalaben Delkar is contesting as Shiv Sena candidate against the BJP's Mahesh Gavit and Congress' Mahesh Dhodi in the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha constituency.Also read | BJP will win with a big margin in Sindgi, Hanagal bypolls: Karnataka CM BommaiIn Mandi, Pratibha Singh is contesting against the BJP's nominee Khushal Singh Thakur, a Kargil war hero. The Khandwa Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh was previously with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP fielded former district panchayat president Gyaneshwar Patil, denying the ticket to Harshvardhan Chauhan, the son of sitting MP Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan whose demise necessitated the bypoll. The Congress has nominated former MLA Rajnarayan Singh Purni.Assembly seatsThe ruling BJP has fielded candidates in three seats in Assam leaving the other two to alliance partner United People's Party Liberal (UPPL). The Congress has fielded its nominees in all the five seats and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and the Bodoland People's Front (BPF)—its former allies,—are contesting in two and one seats respectively.In West Bengal, the bypolls to the Dinhata and Santipur seats are being seen as a prestige battle for the BJP, which is currently grappling with an exodus of MLAs and senior leaders.Trinamool Congress heavyweight Udayan Guha is aiming to reclaim the Dinhata seat, from which a BJP won against him in the elections held in April. The bypoll was held following the resignation of Nisith Pramanik, now Union minister of state for home affairs after he retained his Lok Sabha membership. In Santipur, BJP lawmaker Jagannath Sarkar resigned from the Bengal assembly.Also read | Biennial elections to three Andhra, six Telangana seats on November 29In Haryana, the by-election to the Ellenabad assembly constituency was necessitated by the resignation of Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala as MLA in protest against the Centre's new farm laws.Chautala, son of INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala, is contesting against Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal and BJP-JP candidate Gobind Kanda, the brother of Haryana Lokhit Party chief and legislator Gopal Kanda.It is an important contest for the Chautalas as Abhay Chautala won the 2010 bypolls from Ellenabad when Om Prakash Chautala vacated the seat, and then retained it in 2014. He also retained it in the 2019 assembly polls, when he was the only INLD MLA in the House.In Bihar, the assembly seats of Tarapur in Munger and Kusheshwar Sthan in Darbhanga fell vacant after the deaths of MLAs Mewalal Choudhary and Shashi Bhushan Hazari, both from the JD(U). The RJD has fielded Arun Kumar Sah against JD(U)'s Rajiv Singh in Tarapur against Congress candidate, Rajesh Kumar Mishra. In Kusheshwar Sthan, Shashi Bhushan Hazari's son Aman Bhushan Hajari is contesting against the RJD's Ganesh Bharti and Congress' Atirek Kumar.In the Huzurabad assembly constituency in Telangana, as many as 30 candidates are in the fray but the main contest is among Gellu Srinivas Yadav of the ruling Telangana Rashtriya Samithi (TRS), the opposition BJP's Eatala Rajender and Venkat Balmoori of the Congress party.The by-election was held after Eatala Rajender resigned in June following his removal from the state cabinet over allegations of land grabbing. Rajender, who dismissed the allegations, quit the TRS and is contesting on a BJP ticket. The result is significant for the BJP as it aims at emerging as an alternative to the ruling TRS in the 2023 assembly elections.In Meghalaya, former national footballer Eugeneson Lyngdoh is contesting the election from Mawphlang on a United Democratic Party (UDP) ticket. He is up against former Congress MLA Kennedy C Khyriem and a sitting member of the district council (MDC) from the NPP, Lamphrang Blah.In Rajasthan, the bypolls were necessitated after the death of Vallabhnagar Congress MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP legislator from Dhariawad Gautam Lal Meena.Also read | Mandi bypoll:100% voting at world’s highest polling station TashigangIn Vallabhnagar, the ruling Congress party has given a ticket to Gajendra Shaktawat's wife, Preeti Shaktawat, against BJP leader Himmat Singh Jhala. The Congress has fielded Nagraj Meena in Dhariawad against the BJP's Khet Singh Meena.Both the BJP and the Congress are keen to win in Rajasthan as the results will send a message across the state about how the Ashok Gehlot government, which is facing a challenge from the Congress faction led by Sachin Pilot, has performed.In Karnataka, the byelection had to be held following the death of Sindgi JD(S) legislator MC Managuli and the BJP's CM Udasi from Hangal and will be the first electoral test for chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, who replaced BS Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counting-of-votes-for-bypolls-today-in-3-lok-sabha-29-assembly-seats-101635813269869.html
02-11-2021||NA||Assam bypolls highlights: BJP, allies win all 5 assembly seats||BJP and its ally UPPL won all five seats in the Assam Bypolls.BJP's Sushanta Borgohain won the Thowra assembly seat by a margin of 30,561 votes. BJP's ally UPPL candidate Jiron Basumatary and Jolen Daimary  won the Gossaigaon and Tamulpur seats by a margin of of 28,252 and over 50,000 votes respectively. BJP candidate Phanidhar Talukdar won the Bhabanipur seat by a margin of 25,641 votes. BJP's Rupjyoti Kurmi won the Mariani seat by a margin of  40,104 votes. Counting of votes began at around 8am on Tuesday for the  bypolls in five Assembly constituencies in Assam - Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra. The initial trend is expected to emerge by 10 to 11am.A cumulative voter turnout of 74.04 per cent was recorded in the by-elections, of which the highest count at 78 per cent was recorded at Bhabanipur assembly seat. Gossaigaon witnessed a voter turnout of 77.37 per cent, Tamulpur 67.88 per cent; 77.56 per cent was recorded at Thowra and a 71.70 per cent turnout at Mariani seat. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) fielded its candidates in three out of the five seats, leaving the remaining two to the candidates of ally United People's Party Liberal (UPPL). The Congress contested on all five seats, while its former allies All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and Bodoland People's Front (BPF) contested on two and one seats respectively.A total of 31 candidates are in the fray for five seats, with nearly 7.96 lakh voters. The bypolls in Gossaigaon and Tamulpur were necessitated following the death of MLAs due to post Covid-19 complications, while the remaining assembly seats of Thowra, Mariani and Bhabanipur were vacated by their MLAs who joined the ruling party.Follow all the updates here:BJP's Rupjyoti Kurmi wins Mariani seatBJP's Rupjyoti Kurmi won the Mariani seat by a margin of 40,104 votes. Kurmi, who secured 55, 489 votes, defeated Congress candidate Luhit Konwar, who received 15,385 votes. BJP's Phanidhar Talukdar wins Bhabanipur seatBJP's Phanidhar Talukdar won the Bhabanipur seat by a margin of 25,641 votes. Talukdar, who received 64,200 votes, defeated Congress's Sailendra Nath Das, who received 38,559 votes.Jolen Daimary of UPPL wins TamulpurBJP ally UPPL won its second seat on Tuesday after Jolen Daimary defeated independent candidate Ganesh Kachary by over 50,000 votes to win the Tamulpur seat.Jiron Basumatary of UPPL wins GossaigaonJiron Basumatary of ruling United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) won the Gossaigaon seat, and defeated rival Congress's Jowel Tudu by a margin of 28,252 votes.BJP's Sushanta Borgohain wins Thowra assembly seatBJP's Sushanta Borgohain won the Thawra assembly seat by a margin of 30,561 votes over independent candidate Dhaijya Konwar. Borgohain received 54,956 votes while Konwar received 24,395 votes.BJP wins in Thowra Assembly constituencyBJP wins in Thowra Assembly constituency. Counting is underway on the remaining four Assembly seats.NDA takes lead in all five seats of AssamThe ruling BJP and its allies are leading in all the five assembly constituencies in Assam, where bypolls were held on October 30, according to the latest update of the counting trends put on the Election Commission of India (ECI) website.First round of counting show early lead for BJPBJP candidates Phanidhar Talukdar (Bhabanipur) and Sushanta Borgohain (Thawra) leading after first round of counting.Early trends for AssamAs per early trends, BJP candidate Rupjyoti Kurmi leading in Mariani seat. Ruling coalition partner United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) candidates leading in Gossaigaon and Tamulpur. BJP and allies leading in all 5 seats in the state. BJP leading in 3, partner UPPL in 2.BJP takes initial lead in Assam, early trends showBJP candidates Phanidhar Talukdar (Bhabanipur) and Sushanta Borgohain (Thawra) leading after first round of counting.Why bypolls where held?Two of the five seats where bye-elections were held, Tamulpur and Gossaigaon, had fallen vacant due to deaths of opposition Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and ruling United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) legislators from COVID19 –related complications.The other three seats went to polls as two Congress MLAs, from Mariani and Thawra, and an All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur resigned from their parties and joined BJP.Which party stands where?At present ruling BJP has 59 MLAs, UPPL 5 and Asom Gana Parishad 9 while opposition Congress has 27, AIUDF 15, BPF-3, CPM 1 and newly floated Raijor Das has 1 seat in the 126-member house.Counting will take place in 18 counting halls“Counting will take place in 18 counting halls for the five seats where arrangements for 98 counting tables have been made,” a statement from the CEO office read.Counting of votes beginsCounting of votes in Assam for five assmebly seats bengan at around 8am on Tuesday. All necessary measures in place for smooth counting: OfficialsAhead of coutning, the local administration has assured that all necessary measures have been taken in place to ensure smooth conduct of the counting process.Counting for five assembly seats to be held today Assam held elections in five assembly constituencies Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani and Thowra.Assam's CEO reviews arrangements ahead of countingAccording to an official release, Assam's Chief Electoral Officer Nitin Khade on Monday reviewed the arrangements with the District Election Officers (DEOs) of Gossaigaon, Bhabanipur, Tamulpur, Mariani, and Thowra assembly constituencies. He also directed them to strictly adhere to the instructions issued by the Election Commission of India.Counting to begin at 8amThe the electoral officials will begin counting of votes at 8am sharply. The election results will be available on the commission's website: results.eci.gov.in31 candidates in frayA total of 31 candidates are in fray for five seats in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-bypolls-results-2021-live-updates-101635813638584.html
02-11-2021||India||‘Har Ghar Dastak’: India to launch mega-vaccination drive today against Covid-19||The central government will on Tuesday launch the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ mega-vaccination campaign against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the occasion of Dhanwantari Diwas, according to people familiar with the development. The month-long door-to-door vaccination campaign aims to inoculate the entire population in poor-performing districts.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is currently at Glasgow in the United Kingdom, is also set to hold a Covid-19 review meet as soon as he returns to India after attending the COP26 climate conference. According to reports, the coronavirus review meeting will focus on districts with low vaccination coverage, those areas which have less than 50 per cent coverage on the first dose and low coverage on the second dose as well.After a Covid-19 review meeting with the health ministers of states and Union territories last week, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya informed the media about the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign to ramp up the vaccination drive. “We are going to launch a mega vaccination campaign ‘Har Ghar Dastak’. We have decided that for the next one month, healthcare workers will go door-to-door to vaccinate people eligible for the second dose and also those who have not taken the first dose,” said Mandaviya.According to the Union minister, 77 per cent of the eligible population in India has been vaccinated against Covid-19 with the first dose while 32 per cent of people have received both doses.“More than 10 crores people have not taken the second dose of vaccine,” he added. “People who are eligible for the second dose should take the vaccine.”Highlighting the need to accelerate the pace and coverage of vaccination, he stated that there are more than 10.34 crore people in the country who have not taken the second dose after the prescribed interval. As several countries report a high number of Covid-19 cases, the ramping of vaccination drive in India to reduce severity becomes crucial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/har-ghar-dastak-india-to-launch-mega-vaccination-drive-today-against-covid19-101635811445547.html
02-11-2021||NA||Madhya Pradesh bypolls highlights: BJP wins Khandwa LS, 2 assembly seats; Congress retains Raigaon||The counting of votes have concluded in bypolls for the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and three assembly seats of Prithvipur, Raigaon (SC) and Jobat (ST) in Madhya Pradesh. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won Jobat and Prithvipur assembly seats, as well as the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat. Meanwhile, Congress secured victory in Raigaon.The polling was held on October 30, along with bypolls in Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Mandi in Himachal Pradesh parliamentary seats and 29 other assembly constituencies in 13 states.The by-elections in all the four constituencies in MP was necessitated due to the demise of the sitting representatives. As many as 48 candidates are in the fray for the four seats.In the bypolls on Saturday, 63.88% voter turnout was recorded in the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency while Jobat, Prithvipur and Raigaon assembly seats recorded 55.30%, 78.14% and 69.01% turnout respectively.While the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and Raigaon assembly seat were previously with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Jobat and Prithvipur were held by its arch-rival Congress. The two parties are also in a direct contest in other bypolls. Currently, the BJP enjoys a comfortable majority in the MP state assembly with 126 out of the 230 total seats while Congress holds 94 seats.Follow all the updates here:BJP sweeps victory in Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, beats CongressCongress candidate Rajnarayansingh Purni lost to BJP's Gyaneshwar Patil who secured victory by a massive margin of 82,140 votes. The bypoll in Khandwa was necessitated following the death of sitting BJP MP Nandkumar Singh Chauhan.BJP wins Prithvipur bypoll seat; Congress secures RaigaonBJP candidate Shishupal Yadav has emerged victorious in the Prithvipur assembly seat by 15,687 votes. Meanwhile, Congress' Kalpana Verma won the Raigaon seat against BJP's Pratima Bagari by 12,290 votes. Vote counting in Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency is still underway.Latest trends: BJP secures Jobat, leads Khandwa LS, Prithvipur bypoll seat; Congress leads RaigaonAccording to the latest trends on ECI website, BJP candidate Shishupal Yadav is leading by a huge margin of 15,687 votes in the Prithvipur assembly seat, while in Jobat, BJP's Sulochana Yadav has defeated Congress candidate Mahesh Rawat “Patel”.Meanwhile, Congress candidate Kalpana Verma has maintained her lead in the Raigaon assembly seat by a margin of 12,290 votes, the trends showed.From the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, BJP candidate Gyaneshwar Patil has maintained a clear lead.MP bypoll results unprecedented for BJP: Shivraj Singh Chouhan“Results of bypolls in Madhya Pradesh are unprecedented for BJP. We are not only wining Khandwa LS seat but also Jobat Assembly seat where over 90% people are STs. BJP won it only two times in 70 years. The results put an stamp on work done by central and state governments,” says chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.BJP wins Jobat seat by 6086 votes BJP candidate from Jobat, Sulochana Rawat has won the assembly seat by a margin of 6,086 votes. BJP was focussing on this seat because it was a Congress dominated and tribal reserved seat.Latest trends: BJP maintains lead on 1 LS, 2 assembly seats; Congress ahead in RaigaonAccoridng to the latest round of counting, BJP candidate Shishupal Yadav is leading with 4,489 votes in the Prithvipur assembly seat. Further, BJP's Sulochana Yadav has also maintaned her lead in Jobat, the trends further showed.On the hand, Congress candidate Kalpana Verma has maintained her lead in the Raigaon assembly seat.From Khandwa, a Lok Sabha seat, BJP candidate Gyaneshwar Patil is leading, as per latest updates.Jobat assembly seat results important, says Shivraj Singh ChouhanMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said that the results so far have been pleasant and encouraging for the Bharatiya Janata Party. “We're way ahead in Khandwa (Parliamentary constituency). I consider Jobat (Assembly constituency) results to be very important,” he added.“It was told to the tribals that BJP is against them. We formed schemes & presented before them. I'm happy that we have the evidence of their acceptance in the poll results. BJP has a one-sided lead in Jobat. This is the blessing of our tribal brothers & sisters,” he further said.BJP ahead in 1 LS, 2 assembly seats; Congress leads in RaigaonBy-election to Assembly constituencies | In Himachal Pradesh, now Congress leading on 2 seats & BJP on 1 (total 3 seats). In Madhya Pradesh, now BJP leading on 2 seats & Congress on 1 (total 3 seats). pic.twitter.com/n811ZtScQZAccording to latest trends, the BJP is ahead in two assembly seats (Jobat and Prithvipur) and one Lok Sabha seat (Khandwa). The Congress is leading in one assembly seat of Raigaon. Congress takes lead in RaigaonAfter the 8th round of counting of votes in Raigaon, Congress's candidate Kalpana Verma has taken a lead of 1489 votes, said the latest trends.BJP's Shishupal Singh Yadav ahead in Prithvipur assembly seatIn the Prithvipur Assembly seat in Niwari district, BJP's Shishupal Singh Yadav was ahead of his Congress rival Nitendra Singh Rathore by 430 votes, according to latest updates.BJP leading with 14,365 votes in Khandwa Lok Sabha seatIn the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, BJP candidate Gyaneshwar Patil was leading by 14,365 votes over his Congress rival Rajnarayan Singh Purni, an official PTI.BJP's Sulochana Rawat leading with 5,583 votes in Jobat assembly seatAfter seven rounds of counting, BJP candidate Sulochana Rawat maintains her lead on Jobat assembly seat with 5,583 votes.BJP candidate Sulochana Rawat leading with 3,590 votes from JobatBJP candidate Sulochana Rawat is leading with 3,590 votes from the tribal seat of Jobat in Madhya Pradesh. Rawat joined BJP recently.BJP leads in all 4 seats in Madhya PradeshBy-election to Assembly constituencies across 14 states | BJP leading in 2 out of 5 seats in Assam, INLD on 1 seat in Haryana, Congress on 2 out of 3 seats in Himachal Pradesh and BJP on all 3 seats in Madhya Pradesh. pic.twitter.com/WspOmG9LgiAccording to latest updates, the BJP has maintained its lead on all the four seats, 1 assembly and 1 Lok Sabha.BJP leading on all 4 seats in Madhya PradeshAccording to the first round of counting, the BJP is leading in on all the four seats, four assembly and one Lok Sabha.BJP takes eary lead in Jobat assembly seatAccording to latest updates, the BJP has taken a lead in Madhya Pradesh's Jobat assembly seat. BJP candidate Sulochana Rawat is leading with a total of 1590 votes.BJP takes lead in Raigaon assembly seat The BJP is leading in Raigaon assembly seat in Madhya Pradesh. BJP candidate Pratima Bagri is leading with 269 votes in Raigaon, according to latest trendsBJP leading in Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, reports ANIThe BJP is leading in Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, reported news agency ANI.Know voter turnout in all the four seats belowDuring the voting held on Saturday, 63.88% voter turnout was recorded in the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency. The assembly seats of Jobat, Prithvipur and Raigaon saw 55.30%, 78.14% and 69.01% turnout respectively.Ruling BJP, opposition Congress confident of victoryOn the eve of the counting of votes, both the ruling BJP and opposition Congress exuded confidence in their victory in the four bypolls. “We are going to win all the four seats. I am confident. Already the Congress has given a walkover (to BJP) in the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat. Their leaders did not even campaign there properly knowing that their defeat is imminent,” Madhya Pradesh BJP spokesperson Neha Bagga claimed. On the other hand, Congress said the party would win all four seats, including Khandwa with a comfortable margin. “We are going to win all the four seats for sure,” MP Congress spokesman Bhupendra Gupta said.Early trends expected to emerge by 10amThe early trends for Madhya Pradesh bypolls are expected to be known by 10am. The bypolls in all the four constituencies in MP, one Lok Sabha and three assembly seats, was necessitated due to the demise of the sitting representatives.Counting of votes for MP byolls beginsThe counting of votes for bypolls for the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and three assembly seats of Prithvipur, Raigaon (SC) and Jobat (ST) in Madhya Pradesh has begun. Taking out victory processions during counting of votes, after announcement of results not allowedAccording to a release issued by the MP chief electoral officer on Monday evening, taking out victory processions during the counting of votes or after the announcement of results is not allowed. Returning officers will hand over the certificate to winning candidates, news agency PTI quoted the release as further mentioned.Counting of votes to begin shortlyCounting of votes in three assembly seats and Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency will begin shortly amid tight security.Fate of 48 candidates to be decided todayAs many as 48 candidates are in fray in Madhya Pradesh for the four seats including the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat and three assembly seats of Prithvipur, Raigaon (SC) and Jobat (ST).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-bypolls-live-updates-101635812678918.html
02-11-2021||India||Will give free pilgrimage if voted in, says Arvind Kejriwal||Ahead of the state polls due early next year, Aam Aadmi Party president and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday promised free pilgrimage to the four religious places-- Ayodhya, Shirdi, Velankanni and Ajmer Sharif -- if their party is voted to power in Goa.“If we form the government we will facilitate an Ayodhya pilgrimage and opportunity for a darshan for Hindus. For the Christians, we will give a free Velankanni pilgrimage (in Tamil Nadu) and for the Muslims, we will give a free Ajmer Sharif pilgrimage (in Rajasthan). I’ve been told that for many people in Goa prefer a pilgrimage to Shirdi, so they will get a free pilgrimage to Shirdi (in Maharashtra),” Kejriwal said addressing a press conference in GoaThe announcement of a free pilgrimage is the third in a list of ‘guaranteed’ promises that the AAP leader has offered the people of Goa after previously promising free, uninterrupted power supply and an unemployment allowance. While Ayodhya and the shrine of Sai Baba in Shirdi are offered as options for Hindus, Christians are offered an opportunity to the Church of Our Lady at Velankanni in Tamil Nadu and a free trip to Ajmer sharif the tomb of revered Sufi saint, Moinuddin Chishti, located in Rajasthan’s Ajmer is on offer for Muslims.“I’m not promising anything new. Our pilgrimage scheme in Delhi has been going on for a few years now. Over the last two years it was stopped due to the pandemic. But prior to that 35,000 people took advantage of the scheme. People get a choice of where they want to go. Everything is paid for by the government,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal said that he was prompted to announce the scheme for Goa after he visited Ayodhya. On October 27, the Delhi government approved the inclusion of Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya in the Delhi government’s free pilgrimage scheme for senior citizens.The Delhi chief minister also took on rival political parties, who he said were only interested in power games and not bothered about the issues facing the people of Goa. “We are making a whole plan for the development of Goa. But here they (other political parties) are talking about alliances. In the morning they say they will ally with one party. In the evening it is someone else. Is anyone even thinking about Goa? Every time I come to Goa I talk about mining, about land rights, about health, education, women programmes, industry, trade. We are making a plan for every sector that affects the people of Goa. Is anybody else doing this? Nobody is worried about Goa,” Kejriwal said.Kejriwal was initially in talks with Goa’s Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party for a possible alliance, but the negotiations broke down. He, however, didn’t rule out an alliance ahead of the pollsResponding to Kejriwal’s poll promises, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Urfan Mulla said, “These are hollow promises given on the eve of Diwali much like the fireworks that explode with a bang but soon fizzle out.”Congress spokesperson Amarnath Panjikar also attacked the AAP president and said, “There are so many issues of Goa that he could have spoken about instead he is here trying to lure people with the carrot of religion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-free-pilgrimage-if-voted-in-says-arvind-kejriwal-101635798427747.html
02-11-2021||India||Ex-minister Anil Deshmukh grilled by ED for 12 hours, arrested at midnight||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) late on Monday arrested former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh after questioning him for 12 hours in connection with its money laundering probe in an alleged extortion racket, people familiar with the development said.Officials who didn’t want to be named said Deshmukh was placed under arrest under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) just around midnight on November 1, as he was “evasive during questioning” and there was sufficient evidence of laundering against him.The NCP leader appeared before ED for the first time on Monday after skipping multiple summons issued to him for past four months. The central agency even issued a lookout notice against him as the agency could not reach him all these months.A First Information Report (FIR) was registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Deshmukh in April to probe allegations that he asked dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, currently behind bars in the February 25 Antilia bomb scare conspiracy as well as murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5, to collect ₹100 crore every month from hotels, bars and restaurants in Mumbai.A chargesheet has already been filed on August 23 against Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde under PMLA, in which it has been alleged that while serving as Maharashtra home minister, Deshmukh misused his position, and through Vaze, collected ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”.During investigation, ED identified 24 private entities that are controlled by the Deshmukh family and found that huge sums of money were transacted among them without any rationale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exminister-anil-deshmukh-grilled-by-ed-for-12-hours-arrested-at-midnight-101635800071153.html
02-11-2021||India||How the bad air battle turned the tide for once-thriving Sivakasi||Velavan Fireworks, established in 1983, is not the beehive of activity it used to be ahead of Deepavali. In a corner of its 36-acre compound is a small office, out of which N Kartheeswaran, the second-generation owner of the factory, works.There are at least 50 manufacturing sheds inside the campus, each painted in white with blue doors. The bigger sheds usually have four workers to a space, the smaller ones hold two. This year, several sheds are shut. The factory had 150 workers until 2020. It has between 50 and 70 now.Many of the workers are women. Their children have nowhere else to be, so next to their mothers, they play in groups, swaying from makeshift swings made from old blankets and sarees hung from the ceiling. By the middle of the day on October 20, even before lunch, two workers approach Kartheeswaran and ask what to do next. Their work for the day is done. Two weeks before Diwali, in Sivakasi, the question borders on the absurd.“If we have another situation like last year, there is no way our factory, or the industry will survive,” Kartheeswaran says.In September 2017, the Supreme Court banned the use of antimony, lithium, mercury, arsenic, lead and strontium nitrate in firecrackers, hearing a case filed in 2015 by the legal guardians of three Delhi based children who argued for a complete ban to protect their right to a pollution-free environment. A year later, in 2018, the apex court held that only “green crackers” would be allowed. This year, the Supreme Court on Friday, October 29 clarified that “green firecrackers” were allowed, but reiterated the ban on those that contain barium salts and “joined crackers”, a staple of the industry. The apex court said: “Celebration cannot be at the cost of the other’s health.”In 2020, just before a week before Diwali, seven states banned the sale and use of firecrackers. This year Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have allowed green crackers, while in Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Odisha, they are allowed for two hours on Diwali. Haryana has announced a blanket ban in 14 districts, allowing green crackers in areas where AQI is “moderate” and above. The Calcutta high court on Friday ordered a complete ban on firecrackers in West Bengal, which the Supreme Court set aside on Monday, allowing green crackers.A Asaithambi, president, Sivakasi Fireworks Manufacturers Association (SIFMA) says that if production was affected by 25% in 2020, it has already dropped 40% this year.As India grapples to control the heavy toll taken by the annual winter pollution with at least nine Indian cities among the world’s worst 10, according to the World Air Quality Report 2020 — converting some northern metropolises into veritable gas chambers in the winter, the fallout of bad air shortening lifespans and causing serious ailments among the vulnerable — the firecracker industry, close to a hundred years old, is on its knees.THE BEGINNINGSIn 1923, two men from Virudhunagar, P Ayya Nadar and his brother Shanmuga Nadar, travelled to Kolkata to learn the skill of making matches. They returned in eight months, convinced they had struck gold. Soon, the Nadars, a powerful community in Tamil Nadu, began setting up factories. The factories, which originally made matches, were owned by the Nadars, while those that worked in them were predominantly women and Dalits. Within a few years, fireworks began to emerge, beginning with sparklers. As machines began taking over the match business, the workforce began to turn to fireworks by the late 1920s.As the industry grew, people, including child labourers, began migrating to Sivakasi from the neighbouring districts of Madurai, Tirunelveli and Thoothikudi. Across India, most fireworks were still being imported, but this was curtailed during the Second World War. In 1940, the government passed the Indian Explosives Rules which licensed the manufacture, sales and storage of fireworks, and the industry exploded.Much of the land where factories, such as Velavan, now stand, is agricultural in an area that is not conducive to farming, with dry weather and low rainfall. Until they began the factory in 1983, Kartheeswaran’s family had grown spinach. “There was no water and barely any hope in agriculture. We only began to grow when firecrackers began,” he says.THE SLIDESivakasi produces firecrackers worth an estimated ₹6,000 crore every year, 90% of the volume produced in India. According to the Virudhunagar district administration, there are 1,010 factory units. Of these, 269 are licensed by the district revenue office and 741 by Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (Peso). The number of workers employed directly is 150,000 and workers in the allied industries -- offset printing, paperboard, retail and transport -- are close to 500,000, according to Virudhunagar district collector J Meghanath Reddy.Factory owners say the total number of people working in fireworks and allied industries in the region could be around 800,000.After the Supreme Court’s orders in 2017 and 2018, sections of the industry began manufacturing green crackers using formulae prescribed by CSIR-NEERI’s (National Environmental Engineering Research Institute). According to the NEERI website, one such new formulation of light-emitting crackers named ‘STAR Z’ uses 32% potassium nitrate, 40% aluminum powder, 11% aluminum chips, and 17% proprietary additives to reduce PM10 and PM2.5 emissions by 70%. Peso approved these new formulations in 2019.In Sivakasi, there is still a great deal of confusion on what “green crackers” are. “The confusion lies in not knowing the definition of green crackers. This is supposed to be clearly defined by the central government but there is no consistency…The alternatives that are recommended for green crackers are four times as expensive. In just 2021, every three months there has been a revision in the prices of aluminium powder and metal power,” says Prasanna Gunaram, the 31-year old, third-generation owner of Ramsons Fireworks.Fireworks manufacturers have also made a plea to the Supreme Court to allow barium nitrate, which they argue is a “safe” oxidiser. “90% of conventional crackers need barium nitrate. NEERI has offered a formula where an additive to this composition will reduce emissions. But as of now barium nitrate isn’t permitted, Peso will not allow these crackers, and therefore our number of manufactured items have reduced,” Asaithambi said.In the middle of the crisis and the confusion, came Covid.When the national lockdown was enforced in March 2020, the industry downed shutters for 55 days. When they reopened, only 50% of their workforce was allowed to work. “We didn’t know what to produce. Because of the unpredictability, production was very low and some factories couldn’t afford to pay workers,” says Asaithambi. The industry’s busiest months are from July to October, ahead of Diwali. “From December to April we produce orders for the marriage season and temple festivals but this completely stopped due to Covid.”In 2021, factories were also shut throughout May due to the second wave. Orders from across the country are usually placed by wholesalers immediately after Diwali, up until May. “This year the production has fallen further because our buyers have stock in excess. So they either limited their orders or just didn’t buy,” says Prasanna Gunaram.THE WORKERSWorkers begin walking into the Velavan factory by 6.30am. There is a canopy of trees around the factory, and it is early in the day, but it is already warm. “It’s the chemicals,” says Kumaravel Pandian, the foreman who decides what chemicals are mixed in which shed, the type of knife to be used to cut threads, and most things else. Only those who qualify in the “explosive licence exam” held by Peso can be employed as foremen. Pandian once ran a small business selling raw materials for matches, but it turned unviable in 2004. “If not for this job, I wouldn’t have been able to get my daughter married,” he says.Next to him, 40-year-old Amul Raj is bathed in striking silver. Raj has the riskiest job in the enterprise -- mixing the chemicals. For his own sake, he has to finish by 11am, for then he runs the risk of his body heat rising to unhealthy levels, combined with the strong sun. Raj has been doing this for 15 years before which he was loading crackers for transport. Now he earns ₹500-600 a day, double what he once did. It is this job that has brought his family a respectable living, the prize for the tenuous dance between life and death he lives everyday.Working with them is the 65-year-old Victoria (who gave only one name), brought to the factories as a child labourer, as a Class 5 student. Back then, she earned 40 paise a day for making a 100 “joined crackers”. She married a factory worker and has five sons, none of whom works in the industry. “When you go to bed drinking just water every day, you follow what everyone else does to survive,” she says.At 65, she is frail but her hands have the deftness of a surgeon, as she wraps plastic around multiple two-sound crackers in seconds. Earning between ₹150 to ₹170 a day she now can afford a lunch box which she shares with the three stray dogs that call the factory home. She echoes a sentiment common in the region. “Who else will give us work now? If they (the factories) don’t remain open, it’s a death knell,” she says.THE DEBATEWith the threat of closure looming, the industry has been appealing to the Union Environment Ministry since 2017 to exempt fireworks from the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986. “We are eligible for exemption since pollutants from crackers don’t stay in the air for more than 48 hours. People burst crackers only for two days during Deepavali and now, for only for four hours a day with the new restrictions. Our industry doesn’t pollute like thermal power plants, cement factories, construction, vehicles and stubble burning,” Asaithambi claims.Environmentalists do not agree, but they acknowledge that it is time the government creates a transition plan for the labour force.“We have to acknowledge that this is a sunset industry,” says Dharmesh Shah, public policy researcher who works on air pollution and is a senior advisor for Lawyers Initiative for Forests and Environment (LIFE). “The science is very clear that contamination, especially heavy metal pollution, is extremely high in firecrackers. Green crackers are safer but not pollution-free.”Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) have been agitating for the implementation of Employees’ Provident Fund and Employees’ State Insurance to be strictly implemented by all factory owners. “We are also appealing for a minimum wage of ₹18,000 per month to be fixed for all the workers,” says V N Jothimani of Crackers and Matchbox Employees Association. “Everyone is desperate for a job. They’re going even if they get only ₹100 a day and they sleep over at factories so that they don’t miss out on any work.”THE FUTUREManickam Tagore, the Congress MP from Virudhunagar, says that there is a desperate need for a long-term plan. “The biggest strength of the industry has been adapting to the times. It brings revenue to the government and creates jobs. We have the capacity to compete with China which exports fireworks to Australia, the US and the UK. But instead government agencies are targeting this industry and creating several bottlenecks.”Back at Velavan Fireworks, there is no next rung of generational leadership of the factory waiting after Kartheeswaran. He had studied till Class 12, and after trying his hand at unsuccessful businesses, returned to the family business. But there is now a distaste for the work among their children. While Kartheeswaran’s daughter is still in school, his niece work as a nurse and nephew as a mechanical engineer. “No one has the mindset to come back here and struggle through this.”Still, there will be time to worry about that later. For Sivakasi, much depends on this pivotal week. Kartheeswaran and his employees, like everyone else in Sivakasi, are hoping there are no additional last-minute bans.“That’s the difference between life and death,” he says. An ironical, but serious, fallout of India’s air emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-the-bad-air-battle-turned-the-tide-for-once-thriving-sivakasi-101635794082176.html
02-11-2021||India||Ex-chief minister VS Achuthanandan in ICU, says Kerala hospital||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Former Kerala chief minister and veteran leader of the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) VS Achuthanandan has been admitted to a private hospital in the state capital with serious age-related complications, Arun Kumar, son of 98-year-old Achuthanandan, posted the information on his Facebook post.Later, the Sree Uthradom Thirunal (SUT) hospital also released a medical bulletin.“He has been diagnosed with acute gastroenteritis followed by dyselectrolemia and altered renal functions. He is closely being monitored in the ICU,” the hospital bulletin said. He was rushed to the hospital on Sunday night.The iconic communist leader has been inactive over the last few years due to his failing health. Two years ago, the leader who has had near cult status in the state, had a stroke and later shifted base to his home town in the Alapuzha district.VS Achuthanandan was the state’s oldest chief minister ever when he first assumed office as Kerala chief minister in 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exchief-minister-vs-achuthanandan-in-icu-says-kerala-hospital-101635796652487.html
02-11-2021||India||Confusion over resignation of Punjab advocate general||Chandigarh: Confusion prevailed amid reports of resignation of Punjab advocate general, Amar Preet Singh Deol on Monday, as by evening, Deol denied that he has resigned from the post On Monday afternoon, senior officials in chief minister’s office confirmed that Deol met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and tendered his resignation. However, by evening APS Deol denied that he had resigned. “I met the chief minister since cabinet was to meet. Probably, this led to speculations. I have neither been asked nor resigned,” Deol said. Meanwhile, Channi ducked questions about Deol’s resignation after the cabinet meet. Soon after Channi appointed Deol as state’s advocate general on September 27, Punjab Congress Committee chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu had resigned from his post, criticising his appointment and also that of director general of police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. Sidhu has been adamant on his replacement since then and conveyed the same to the central leadership of the Congress. Deol, 61, was a counsel for former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini in the 2015 post sacrilege police firing incidents and secured his release. Several Sikh organisations had also opposed his appointment arguing that how a person who defended those accused in sacrilege cases, could be appointed an AG. To counter the criticism, Deol, brought in noted criminal lawyer Rajwinder Singh Bains as special public prosecutor to defend these cases. However, this move also ran into controversy as Bains in the past had appeared for one complainant in sacrilege cases. Last week, the government had to give an undertaking to the high court that Bains will not appear in post sacrilege violence cases till November 23. All these cases are politically sensitive and important for the new government that has to face the assembly election within four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/confusion-over-resignation-of-punjab-advocate-general-101635795274437.html
02-11-2021||India||BJP will win with a big margin in Sindgi, Hanagal bypolls: Karnataka CM Bommai||Bengaluru The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as well as the Opposition appeared confident of securing victories in the recently concluded bypolls in Hanagal and Sindgi,The results of which will be declared on Tuesday. Six candidates from Sindgi and 13 from Hanagal are contesting the polls. “In both constituencies, we will win with a very big margin . The election went off very well and there have been voting in large numbers. I am fully confident that In both places, our candidates will emerge victorious,” Basavaraj Bommai, the chief minister, said on Monday. Bommai had tasked his entire Cabinet to the bypoll-bound constituencies to secure a victory and increase the party’s strength in the legislative assembly. The chief minister is also trying to prove his leadership and cement it among the disgruntled seniors of the state unit, who were overlooked for the top post when Yediyurappa stepped down. Hanagal was earlier held by the BJP and falls in Haveri, the home district of Bommai, making it a prestige battle for the chief minister. Bommai had even stated that the results of these polls will serve as an indicator of which way the 2023 assembly polls are likely to go.Sindgi was earlier with the Janata Dal (Secular) and fell vacant after MC Managuli passed away in January. His son Ashok Managuli is fighting on a Congress ticket from the constituency. The Congress, meanwhile, continued to attack the Bommai government over the Bitcoin scam. “.@CMofKarnataka has said that the state investigating agencies have conducted comprehensive investigation & the case has now been referred to ED & CBI.What was the need to hand it over to ED & CBI if the State agencies had done it properly?” senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter on Monday.He added that there were allegations that around 5,000 bitcoins, to the tune of around ₹2,600 crore was purchased. “As per news reports, in chargesheet filed by CCB police, it is recorded that the accused has looted 5000 Bit coins through unethical hacking. Who holds these Bit coins now? Have they got it transferred to accounts of investigating agencies? Or are they clueless,” he wrote. “It raises lot of suspicion about the conduct of State govt when we read news reports about bitcoin scam. Instead of targeting those who question the scam, @CMofKarnataka should present the facts in front of the people,” Siddaramaiah further said.The senior Congress leader also openly invited Srinivas, the JD(S) legislator from Gubbi to join the party and even assured the latter a ticket in the 2023 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-win-with-a-big-margin-in-sindgi-hanagal-bypolls-karnataka-cm-bommai-101635795156020.html
02-11-2021||India||29 Bengaluru Traffic Police officers face action for violating norms||Bengaluru: The Bengaluru traffic police have initiated action against personnel who are seen violating the Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) in traffic enforcement . According to a statement from the department, disciplinary action was taken against 29 traffic police personnel in September for violating towing and other traffic enforcement procedures. Another eight officers were penalized this past week in October for checking vehicle documents in the absence of any visible traffic violation. In September, among the 29 officers to be punished were 17 police constables, eight head constables, three assistant sub-inspectors, and one police sub-inspector. As part of the disciplinary action, some officers have been suspended as well, said police. Apart from its own officers, the department has also suspended 32 towing vehicles and have permanently taken eight towing officials off duty. Joint commissioner of police, traffic, BR Ravikanthe Gowda, said that action was taken based on the complaints that have been received from the public. He also asked commuters to communicate with the higher authorities if any traffic police officer stops them for a random document check. “We do conduct special drives to collect pending fines from vehicle drivers, but it is conducted during non-peak hours. During these rides, if someone doesn’t have any pending fines they are allowed to go. But if there is any, then the vehicle document verification will take place even if there was no visible traffic violation at that particular time,” Gowda said. Meanwhile, the city traffic police have decided to impose fines of up to ₹1,000 on those using bluetooth-enabled devices for communication while riding or driving. As per the amended Motor Vehicles Act use of any mobile devices while driving has been brought under the ‘dangerous driving’ category and attracts a fine of up to ₹5,000 or up to one year jail or both. While police said that use of the mobile devices for navigation will be allowed, Bengaluru traffic police said that using headphones for navigation will be punishable. According to police, the first violation of rule will attract ₹500 fine, while the fine for the second violation will be ₹1,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-bengaluru-traffic-police-officers-face-action-for-violating-norms-101635795092045.html
02-11-2021||India||Karnataka government launches Janasevaka scheme offering home delivery||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday launched the ‘Janasevaka’ scheme offering 58 government services at the doorstep of citizens. In the first phase, the scheme will be available in all 198 municipal wards in Bengaluru. “To get the benefit of any service, the system that exists makes it very difficult. The situation is such that there is dipping confidence among citizens that their job will be easy when they walk into offices and we wish to make this easier,” Bommai said on Monday in Bengaluru. The chief minister said that the scheme would be implemented throughout Karnataka from January 26. “Through this Janasevaka scheme, the government will reach the doorstep of every house. Under the programme, various services such as caste certificate, property Khata certifcate, old age and widow pension schemes will be provided,” he told reporters in Malleshwaram. Bommai said that there exists a situation in which citizens are forced to cough up money and the Janasevaka programme would help avoid these irregularities that have added to the ‘wall” between government services and the citizens. After laucnhing the programme at Vidhana Soudha to commemorate Kannada Rajyotsava, Bommai visited homes of 10 selected residents in Malleshwaram where he delivered residential certificates, income and caste certificates, widow pension, labour card, senior citizen card, Aadhar card and Ayushman health cards to them. “Ours is a pro-people government, which is reaching the doorstep of individuals. People’s faith in democracy strengthens when these essential services directly reach the citizens,” he said, adding that even PDS (public distribution system) would be added to the list of services Under the scheme, citizens will be charged a facilitation fee of Rs115 along with department fee for the requested service. Printing charges will be added wherever applicable, according to the government. The Jana Sevaka pilot project was launched in T. Dasarahalli assembly constituency of Bengaluru North on March 2, 2019 and was extended to three more assembly constituencies eventually. The scheme had seen over 95,000 applications received through Janasevaka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-launches-janasevaka-scheme-offering-home-delivery-101635794973048.html
02-11-2021||India||Centre releases social media guidelines FAQs, says cyberspace needs regulation||The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) on Monday released a comprehensive primer (in the form of frequently asked questions or FAQs) on the new social media and intermediary guidelines to bring more clarity and explain the legislation, with the minister of state for IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar saying the process will remain dynamic with rules continuing to evolve.“The government will keep issuing new rules as required,” Chandrasekhar said. “In cyber jurisprudence there needs to be a culture of rule based accountability.”Chandrasekhar also stressed that there needs to be concept of algorithmic fairness, referring to the allegations by whistleblower Frances Haugen that Facebook allegedly promoted the visibility of hate content in India. “I have said in the past that there is a need to scrutinise algorithms,” he said, speaking at the event. “New digital laws will be discussed and we will evolve a roadmap so that algorithms that infringe on Articles, 14, 19 and 21 of constitution are not used. Our main job is to protect the right to privacy and right to not be discriminated against.” His reference is to the right to equality, freedom of speech and expression, and the right to life and personal liberty.“FAQs have been prepared to bring clarity as well as to explain the nuances of the due diligence to be followed by intermediaries”, the preface to the primer said. It added that the document “is in response to general queries received by MeitY. It is not a legal document and in no way whatsoever replaces, amends or alters any part of the IT Act/ IT Rules, 2021.”“In order to ensure an Open, Safe & Trusted Internet and accountability of intermediaries including the social media intermediaries to users, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has notified the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (hereinafter referred to as “IT Rules, 2021”) on 25th February, 2021,” the document states. “These Rules prescribe the due diligence to be followed by all intermediaries as well as the additional due diligence to be followed by significant social media intermediaries. The Rules also provide guidelines to be followed by publishers of news & current affairs and also online curated content providers.”The document release Monday is different from the standard operating procedure (SOP) that the ministry is working on, which the minister said will address the contentious issue of which designated authority is allowed to issue take down orders. Chandrasekhar also clarified the government’s position on traceability, a clause that been challenged by messaging service WhatsApp in court. “As far as first originator is concerned, the government believes that when criminality occurs online and there is a legal valid order, then there are methods where without breaking encryption, it can be traced,” he said. “Cyber space cannot be a space where laws cannot reach.”Social media firms welcomed the intervention. “We appreciate the government’s efforts in bringing more clarity on the 2021 IT Rules. We look forward to studying the FAQs,” a Meta (earlier called Facebook) spokesperson said.Kazim Rizvi, founder of The Dialogue, a policy think tank said that the FAQs will be crucial in helping the intermediaries to better appreciate the finer nuances of the guidelines , but that a SOP is crucial.“These FAQs accord clarity regarding the operational aspects of some of the crucial provisions. For instance, they lay down the details of the requisite information that needs to be communicated by the law enforcement agencies to the intermediaries while issuing a takedown notice,” he said. “With respect to the data retention mandate, the explainer provides that Section 61 C of the IT Act alongside the IT (Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures and Sensitive Personal Data or Information) Rules, 2011 must be referred to determine the kind and extent of user data that needs to retained by different kinds of intermediaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mos-chandrasekhar-releases-social-media-guidelines-faqs-says-cyberspace-needs-regulation-101635794972522.html
02-11-2021||India||Superstar Puneeth Rajkumar’s eyes give new lease of life to four||Bengaluru: Four corneal blind patients received eyesight, thanks to Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar. The actor’s eyes were donated on Friday afternoon soon after his demise.Dr Bhujang Shetty, Chairman, Narayana Nethralaya hospital on Monday said that all four patients are between 20 to 30 years of age and have been on the waiting list for over 6 months. “Due to the pandemic, the number of donations had reduced, and the waiting list was getting longer. So we made the best use of available donations and instead of two, we were able to do the successful transplant in four patients on October 30.” said Shetty. Explaining the process, he said that usually two corneas from a donor are transplanted into two corneal blind patients. “But in the case of actor Puneeth Rajkumar, his corneas were sliced into four parts. The front portions went to two different patients and the rear ends went to two other patients,” he said. “The outer or superficial part of the cornea was transplanted to two young patients with corneal dystrophy and keratoconus. Both these conditions affect the superficial layer of the cornea. The inner or deeper layer of the cornea was transplanted to two patients with corneal endothelial decompensation affecting the innermost layer of the cornea,” he elaborated. The four patients — a woman and three men — are from Karnataka and are doing well after the surgery. “Finding suitable recipients for the procedures was a challenge. We sought help from B.L. Sujatha Rathod, director of the state-run Minto Ophthalmic Hospital,” he said. The limbal rim (white part of the eye near the circumference of the cornea) that was not used for the transplants, has been sent to the laboratory to generate ‘Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells’ for potential use in patients with Limbal Stem Cell Deficiency, chemical injuries, acid burns, and other serious disorders, he added. Meanwhile, leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday urged the union government to consider Puneeth Rajkumar for Padma Shri award. “I urge @PMOIndia to award Padma Shri posthumously to Puneeth Rajkumar. His acting & contribution to society deserves even more accolades,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/superstar-puneeth-rajkumar-s-eyes-give-new-lease-of-life-to-four-101635794971084.html
02-11-2021||India||Congress leader’s statement on Telangana-Andhra reunion kicks up a row||HyderabadTelangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president T Jayaprakash Reddy’s statement calling for a merger of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh states has landed the party in an embarrassing situation.Reddy, better known in political circles as Jagga Reddy, told reporters on Sunday that he would favour the reunion of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh which were separated in June 2014 after the passage of the AP Reorganisation Act in parliament.He reminded that he was always in favour of a united Andhra Pradesh. “When the Telangana movement was at peak, too, I argued strongly against bifurcation. Some people called me a betrayer of Telangana but still I could win as an MLA. Now the talk of united Andhra Pradesh has surfaced again and I strongly support it,” Reddy, also a lawmaker from Sangareddy assembly constituency, said.It all started with a remark made by Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at his party’s plenary held in Hyderabad last week that there were requests from the people of Andhra Pradesh to launch the TRS in their state, as they were impressed by the welfare and developmental programmes being implemented in Telangana.A day later, Andhra Pradesh minister for information and public relations Perni Venkaramaiah alias Nani pooh-poohed KCR’s remarks. “There is no objection if KCR wants to launch the TRS in our state. But instead, he can ask the Centre to reunite both Telangana and Andhra so that there is no need to launch a separate party here. His TRS can as well contest the elections in this region,” Nani said.Telangana PCC president A Revanth Reddy alleged that KCR had colluded with Andhra leaders and was conspiring for the merger of the two Telugu states again. “Congress president Sonia Gandhi had granted statehood to Telangana when the UPA was in power, after a prolonged struggle by the people. Now, KCR wants to launch the TRS in Andhra, to see that eventually both the states are reunited,” he criticised.Against this backdrop, the PCC working president’s comments that he also favoured merger of both the Telugu states created tremors in the party. But Jagga Reddy defended his comments saying they were purely his personal and had nothing to do with the party.“I know the people of Telangana are not demanding the merger of two states. Yet, it is my considered view that it should happen. Nobody, including the PCC chief, can question my right to express my views,” the MLA said.PCC campaign committee chairman and ex-MP Madhu Yashki Goud said the party would not endorse Jagga Reddy’s comments on the merger of the two Telugu states. “Sonia Gandhi had granted statehood to Telangana only to undo injustice done to the region in the united Andhra regime. Any statement from any leader questioning her decision would only be his personal,” Goud said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-s-statement-on-telangana-andhra-reunion-kicks-up-a-row-101635794729800.html
02-11-2021||India||Missing gun may dent Gauri Lankesh case prosecution||Bengaluru: Even as a special court in Bengaluru on Saturday framed charges against 18 accused in the Gauri Lankesh’s murder case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Arms Act and Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes Act (KCOCA), however, one missing link in the case could prove to be a chink in the armour as the police have not been able to recover the pistol used to commit the crime. The trial of the case will finally begin after more than four years since the journalist turned activist was shot dead outside her Bengaluru home on September 5, 2017. The trial is also crucial as Lankesh’s murder is also connected to the killing of other rationalists – MM Kalburgi, Govind Pansare, and Narendra Dabolkar. With all suspects in custody and the Supreme Court upholding the Special Investigation Team’s (SIT) decision to slap Karnataka Control of Organised Crimes against them, the police are confident of a victory in the case. Just days after the murder, balletic experts had concluded that a 7.65mm country-made pistol was used to murder Lankesh. The investigation revealed that 10 days after the murder, one of the accused, Sudhanva Gondhalekar traveled to Bengaluru and collected the murder weapon from a rented house in Seegehalli, where the accused was staying after the attack. Gondhalekar handed over this weapon to Sharad Kalaskar, an associate of his. After key members of the gang that killed Lankesh were arrested in May 2018, Kalaskar was given instructions to dispose of the weapon. In 2019, SIT got custody of Kalaskar, and he revealed where he had thrown the weapon. “We also decided to remove the slide and barrels of these three pistols and dispose them. The remaining parts could be used in making other weapons. Likewise, I selected the three pistols, removed the slide and barrels, and put them in a bag. Vaibhav Raut and I took off in Raut’s car and threw these parts into a river from a bridge on the Mumbai — Nashik highway on July 23, 2018, at about 9:00 pm. The remaining parts of these weapons, I gave to Vaibhav Raut who kept him at his house in Nallasopara,” read Kalaskar’s confession statement. The SIT roped in a dredging agency to find the weapon from the creek, but after months of dredging, the SIT has decided to give up on the search. The SIT is confident that they can secure a conviction even without the murder weapon. “We have made all attempts to recover the weapon, and this has been conveyed in the charge sheet. At the same time, one of the accused in his statement has said that he disposed of the weapon to destroy evidence. The other strong evidence we have provided in the case would conclusively prove the murder and the conspiracy,” said a senior SIT official. While the case evidence provided by the SIT could prove the murder, but in order to prove the larger conspiracy to murder rationalists, which is one of the reasons for slapping charges under organized crime, the weapon would be crucial. Especially since the Lankesh trial is expected to help the investigation into the other three murders, which are at crossroads now. The SIT investigation also unearthed a link between the murders of four rationalists – MM Kalburgi, Govind Pansare, Narendra Dhabolkar, and Lankesh. During the initial days of the investigation, the SIT found a connection between the murders of Lankesh and professor Kalburgi, who was killed on August 30, 2015. The four bullet slugs and cartridges recovered from Lankesh’s house matched with the slugs and cartridges of the Kalburgi murder case. The forensic labs found that both bullets were fired from the same gun. The Maharashtra SIT, which is probing the murder of another rationalist, Govind Pansare, also found that the same was used in Lankesh and Pansare murders. The link between the murders of Lankesh and Narendra Dhabolkar, another Maharashtra-based rationalist, murdered on August 20, 2013, emerged during the later stages of the investigation. It was found that 50-year-old Rajesh Bangera, a second division assistant in the Education Department, who was the 10th person arrested by Karnataka SIT, provided weapons training to the killers of Dhabolkar and Lankesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/missing-gun-may-dent-gauri-lankesh-case-prosecution-101635794550401.html
02-11-2021||India||Former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer and runner-up Anjana Shajan killed in car crash in Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram: Former Miss Kerala Ansi Kabeer, 25, and runner-up Anjana Shajan, 26, were killed in a road accident in Kochi in the early hours of Monday when their car overturned, police said.While both of them died on the spot, two other passengers in the car were injured in the accident and their condition was serious.Police said the incident took place around 1.30am when the driver of the car in which the two women were travelling trying to avoid hitting a bike lost control hit a tree and the vehicle overturned. The car was found in a mangled state and it took enough time to retrieve the trapped.Police said they got some CCTV visuals from the area, but it was not clear what exactly triggered the accident. Relatives of Kabeer and Shajan said they were close friends and worked together on several modelling projects. Both the women went to Kochi for a fashion show, their relatives said.Kabeer, a resident of Attingal in Thiruvananthapuram, had won the Miss Kerala title in 2019, and Shajan, reportedly a Thrissur native, finished runner-up that year.Police said after post-mortem bodies will be handed over to their relatives. “It seems to be an accident, we don’t suspect any foul play at this juncture,” said a senior police officer of Ernakulam. Relatives of Kabeer said just one hour before the accident, she sent a message in Instagram saying “Time to go.” After knowing about the accident, the mother of Ansi Kabeer tried to commit suicide by consuming excess pills, a relative said, adding she has come out of danger now. “She came to know about the accident in TV news and took tablets. We found her in unconscious condition and rushed to the hospital,” the relative said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-miss-kerala-ansi-kabeer-and-runner-up-anjana-shajan-killed-in-car-crash-in-kochi-101635794375087.html
02-11-2021||India||Supreme Court sets aside Calcutta HC’s complete ban on firecrackers in Bengal||The Supreme Court on Monday set aside the Calcutta high court order imposing a complete ban on sale and use of all firecrackers in the state, ruling that the high court departed from the legal regime established under the top court’s orders without any material to show inaction on part of the state or collusive approach by the authorities at the ground level.“We are convinced that if the high court wanted to impose complete ban, it should have asked the authorities to offer an explanation requiring such an extreme order and departing from the order passed by this court on October 29,” the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Ajay Rastogi observed at a special sitting to hear this case as the courts have closed for Diwali vacation.On October 29, the Calcutta high court held that it found no evidence to establish that there was a mechanism to ascertain that only green crackers were being sold or burst, and went ahead to prohibit the sale of even green crackers ahead of the festive month beginning with Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhatt Puja, Jagadhatri Puja, Guru Nanak’s Birthday and extending till Christmas and New Year celebrations.The high court verdict came on the same day the Supreme Court ordered states and Union territories to comply with its order prohibiting the sale of banned firecrackers but made it clear that there was no blanket firecracker ban, because green crackers can be used during the festival.Two fireworks dealers’ association, Burrabazaar Fireworks Dealers’ Association and Siliguri Fireworks Dealers Association, rushed to the Supreme Court against the high court ban, pleading that they have already received their stocks from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu and the last-minute ban jeopardised their interests ahead of the festival season.The dealers represented by senior advocates Siddharth Bhatnagar and Malvika Trivedi recalled the top court’s direction on Friday, laying down clearly that there is no complete ban on firecrackers and use of green crackers and improved crackers (with reduced emission) are permitted.The bench agreed. “All states are following the order passed by this court. How can West Bengal be an exception? Our order has to be consistent in all areas unless as a matter of policy, any state decides to impose a ban (on sale or use of firecrackers),” it said.To be sure, a blanket ban on all types of firecrackers including the ‘green’ ones is in place in Delhi where the prohibition is effective till January 1 next year in view of the worsening air pollution. The Odisha government earlier banned firecrackers in the interest of protecting general public health but on Monday, the Odisha high court allowed green crackers to be sold ahead of Diwali but has stipulated that these should only be burnt between 8pm and 10 pm.Senior advocate Anand Grover appearing for West Bengal government told the court that the state government was also taken by surprise by the high court ruling. “The order came as a bolt from the blue as the high court never discussed it when the PIL was heard and suddenly made it part of the order,” Grover said.He also produced figures indicating that last year, over 100 First Information Reports (FIRs) were registered against people found selling illegal crackers in Kolkata resulting in the arrest of 243 persons. Similar figures were provided for the years 2018 and 2019 as well. This year too, 10 persons were arrested in connection with seven FIRs, Grover stated.Lawyer Rachit Lakhmani, appearing for Roshni Ali who petitioned the high court for a ban, told the Supreme Court that crackers are being burst near hospitals and prescribed silence zones in violation of the Supreme Court’s repeated directions to states to have community cracker bursting at designated places.The bench said, “There may be people of all kinds but that does not mean there should be a complete ban. Instead, the mechanism has to be strengthened to prevent abuse of our orders. The high court has not defined what the practical realities are to pass such an extreme order. Even the state did not have the opportunity to present facts.”The bench said that over the years, the top court specified the legal regime regarding ban on fireworks and to depart from that regime, there must be some material to show inaction on part of the state or collusive approach by police and officials at the ground level.The top court accepted the assurance given by the state that in the event of any inaction on part of its officials to curb illicit fireworks, “appropriate remedial and corrective steps will be taken.”Senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan, who last week argued for a blanket ban on firecrackers, said the top court’s October 29 order was passed in the context of manufacturers while the present petition concerned dealers. He reiterated that most firecrackers produced in Sivakasi were mislabeled ‘green crackers’ with fake QR codes as they contained the chemicals including barium salts already banned by the Supreme Court in October 2018.“The same logic laid down by this court on October 29 for manufacturers shall apply to traders,” the bench said asking the state to abide by the top court’s order. Adding further, it said, “West Bengal government may explore the possibility of ensuring no banned fireworks or related items are imported within the state and be verified at the entry point itself. This mechanism can be strengthened in addition to the strict supervision and verification at other places where trading or utilization of such fireworks takes place.”The bench said the petitioner or any person was free to place all relevant documents before the high court, “which after giving opportunity of hearing to the WB government and WB Pollution Control Board may proceed to pass orders as may be advised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-sets-aside-calcutta-high-court-s-complete-ban-on-firecrackers-in-bengal-101635794312903.html
02-11-2021||India||Will rename Mumbai-Karnataka region as ‘Kittur Karnataka’, says CM Bommai||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday reiterated that the state government would rename Mumbai-Karnataka region as ‘Kittur-Karnataka’, saying the former title holds no meaning since there were no ties between the two after the restructuring of states in 1956.“We have recently renamed Hyderabad-Karnataka region as Kalyana Karnataka. We have now decided to rename Mumbai-Karnataka region as ‘Kittur Karnataka’ in the coming days,” the chief minister said, adding, “After the reorganisation, the border issue has been settled. Is there any meaning to Mumbai-Karnataka?” The announcement was made during the Karnataka Rajyotsava, which is celebrated to commemorate the formation of Karnataka state 65 years ago. The Mumbai-Karnataka region, which was formerly under the Bombay presidency, became part of Karnataka in 1956.While Karnataka celebrates Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1, the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), a group of native Marathi speakers, observe a black day as they claim to have been forcibly separated from their parent state 66 years ago during the reorganization exercise. The renaming has two benefits- one is to shrug off any ties to Mumbai and Maharashtra as well as naming the region after 19th century ruler, Kittur Rani Chennamma, the followers of whom are now the Panchamasalis, the largest subsect within the Lingayats. In 2012, the state government inaugurated the Suvarana Vidhana Soudha, a replica of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, where it holds the winter session of the state legislature, to further thwart any claims of territory from the neighbouring state. However, the region still have native Marathi speaking residents, who continue to raise the inclusion of Belagavi and surrounding regions into Maharashtra and often clash with pro-Kannada organisations in the border district.“Renaming the region does not change the topography of marathi culture or have any impact on our movement,” Deepak Dalavi, the president of the MES said. He added that Rani Chennamma is a revered figure and had written to the British, seeking permission for adoption in Marathi language.Dalavi further said that there has been no change in the lives of the Marathi people who have been forced to move away from their roots.Bommai said the changes in the region should have happened in 1956 when the State Reorganisation Act came into effect. Stating that mere renaming is not sufficient until the standard of living of the people in that region improves and development takes place, the chief minister said the regional imbalance and disparities should also go and all the regions should grow together. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government is making efforts to end regional disparity with a vow not to leave any region in the state underdeveloped, Bommai said. “We are also committed to prepare an action plan for the development of ‘Kittur Karnataka region’,” he said.Speaking on the occasion of Kannada Rajyotsava, when, 65 years ago, the erstwhile state of Mysore was renamed as Karnataka with several parts of other provinces becoming part of the state. Kittur Rani Chennamma was the ruler of Kittur, who led an armed rebellion against the British in the early 1800’s. She was from the Panchamsali community, the largest sub-sect of the Lingayat community, who have intensified their demands to be included in the 2A or most backward category in the state reservation list.Influential seers and other leaders of the Panchamsalis have demanded that their reservation-related request be met at the earliest, failing which the community would revive its agitation. Influential Panchamsali seers and leaders have demanded that their reservation-related request be met at the earliest, failing which the community would revive its agitation. The community has already started to mobilise support for its cause and the government continues to reassure the group of appropriate action.Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Mutt seer Jagadguru Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami, who is leading the agitation, had on October 21 made a veiled threat to the government demanding action on their reservation request or expect a backlash in the October 30 bypolls, as reported by HT.He demanded that the government should get the report from the backward classes commission over the reservation. “There is some discontentment among the people. Last time when the results of Maski and Belagavi came, the media showed it was the impact of Panchamasali discontentment,” the seer had said.“This is one kind of politics to pacify our community (Panchamasali). In the bypolls, one of the Congress candidate is from our community. In Hanagal, we have 60,000 people and even in Sindgi we are the deciding vote but they (BJP) did not give one of us a ticket. Because they didnt give us a ticket they are trying to pacify us by giving such statements,” Vijayanand Kashappanavar, former MLA of Congress party and president of Akhila Bharatha Lingayat Panchamasali Mahasabha said on Monday. Going into the history of Kannada and Kannadigas, Bommai said there were Kannadiga rulers who ruled the neighbouring states such as Kadamba, Chalukya, and Vijayanagara empires.Bommai said Kannada displayed its unique internal strength to survive even in the face of onslaught by foreign invaders. “Even when rulers from other regions took reins here, Kannada managed to save itself. The language withstood the attacks of foreign forces and is standing firm. It was possible because it has got its own internal strength, which we should never forget. No force can ever destroy Kannada,” the chief minister said. He also told the gathering that the funds for the Kalyana Karnataka region bordering Telangana will be doubled in the next budget and ₹3,000 crore will be allocated for the purposeThe CM said the government has given utmost importance to Kannada, making the language compulsory in the higher education under the new National Education Policy (NEP). He also said his government has made efforts to teach engineering in Kannada medium.The Bommai government had to face criticism on at least three occasions since he took over from his predecessor BS Yediyurappa in July this year, over a visible absence of Kannada in official programmes.Bommai emphasised that his government wants the Kannadigas should get up to 75% jobs in jobs in government, private and semi-government industries in Karnataka.Earlier, Bommai offered his obeisance to Bhuvaneshwari Devi, the mother Goddess of Karnataka, and hoisted the Kannada flag along with the national tricolour at the Kanteerava Stadium.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-rename-mumbai-karnataka-region-as-kittur-karnataka-says-cm-bommai-101635794190394.html
02-11-2021||India||Three students get perfect score in NEET-UG||New Delhi: Three students scored 720 out of 720 marks and shared the all India rank one in the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) undergraduate 2021 examination, results of which were announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late on Monday. The exam, which was conducted across the country on September 12, witnessed a sharp jump of 10 percentage points in the attendance compared to last year.According to the NTA, which is the nodal agency to conduct various entrance exams in the country, a total of 1,614,777 candidates had registered for the country’s biggest entrance exam for admission to MBBS and BDS courses. Of which, 1,5 44, 275 or 95.63% appeared and a total of 870,074 candidates qualified the exam. Last year, 1,366,945 (85.57%) out of 1,597,435 registered candidates had appeared for the exam. Three students — Mrinal Kutteri from Telangana, Tanmay Gupta from Delhi, and Karthika G Nair from Maharashtra — have shared the top rank by scoring 99.999 percentile or cent per cent marks. A senior official at the NTA said that a “tie-breaking” formula will be applied during counselling for these three candidates. The NTA is yet to announce the formula. As many as 12 candidates have scored 99.998 percentile and shared rank 5 this year. The NTA announced the NEET-UG results after the Supreme Court on last Thursday stayed an order of the Bombay high court requiring the NTA to hold the re-examination for two students on account of a mix-up of test booklets before announcing the results.The NEET-UG was conducted across 3,858 centres amid strict precautions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 681,168 male, 863,093 female and 14 transgender candidates appeared in the exam this year. “The examination was conducted for the first time in foreign countries (the UAE; Kuwait) also. It was also conducted for the first time in Punjabi and Malayalam medium, in addition to the existing 11 languages,” the agency said.The NTA has cancelled the results of 15 candidates after identifying the use of “unfair practices” in the examination, it said.Meanwhile, the qualifying marks saw slight decline this year. For instance, the qualifying marks range for unreserved category last year was 147 out of 720 marks, which came down to 138 this year. Similarly, other categories also saw the qualifying cut-off taking a slight decline. Delhi’s Tanmay Gupta, who scored 720 out of 720 marks, said, “A lot of times, people say that one needs to put in 14-15 hours on a daily basis to score well. I feel it’s more crucial to be consistent with preparations. Even if one dedicates 4-5 hours on a daily basis, the effort will pay off.” “Based on my experience, I can say that consistency is key and one can score well without putting in 14-15 hours,” Gupta added. Telangana’s Mrinal Kutteri said the lockdown period helped him in his preparations. “There was no time wasted on travel, studying from home could be very distracting. I made sure that I had an environment optimised for focused study. For instance, I did not have a mobile phone near me when he studied.” “I reduced my interactions with friends during the last month before the NEET exam. But I did not cut myself off from the outside world in the name of NEET,” he added.NEET-UG exam had come under scanner this year after at least three students died by suicide in Tamil Nadu fearing they would not be able to clear the exam. The Tamil Nadu government also passed a resolution, announcing that it will opt out of the entrance exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-students-get-perfect-score-in-neetug-101635794070438.html
02-11-2021||India||AIADMK: Leadership crisis and caste politics||There is a deep crisis within the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) about the leadership struggle and competition amongst the key stakeholders such as Edapaddi Palanisamy (EPS), O Panneerselvam (OPS) and VK Sasikala. The AIADMK after the passing away of J Jayalalithaa is yet to find a leader who could obtain the undivided loyalty of its functionaries and communicate with the party cadre. The party is deeply divided and polarised on caste and sub-regional terms with dangerous implications for future. The party and its cadre are disillusioned with the three successive defeats – the 2019 parliamentary elections, the 2021 assembly elections, and the recently held local body polls.After the departure of Sasikala to Bengaluru prison and the exit of TTV Dinakaran along with his core loyalists, the pact between EPS and OPS was more to retain their power in government and the party was only a means. This power arrangement has survived and worked beyond everyone’s expectation, simply because of the support and backing provided by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to keep the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) out of power. The EPS-OPS pact would have ended in May this year with a remarkable success of the DMK but for the considerable number of seats won by the AIADMK to emerge as an opposition party with floor potential.The defeat of the AIADMK in the assembly elections held earlier this year and the spread of its winning candidates revealed an upper hand for EPS and the impending revolt from within was withheld until further notice. OPS continued to play along with him until the conditions portend a change of wind and along the way he has also been fine-tuning his tone of reconciliation and bridge building exercises with Sasikala through his seasoned emissaries. The BJP factor weighs heavily upon everyone’s mind when evaluating or trusting the moves of OPS. This is also the critical dilemma and source of discomfort between Sasikala and OPS negotiators.The uncertainty of the future and the absence of clear leadership are factors gripping the party as never before. In certain ways, generating a condition for the return of Sasikala and along with her TTV Dinakaran with his party and flag rolled up for the dream show. Sasikala is all set to walk the last mile coinciding with the Pon Muthuramalinga Thevar’s birthday celebrations and the cautious strategy of recapturing the party through democratic means. EPS is beginning to wither under multiple pressures of challenge to his leadership, threats of Kodanad case and the searches and raids conducted against the former colleagues and influential ministers during the AIADMK reign. EPS is sensing the heat and he knows the depths of distrust prevailing between him and OPS. He may even be ready to surrender but the bitter memory for Sasikala is too fresh to wane for any stake that he may concede. Sasikala is also aware that EPS is more vulnerable than ever before. OPS remains a pigeon in the BJP’s nest and unlikely to fly out without any trappings.There is chance for re-induction of Sasikala in the AIADMK without an inevitable split because of the clear absence of consensus about her leadership. The split and disaffection will be inevitable with her return. She has to wait and fight (plot) her way back. It will not be easy even after she succeeds. She must win the hearts of people, which she may not, because she will always be seen as a usurper of power.The crisis of leadership and the impending split from within also presents another challenge of the division being on the lines of caste and region as never before. Although Thevar community, in particular, Mukkulathor, at large have been a consistent vote bank for the party yet the AIADMK managed to retain other communities with good rapport and mutual benefits. This fragile consensus within the AIADMK will be tested beyond doubt and the regional polarisation of traditional vote bank will also affect the assessments in future.Dinakaran will be the largest beneficiary of this transition if it happens. OPS will also benefit with power and influence. Along with Sasikala, it is Dinakaran who will return to exercise power and clout within the party like before. An interesting proposition is that if Sasikala returns to AIADMK, she and her clan will keep the party under their control in the future. It will then emerge a condition that will force the destiny of the party to follow the infamous political culture witnessed in the country. The AIADMK will become a party of the family, like the Congress, Samajwadi Party, Rashtriya Janata Dal, DMK etc.(Prof. Ramu Manivannan is a scholar-social activist in areas of education, human rights and sustainable development through an initiative “Multiversity.”)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-leadership-crisis-and-caste-politics-101635793896304.html
02-11-2021||India||Biometric attendance in govt offices from November 8||Biometric attendance in government offices, which was discontinued after the Covid-19 outbreak, will resume from November 8 with adequate precautions, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said in a government order on Monday.The office memorandum -- which overrides a June 14 DoPT order continuing the suspension of biometric attendance -- means attendance registers will no longer be used in government offices.“Physical distancing of 6 feer must be maintained while marking attendance... additional biometric machines can be installed to avoid overcrowding,” said the latest order.“As far as possible the scanners should be placed in an outside/open air environment. If indoor, adequate natural ventilation should be maintained,” the office memorandum added. Meetings, however, will continue be to be done via video conference as far as possible and personal meetings with visitors are to be avoidedThe decision is in a series of moves being taken in different parts of the country as the caseload reduces after a brutal second wave. On Monday, India had 158,817 active infections -- from a high of 263,533 cases on May 18 this year, and down 455 cases from the day before.In June, DoPT asked officials of the rank of under secretary and above to attend office on all working days. Officials below the rank continued to work from office at 50% capacity, with staggered timings still in place. The department reversed its order from the third week of April, wherein the government brought back staggered timings and work from home for junior officials (deputy secretary and below) as the number of daily Covid-19 cases continued to rise at an alarming rate. A number of ministries, however, issued guidelines for work from home before the official DoPT memorandum starting April 15 when the country was recording neat 230,000 cases daily. These included the ministry of home affairs, consumer affairs, information and broadcasting and higher education. Most offices have now returned to full attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biometric-attendance-in-govt-offices-from-november-8-101635793831403.html
02-11-2021||India||Madras HC quashes 10.5% Vanniyar quota, says Tamil Nadu law unconstitutional||The Madras high court on Monday set aside a Tamil Nadu legislation granting 10.5% reservation to the Vanniyar community within an existing 20% quota for the most backward classes (MBC) in the state, holding the law to be unconstitutional.A bench of justices M Duraiswamy and K Murali Shankar held that the 2021 law, passed by the previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government the day state elections were announced, was illegal because of a lack of quantifiable data to measure the “extreme backwardness” of the Vanniyars.“…The impugned enactment has been passed by the state without any quantifiable data on population, socio educational status and representation of the backward classes in the services and the sub-classification done by virtue of the impugned act solely based on population data, in the absence of any objective criteria, is illegal in the eye of law and in violation of the Constitution of India,” the court saidThe court clarified that the order nullifying the reservation will not impact those who have been admitted to institutions under the quota.The Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), which has been demanding reservation for Vanniyars, called the order a disappointment and urged the DMK-led state government to move the Supreme Court against the high court order. Government officials said they will consider moving Supreme Court against the order.The law carving 10.5% reservation for Vanniyar within 20% reservation for Most Backward Classes (MBCs) was notified by the previous AIADMK government on February 26, the day assembly elections were announced. When the present Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government took over in May, it issued an order to fully implement the reservation, following which 35 petitions were filed in the high court.The petitioners, who belong to various castes in the MBC grouping, argued that the Vanniyar quota left little for the 115 other castes under the MBC umbrella. The state defended the enactment and submitted that institutions such as the Tamil Nadu Dr Ambedkar Law University had implemented the reservation and added that it would not affect the prospects of other communities.In its 184-page order, the court said that the sub-categorisation of reservation was done on recommendation of the chairperson of a commission without any quantifiable data on backwardness of the Vanniyars within the MBCs. It also said that all other members of the commission had dissented on the reservation recommendation.The commission headed by retired justice A Kulasekaran was constituted after PMK’s statewide protests for reservation in 2020. The commission is yet to submit its report on providing caste-wise reservation to all communities based on their population.The reservation was provided by amending Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institution and Appointments or Posts in the Services Under the State) Act 1993, which the state had enacted following a Supreme Court order to protect 69% caste-based reservation in Tamil Nadu.In most other states, caste-based reservation is capped at 50%.The court said that the legislation was in violation of Articles 15, 16 and 29 of the Constitution of India as it treated one caste- Vanniayars--differently.“By doing so, the respondents have shown discrimination between one caste having 6 sub-castes and 115 other castes, as the impugned Act tried to give higher proportion of reservation to one caste and deprive the others,” the court said.“We also find that none of the remaining 115 communities was given separate reservation, as it has been done in the case of Vanniyar caste.”The court added that “it is settled position of law that caste alone cannot be the basis for any classification” and the Supreme Court in the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment made this clear.The court also said that the state had not taken a policy decision to modify the reservation after consulting the National Commission for Backward Classes as mandated by Article 338-B of the Indian Constitution and neither had any supporting materials been collected to prove that the Vanniyar caste was not able to compete with other extremely marginalised communities.“There is nothing on record to establish that the state government had deliberations with all the stakeholders, especially, those communities who would be affected by the impugned act,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-quashes-10-5-vanniyar-quota-says-tamil-nadu-law-unconstitutional-101635793590288.html
02-11-2021||India||2013 Gandhi Maidan blasts: 4 sentenced to death, 5 awarded prison terms||PATNA: A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Monday sentenced four of the nine men convicted for the 2013 serial blasts at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan to death, while the remaining five were awarded prison terms ranging from seven years to life term. Seven Improvised Explosive Devices went off on October 27, 2013, before a rally by Narendra Modi, then the Bharatiya Janata Party’s prime ministerial candidate. Six people were killed and 90 injured in the explosions. The additional district and sessions judge (XV) of the special NIA court, Gurwinder Singh Malhotra awarded capital punishment to Imtiyaz Ansari, Haider Ali alias Abdullah, Noman Ansari and Mohammed Mujibullah Ansari. Umar Siddiqui and Azharuddin Qureshi were sentenced to life imprisonment, Ahmed Hussain and Feroz Aslam were sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment while Mohammed Iftekhar Alam was awarded a seven-year prison term. Five of the convicts — Haider Ali, Imtiaz Ansari, Umer Siddique, Azharuddin Qureshi and Mujibullah Ansari — are already serving life terms for the Bodh Gaya Mahabodhi blasts that took place just over three months before the explosions at Modi’s election rally. The court also imposed different quantum of fine on each accused. In its charge sheet, NIA said the accused planned the Patna bombings after they failed to get close to Modi at previous rallies in New Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. The agency claimed the accused even carried out a dry run of a suicide bombing in Ranchi. The last bomb went off at 12.25 pm — 20 minutes before Modi and senior leaders took the stage. A total of 17 IEDs — seven of them had detonated — were found in and around the Gandhi Maidan. The nine were convicted on October 27 by the special NIA judge for planting and detonating the explosives. Special public prosecutor Lalan Kumar Sinha said the nine were convicted for criminal conspiracy, murder, attempt to murder, waging war against the government of India, conspiracy to wage war against the government, destroying evidence, explosives and railway act and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Two of the accused, Imtiyaz Ansari (Gandhi Maidan) and Mohammad Tariq Ajam (Patna Junction), were injured in the incident and revealed the name of the other associates. Ajam died during treatment. Following their revelations, the Bihar police and NIA also managed to solve the Bodh Gaya blasts case. In the Bodh Gaya bombings, on July 7, 2013, 10 of the 13 IEDs planted went off, killing five people. Senior police officer Manu Maharaaj, who was Patna’s senior superintendent of police when the blasts took place, said Imtiaz’s arrest after his injury in an accidental blast at Patna railway junction on the day of Modi’s rally blew the lid off the conspiracy. “There would have been more blasts if the culprit were not arrested,” added Maharaaj. Former Bihar police chief Abhyanand told HT that they were happy with the court’s judgment. The former DGP added that due to team work, Bihar police managed to arrest one of the accused on the spot and averted stampede at the Gandhi Maidan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2013-gandhi-maidan-blasts-special-nia-court-sentences-4-to-death-prison-terms-to-5-101635793235678.html
02-11-2021||India||SP, RLD to tie up; no clarity if Akhilesh Yadav will contest poll||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav announced on Monday an alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal for the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh was final but added that he will not be contesting the polls scheduled early next year. Hours after, an SP spokesperson appeared to walk back his comment, saying that the party was yet to decide on Yadav’s candidature. A former chief minister, Yadav has never contested an assembly election and is currently the member of Parliament from Azamgarh. “Our alliance with RLD is final. Seat sharing is to be finalised,” he told PTI in an interview. RLD, led by Jayant Chaudhary, is traditionally strong in the western UP region and draws its support from the Jat and Muslim farmers who dominate the region. Both parties oppose three central farm laws and have organised joint events. RLD said that its alliance talks with the SP were in the final stages. The two parties contested the 2017 assembly elections together, and all subsequent polls. “Yes, our alliance talks are in the final stages and soon the alliance will be announced,” said Anil Dubey, RLD national general secretary.On October 20, the SP announced an alliance with Om Prakash Rajbhar’s Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and a few smaller parties, including the Mahan Dal. SBSP, which draws its strength from Backward Classescommunity in eastern UP, was an ally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party but walked out in in May 2019, soon after the Lok Sabha polls complaining about ignoring the Backward Classes.But confusion reigned on Yadav’s possible candidature for the high-stakes polls.“So far as the matter of the SP national president contesting the 2022 UP assembly election himself is concerned, the Samajwadi Party will take the final decision and it will soon announce the decision. In the Samajwadi Party, the candidates’ selection process is already on. Akhilesh Yadav and the party are shortlisting all the ticket seekers. The scrutiny process is on,” said party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.Yadav began his electoral career with a victory in the Lok Sabha bypoll in 2000 for the Kannauj seat, and was re-elected in 2004 and 2009.Even after becoming the Uttar Pradesh chief minister in 2012, Yadav did not contest an assembly bypoll. Instead, he entered the state legislature through the legislative council and vacated his Lok Sabha seat. In 2019, Akhilesh became an MP for the fourth time from Azamgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sp-rld-to-tie-up-no-clarity-if-akhilesh-yadav-will-contest-poll-101635793234031.html
02-11-2021||India||India pledges new climate crisis goal: Net zero by 2070||India will reach carbon neutrality by 2070, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced as part of a five-point action plan that included reducing emissions to 50% by 2030, making the boldest pledge on Monday at the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, where he also urged developed countries to deliver on their promise of climate financing.This is the first time India has committed to net-zero emissions, a target that is particularly hard for developing nations that need to balance commitment to economic growth. India, Modi said, was the only major economy that delivered its Paris Agreement commitments in “letter and spirit”.“By 2070, India will achieve the target of net-zero emissions,” the PM told more than 120 leaders at the critical talks. He added four more commitments: The country will increase its non-fossil fuel power capacity to 500 gigawatts (GW) by the end of the decade, up from 450GW; half of India’s energy will come from renewable sources by 2030; India’s 2030 carbon intensity goal — measured as carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gross domestic product — will be increased from 35% to 45%; and the country will also strive to produce half of its electricity using renewable energy and cut carbon-dioxide emissions 1 billion tons from business as usual by 2030. But Modi reiterated that rich countries have to ramp up their contributions to help less developed nations decarbonise. “It is India’s expectation that the world’s developed nations make $1 trillion available as climate finance as soon as possible,” Modi said. “Justice would demand that those nations that have not kept their climate commitments should be pressured... climate finance cannot lag climate action.”India has the lowest per capita emissions of the world’s major economies -- emitting 5% of the total, despite accounting for 17% of the world’s population. In absolute terms, India is the fourth largest carbon emitter after China and the US. China has pledged to turn carbon neutral by 2060 while the US and the European Union – as a block, EU nations together account for the third largest volume of emissions – aim to do so by 2050.India hasn’t submitted an updated nationally determined contribution (NDCs) with these commitments to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) yet.During his speech, Modi was particularly stern about the steps taken by developed countries. “All of us are aware of the reality that the promises made so far on climate finance have only proved to be hollow…world’s ambitions related to climate finance cannot be at the same level as they were during the Paris Agreement,” he said.“Today as we track the progress on climate mitigation in the same way we must also track climate finance. Justice will truly be served if the pressure ids put on those countries that have not lived up to their climate finance commitments. For many developing countries climate change threatens their very existence. We will have to take big steps as it’s the need of hour,” he added.Senior officials said India’s actions will depend on climate finance, which will be made available by developed countries. “We have a long fight in the next two weeks over climate finance and it will be critical in determining whether India puts this in NDCs. It will be the biggest point of negotiation for us,” said a member of the Indian delegation who is in Glasgow, who asked not to be named.Bhupender Yadav, Union environment minister, said: “As a leader, PM has upheld the views and imperatives of all developing countries. He has underlined that climate finance and transfer of new technology will be critical for transition”.Energy experts and environmentalists welcomed India’s submission, saying that it balances India’s development needs and also demands more action, especially on finance from historical emitters.“India has walked the talk on its commitments and has now significantly upped these. The developed world must meet its commitments on finance and technology now. Good that imperatives of our development were also underscored while adding to our commitments,” said Manjeev Singh Puri, former ambassador, climate negotiator and distinguished fellow at The Energy and Resources Institute.Experts also said Modi’s announcement is a win because it’s consistent with what scientists agree is needed to meet that target. To keep temperatures from rising more than 1.5C, the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change projects that the world has to reach net-zero carbon dioxide emissions by about mid-century and then hit net zero across all greenhouse gases by 2070.“India’s pledges are significantly more ambitious than its current NDC,” said Ulka Kelkar of the World Resources Institute India, referring to the NDCs under the Paris accord. “These will take the country on a low-carbon development pathway and give strong signals to every sector of industry and society.”Many developing countries in Asia have announced net zero targets - like Thailand, Sri Lanka, Malayasia. “The experience of many European economies over the last 30 years shows that it is possible to achieve sustained economic growth while significantly cutting emissions, even after accounting for consumption and imports. For India also, strong climate action will help reduce air pollution and create new jobs,” added Kelkar.A former senior climate negotiator from India said the country “was under immense pressure to commit to a net zero target from US and other developed nations”. “We all know it. But now, 2070 is out there and India has indicated a direction. It will be pushed to include this in its NDCs and will be subjected to review as per the provisions under Paris Agreement. At the same time India could not have been reluctant on a global stage when many countries are announcing net zero targets. So India will have to take this commitment seriously and plan it out. It cannot be conditional to finance alone,” said this person, who asked not to be named.“This was a very significant moment for the summit, with Prime Minister Modi pledging stronger action by India on climate change, with five new targets...This demonstrates real leadership, based on a track record of action and ambitious targets, that can deliver on both economic development and climate change, from a country whose emissions per capita are about one-third of the global average. The rich world must respond to Prime Minister Modi’s challenge to deliver a strong increase in international climate finance,” Lord Stern of Brentford, chair of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics and Political Science said.Several world leaders spoke till the time of going to press, each ramping up an end-of-the-world rhetoric. For UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, global warming was “a doomsday device” strapped to humanity. United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said people are “digging our own graves” and Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley, speaking for vulnerable island nations, warned leaders not to “allow the path of greed and selfishness to sow the seeds of our common destruction.”“There’s no more time to sit back,” Biden said in a more measured warning that also apologised for his predecessor’s temporarily pulling the US out of the historic 2015 Paris agreement, something he said put the country behind in its efforts.Earlier in the day, PM Modi, speaking at the Leaders Event on Action and Solidarity, said India is extremely vulnerable to climate change. “Adaptation hasn’t got as much attention as mitigation to climate change. This is not justified, especially for countries bearing the brunt of climate change,” he said.Cropping patterns in India are changing due to monsoonal flooding and unseasonal and extreme rainfall. India’s infrastructure needs to be made resilient to climate change and climate change adaptation should be mainstreamed he said.At his address at COP26, the PM began with recounting India’s recent efforts on climate change. “We are making all possible efforts in a resolute manner and working hard. In terms of installed renewable energy capacity, India is ranked fourth; it has increased its non-fossil fuel energy by 25% over the last seven years; and it now represents 40% of our energy mix,” he said.Net zero refers to a balance where emissions of greenhouse gases that raise the planet’s temperature continue are offset by the absorption of an equivalent amount from the atmosphere. Experts see net zero targets as a critical measure to successfully tackle climate change and its devastating consequences.(With Bloomberg inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pledges-new-climate-crisis-goal-net-zero-by-2070-101635793110247.html
02-11-2021||India||Ahead of UP polls, SP chief Akhilesh's Jinnah remark triggers political row||Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav’s reference to Muhammad Ali Jinnah in the same breath as some of the stalwarts of India’s freedom struggle has has snowballed into a controversy, with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath leading the charge against the SP chief.Adityanath at a public meeting in Moradabad on Monday said the comment smacked of “Talibani mentality, which the people of the country and Uttar Pradesh will not tolerate”.He was responding to Yadav’s comment, at a public meeting in Hardoi on Sunday that “Sardar Patel, mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, and Mohammed Ali Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle.”The speech came on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhai Patel, independent India’s first home minister and the man who united the country by convincing the princely states to merge with the Union of India. Unlike the other three who studied law at the Inner Temple, Patel studied at the Middle Temple.In response, Adityanath said on Moradabad: “I heard the statement of Samajwadi Party president. He compared ‘desh-todo’ (one responsible for dividing the country) Jinnah with ‘desh-jodo’ (the one who united the country) Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The statement is downright shameful. Sardar Patel is the architect of the country’s unity. At present, work is on to realise the dream of ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshth Bharat’ of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. But his (Akhilesh’s) ‘vibhajankaari’ (divisive) mentality has surfaced once again when he compared Sardar Patel to Jinnah. He tried to glorify Jinnah”.Elections in Uttar Pradesh, India’s most politically important state are due early next year and all parties, including the BJP and the SP have launched their campaigns.Adityanath continued his criticism of Yadav in another meeting on Monday in Haryana’s Faridabad.“Earlier Jinnah supporters fired upon Ram Bhakts; if they come again, they will again do it. Now (during BJP rule) bullets are fired upon terrorists, traitors.”His reference was to the firing on karsewaks in Ayodhya in 1990, during the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, when the Samajwadi Party was in power in the state.With the movement coming to a fruition in 2019 with a Supreme Court verdict allowing the construction of a Ram temple at Ram Janmabhoomi, work on which is currently underway, the BJP has made it (the temple and the movement) one of the pillars of its campaign.On Saturday, in another public meeting, Adityanath asked: “Will those responsible for ordering firing would apologise to the nation?”The Samajwadi Party sought to defend Yadav’s remarks. “Its spokesperson and MLC Udaiveer Singh said: “Akhilesh did not say anything wrong. In the statement, he drew a parallel between Jinnah and the RSS as both were responsible for the country’s partition. Akhilesh only mentioned facts that Gandhi, Nehru, Patel, and Jinnah studied at the same institute and worked for the country’s freedom. This is true. And he meant that while Patel was responsible for India’s unity, he banned RSS as it were the RSS and Jinnah (who were) responsible for dividing the country.”Jinnah is a polarising figure in India where he is held responsible for pushing for the partition and the creation of Pakistan, as well of the horrors that followed the split. In 2018, several BJP leaders from Uttar Pradesh demanded the removal of Jinnah’s portrait from the office of the students union of Aligarh Muslim University.Political analyst and former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University, Professor SK Dwivedi said Yadav’s comment seemed “calculated”.“One day he says he will build a better temple (than the one coming up at Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya) and then the next day he invokes Jinnah. Akhilesh’s comment seems aimed at appeasing minorities ahead of the 2022 polls.”The Bahujan Samaj Party, however, said there is “collusion” between the SP and the BJP. In a tweet in Hindi, BSP chief Mayawati alleged that Yadav’s remarks on Jinnah and the BJP’s response to it were part of a well-thought-out strategy of the two parties to vitiate the atmosphere on Hindu-Muslim lines ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) national president Jayant Chaudhary, in a tweet, said: “Jinnah, Indo-Pak Cricket, Aurangzeb doesn’t matter...The economy, job creation, governance must win!”. In the tweet, Jayant attached the RLD manifesto’s page and added: “Let’s take up the issues and ignite a debate on development models, policies & programmes!” The RLD has been SP’s ally since 2017 UP assembly polls and the two parties are set to continue the alliance for the 2022 polls as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-up-elections-sp-chief-akhislesh-yadav-jinnah-remark-triggers-political-row-101635793051072.html
02-11-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi holds bilateral talks with British counterpart Boris Johnson||Glasgow, Nov 1 (PTI) Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday met his British counterpart Boris Johnson on the sidelines of the COP26 climate summit here and the two leaders discussed cooperation in areas like green hydrogen, renewables and clean technology, economy and defence.This was the first in-person meeting between Modi and Johnson following the British Prime Minister’s twice cancelled visit to India earlier this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic.The interaction, soon after the opening ceremony of the World Leaders’ Summit at COP26, was scheduled to focus on the UK-India climate partnership as well as a review of the 2030 Roadmap for stronger UK-India strategic ties – signed by the two leaders during a virtual summit in May this year.“Marching ahead on Roadmap 2030. PM @narendramodi met UK PM @BorisJohnson in Glasgow today. Congratulated him for successfully organising @COP26. Discussed cooperation in areas like green hydrogen, renewables & clean tech. Also exchanged views on economy, defence, P2P ties,” Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted soon after the meeting.According to official sources, the relatively short interaction focussed on exchanging views and taking stock of the bilateral relationship. The issue of security and counter-terrorism, with a likely focus on separatist Khalistani activities in the UK, are likely to have featured during the discussions.Prime Minister Modi is expected to have reiterated his invitation for Johnson to visit India.“Both governments remain committed to the implementation of the Roadmap, within prescribed timelines. Accordingly, we are looking to launch negotiations in November 2021 for an Interim Agreement to be signed in March 2022 and eventually a comprehensive agreement, if all goes according to schedule, by November 2022,” India’s High Commissioner to the UK, Gaitri Issar Kumar, said ahead of the prime ministerial talks.The Modi-Johnson meet, dubbed an important bilateral of the UK leg of Modi’s European tour, was followed by a leader-level COP26 event entitled Action and Solidarity: The Critical Decade, for which the UK had extended a special invitation for Modi to deliver an address on the subject of “adaptation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-holds-bilateral-talks-with-british-counterpart-boris-johnson-101635792937786.html
02-11-2021||India||Congress, BJP push for Odisha minister’s sacking, say new evidence indicts him||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha’s opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress on Monday escalated their attacks on the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) government’s minister of state for home Dibya Shankar Mishra, claiming that the minister was not only close to the man accused of murdering a school teacher in Kalahandi but also attempted to mediate between the teacher and the prime accused, Gobind Sahu.Gobind Sahu, president of the managing committee of Sunshine English medium school, a private school in Mahaling panchayat of Kalahandi district, is alleged to have strangled 26-year-old school teacher Mamita Meher, in his car on October 8 after she threatened to expose his affairs. According to the police, he cut her body into pieces, burnt it and buried it in an under-construction stadium near the school. He was arrested on October 19 and was sent to jail after he was questioned for five days.Since then, the opposition has been demanding the minister’s sacking from the Naveen Patnaik ministry due to his proximity with Gobind Sahu, a demand that was rejected by BJD leaders who insisted that Dibya Shankar Mishra could not be penalised for the actions of someone he knew.On Monday, the BJP and Congress stepped up their attacks.Congress MLA from Kantabanji Santosh Singh Saluja alleged Dibya Shankar Mishra, Gobind Sahu and school teacher Mamita Meher were present at the Mishra’s residence in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur between September 20 and 23.“Mishra tried to iron out differences between Sahu and Mamita at his Kool Homes apartment in Raipur. Sahu then deposited money in Mamita’s SBI account on October 7 a day before she was killed,” said Saluja.Soon after, BJP leader Bijoy Mohapatra claimed that there were three meetings between Sahu and Meher in Raipur, not just once as alleged by Saluja.“Not once, the meeting between accused Gobind Sahu and Mamita was held thrice in Raipur. Govind Sahu was in touch with Mishra and even held a telephonic conversation with him when he was detained in the police barrack of Titilagarh town from where he escaped subsequently. This is just the first few pages of the story. There will not be a full stop to the case anytime soon and more explosive facts are going to surface in coming days,” said. Mohapatra.Mishra, Odisha’s energy minister who also holds charge as minister of state for home, did not respond to phone calls and text messages seeking his comments on the fresh allegations levelled by Saluja and Mohapatra.Congress leader Narasingha Mishra also alleged that Mishra tried to mediate a dispute between Meher and Sahu after the former threatened to expose him, Odisha Congress president Niranjan Patnaik questioned the Raipur visit by the trio. “What did they discuss in Raipur? Why did minister Dibya Shankar spend nights in Sunshine school,” he asked.The allegations came on the day the Bolangir police seized the JCB machine and the two-wheeler allegedly used by accused Gobinda Sahu to bury Mamita Meher’s body. Both vehicles were seized from Mahaling in the Kalahandi district. Police alleged that Sahu admitted that he used the JCB to bury her the burnt body parts in a 10-feet deep pit that was dug before he killed her. The two-wheeler was allegedly used to ferry tyres used to burn the body.Meanwhile, BJD leader and editor of Odia daily Sambad, Soumya Ranjan Patnaik continued to embarrass the BJD leadership in another front-page editorial in which he appeared to keep the pressure on his party.“Even as the minister said that the opposition and certain media houses are running a smear campaign against him as they have an axe to grind, what he seems to have forgotten is an independent inquiry in the murder case will not be possible unless he put down his papers,” wrote Patnaik, asserting that he would bat for the state’s interests rather than his party.Patnaik recalled that in 2016 when more than 20 people died in the infamous SUM hospital fire, then health minister Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak resigned on moral grounds to maintain high standards of public propriety. “He resigned to preserve the image of the party and the government, though he had no role whatsoever in the mishap,” said Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, a ruling BJD legislator.“Everyone knows what happened during the JB Patnaik’s rule two decades ago when the government dithered over taking action against the then advocate general Indrajit Ray following allegations over his links in the infamous Anjana Mishra molestation case,” wrote Patnaik, who is also the son-in-law of JB Patnaik who was forced to step down and replaced with Giridhar Gamang in February 1999.Taking a swipe at Mishra for invoking Goddess Samaleswari, the presiding deity at Kalahandi most-revered temple, Patnaik said while a common man takes refuge in God whenever he feels helpless, it is perplexing what made the minister helpless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-bjp-push-for-odisha-minister-s-sacking-say-new-evidence-indicts-him-101635792931919.html
02-11-2021||India||Dabur ad taken down due to intolerance, says justice Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge DY Chandrachud on Monday said that the ‘Karva Chauth’ advertisement featuring a same-sex couple was withdrawn by Dabur due to “public intolerance,” adding that there is a need to change the mindset of both men and women.Speaking at a virtual conference conducted jointly by the National Legal Services Authority and National Commission for Women on Saturday, Justice Chandrachud said, “There is a great divergence between ideals of the law and the state of society today” while speaking on the topic, “Empowerment of Women through Legal Awareness.” “Just two days ago, all of you would know of this advertisement which a company was required to pull down. It was an advertisement for Karva Chauth of a same sex couple. It had to be withdrawn on the ground of public intolerance,” he said.He was referring to the advertisement issued by Dabur’s Fem Crème bleach showing a lesbian couple celebrating Karva Chauth. After public outrage against the advertisement on the social media, the company took down the advertisement and tendered an unconditional apology for hurting public sentiments.“Every day in our lives, as judges in the Supreme Court, you come across injustice against women, daughter in law being thrown out of house and when she complains, she is told that her husband has no title in the joint family home. When maintenance is sought to be enforced, she is told that the business is of the joint family and husband is only a salaried partner in the business.”Justice Chandrachud said that we have provided laws such as the Domestic Violence Act and the Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace Act to achieve the aim of fulfilling the constitutional rights of women but women are daily being deprived of their rights as there is a need to make our society and workplaces inclusive. He referred to the recent attempts by the Supreme Court to provide access of equal rights to women in the armed forces.“I believe that the deprivation of rights of women, if we have to find an answer to them, the origin must be in the changing of mindset, both men and women… Legal awareness of rights of women is not merely a women’s issue. That awareness can be truly meaningful if it is created among the younger generation of men in our society,” the Supreme Court judge said.The event held at Varanasi which marked the launch of nationwide legal awareness programme on the subject of Women Empowerment was presided over by Justice UU Lalit of the Supreme Court, who is also the Executive Chairman of NALSA.Justice Chandrachud was of the view that women share multiple identities and this is not recognized by the society which is marked by a sexual division between men and women. He proposed an intersectional approach to end the violence and discrimination against women and warned that entitlements given to women under various laws should not become a ruse or an excuse for perpetuating domination of men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dabur-ad-taken-down-due-to-intolerance-says-justice-chandrachud-101635792870261.html
02-11-2021||India||A month after launch, BH series registrations yet to gather pace||Only about 137 vehicles in India have been registered with the latest “Bharat” (BH) series ever since the Union government launched the new registration series on September 15, national data seen by HT showed.The BH series was introduced by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) to allow people with transferable jobs to continue using their existing four-wheeler or two-wheeler in another state after relocation. At present, people who relocate to another state have to first get a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the state where their vehicle is registered. Once the NOC is issued from the parent state, the vehicle is to be re-registered in the new state within 12 months. Besides, even the road tax that was paid for 15 years while purchasing the vehicle has to be re-paid in the new state where the vehicle owner has relocated and the process of getting a refund on pro-rata basis becomes too tedious.The Bharat series was introduced to simplify all these hassles with an online application process where vehicles with the BH registration number are not required to be re-registered in a new state. Also, instead of the owner paying the road tax upfront for 15 years in total, the tax is levied for two years and in multiple of two thereafter.However, ministry data accessed by HT showed that the new BH series has seen a slow start with only eight of the 36 states and UTs in India implementing it so far. Among the states that have implemented the BH series, Odisha registered 63 vehicles - the highest of all. This was followed by Delhi (39), and Goa and Rajasthan with 12 registrations each. The other states/UTs include Chandigarh (5), Himachal Pradesh (3), Maharashtra (2) and Andaman and Nicobar Islands (1). All figures are till October 29.“We have sent reminders to all the states and UTs, but only a handful of them have actually introduced the series in the past one and a half months. This is one major reason for the slow start. Besides, a few states have also put up queries to the MoRTH seeking clarifications. For example, road tax is a state subject and some states have questioned the proportion in which they should charge for two years instead of 15 years. We are resolving these teething issues to make it more seamless,” said a senior ministry official on condition of anonymity.For a BH registered vehicle, the Centre has prescribed that the road tax be charged at 8% if the cost of the vehicle is below ₹10 lakh; 10% for those costing between ₹10 and ₹20 lakh; and 12% for vehicles costing over ₹20 lakh. Diesel vehicles are to be charged 2% extra, while electric vehicles shall be charged 2% less tax.A second senior officer said a few other states also questioned as to how they would verify if the vehicle owner is actually eligible for BH registration. “As per the rule, those who are in transferable jobs such as government employees or even private sector employees whose companies are present in at least four states/UTs are eligible for a BH series registration. While it is easier to verify government employees, some states said they have no way of checking whether a private company has offices in four or more states or not,” said the officer on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-month-after-launch-bh-series-registrations-yet-to-gather-pace-101635792814174.html
02-11-2021||India||Leaders dial up doomsday warning to kick-start COP26 climate talks||GLASGOW, Scotland (AP) — World leaders turned up the heat and resorted to end-of-the-world rhetoric on Monday in an attempt to bring new urgency to sputtering international climate negotiations.The metaphors were dramatic and mixed at the start of the talks, known as COP26. For British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, global warming was “a doomsday device” strapped to humanity. United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres told his colleagues that people are “digging our own graves.” And Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley, speaking for vulnerable island nations, added moral thunder, warning leaders not to “allow the path of greed and selfishness to sow the seeds of our common destruction.”After apocalyptic warnings from those three and a few others, a handful of more sedate — sometimes detailed — speeches followed. U.S. President Joe Biden and German Chancellor Angela Merkel avoided soaring rhetoric and delved into wonky policy.“There’s no more time to sit back,” Biden said in a more measured warning that also apologized for his predecessor’s temporarily pulling the U.S. out of the historic 2015 Paris agreement, something he said put the country behind in its efforts. “Every day we delay, the cost of inaction increases.”In addition to coaxing big carbon-polluting nations to promise more stringent emission cuts, French President Emmanuel Macron said European nations now have to shift from promises to action.Earlier, Johnson — who is hosting the summit in the Scottish city of Glasgow — likened an ever-warming Earth’s position to that of fictional secret agent James Bond: strapped to a bomb that will destroy the planet and trying to defuse it.He told leaders that the only difference now is that the “ticking doomsday device” is not fiction and “it’s one minute to midnight on that doomsday clock.” The threat now is climate change, triggered by the burning of coal, oil and natural gas, and he noted that it all started in Glasgow with James Watt’s steam engine powered by coal.Johnson also pointed out that the more than 130 world leaders gathered for the leaders’ summit portion of the U.N. climate conference had an average age of over 60, while the generations most harmed by climate change aren’t yet born.The conference aims to get governments to commit to curbing carbon emissions fast enough to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) above pre-industrial levels. The world has already warmed 1.1 degrees Celsius (2 degrees Fahrenheit). Current projections based on planned emissions cuts over the next decade are for it to hit 2.7C (4.9F) by the year 2100.Increased warming over coming decades would melt much of the planet’s ice, raise global sea levels and greatly increase the likelihood and intensity of extreme weather, scientists say. With every tenth of a degree of warming, the dangers soar faster, they say.The other goals for the meeting are for rich nations to give poor nations $100 billion a year in climate aid and to reach an agreement to spend half of the money to adapt to worsening climate impacts.But Mottley, of Barbados, warned negotiators are falling short.“This is immoral and it is unjust,” Mottley said. “Are we so blinded and hardened that we can no longer appreciate the cries of humanity?”“We are already gasping for survival,” chimed in President Wavel John Charles Ramkalawan of the Seychelles, another island nation. “Tomorrow is not an option for it will be too late.”Guterres struck an equally gloomy note.“We are digging our own graves,” said the U.N. secretary-general. “Our planet is changing before our eyes — from the ocean depths to mountaintops, from melting glaciers to relentless extreme weather events.”The speeches will continue through Tuesday, then the leaders will leave.The idea is that they will do the big political give-and-take, setting out broad outlines of agreement, and then have other government officials hammer out the nagging but crucial details. That’s what worked to make the historic 2015 Paris climate deal a success, former U.N. Climate Secretary Christiana Figueres told The Associated Press.“For heads of state, it is actually a much better use of their strategic thinking,” Figueres said.In Paris, the two signature goals — the 1.5-degree Celsius limit and net zero carbon emissions by 2050 — were created by this leaders-first process, Figueres said. In the unsuccessful 2009 Copenhagen meeting the leaders swooped in at the end.Thousands lined up in a chilly wind in Glasgow on Monday to get through a bottleneck at the entrance to the venue. But what will be noticeable are a handful of major absences.Xi Jinping, president of top carbon-polluting nation China, won’t be in Glasgow. Figueres said his absence isn’t that big a deal because he isn’t leaving the country during the pandemic and his climate envoy is a veteran negotiator.Biden, however, has chided China and Russia for their less than ambitious efforts to curb emissions and blamed them for a disappointing statement on climate change at the end of the meeting of leaders from the Group of 20 major economies in Rome this weekend.Perhaps more troublesome for the U.N. summit is the absence of several small nations from the Pacific islands that couldn’t make it because of COVID-19 restrictions and logistics. That’s a big problem because their voices relay urgency, Figueres said.In addition, the heads of several major emerging economies beyond China are also skipping Scotland, including those from Russia, Turkey, Mexico, Brazil and South Africa. That leaves India’s Narendra Modi the only leader present from the so-called BRICS nations, which account for more than 40% of global emissions.Kevin Conrad, a negotiator from Papua New Guinea who also chairs the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, said he’s watching the big carbon-polluting nations. “I think it’s really important for the United States and China to show leadership as the two largest emitters. If both of them can show it can be done, I think they give hope to the rest of the world,” he said.But before the U.N. climate summit, the G-20 leaders offered vague climate pledges instead of commitments of firm action, saying they would seek carbon neutrality “by or around mid-century.” The countries also agreed to end public financing for coal-fired power generation abroad, but set no target for phasing out coal domestically — a clear nod to China and India.The G-20 countries represent more than three-quarters of the world’s climate-damaging emissions and summit host Italy, and Britain had been hoping for more ambitious targets.India, the world’s third-biggest emitter, has yet to follow China, the U.S. and the European Union in setting a target for reaching “net zero” emissions. Negotiators are hoping Modi will announce such a goal in Glasgow.But the Biden administration has tried hard to temper expectations.Rather than a quick fix, “Glasgow is the beginning of this decade race, if you will,” Biden’s climate envoy, John Kerry, told reporters Sunday.___This story has been updated to correct that the goal is to keep global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels, not below.___Associated Press writers Jill Lawless, Frank Jordans and Ellen Knickmeyer contributed to this report. Follow AP’s climate coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/climate. Follow Seth Borenstein on Twitter at @borenbears.___The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute’s Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-dial-up-doomsday-warning-to-kick-start-cop26-climate-talks-101635792696395.html
02-11-2021||India||CBI to investigate Uttar Pradesh ‘Bike bot’ ponzi scheme||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has taken over probe into alleged Bike Bot ponzi scheme, in which nearly 2.25 lakh investors were duped of crores, people familiar with the development said on Monday.The central agency mentioned the figure in its First Information Report (FIR), registered on October 21, as ₹15,000 crore but it was not clear how it arrived at the figure or it was a typing error.Initially, when the scandal came to light in 2019, it was alleged that investors were cheated of close to ₹1,500 crore.The federal agency has named Sanjay Bhati (42), owner of Garvit Innovative Promoters Ltd (GIPL) who holds diploma in mechanical engineering and launched the fictitious company in 2010 and floated Bike Bot scheme in 2017 under which ₹1,500 crore was duped from investors. Each investor was duped of ₹62,100 in the name of providing bike taxis. He was arrested following his surrender in Uttar Pradesh’s Surajpur court in June 2019 and is in prison since then.The scam surfaced after a complainant Sunil Kumar Meena, a resident of Jaipur, filed an FIR against the Bike Bot operator at Dadri police station in Uttar Pradesh on February 14, 2019 against Sanjay Bhati and five directors of the company.In its FIR, CBI has taken cognisance of the Uttar Pradesh government letter, which had referred 11 FIRs of the Noida Police registered at Dadri for the central agency probe in December 2019.“Under a preplanned conspiracy the respondent Sanjay Bhati and his associates have cheated and defrauded investors and have collected at least 15 thousands crores of money across the country in the name of business of ‘BIKE BOT - THE BIKE TAXI POWERED BY GIPL’ and misappropriated the same,” the FIR stated.CBI FIR, without naming the officers, said that “complaints were submitted and fraudulent activity of the company was in the knowledge of the Noida district authority’s as well as police authorities who did not take any action, rather Senior Superintendent of Police and Superintendent of Police Crime branch pressurized the complainants to withdraw their complaints”.Bhati is lodged in prison. HT could not locate his legal representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-to-investigate-uttar-pradesh-bike-bot-ponzi-scheme-101635792450364.html
02-11-2021||India||CBI probe on Navy leak case: Info on 3 other projects may have been leaked||The navy leak case may be bigger than what last week’s release on an investigation into the leak of information regarding the upgrade of submarines suggested, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) probe into the Naval leak case, in which a serving Commander was arrested, has revealed that “peripheral” information on at least three other projects of the Indian Navy was leaked over the past year, they added.More people, including some navy officers, both serving and retired, and some other people are likely to be arrested in coming days, the people said.The investigation agency arrested five people, including a Commander-rank serving officer, two retired navy personnel and two others in September for allegedly leaking confidential information related to the upgrade of Russian-origin Kilo class submarines. It is alleged that the Commander shared crucial details about the ongoing modernisation project of Kilo class submarines with the two retired officers in return for money. The information about the case was made public last week.Sharing details of investigation, which is being monitored at the highest level, a senior officer said it is likely that two or three groups were involved in leaking information in lieu of bribes, and that this was going on for at least a year.The people involved, “had access to only peripheral information regarding these projects,” said a second officer. “Highly classified data was luckily not compromised.”“We are trying to ascertain if all these groups involved were connected with each other and if the payments were made at the behest of some anti-India elements,” added this person.Both officers refused to divulge the details of the other projects whose information may have been leaked.The agency may not register separate First Information Reports (FIRs) but rather file separate charge sheets against the suspects in the existing case, the officers said.The Indian Navy said on October 26 that an investigation related to the alleged leak of information of an administrative and commercial nature had come to light and was being investigated by the appropriate government agency.The navy is also conducting an internal inquiry in the matter, which is being led by a vice admiral to find out how the information leaked despite security protocols and advisories, and how lacunae, if any can be fixed.India operates eight Kilo class submarines, four HDW German origin submarines and three Scorpene submarines built in India under technology transfer from France (three more Scorpenes will join the fleet in the future). The navy also operates an indigenous nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine, INS Arihant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-probe-on-navy-leak-case-information-on-3-other-projects-may-have-been-leaked-101635792089532.html
02-11-2021||India||Army conducts high-altitude airborne exercise in eastern Ladakh||The Indian Army on Monday launched airborne drills in eastern Ladakh to validate and showcase its rapid response capabilities in high altitudes even as India and China are locked in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the sensitive sector.The exercise includes inter-theatre movement of troops and equipment, precision stand-off drops, rapid grouping and ability to capture designated targets with speed and surprise, officials familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.An airborne brigade, called Shatrujeet, comprising the army’s finest paratroopers is the centrepiece of the three-day high-altitude combat manoeuvres that saw soldiers being inserted into a drop zone at an altitude of more than 14,000 feet on the opening day, said one of the officials cited above.“Acclimatised troops along with specialist vehicles and missile detachments were transported (to the exercise area) via US-origin C-130J special operations aircraft and Soviet-origin AN-32 medium transport planes from five different mounting bases to validate inter-theatre move, precision drops and capture of designated objectives,” said a second official, adding the drop was particularly challenging as it took place in minus 20-degree conditions.Experts said the timing of the exercise was significant as it was being staged three weeks after the 13th round of military talks between India and China to cool tensions in Ladakh reached an impasse on October 10, with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) not agreeing to suggestions made by the Indian Army.Other elements of the exercise include integrated battle drills by airborne forces, mechanised columns and attack helicopters, the second official said,The Indian Army is clearly demonstrating its combat capabilities to China with the high-altitude exercise, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).“India stood up to China after the border row erupted, and now the army is sending a message that PLA should not underestimate Indian military capabilities. Such drills have been conducted in the past but on a smaller scale,” Jaswal added.The high-intensity manoeuvres also come in the backdrop of PLA scaling up its military activities in the east. It has intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across LAC in Arunachal Pradesh after the lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector.PLA has also ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers to forward areas to supervise the military activities in the eastern sector, as previously reported by HT.The sectors across which the Indian Army has detected increased PLA activity in Arunachal Pradesh include Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La -- areas of high historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector -- and counter measures have been taken to boost India’s readiness to handle any contingency.The October 10 military dialogue in Ladakh took place more than two months after the last round of talks that led to disengagement of forward deployed troops from Gogra, or Patrolling Point-17A, in early August.Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each deployed in Ladakh. Outstanding problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs (PP-15) and PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to PP-10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.There is no end in sight to the standoff, with army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane stating on October 9 that if PLA is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre so is the Indian Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-conducts-high-altitude-airborne-exercise-in-eastern-ladakh-101635791793960.html
02-11-2021||India||IT panel seeks LS Speaker’s permission to call Facebook whistleblowers||The Parliamentary standing committee on information technology has sought permission from Speaker Om Birla to have Facebook whistleblowers depose before it as allegations of the company using algorithms, that allowed the amplification of hate speech in India, lands it in controversy, panel chairperson Shashi Tharoor said on Monday. “The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology did not exist between September 12 & October 12 when it was officially reconstituted. It had to then adopt its agenda, submit it to the Speaker &have it bulletinized before it could convene any meetings,” the Congress MP wrote on Twitter. “This has just happened & with its agenda official, the Committee will hold its first meetings of the new session on Nov16&17. Under our procedures videoconferencing is not permitted. Testimony in person by witnesses from abroad requires the Speaker’s consent. This is being sought,” he added. Last month, whistleblower Frances Haugen sent a complaint to the US Securities and Exchange Commission citing internal documents that back some of these allegations. Haugen has already testified before the US Senate and the UK Parliament. India will be the third country where she will testify if permission is granted. Another former Facebook employee, Sophie Zhang, earlier exposed the company’s partisan policy in removing inauthentic accounts from the social media platform ahead of the 2020 Delhi elections. Zhang is among several former Facebook employees and contractors who have said that the company’s policies and management are leading to harm. In a tweet last month, she had also said she would be willing to testify before the Indian Parliament. The disclosed documents also mention that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh linked users, groups and pages promote islamophobia and “fear-mongering”, but the company failed to put “forth a nomination or designation” for the group given the “political sensitiveness”. This, however, is not the first time when Facebook has been accused of not censoring BJP-related political content. Last year, the social media firm’s public policy head Ankhi Das had to step down over allegations that Facebook refused to action “hate-speech” by a BJP politician. The panel then summoned Facebook India officials to explain their stance regarding the allegations of adopting a biased approach. The panel has also heard from several other social media platforms as its agenda include the safety and security of users on the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-panel-may-call-facebook-whistleblowers-101635790890823.html
02-11-2021||India||J&K BJP serves show cause notice to party leader over ‘hateful’ comments against Muslims||A leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Jammu and Kashmir unit was on Monday slapped with a show cause notice by the party after a video of him purportedly making disrespectful remarks against the Valley’s Muslims went viral on social media.A PTI report said Vikram Randhawa, a former member of legislative council, made the comments over incidents of celebrating the Pakistan team’s win against India in a T20 World Cup match.In the video, he was heard saying people who had affection in their blood for Pakistan, must be snatched off their educational degrees and citizenship. Randhawa said such people should also be beaten.The video was first shared on Twitter by Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Naeem Akhtar, to which party president Mehbooba Mufti responded stating “no action” had been taken against the BJP leader.“No action taken against an ex-BJP MLA who calls for genocide of Kashmir and to skin them alive. But J&K students are charged with sedition for merely cheering the winning team. India is surely the mother of all democracies,” Mufti tweeted.No action taken against an ex BJP MLA who calls for genocide of Kashmiris & to skin them alive. But J&K students are charged with sedition for merely cheering the winning team. India is surely the mother of all democracies. @JmuKmrPolice @OfficeOfLGJandK https://t.co/71BoNvixniJ&K’s BJP president Ravinder Raina said a show cause notice was served to Randhawa as soon as the party noticed the video as “such a language cannot be tolerated.”“A video has gone viral in social media in which you are seen making absolutely reckless and hatred promoting remarks against a particular community. This is unacceptable to the party and has brought disrepute and embarrassment to the party,” PTI reported, quoting the notice.Also Read | 'Patriotism can't be forced': Mehbooba Mufti urges PM Modi to intervene in arrests of Kashmiri studentsThe BJP disciplinary committee has asked Randhawa to render an explanation over his remarks within the next 48 hours.Raina also warned Randhawa of strict action if an apology did not come soon. The BJP chief further clarified that Randhawa’s statements had “nothing to do” with the saffron party’s stand.Meanwhile, Randhawa’s statements have triggered protests in the Valley, with senior lawyer Sheikh Shakeel urging the inspector general of police to book the BJP leader.Shakeel said Randhawa had in the past openly threatened a government official and also used derogatory remarks against Union minister Jitendra Singh. “We appeal to the IGP to…book him immediately for hurting the sentiments of the Muslims,” the lawyer was quoted as saying by PTI.As many as three Kashmiri engineering students were sent to 14-day judicial custody on Friday for their alleged “anti-national” slogans and praise of Pakistan during the country’s match against India in the T20 World Cup event last week.A complaint against the students of RBS Engineering College in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra district was initially filed by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leader Gaurav Rajawat.Later, a statement released from Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s official Twitter handle said individuals celebrating Pakistan’s win will “face sedition”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-bjp-serves-show-cause-notice-to-party-leader-over-hateful-comments-101635789863534.html
02-11-2021||India||Oct GST revenue hits new high at ₹1.3L-cr||Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue in October surged to ₹1.3 lakh crore, the second highest since the new tax was launched in July 2017, signalling a robust recovery of business activities after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, and increased compliance.Collections of the indirect tax, widely seen as a weathervane of economic activity, have exceeded ₹1 lakh crore for the fourth month in a row, after they plunged below the benchmark in June due to the devastating second wave of Covid-19.The number is the latest of several indicators that highlight a recovery in the economy. Data released on Monday showed the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) for manufacturing for the month of October at 55.9, the highest since February. And according to the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), which works under the ministry of finance, there has been an increase in direct tax revenue as well as central government spending in the month of SeptemberGross GST revenue in October this year is ₹1,30,127 crore, a 24% year-on-year jump and a 36% increase over October 2019, according to data from the finance ministry. The highest ever GST collection of ₹1,41,384 crore was also reported this year -- in April ahead of the second wave of Covid-19, which resulted in lockdowns in many states across the country and lasted wholly or in part, through May. Commenting on high GST revenue collection, the finance ministry said in a statement: “This is very much in line with the trend in economic recovery. This is also evident from the trend in the e-way bills generated every month since the second wave. The revenues would have still been higher if the sale of cars and other products had not been affected on account of disruption in the supply of semiconductors.”E-way bills are an indication of volume of interstate movement of goods. “The revenues have also been aided due to the efforts of the state and central tax administration resulting in increased compliance over previous months. In addition to action against individual tax evaders, this has been a result of the multipronged approach followed by the GST Council,” the finance ministry added.MS Mani, senior director at consulting firm Deloitte India said the high GST revenue in October is a result of continuing policy initiatives to improve compliance and discourage evasion. The GST collection in October 2017 was ₹93,333 crore, in October 2018, ₹1,00,710 crore, in October 2019, ₹95,379 crore, and in October 2020, ₹1,05,155 crore.The government recently introduced several measures to ease compliance such as nil-filing through SMS, quarterly return monthly payment (QRMP) system, and auto-population of return. The government allows GST registered taxpayers to file nil returns through an easy process of SMS if they do not have any business activity in a specific period to check deliberate tax evasion. While, QRMP saves small taxpayers from paperworks by allowing them to pay tax every month but file returns quarterly, auto-population of returns pre-filled details of invoices making tax evasion difficult.In the past year, the GST Council took various steps to discourage non-compliant behaviour such as blocking of E-way bills for non-filing of returns, system-based suspension of registration of taxpayers who failed to file six returns in a row, and blocking of credit for return defaulters.Mani said: “In addition to various measures to streamline return filings, e-way bill generation etc, several restrictions placed on non-compliant taxpayers would also have resulted in many taxpayers gradually becoming more compliant and paying GST and filing returns promptly. Going forward, we may see more checks and balances being introduced to encourage filers and dissuade non-filers.”Experts expect that the trend of strong revenue collection to be sustained. Abhishek Jain, tax partner at consultancy firm EY India, said: “The robust GST collections are quite encouraging and a clear sign of economic recovery. With the ongoing festive season, we can expect similar or even higher GST collections in the coming months.”October’s GST revenue correspond to transactions in September. Experts say that expected reforms such as tax rate rationalisation and correction in inverted duty structure will push tax revenue further.At the 45th meeting of the GST Council on September 17, the apex decision-making body on indirect tax matters took a decision on rationalising tax rates, and decided to correct duty inversions in textile and footwear sectors from January 1, 2022.The GST Council also decided to set up two groups of ministers (GoMs). The first one will examine ways to rationalise tax rates and review exemptions to boost revenues. The other one will discuss ways and means of using technology to improve compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-collection-in-october-soars-to-1-3-lakh-crore-second-highest-ever-101635764788759.html
02-11-2021||India||Covid-19 pandemic: Australia opens door to Indians vaccinated with Covaxin||Australia on Monday said Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin vaccine would be a recognised vaccine for international travellers as part of the country’s efforts to safely open up travel.The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) of Australia said both Covaxin and BBIBP-CorV , manufactured by China’s Sinopharm, “would be ‘recognised’ for the purpose of establishing a traveller’s vaccination status”.The move is expected to benefit thousands of Indian students and professionals waiting to join educational courses or return to jobs in Australia.“This will have significant impacts for the return of international students, and travel of skilled and unskilled workers to Australia,” TGA said.The recognition of Covaxin came exactly a month after TGA recognised Covishield, the Indian version of the AstraZeneca vaccine, for allowing international travellers into Australia.The recognition for Covaxin will apply to travellers aged 12 and over vaccinated with the dose, TGA said. The body said it obtained additional information in recent weeks demonstrating that Covaxin provides protection and potentially reduces the “likelihood that an incoming traveller would transmit COVID-19 infection to others while in Australia or become acutely unwell due to COVID-19”.This information was provided to TGA from the vaccine’s sponsor “and/or the World Health Organisation”.Covaxin is currently awaiting emergency use authorisation by WHO.TGA further said, “Importantly, recognition of Covaxin, and BBIBP-CorV, along with the previously announced recognition of Coronavac (manufactured by Sinovac, China) and Covishield (manufactured by AstraZeneca, India), means many citizens of China and India as well as other countries in our region where these vaccines have been widely deployed will now be considered fully vaccinated on entry to Australia.”Australian officials had earlier said that foreign students, including Indians, will be able to start returning towards the end of this year and the beginning of 2022, ahead of the start of the first semester in February-March.India is the second largest source of foreign students in Australia, behind China. During 2019-20, Indian students contributed $6.6 billion to the Australian economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pandemic-australia-opens-door-to-indians-vaccinated-with-covaxin-101635750027954.html
02-11-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Punjab reports 20 new Covid-19 cases, 1 more death||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Punjab reports 20 new Covid-19 cases, 1 more deathPunjab on Monday recorded 20 new cases and one more death due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the caseload and death toll to 602,420 and 16,560 respectively, according to the health department's bulletin. PM Modi proposes LIFE (Lifestyle For Environment) as 'one-word movement' at COP26 summit“I propose to you today a ‘one-word movement.’ This one word, in the context of climate, can become the basic foundation of one world. This is the word - LIFE i.e. Lifestyle For Environment,” Modi said.Paris climate deal was not only a Summit for India, but a commitment: PM Modi at COP26Narendra Modi said that the Paris Climate Deal was not just a summit for India but a commitment while delivering the National Statement at the COP-26 conference in Glasgow, UK.Watch LIVE | PM Modi delivers National Statement at COP-26 conferenceDelivering the National Statement at the @COP26 Summit in Glasgow. https://t.co/SdKi5LBQNMPM Modi addressed the COP-26 conference and delivered the National Statement.Delhi's Lajpat Nagar market witnesses crowding ahead of Diwali: ReportDelhi's Lajpat Nagar Market continues to witness high footfall of shoppers ahead of #Diwali pic.twitter.com/WbTaNrR6KrThe Lajpat Nagar market in Delhi continued to witness a high footfall on the day, ahead of Diwali, reports ANI.Modi says from drinking water source to affordable housing all need to be made resilient to climate changeFrom sources of drinking water to affordable housing, all need to be made resilient against climate change-PM Shri @narendramodi #COP26 pic.twitter.com/4WG22gFMK9PM Modi in his address during the COP-26 conference said that from sources of drinking water to affordable housing, all need to be made resilient to climate change. Delhi reports 18 Covid-19 cases, no new deaths in last 24 hoursWith 18 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi's cumulative caseload reached 1,439,888. Also, with no new fatalities, the death toll remained at 25,091, Delhi government's medical bulletin showed.PM Modi thanks Australian PM Scott Morrison for recognising Covaxin I thank my dear friend @ScottMorrisonMP for Australia’s recognition of India's COVAXIN. It is an important step forward in the post-COVID partnership between 🇮🇳 and 🇦🇺.Prime Minister Narendra Modi thanked his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison for Australia's recognition of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Modi hailed the move an “an important step forward in the post-COVID partnership” between the two countries. India’s merchandise exports in April to October 2021 see 54.51% rise from similar period in 2020India’s merchandise exports in April to October 2021 was USD 232.58 billion, an increase of 54.51% over USD 150.53 billion in April to October 2020 and an increase of 25.45% over USD 185.4 billion in April to October 2019, reports ANI citing government data. Maharashtra reports 809 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths With 809 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 6,611,887 and the death toll climbed to 140,226. Mumbai added 258 new cases and four deaths to the state's tally. So far, the city has seen 757,007 cases and 16,251 deaths.Dinesh K Patnaik appointed next Indian ambassador to SpainThe ministry of external affairs said that Dinesh K Patnaik, who is currently the director general, Indian Council for Cultural Relations, has been appointed as the next Ambassador of India to Spain, reports ANI. Kolkata airport says inbound passengers should be fully vaccinated against Covid or carry negative RT-PCR certificateKolkata airport said that all inbound passengers to the state should either be fully vaccinated or carry a negative RT-PCR test for Covid-19 not older than 72 hours from departure, according to the guidelines of West Bengal government, reports PTI.MEA says India's vaccination certificate recognised by Estonia, Kyrgyzstan, State of Palestine, Mauritius, MongoliaMutual recognition of COVID-19 vaccination certificates continues!Five more recognitions for India’s vaccination certificate, including from Estonia, Kyrgyzstan, State of Palestine, Mauritius and Mongolia.The ministry of external affairs said that India's vaccination certificate has been recognised by Estonia, Kyrgyzstan, State of Palestine, Mauritius and Mongolia.Punjab CM announces 11% DA hike for state govt employeesPunjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi announced a 11% hike in dearness allowance to state government employees with effect from July 1. He also said that it will add a burden of Rs. 440 crore per month on state exchequer. However, there was no mention of arrears pending on the DA. The CM said the employees have accepted to call off week long strike and added that he has been assured that there will be no strike by them during remaining period of the government before 2022 polls.Indian ambassador to UAE Parvan Kapoor appointed next ambassador to Russia: MEAParvan Kapoor, India's current ambassador to the UAE, has been appointed as the next ambassador to Russia, reports ANI citing the ministry of external affairs. Sunjay Sudhir has been appointed as the next Indian ambassador to the UAE.Biometric attendance for all staff of all levels to resume from Nov 8The Union government has made the decision to resume biometric attendance for employees of all levels starting November 8, PTI reported citing the personnel ministry.Suspension of IAS officer, who had asked Delhi Police to take action against BJP's Kapil Mishra, revoked by PresidentPresident of India on October 14 revoked the suspension of IAS officer Ashish Joshi, who was suspended in 2019 for asking Delhi police to take action against an alleged inflammatory video by BJP's Kapil Mishra. Joshi is back at the Department of Telecom.Supreme Court sets aside Calcutta HC blanket ban on sale, use of all firecrackers in West BengalSupreme Court sets aside Calcutta High Court's order putting a blanket ban on the sale, purchase and use of all firecrackers in West Bengal during Kali Puja, Diwali celebrations and some other festivities this year to check air pollution amid the COVID-19 pandemic pic.twitter.com/7GyTq5gY6sThe Supreme Court set aside Calcutta High Court's order on a blanket ban on sale, purchase and use of firecrackers in West Bengal during Kali Puja, Diwali celebrations and other festivities to check air pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic, reports ANI. Mumbai crime branch takes custody former cop Sachin Vaze in extortion caseMumbai Crime Branch took custody of dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with extortion case registered against him in Goregaon, reports PTI quoting an official.Former PM Manmohan Singh recovering from Dengue, wife thanks medical staff of AIIMS, Delhi, ‘well-wishers’Former PM Manmohan Singh's wife Gursharan Kaul thanked the doctors, nurses and medical staff of AIIMS, Delhi, and his “well-wishers” after Singh returned home from the hospital, reports ANI. She also said that he is recovering from Dengue. Drugs-on-cruise case: Prabhakar Sail's lawyers say witness will cooperate with NCB if summonedThe lawyers of Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the drugs-on-cruise case informed the NCB zonal office in Mumbai that he is ready to cooperate in the inquiry if summoned but he hasn't been served any summons yet, reports ANI. Sameer Wankhede meets NCSC chairperson, submits caste documents, reports PTINarcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai zonal head Sameer Wankhede on Monday presented his original caste papers to prove he is a Dalit to National Commission for Scheduled Castes chairperson Vijay Sampla, reported news agency PTI.Mumbai reports 315 fresh Covid-19 cases, 429 recoveries in 24 hours: Mayor Kishori PednekarMumbai has reported 315 fresh Covid-19 cases and 429 recoveries in the past 24 hours, news agency ANI quoted Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar as saying on Monday. “The number of active cases in the city is 3,849,” Pednekar was further quoted as saying in a press conference in Mumbai.Delhi court issues notice to Kejriwal, Sisodia in 2018 caseA Delhi court has issued a notice to Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy, Manish Sisodia, on a plea challenging their discharge in 2018 chief secretary assault case.531 new dengue cases in Delhi last week, reports ANI citing SDMCAs many as 531 new dengue cases were reported in Delhi last week, news agency ANI quoted South Delhi Municipal Corporation as saying. “6 deaths have been reported this year so far, ” the Corporation added. Akhilesh Yadav will not contest next year's Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, reports PTISamajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday said he will not be contesting the next year's Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, reported news agency PTI. The SP Chief further said the alliance with Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) for Uttar Pradesh assembly polls is final, reported PTI.Union health minister chairs review meeting on dengue situation in DelhiUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday chaired a review meeting on dengue situation in Delhi. During the meeting, the minister suggested on-ground initiatives like hotspot identification, fogging and timely treatment to control the dengue disease. "Centre is also sending a team of experts to States with rising Dengue cases," news agency ANI quoted him as saying further.Australia recognises Covaxin for establishing traveller's vaccination status, reports ANIThe Australian government has recognised Bharat Biotech's Coronavirus vaccine Covaxin for the purpose of establishing a traveller's vaccination status, news agency ANI quoted Australia’s High Commissioner to India, Barry O’Farrell AO, as saying on Monday.Japan PM Fumio Kishida declares victory in national electionsJapan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida declared victory on Monday after leading his ruling coalition to a strong majority in national elections, reported AFP. The long-ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) and its junior coalition partner Komeito won 293 of the 465 seats in parliament's lower house, the AFP report said, citing local media.Taslima Nasreen claims Facebook has banned her account for 7 daysBangladeshi writer Taslima Nasreen has claimed that microblogging website Facebook has banned her account for 7 days for “telling the truth”. In March, Nasreen alleged that Facebook barred her for using the platform for 24 hours.UAE approves Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine for ages 5-11: ReportThe United Arab Emirates has approved for emergency use the Pfizer-BioNtech Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 5-11, Reuters quoted the health ministry as saying in a statement on Monday.Earlier, the only vaccine approved for use in very young children was the Sinopharm vaccine for ages 3-17, with Pfizer shots being available to children above 12.India reports 12,514 fresh Covid-19 cases, 251 deaths in 24 hoursIndia has reported 12,514 fresh Covid-19 cases and 251 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With today's numbers, the Covid-19 tally in India has soared to 3,42,85,814, with the active cases standing at 1,58,817 (lowest in 248 days). A total of 3,36,68,560 people have recovered from the viral disease so far.  LPG prices forcommercial cylinders hiked from todayLPG prices for commercial cylinders have been increased by ₹266 from Monday. Commercial cylinders weighing 19 kg in Delhi will now cost ₹2000.50 from today onwards, as against ₹1734 earlier, reported news agency ANI.There has been no increase in domestic LPG cylinders.Union health minister to chair review meeting on dengue amid rising cases in DelhiUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will chair a review meeting on dengue amid rising cases in Delhi at 10am Monday.Fuel prices see marginal rise on Monday Fuel prices were increased marginally on Monday, with petrol being sold at ₹109.69 per litre (up by ₹0.35) and diesel at ₹98.42 per litre (up by ₹0.35) in the national capital. Likewise, in Mumbai, the price of petrol went up to ₹115.50, while diesel was being sold at ₹106.62.FDA delaying decision on Covid-19 vaccine for adolescents, says ModernaModerna has said that the US regulators are delaying their decision on its Covid-19 vaccine for 12 to 17-year-olds while they study the rare risk of heart inflammation. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration told the company on Friday evening that its review could last until January, Moderna said.Australia eases intl. border restrictions for first time during Covid pandemicAustralia eased its international border restrictions on Monday for the first time during the pandemic, allowing some of its vaccinated public to travel freely and many families to reunite, sparking emotional embraces at Sydney's airport. Read morePM Modi arrives in UK's Glasgow for COP26 SummitPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in United Kingdom's Glasgow on Sunday, where he is scheduled to attend the 26th Conference of the Parties or COP26 and hold bilateral talks with his British counterpart Boris Johnson on the sidelines of the United Nations (UN) meet. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-1-2021-101635726235607.html
