03-11-2021||India||Salaries of unvaccinated govt employees to be withheld: Nagpur collector||The salaries of those government employees who have not taken a single dose of coronavirus vaccines will be withheld, Nagpur district collector R Vimala said here on Wednesday.Also, those who have taken the first dose but not the second one within the stipulated period will face the same action, she said, speaking at a meeting of department heads here. She also instructed officials to achieve the target of administering at least the first dose of the vaccines to all eligible residents of the district by November 30, said a release.So far, 81.79 per cent of eligible residents have taken the first dose and 39.97 per cent the second dose in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salaries-of-unvaccinated-govt-employees-to-be-withheld-nagpur-collector-101635963600824.html
03-11-2021||India||‘2 diye kisano ke liye’: Tikait urges people to light lamps for farmers killed during protests||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has urged the citizens of the country to light earthen lamps on Diwali this year in memory of farmers who have been killed during the ongoing protests against the three farms laws.The farmer union alleged that around 700 farmers have lost their lives in the stir – underway since last year, due to the central government’s “obstinate, undemocratic and irrational” approach.“The Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls upon its constituents and citizens in the farmers' movement to light one lamp on Diwali in honour of farmers who have sacrificed their lives for the cause of farmers' rights and livelihoods,” the statement read.Moreover, the farmer union has invited people to join the protesting farmers at the Delhi border sites to celebrate Diwali, the statement added.Also Read | 'Could be a conspiracy': SKM leader on lynching of man at farmers' protest venueBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait also took to Twitter earlier in the day to urge the people of the country to light earthen lamps for deceased farmers. The Twitter post that read “2 diye kisano ke liye (two earthen lamps for farmers)” was also retweeted by the BKU.
03-11-2021||India||PM Modi likely to celebrate Diwali with soldiers in Rajouri||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Nowshera sector, along the Line of Control (LoC), in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district to celebrate Diwali with soldiers on Thursday, officials familiar with the matter said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to celebrate Diwali with the soldiers in Nowshera Brigade in Rajouri district,” the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity. Modi’s visit to the Union territory comes amid a protracted encounter with terrorists in Poonch district for the past 24 days. The Prime Minister had last visited Rajouri in 2019 when he celebrated Diwali with the soldiers. “Though we await an official confirmation, PM Modi’s plan to celebrate Diwali with soldiers certainly boosts the morale of the soldiers,” an Army official said, seeking anonymity. The Union territory (UT) has lately been plagued by terrorist attacks.Five migrant workers were among 11 civilians killed in the region last month. At least nine soldiers, including two junior commissioned officers, were killed in an encounter in Poonch’s Chamrer and Nar Khas areas on October 11 and 14, respectively.The Indian Army has been conducting operations in the dense forests of the Rajouri-Poonch sector since October 11, trying to track down terrorists believed to belong to Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT0 who have gone to ground in the area.Separately, an officer and a soldier were killed in a mine blast near a forward post, along the LoC, in Rajouri on October 30. In October alone, the army lost 11 soldiers south of Pir Panjal.In counter-attacks, at least 13 terrorists, including a top LeT commander, have been shot dead by security forces.Meanwhile, Army Chief General M M Naravane arrived on a two-day visit to Jammu to review the security situation and operational preparedness. General Naravane carried out aerial reconnaissance of forward areas in the Jammu region and was also briefed by commanders on ground on the prevailing security situation along the LoC.“General MM Naravane #COAS (Chief of Army Staff) is on a visit to Jammu region wherein he will be given an update on security situation & operational preparedness. #COAS will visit forward areas & interact with troops and commanders on ground,” the Additional Directorate General of Public Information (ADGPI) of the Indian Army had earlier tweeted.Earlier on October 18 and 19, the Army chief had conducted a two-day tour of the Jammu region and reviewed the ground situation and the ongoing counter-infiltration operations. Naravane also visited the border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, where a massive operation to track down terrorists hiding in the forest areas of Mendhar, Surankote and Thanamandi is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-likely-to-celebrate-diwali-with-soldiers-in-rajouri-101635962400574.html
03-11-2021||India||States announce petrol, diesel tax cut after Centre's excise duty move||After the Centre announced central excise duty cut on petrol and diesel on Wednesday, states too followed suit and Assam, Tripura were the first on Wednesday evening to announce tax cuts on petrol and diesel. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced VAT reduction of ₹7 on both petrol and diesel with immediate effect. Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb also announced a ₹7 reduction of VAT on petrol and diesel, which will be effective from tomorrow. "A happier Diwali for the 37 lakh people of Tripura," the chief minister tweeted. After Assam and Tripura, Karnataka and Goa governments announced price reduction.Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the state government will issue a notification soon announcing a reduction of VAT on petrol and diesel prices.In Bihar, there will be a further reduction of state VAT by ₹1.30 on petrol and ₹1.90 on diesel apart from ₹5 and 10 ₹reduction on excise duty, Sushil Kumar Modi tweeted. Effectively, petrol will be cheaper by ₹6.30 and diesel by ₹11.90 in Bihar, he said. Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri said while the Centre's move will bring a big relief for fuel consumers, the state should also reduce VAT extending further relief to consumers. Union minister and former minister of petroleum and natural gas, Dharmendra Pradhan said the decision of the Centre to reduce excise duty on petrol and diesel sets the template for the state governments to follow suit. "Concrete action from state governments will lead to a further reduction in fuel price and more relief to consumers," he said.While the BJP-ruled states have announced VAT cut, the Congress has slammed the Centre's move by terming it as PM Modi's jumla. "In year 2021, prices of petrol were hiked by ₹28 and diesel by ₹26 per litre. After losing 14 bye-elections and 2 Lok Sabhas, reducing the petrol-diesel price by ₹5 and ₹10 is tom-tommed as 'Diwali gift' of Modi Ji! Hey Ram..." Congress leader and spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted."Government of India has taken a significant decision of reducing Central Excise Duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 (per litre) respectively from tomorrow. Prices of petrol and diesel will thus come down accordingly," the finance ministry said in a statement.This is the highest-ever reduction in excise duty and rolls back a part of the ₹13 and ₹16 per litre increase in taxes on petrol and diesel effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing on to consumers the sharp fall in international oil prices, reports said.Based on April to October consumption numbers, the loss of revenue to the government due to the excise duty cut will be ₹8,700 crore per month. This totals to an annual impact of over ₹1 lakh crore, industry sources said. For the remainder of the current fiscal, the impact would be ₹43,500 crore, a PTI report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-tripura-announce-petrol-diesel-price-cut-after-centre-s-excise-move-101635960856804.html
03-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh SP, wife hurt as they try to escape elephant that charged at them||RAIPUR: Superintendent of police (SP) of Chhattisgarh’s Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi district and his wife were injured on Wednesday after they fell while trying to escape a wild elephant that charged towards them.Trilok Bansal, a 2016-batch IPS officer, and his wife were on an outing. They went to see a herd of elephants in the district’s Amaru forest after learning about its movement in the area when the incident happened, Inspector General of Police Bilaspur range Ratanlal Dangi said.“Local and forest personnel were present on the spot when Bansal and his wife reached the spot. When the two went close to the herd, a female elephant charged at them prompting them to run. They were trying to escape when Bansal and his wife fell,” the senior police officer said. Dangi added that forest personnel accompanying them started screaming to draw the elephant’s attention. “The elephant got distracted and ran towards them,” said the IG.“ Trilok sustained minor injuries on his head while his wife was safe. The two were rescued by forest personnel and shifted to the district hospital,” the IG added.The SP was shifted to Bilaspur for medical examination.Narmrata Gandhi, district collector, said both the SP and his wife are out of danger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-sp-wife-hurt-as-they-try-to-escape-elephant-that-charged-at-them-101635959281602.html
03-11-2021||India||₹50 lakh taken from SRK for Aryan's release was returned later, claims man linked to extortion allegation||Sam D'Souza, whose name cropped up in the Aryan Khan drugs case as a key link in the Narcotics Control Bureau's extortion bid on Wednesday said ₹lakh was taken from Bollywood actor Shah Ruh Khan. In his pre-arrest bail application submitted to the Bombay high court on Wednesday, which was later rejected, D'Souza said he made sure that the money is returned to Shah Rukh Khan. He claimed that he returned the money to Shah Rukh's manager Pooja Dadlani through her husband.These claims take the case to a new turn as Prabhakar Sail alleged that he overheard KP Gosavi and Sam D'Souza discussing a deal of ₹18 crore. According to Prabhakar, Sam D'Souza was also present in the car where KP Gosavi and Shah Rukh's manager Pooja Dadlani discussed the deal. In his plea, D'Souza said he was not present when the discussion took place.Rahul Gandhi wrote to SRK when Aryan was in jail, said, 'Truth can't be held hostage'D'Souza left from the place to give Gosavi and Dadlani privacy and hence, was not part of their discussion, the application said, adding that when D'Souza came to know of Aryan Khan's arrest in the case the next day, he was shocked.“The applicant is an innocent person who has nothing to do with the alleged offence and he is falsely implicated by Prabhakar Sail,” it added.The plea, however, does not mention how he recovered ₹50 lakh from Gosavi and returned it to SRK's manager.According to D'Souza, Gosavi showed a list of names in which Aryan Khan's name was not present as no drug was found on her. Gosavi told Dadlani that he could have helped in the release of Aryan Khan as no drugs were found on him and when the negotiation took place, Aryan Khan was detained but not arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-50-lakh-taken-from-srk-for-aryan-s-release-was-returned-later-claims-man-linked-to-extortion-allegation-101635958529226.html
03-11-2021||India||With one engine off, Israel-bound flight made emergency landing in Navy-operated Goa airfield||An Israel-bound flight from Thailand made an emergency landing with just one engine at an Indian Navy-operated airfield in Goa in the early morning hours of Tuesday. The Indian Navy said the airfield was closed for ongoing upgradation work but was made available on short notice to facilitate the safe recovery of Flight ELAL-082 en route Tel Aviv from Bangkok with 276 passengers on board.“In a swift execution of emergency procedures, #IndianNavy operated airfield at Dabolim, Goa facilitated safe recovery of Flight ELAL-082 en route to Tel Aviv from Bangkok with 276 personnel onboard, the flight made an emergency landing in early morning hours of Nov 1,” the spokesperson of Indian Navy posted on Twitter.“The aircraft had declared emergency citing left engine shut. The airfield which was closed for ongoing upgradation work, was made available at short notice enabling safe recovery of aircraft as per standard operating procedures,” it added.The pilot of the Boeing 787 plane noticed that the fuel leak indicator light had turned on after the flight made a planned stop in Phuket, reported the Times of Israel citing Israel foreign ministry. Following the emergency protocol, the pilot reportedly shut down the affected left engine and landed in Dabolim. No passengers were injured during the emergency landing.The report suggests that the passengers were allowed to spend the night at a nearby hotel after taking the mandatory RT-PCR test as per the Covid protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navyoperated-goa-airfield-facilitates-safe-recovery-of-israel-bound-plane-flying-with-one-engine-101635956339727.html
03-11-2021||India||'After losing 14 bypolls': Congress says petrol, diesel duty cut not Diwali gift, but ‘jumla’||Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday said the nation does not need jumlas as the Centre decided to reduce the central excise duty of ₹5 on petrol and ₹10 on diesel, a day before Diwali. "In year 2021, prices of petrol were hiked by ₹28 and diesel by ₹26 per litre. After losing 14 bye-elections and 2 Lok Sabhas, reducing the petrol-diesel price by ₹5 and ₹10 is tom-tommed as 'Diwali gift' of Modi Ji! Hey Ram..." Surjewala tweeted."In May 2014, price of petrol was ₹71.41, diesel was ₹55.49 but crude oil was $105.71 per barrel. Crude oil is $82 per barrel today. When will the prices equate year 2014?" Surjewala said. 3/3Pl see the Jumlas of “Modi-nomics”!In Year 2021, Price of Petrol were hiked by ₹28 & Diesel by ₹26/litre.After losing 14 bye elections & 2 Lok Sabhas, reducing Petrol-Diesel price by ₹5 & ₹10 is tom-tommed as ‘Diwali Gift’ of Modi Ji!Hey Ram…..#Petrol#DieselComparing the excise of petrol and diesel in the Modi government with that of the Congress government, Surjewala said the excise duty on petrol was ₹9.48 litre on petrol and ₹3.46 litre on diesel. After the reduction announced on Wednesday, the excise duty on petrol is ₹27.90 per litre and 21.80 per litre of diesel."Modi ji, Nation doesn't need jumlas. Roll back the draconian tax hike!" he wrote."Government of India has taken a significant decision of reducing Central Excise Duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 (per litre) respectively from tomorrow. Prices of petrol and diesel will thus come down accordingly," the finance ministry said in a statement.This is the highest-ever reduction in excise duty and rolls back a part of the ₹13 and ₹16 per litre increase in taxes on petrol and diesel effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing on to consumers the sharp fall in international oil prices, reports said.Based on April to October consumption numbers, the loss of revenue to the government due to the excise duty cut will be ₹8,700 crore per month. This totals to an annual impact of over ₹1 lakh crore, industry sources said. For the remainder of the current fiscal, the impact would be ₹43,500 crore, a PTI report said.Trinamool spokesperson and MP Derek O'Brien also criticised the announcement and said the excise duty of petrol was increased by 65% last year, while now the decrease amounts to 15%. "Between April to September 21, government's collection from excise on petrol rose 33% compared to last year. Collection of excise is 79% more than pre-covid levels," Derek O Brien tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-losing-14-bypolls-congress-says-petrol-diesel-duty-cut-not-diwali-gift-but-jumla-101635956361055.html
03-11-2021||India||Burnt our fingers, says MGP on alliance with BJP in Goa. There is fine print||PANAJI: Goa’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has reached out to the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) to explore the possibility of a pre-poll alliance ahead of Goa elections early next year but the regional party, which has twice helped the BJP form a government in the past, indicated it wasn’t inclined to rush into a deal.“Why should we go back to the BJP,” asked Ramkrishna aka Sudin Dhavalikar, the MGP’s only remaining legislator in the Goa assembly. The MGP won three seats in the 2017 elections and supported the BJP to form a Manohar Parrikar-led government. After Parrikar’s death, Sudin Dhavalikar made a pitch to take charge as chief minister but settled as deputy chief minister in Goa’s Pramod Sawant’s government. He was dropped from the cabinet within days of his elevation after two of his party’s MLAs crossed over to the BJP.As Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who has played a key role in sealing the BJP’s alliances with regional parties such as MGP in 2017 and later in 2019, was back in town this week. Gadkari and BJP’s election in-charge and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis held a series of meetings on Monday and Tuesday to solicit feedback from the party’s MLAs on possible alliances.At a media interaction, Gadkari called Dhavalikar his friend, with whom the friendship went beyond politics.“I have maintained political relations. But political relations are one thing and politics is another. I have helped them. Even if he is not aligned with the BJP, then we have personal relations,” Gadkari said on Tuesday, confirming that he was scheduled to meet Dhavalikar to “discuss and receive suggestions”.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant went a step further and suggested that an alliance was necessary because “politics (in Goa) was leaning towards anarchy.” “I have said before also that given the type of politics that has begun to emerge -- for the first time some people have been leaning towards anarchy, then like-minded people have to come together on one forum,” Sawant said.“Regarding any possible alliance, our central leaders Amit Shah, JP Nadda, etc decide. A decision will be taken only in consultation with them. How many seats and other things, they (central leadership) decide. So, it would be wise if they (Dhavalikars) speak to them directly,” Sawant added.When asked whether MGP qualified to be a “like-minded party” Sawant said. “Of course. they were with us before.”The BJP’s focus on building alliances is seen to emanate from its Goa experience in 2017 when the party decided to go alone but ended up with just 13 seats in the 40-member house. That the BJP was still able to form the government was mostly credited to Gadkari and Manohar Parrikar, who died in 2019.The BJP is also mindful that any split in the votes between the BJP and MGP, which largely appeals to the same demography in crucial constituencies, will benefit the opposition.MGP was seen as a willing partner for the alliance on Monday when Sudin Dhavalikar declared that the MGP was willing to align with “whichever party was willing to give them 12 seats” where they have already started working on the ground and have selected their candidates.When later specifically asked about the possibility of MGP’s alliance with the BJP, Dhavalikar, who runs the party along with his brother Pandurang aka Deepak Dhavalikar who is the party boss, made it clear that their party didn’t want to rush into an alliance with the BJP.“It is true that we committed suicide (by aligning with the BJP) in the past. The alliance that we did in 2012, the BJP brought it to an end by dismissing our ministers in 2016. Despite that in 2017, we helped them form a government and again after one year or so, they had us removed. In such a situation, why will we go back to the BJP?” Sudin Dhavalikar said. But this did not mean that the Dhavalikar brothers were ruling out an alliance. Sudin left that option open, saying a final decision, which will be binding on all members, will be taken by the party’s executive committee.BJP leaders in Goa are in favour of an alliance.“We are moving in a direction in which we will be much stronger with the people... I had earlier too said that we need an alliance... but the party will ultimately decide,” state transport minister Mauvin Godinho said.The only time the BJP was able to win a majority on its own was when the party had a pre-poll alliance with the MGP back in 2012. Prior to that, the MGP was an alliance partner in the Digambar Kamat’s Congress-led coalition government between 2007 and 2012.To be sure, Dhavalikar has held meetings with Arvind Kejriwal of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as well, but the conversations between the two parties have not materialised into much.Goa Congress leaders too have sent multiple messages to its high command on the need to have an alliance with like-minded parties. While top party leaders in Goa, who as recently as last week had visited Delhi didn’t reveal their ‘strategy’, some leaders indicated that the party has decided ‘in-principle’ to align with the Nationalist Congress Party and the Goa Forward Party, but no discussion has taken place on the number of seats or any seat sharing agreement.“We have apprised the party high command of our position and our views and until the high command takes a decision based on the discussions we have had, it would not be proper to discuss it with the media,” Goa Congress working president Aleixo Sequeira said. Elections in Goa are likely to be held sometime in February along with five other states with the BJP hoping to hold on to power while the Congress is hoping to return back to power after a gap of ten years as well as to stave of competition from the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party, who are both hoping for a foothold in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-hopes-to-patch-up-with-mgp-for-goa-polls-why-should-we-counters-dhavalikar-101635955621163.html
03-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maharashtra prepares for over 1 million active Covid cases in third wave and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra prepares for 1.2 million active Covid cases in third waveMaharashtra is preparing for an active Covid-19 caseload of 1.2 million during the peak of the anticipated third wave, according to projections made by the Centre and shared with the state. Read more.WHO approval will expedite Covaxin imports: Bharat BiotechBharat Biotech, the manufacturer of India's indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, said World Health Organization’s emergency use listing (EUL) approval will help countries “expedite their regulatory approval processes to import and administer Covaxin”. Read more.DRDO, IAF conduct 2 flight tests of smart anti-airfield weapon within a weekThe Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Air Force (IAF) have carried out two successful flight tests of indigenously-developed Smart Anti-Airfield Weapon (SAAW) within a week. Read more.Rahul wrote to SRK when Aryan was in jail, said, 'Truth can't be held hostage'Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had reached out to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan when his son Aryan Khan was in jail in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. Read more.‘Copy master’: Pramod Sawant on Kejriwal’s free pilgrimage promise to Goa votersGoa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that his Delhi counterpart and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal "copies schemes" announced by him and is a “copy master” in that sense, news agency ANI reported. Read more.Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman promoted to rank of Group CaptainIndian Air Force fighter pilot Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman was promoted to the rank of Group Captain. Read more.Virat Kohli speaks publicly only for the 2nd time since NZ defeat, admits India's situation is 'tricky' at T20 World CupCaptain Virat Kohli spoke only for the second time since India's loss to New Zealand and admitted that the team finds itself in a precarious situation ahead of the T20 World Cup match against Afghanistan at the Dubai International Stadium on Wednesday. Read more.Money Heist part 5 vol 2 trailer: After Tokyo's death, Professor heads into Bank of Spain to rescue Lisbon, Rio, othersNetflix has released the trailer for Money Heist Part 5 Volume 2. Read more.Diwali 2021: Gorge on delicious treats, but protect your teeth; here's howDiwali is the that time of the year when people let go of all inhibitions and gorge on delicious food. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maharashtra-prepares-for-over-1-million-active-covid-cases-101635951199527.html
03-11-2021||India||India’s Abhinandan Varthaman, who downed Pakistan F-16, is group capt now||NEW DELHI: Abhinandan Varthaman, who was awarded Vir Chakra for shooting down a Pakistani F-16 during an aerial dogfight over the Line of Control (LoC) on February 27, 2019, picked up the rank of group captain on Wednesday morning, people familiar with the development said. A group captain is equivalent to a colonel in the army. The dogfight in which Abhinandan was involved took place a day after the Indian Air Force’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Pakistan’s Balakot. On February 26, IAF’s Mirages hit three targets in Balakot with Israeli-origin Spice 2000 bombs with penetrator warheads that allowed the weapons to pierce through the rooftops before exploding inside to cause maximum damage. It was India’s response to the Pulwama suicide attack in Kashmir in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) men were killed on February 14, 2019.The following day, Pakistan’s air force retaliated.Abhinandan, then 35, scripted military aviation history by downing an F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject. Experts then hailed it as the first-ever kill of an F-16 by a MiG-21 Bison, fighter jets of two different generations. He was captured after he bailed out of his aircraft. Pakistan eventually returned him to India on March 1, 2019, after holding him captive for almost 60 hours. Also Read: A rare phone call, secret letter: How India got Pak to release IAF’s Abhinandan Abhinandan was a wing commander then, equivalent to a lieutenant colonel in the army.The fighter pilot is currently posted in the North-East, said one of the persons cited above. He was awarded Vir Chakra on Independence Day 2019. Vir Chakra is India’s third-highest wartime gallantry award, after Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra. Abhinandan’s Vir Chakra citation, published in the Gazette of India in December 2019, said he courageously engaged the Pakistani aircraft package despite its “immense numerical and technological superiority,” and his aggressive manoeuvres forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos. In February 2019, Abhinandan was posted with a MiG-21 Bison squadron and was on ‘operational readiness platform’ duty at air force station Srinagar when a large Pakistan Air Force fighter aircraft package was detected heading towards LoC. The hostile jets were armed with advanced beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missiles and modern air-to-ground stand-off weapons.Abhinandan was scrambled to intercept this package five minutes after it was detected.“Displaying exceptional air combat acumen and knowledge of the enemy’s tactics, Abhinandan scanned the low altitude airspace with his airborne intercept (AI) radar and picked up an enemy aircraft that was flying low to ambush the Indian fighter interceptor aircraft… Abhinandan alerted the other formation pilots towards this surprise threat,” the citation said. “He then consolidated the riposte, by gathering his wingman in an offensive formation against the hostile Pakistani aircraft now dropping weapons on Indian Army positions. This audacious and aggressive manoeuvre forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos,” it further said. The citation said the wing commander pursued a retreating enemy fighter bomber aircraft and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16. “However, in the melee, one of the enemy aircraft fired multiple advanced BVR missiles, one of which hit his aircraft forcing him to eject in enemy territory.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-abhinandan-varthaman-who-downed-pakistan-f-16-is-group-capt-now-101635951959563.html
03-11-2021||India||Centre announces massive cuts on petrol, diesel excise duty on Diwali eve||In a move to provide a fillip to the economy, the Central government has taken a decision to make significant cuts in excise duty on petrol and diesel starting tomorrow. On the eve of Diwali, the government decided to reduce the central excise duty of ₹5 on petrol and ₹10 on diesel, according to people familiar with the matter. The prices of fuel and diesel will come down accordingly across the country.The reduction in excise duty is expected to boost consumption and keep inflation low in a bid to help the poor and middle classes. The price cuts are also expected to boost economic activities across sectors - manufacturing, services or agriculture.“Today’s decision is expected to further spur the overall economic cycle,” the government said in a statement, urging states to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers.The government lauded the hard work of farmers during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic which kept the economic growth momentum even during the nationwide lockdown. It said that the decision to reduce the excise duty on petrol and diesel will come as a “boost to the farmers during the upcoming Rabi season”. The global crude oil prices have witnessed a massive upsurge in recent months which caused a price rise of petrol and diesel in India.Amid massive price rise in crude oil globally, the world has also been witnessing a shortage of all forms of energy, especially coal. The government on Thursday said that it has made efforts to ensure that “there is no energy shortage in the country and that commodities such as petrol and diesel are available adequately to meet our requirements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-announces-cuts-in-petrol-diesel-excise-duty-on-diwali-eve-101635950479403.html
03-11-2021||India||WHO approval will expedite Covaxin imports, allow procurement by COVAX: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of India's indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, said World Health Organization’s emergency use listing (EUL) approval will help countries “expedite their regulatory approval processes to import and administer Covaxin”.“UNICEF, Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO), GAVI COVAX facility, will be able to procure Covaxin for distribution to countries worldwide,” the company added.Global vaccine alliance COVAX, which is co-led by CEPI, Gavi and WHO, UNICEF, and PAHO, only procures vaccines approved by WHO. This initiative supplies vaccines to poor nations and countries facing issues acquiring supplies.WHO gave Covaxin the green light on Wednesday after months of delay."Covaxin vaccine was also reviewed by WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE), and recommended use of this vaccine in two doses, with a dose interval of four weeks, in all age groups 18 and above," WHO said in a series of tweets.Also Read: Covaxin's shelf life extended to 12 months, announces Bharat BiotechWHO’s approval also means those inoculated with Covaxin will also be able to travel internationally to countries that recognize vaccines authorized by the public health body. Covaxin is the second most administered Covid-19 jab after Serum Institute of India’s Covishield.Covaxin was the result of a collaborative effort between Bharat Biotech, the Indian Council Of Medical Research (ICMR), and the National Institute of Virology (NIV). Balaram Bhargava, director general of ICMR, heralded WHO’s approval for opening up the whole world for the country’s first indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine.“With this, the whole world opens up for us, for sending this vaccine. Now that we have administered a large number of vaccine doses, we will be able to send this absolutely indigenous vaccine to the rest of the world,” Bhargava told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-approval-will-expedite-covaxin-imports-allow-procurement-by-covax-bharat-biotech-101635950102564.html
03-11-2021||India||Army chief reaches Jammu to review operational preparedness||Army chief General MM Naravane reached Jammu on Wednesday for a two-day visit to review the security situation and operational preparedness during his visit, officials familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.This is Naravane’s second visit to Jammu in two weeks as the security personnel continue their operation against terrorists in a forest belt in twin districts of Poonch and Rajouri. The counter-terrorism operation is the longest in recent history and has entered its 24th day on Wednesday.“General MM Naravane #COAS (Chief of Army Staff) is on a visit to Jammu region wherein he will be given an update on security situation & operational preparedness. #COAS will visit forward areas & interact with troops and commanders on ground,” the additional directorate general of public information of the Indian Army said in a tweet.The Army chief earlier conducted a two-day tour of the Jammu region last month. Naravane reviewed the ground situation as well as the counter-terrorism operations in the area. He visited Rajouri and Poonch where the operation to nab terrorists hiding in the forest areas of Mendhar, Surankote and Thanamandi has been going on since October 11.The operation in Surankote forest began on October 11 after terrorists killed five soldiers which also included a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO). The operation was extended to Mendhar in a bid to neutralise the fleeing terrorists where another encounter took place on October 14, leaving four soldiers, including another JCO, killed.In October, Pakistani terrorist Zia Mustafa was killed when security forces accompanying him to identify a hideout came under fire from hiding terrorists on October 24. He was shifted from Kot Bhalwal Central Jail Jammu to Mendhar on police remand for questioning in connection with the ongoing operation.The cops also arrested a terrorist associate who allegedly was linked to Mustafa and terrorist handlers across the border. They are also questioning a dozen others with connection to providing logistic support to the terrorists in the forest belt. Rajouri and Poonch in the Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year. Nine terrorists have died in separate encounters so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-reaches-jammu-to-review-operational-preparedness-101635949024668.html
03-11-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi wrote to SRK when Aryan was in jail, said, 'Truth can't be held hostage'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had reached out to Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan when his son Aryan Khan was in jail in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case. In a letter addressed to Shah Rukh and Gauri, the Congress MP extended his support to him and wrote, Truth cannot be held hostage for long."The letter was written on October 14, when Aryan Khan was lodged at the Arthur Road prison.It's not easy to see a loved one in such a situation, Rahul wrote adding that he was meaning to write to SRK for something. "I know that you are compassionate and created goodwill in the community. That's why I can see widespread support for your family," the letter read, according to people aware of the development.Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, however, said if there is any such letter, it can't be made public as it was a personal exchange between Rahul Gandhi and Shah Rukh Khan.Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 after the Narcotics Control Bureau raided a Goa-bound cruise accusing that drugs were being used at the party. Aryan Khan was invited to the party and no drugs were found on him. After spending about 22 days in Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail, Aryan Khan finally walked out of the prison on October 30, two days after the Bombay high court granted him bail on October 28.The drugs case snowballed into a major political controversy after the Nationalist Congress Party threw its weight behind Aryan Khan, with NCP leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik bringing a series of allegations against NCB Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede.NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray too slammed the central agency for running after Bollywood. NCB is only interested in catching celebrities, clicking photos and creating some noise, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had said.On Tuesday, Rahul Gandhi tweeted in support of Virat Kohli who has been facing the wrath of social media following India's defeat against Pakistan and New Zealand. "Dear Virat, There people are filled with hate because nobody gives them any love. Forgive them. Protect the team," Rahul Gandhi wrote.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-wrote-to-srk-when-aryan-was-in-jail-said-truth-can-t-be-held-hostage-101635946630379.html
03-11-2021||India||DRDO, IAF conduct 2 flight tests of smart anti-airfield weapon within a week||The Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Air Force (IAF) have carried out two successful flight tests of indigenously-developed Smart Anti-Airfield Weapon (SAAW) within a week. The two flight tests have been conducted with different configurations based on satellite navigation and electro-optical sensors.The first of the two tests was conducted last Thursday. The ministry of defence said in a statement that an electro-optical seeker based flight test of this class of bomb was conducted for the first time in India. The second flight test, launched by an IAF aircraft from Chandan ranges at Jaisalmer, was conducted today."The electro-optical configuration of the system is equipped with Imaging Infra-Red (IIR) Seeker technology enhancing the precision strike capability of the weapon," the ministry added.Meant to disable airfield runways, SAAW is capable of hitting ground targets up to a range of 100 kilometres. It can carry a warhead of 125 kilograms. The defence ministry said that the weapons were smoothly released and ejected by a newly adapted launcher and the intended target was hit with high accuracy.The telemetry and tracking systems captured all mission events throughout the flight.All mission objectives were achieved in both flight tests, with advanced guidance and navigation algorithms, software performing as per the mission requirements, according to the ministry.Defence minister Rajnath Singh complimented the "synergistic efforts" of DRDO, IAF and the teams associated with the mission. Dr G Satheesh Reddy, secretary, department of defence R&D and chairman DRDO, congratulated the team saying the performance and reliability of the weapon has been proved.DRDO had last tested the anti-airfield weapon in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-iaf-conduct-2-flight-tests-of-smart-anti-airfield-weapon-within-a-week-101635943485182.html
03-11-2021||India||'Diwali of Aatmanirbhar Bharat': Health minister hails PM Modi for Covaxin's WHO approval||As Bharat Biotech's Covaxin got emergency use approval from the World Health Organization, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership and said this will be self-reliant India's Diwali this year. After a long wait for months, the emergency use approval has been granted to India's first home-grown vaccine against Covid-19, just a day before Diwali."This is a sign of capable leadership. This is the story of Modiji's resolution. This is the language of the faith of Indians. This is the Diwali of a self-reliant India," the health minister wrote thanking WHO for granting emergency use listing to Made-in-India Covaxin.The WHO approval is a major recognition of the work of the Indian scientists as this is the first vaccine against Covid-19 developed and manufactured in India. Following WHO's decision, many countries are likely to open their doors for people vaccinated with Covaxin. At the same time, it will allow Bharat Biotech to export Covaxin.Bharat Biotech started sharing data with WHO from early July and a decision was expected in October. But a delay in the process created uncertainty over Covaxin's international status.Bharat Biotech's vaccine is the seventh to win WHO backing following two mRNA shots from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, adenovirus vector vaccines developed by AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson, and China's inactivated vaccines from Sinovac Biotech and Sinopharm.The WHO's approval may also clear the way for India to commit supplies to the COVAX global vaccine sharing effort, which is co-led by the WHO and aims to provide equitable access to shots for low- and middle-income countries, Reuters said.“WHO has granted emergency use listing (EUL) to #COVAXIN® (developed by Bharat Biotech), adding to a growing portfolio of vaccines validated by WHO for the prevention of #COVID19. The Technical Advisory Group, convened by WHO and made up of regulatory experts from around the world, has determined that the #Covaxin vaccine meets WHO standards for protection against #COVID19, that the benefit of the vaccine far outweighs risks & the vaccine can be used. #Covaxin vaccine was also reviewed by WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE), and recommended use of this vaccine in two doses, with a dose interval of four weeks, in all age groups 18 and above. Available data on vaccination of pregnant women with the #Covaxin vaccine are insufficient to assess vaccine safety or efficacy in pregnancy; studies in pregnant women are planned, including a pregnancy sub-study and a pregnancy registry,” WHO tweeted.External affairs minister S Jaishankar said the move is a global recognition to PM Modi's vision of an ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’.Welcome @WHO’s decision to grant Emergency Use Listing to #COVAXIN. It facilitates travel for many Indian citizens and contributes to vaccine equity. Also a global recognition to PM @narendramodi’s vision of an #AtmanirbharBharat. A Happier Diwali.WHo director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus expressed his gladness to see another vaccine getting emergency use listing by the WHO. "The more products we have to fight Covid-19, the better, but we must keep up the pressure to deliver vaccine equity and prioritize access to vulnerable groups who are still waiting for their 1st dose," he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diwali-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-health-minister-hails-pm-modi-for-covaxin-s-who-approval-101635945577191.html
03-11-2021||India||Four key messages from bypoll results||The results of the bypolls for 30 assembly constituencies (ACs) and three Lok Sabha seats were declared on November 2, 2011. Is there a larger message in these results? Here are four points which stand out.
03-11-2021||India||‘Copy master’: Pramod Sawant on Kejriwal’s free pilgrimage promise to Goa voters||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that his Delhi counterpart and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal "copies schemes" announced by him and is a “copy master” in that sense, news agency ANI reported.Sawant, who is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, was referring to the free pilgrimage promised by Kejriwal if AAP comes to power in Goa when assembly elections will be held next year.The Goa chief minister claimed he had announced free pilgrimage in the state budget and that the scheme has been notified as well. “Registration has also begun. He (Kejriwal) copies my schemes. He is habituated to this. He is a ‘copy master’,” Sawant was quoted as saying by ANI.Also Rea | ‘Political tourism will help…’ says Goa CM Sawant after Mamata Banerjee, Rahul Gandhi visit state ahead of 2022 pollsAAP-led by Kejriwal is eyeing the next year’s Assembly polls in Goa due to which the Delhi chief minister has made a score of manifestos to the state’s voters. On Monday, he said that if AAP forms a government in the state, it will give free darshan and pilgrimage to all Hindus to Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. Kejriwal further stated that free Velankanni pilgrimage in Tamil Nadu will be facilitated for all Christians, and free Ajmer Sharif pilgrimage in Rajasthan will be done for all Muslims.Besides free pilgrimage, the AAP has promised free and uninterrupted electricity supply, and an unemployment allowance to the people of Goa.While announcing the free pilgrimage on Monday, Kejriwal added that both Congress and the BJP are “corrupt”. “This is why the Congress doesn’t dare to speak against BJP because they know they would be sent to jail if they speak,” Kejriwal said, according to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/copy-master-pramod-sawant-on-kejriwal-s-free-pilgrimage-promise-to-goa-voters-101635944957285.html
03-11-2021||India||Ram Temple will be open for Darshan from December 2023: VHP||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Wednesday said that the construction of the grand Ram temple in Ayodhya is going on at a fast pace and also said that the temple will open for ‘darshan’ from December 2023.“I am working in coordination with VHP leader and general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Champat Rai. The construction work is going on at a rapid pace and it will be open for 'darshan' for devotees from December 2023,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The VHP leader said that work related to rafting has been undertaken. Gopal said that the rafting work will be completed in 15 days. “After the foundation work is done, we will proceed with the granite work, filling the foundation. We will do the plinth work with granite. The temple will be 360 feet long and 235 feet wide. There are five main pillars and the main pillar is 161 feet high,” the VHP leader said.“For the construction of the Ram Temple, graphites have been brought from Bangalore. Stones are coming from Mirzapur and Jodhpur. Sandstones are coming from Bansi Paharpur. The people have waited for so long. We will light 50,000 diyas in this place today,” he further added.Champat Rai earlier in October said that the grand Ram Temple will be equipped with modern technology. “A reflection of the mythology will also be witnessed in the Ram Temple. The impression of the deity Adishakti Navagraha will be engraved in each pillar,” Rai said.The general secretary of Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust informed that since currently the concreting is being done, the construction work is carried out only at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-will-be-open-for-darshan-from-december-2023-vhp-101635945133532.html
03-11-2021||India||Annapurna idol to reach Varanasi’s Kashi Vishwanath temple after 4-day yatra||LUCKNOW: An 18th-century idol of Goddess Annapurna, stolen from Varanasi about 100 years ago and retrieved from Canada recently, is set to return to the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and be installed there on November 15. The Uttar Pradesh government will take out a four-day Mata Annapurna Devi Yatra beginning in New Delhi on November 11 to take the idol to Varanasi.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath who, along with Union minister for tourism and culture G Kishan Reddy, spoke to media persons here on Wednesday, gave the detailed programme of the yatra apparently provides an opportunity to the BJP government to reach out to the people ahead of the 2022 UP assembly election.Yogi Adityanath said senior ministers of the state government Suresh Rana and Neelkanth Tiwari will receive the idol at a programme in New Delhi on November 11. He said the ministers in charge of the respective districts will welcome the idol as the yatra makes its way to Varanasi on November 14.The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) received the idol in New Delhi on October 15. The idol was part of the University of Regina’s collection at its Mackenzie Art Gallery when it was handed over by the university vice chancellor to India’s high commissioner to Ottawa (Canada), Ajay Bisaria last year.The chief minister said the idol passed through many hands before reaching the Canadian university and the Uttar Pradesh government was getting it back following the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Baba Vishwanath temple and Maa Annapurna have a unique connection. Maa Annapurna is believed to provide food to Baba Kashi Vishwanath and every pilgrim visiting the place gets the same as ‘prasad’ from there,” said Yogi Adityanath. Yogi Adityanath said the idol’s journey will begin from New Delhi on Gopashtami falling on November 11 and the idol will be installed at the Kashi Vishwanath temple, Varanasi, on Devotthan Ekadashi falling on November 15.“I offer my gratitude to the Prime Minister for this. Gopashtami falls on November 11 and to receive the idol on this day will be auspicious. The yatra beginning from New Delhi will pass through Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Bulandshahr and Hathras, and make a night halt at Soron in Kasganj. The yatra will then cover Etah, Mainpur, Kannuaj and stop for the night at Tapeshwari Devi temple in Kanpur Nagar. Next, the idol will be taken to Ram Janmabhoomi, Ayodhya via Unnao, Lucknow and Barabanki. After staying for the night at Ayodhya, the yatra will cover Sultanpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur and reach Varanasi on November 14,” said Yogi Adityanath.Yogi Adityanath also said with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts India’s heritage has made a place for itself in the world. Besides the International Yoga Day celebrated on June 12, the Prayagaraj Kumbh has also made a mark, the chief minister said.He said Ayurveda has also received worldwide recognition during the Covid-19 pandemic.For his part, Union minister Reddy said, “We have received an idol of goddess Maa Annapurna Devi from Canada. We identified the idol through an Indo-Canada artist at the MacKenzie Art Gallery of the University of Regina, Canada. Prime Minister Narendra Modi made efforts for getting the idol back from Canada. Our Prime Minister spoke to the Canadian Prime Minister on phone and the request for returning the idol was made as the idol is very important to us. External affairs minister S. Jaishankar and the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) also got in touch with the government of Canada to get the idol back from there,” said Reddy.“The Prime Minister wants this idol back at the place from where this was stolen. I spoke to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on behalf of the Union government,” he said.Reddy said the Union government has received 55 idols and paintings from abroad. A total of 42 out of the 55 idols, taken out of India in the British period, have been received after Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed office in 2014, he said. The minister also said another 157 idols and paintings have been identified.“The Prime Minister went to USA recently and about 100 artworks are in the process of being brought back from there,” he said. Reddy said other countries where the artworks have been identified include Singapore, Australia, UK, Switzerland and Belgium.“Yes, we should definitely bring such idols back to our country. Taking out yatra is a good way to connect with the people ahead of polls,” said SK Dwivedi, former professor in the political science department at Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/annapurna-idol-to-reach-varanasi-s-kashi-vishwanath-temple-after-4-day-yatra-101635945418997.html
03-11-2021||India||Pak refuses to let Srinagar-Sharjah flight use airspace; unfortunate, says Omar||SRINAGAR: Pakistan has refused to allow the direct flight from Srinagar to Sharjah started last month to use its airspace, forcing GO First airline to opt for a longer route over Gujarat, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.An airline official said the airline changed its route to avoid Pakistani airspace from Tuesday. Union home minister Amit Shah formally launched the international flight on October 23 when he travelled to Jammu and Kashmir, his first visit in two years.“It is true that we have to avoid the airspace of Pakistan now. It has increased the time of the flight by around 45 minutes,” the airline official said. The flight now takes 4 hours and 15 minutes. News agency PTI said it will fly over Gujarat.The longer flying time will eventually make the plane ticket more expensive, he added.Srinagar international airport director Kuldeep Singh declined to comment on Pakistan’s decision to bar the international flight or the longer route. But he stressed that the flight on the Srinagar-Sharjah route has a “full load of travellers”.“People are very enthusiastic about this direct flight... We are following all the Covid protocols,” he said.In view of the response, more flights have been added. “According to the new schedule, a flight will be leaving for Sharjah every day and back,” Singh said. In the initial days, there were four flights a week.Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference vice president Omar Abdullah said the decision not to allow the flight to overfly Pakistan was unfortunate.“Very unfortunate. Pakistan did the same thing with the Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-2010. I had hoped that @GoFirstairways being permitted to overfly Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations but alas that wasn’t to be,” he said in a tweet.People’s Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti criticised the central government for not doing the groundwork before the start of the flight. “Puzzling that GOI didn’t even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar. Only PR extravaganza without any groundwork,” she said.It was in 2009 that the first international flight took off from Srinagar Airport to Dubai after being inaugurated by UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi. But the optimism did not last long as all international flights were grounded owing to various reasons including objections by Pakistan over the use of its airspace.Omar Abdullah did anticipate Pakistan’s refusal the day the first flight took off from Srinagar.“Regarding the Srinagar-Sharjah flight that has been announced today - has Pakistan had a change of heart & allowed flights originating from Srinagar to use its airspace? If not, then this flight will die the way the Srinagar-Dubai flight died during UPA2,” he said on October 23.“Because of Pakistan’s cussed refusal to allow flights originating from Srinagar to use its airspace the SXR-DXB flight had to take a ‘technical halt’ in Delhi or had to fly south & go around Pakistan airspace. This made the flight completely unviable both in terms of cost & time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-refuses-to-let-srinagar-sharjah-flight-use-airspace-unfortunate-says-omar-101635943558819.html
03-11-2021||India||Low vaccine coverage in these 45 districts prompted PM Modi's review meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a review meeting over low vaccination coverage in 45 districts spanning 11 states and a Union territory. The districts with less than 50% coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of Covid vaccines were taken up in the review meeting.The district magistrates gave an account of the issues and challenges being faced in their districts, which has resulted in low vaccination coverage, according to the prime minister's office. The officials highlighted the issue of vaccine hesitancy emanating from rumours. Difficult terrain and challenges owing to tough weather conditions in recent months have also worked as an impediment to the vaccination drive, they added.“They also presented an account of the steps that have been taken by them till now to overcome these challenges,” the government said in a release.PM Modi discussed a wide array of ideas that can be implemented for ensuring 100% vaccination coverage, including maximising community engagement through religious and community leaders.Here's the list of districts with low vaccination coverage:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-vaccine-coverage-in-these-45-districts-prompted-covid-review-meet-by-pm-modi-101635937872751.html
03-11-2021||India||Covaxin gets WHO approval for emergency use listing||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin has got WHO approval on Wednesday as the technical advisory team has recommended the India-made vaccine for emergency use listing for 18 years and above. This marks a major victory for India's journey in vaccination against Covid-19. Covaxin is a vaccine, completely 'made in India', by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research. The emergency listing got delayed last month as the technical advisory group sought some additional clarification from Bharat Biotech for its final risk assessment. The technical advisory group met on Wednesday to take the final call, and Covaxin has been recommended for emergency use listing.As Covaxin awaits WHO approval, here's list of countries where it is clearedThe technical advisory group is an independent advisory body that provides recommendations to WHO for approval of vaccines. The team met last October 26 and sought additional clarifications from Bharat Biotech which the company submitted. The team went through those data on Wednesday and gave its nod that Covaxin can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure.Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the new Delta variant. Bharat Biotech said that it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials. WHO has so far approved Covid-19 vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca-SK Bio/Serum Institute of India, Johnson 7 Johnson - Janssen, Moderna, and Sinopharm for emergency use.What's the next step?The go-ahead from the technical team can be considered as getting approval from WHO and the world body has also announced it on its social media platform.“WHO has granted emergency use listing (EUL) to #COVAXIN® (developed by Bharat Biotech), adding to a growing portfolio of vaccines validated by WHO for the prevention of #COVID19. The Technical Advisory Group, convened by WHO and made up of regulatory experts from around the world, has determined that the #Covaxin vaccine meets WHO standards for protection against #COVID19, that the benefit of the vaccine far outweighs risks & the vaccine can be used. #Covaxin vaccine was also reviewed by WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE), and recommended use of this vaccine in two doses, with a dose interval of four weeks, in all age groups 18 and above. Available data on vaccination of pregnant women with the #Covaxin vaccine are insufficient to assess vaccine safety or efficacy in pregnancy; studies in pregnant women are planned, including a pregnancy sub-study and a pregnancy registry,” WHO tweeted.
03-11-2021||India||‘We’ll brainstorm’: Anurag Thakur says BJP will look into Himachal bypoll defeat||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will brainstorm about the recent bypoll results where it lost Himachal Pradesh’s Mandi Lok Sabha seat and three assembly constituencies while also losing two seats in Bengal.Speaking of the party’s defeat in Himachal Pradesh, Thakur said that steps will be taken to make necessary improvements. “Himachal Pradesh BJP will call a timely meeting, discuss people's mandate and look for reasons behind it. Learning from it, steps will be taken to make necessary improvements so that lotus blooms once again in 2022,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.On the BJP losing seats in Bengal, Thakur highlighted that the bypolls are held on local issues. He also pointed out that the BJP was victorious in Assam, Madhya Pradesh and secured 1 seat in Karnataka. “It's too early to say anything. Results came in different states of the country. The BJP won all 5 seats in Assam, we won in MP and won 1 out of 2 seats in Karnataka. Every state has its own local issues for bypolls, every political party brainstorms over it. We'll do too,” Thakur said. The party was also victorious in Telangana’s Huzurabad bypoll.Congress swept the Himachal Pradesh bypolls as the BJP lost the Mandi Lok Sabha seat to Pratibha Singh, wife of late former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Pratibha Singh’s win could have given Congress a possible chief ministerial face ahead of the polls in the northern state where polls will be held next December.Congress also won the Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai constituencies. In other states, Congress won one assembly seat in Karnataka, won two assembly seats in Rajasthan and managed to retain Raigaon assembly constituency in Madhya Pradesh. The BJP made gains in Assam and Madhya Pradesh but lost ground in West Bengal as Trinamool Congress swept the bypolls in all four seats.Earlier on Tuesday, BJP leader and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai made similar observations and said that the BJP will look seriously into the defeat in Karnataka after BJP lost the Hangal assembly seat to Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/well-brainstorm-anurag-thakur-says-bjp-will-look-into-himachal-bypoll-defeat-101635939203068.html
03-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: 71 booked in Tripura for sharing provocative posts and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.71 booked for ‘provocative’ social media posts over communal violence in TripuraA mosque, houses and shops were vandalised at separate places in Tripura’s Panisagar on October 26. Police said they have arrested four persons in connection with the violence. Read more here. 'Most of teams are in same boat': Irfan Pathan says Indian team need to 'think positively' ahead of Afghanistan clashPathan believes all the other teams in the tournament are also in the same boat as Team India, having been inside bio-bubble for months as part of Covid protocols and playing non-stop cricket. Read more here. Top 10 cars sold in India in October: Alto tops, Tata Punch in, Creta misses outMaruti continues to dominate sales charts as India's largest carmaker saw despite big dip in sales number in October. Among the newly-launched cars, Tata Punch made it through the list. But Hyundai Creta, the highest selling mid-size SUV, dropped out. Read more here. The Shiba Inu dog from the doge meme turns 16, celebration post goes viralThe post about the Shiba Inu dog from the doge meme prompted people to share varied comments. Read more here. When Amitabh Bachchan burnt his hand on Diwali, hid it in pocket during shootsAmitabh Bachchan once burnt his hand on Diwali but had to continue shooting for his films. He found unique ways to hide his injury. Read more here. Diwali 2021: How to take care of cancer patients during DiwaliWhile Diwali celebrations are on in full swing, Cancer patients must take their medication on time, wear masks even at home and can consider wearing earplugs if sound of crackers is too high. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-71-booked-in-tripura-for-sharing-provocative-posts-and-all-the-latest-news-101635938106633.html
03-11-2021||India||Circulate videos of religious leaders to tackle Covid vaccine rumours: PM Modi||During his review meeting with senior officials of districts with low Covid-19 vaccination coverage, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked them to take the help of local religious leaders in order to eradicate rumour and misconception among people.“There’s a major challenge in front of you regarding rumour and misconception among people. Going ahead, this problem may become visible in concentrated areas…An effective solution to this is trying to make people as aware as possible," Modi told the officials.The Prime Minister directed the officials to make short videos of two to three minutes of local religious leaders and circulating them across households in order to erase any rumour and misconception regarding Covid-19 vaccines. “[I] have always found leaders of all religion great advocates of vaccination,” he added, according to a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).
03-11-2021||India||NIA arrests suspected JMB terrorist from Bengal’s South 24 Parganas||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a suspected Bangladeshi operative of the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) terror group in Bengal, officials announced on Wednesday.The NIA conducted a search operation on Tuesday in Bengal’s South 24 Parganas and recovered “electronic devices, a fake Indian voter ID card, Aadhaar cards, and other incriminating documents for illegal acquisition of Indian identity by the Bangladeshi national,” the officials said in a release.The agency said, “The accused arrested was involved in arranging fake Indian identity documents for terrorists of the JMB, who had illegally entered India.” So far, five people associated with the JMB have been arrested since August 6 in a case of “conspiracy of online radicalisation and recruitment” of Muslim youngsters in both India and Bangladesh.Also Read: Jammu and Kashmir gets state investigative agency for speedy probe into terror casesThe NIA suspects that the Bangladeshi terror outfit was involved in the Nimtita railway station blast in Murshidabad district in February, in which several people were injured including Trinamool Congress (TMC) party workers and minister Jakir Hossain. The railway station is located in a district that shares a border with Bangladesh. Over the past few years, the NIA and the Special Task Force (STF) of the state police have nabbed several JMB terrorists from Murshidabad district. Since the start of 2021, 20 JMB associates and militants have been arrested by the NIA. HT reported in 2019 that two senior NIA officials had said the JMB has emerged as a potential threat in India. In February, the NIA court sentenced Kausar, a Bangladeshi national and an operative of the JMB, to 29 years in jail for his role in the 2014 bombing of a rented house in Bengal’s East Burdwan district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-suspected-jmb-terrorist-from-bengal-s-south-24-parganas-101635937618119.html
03-11-2021||India||Covaxin's shelf life extended to 12 months, announces Bharat Biotech||The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has extended the shelf life of Covaxin to up to 12 months, starting from the date of manufacture, Hydebarab's Bharat Biotech announced on Wednesday. "This approval of shelf-life extension is based on the availability of additional stability data, which was submitted to CDSCO. The shelf life extension has been communicated to our stakeholders," the company said. The present shelf life of this Covid-19 vaccine is six months which means that the vaccines can be used till six months from the date of manufacture if stored at two to eight degree celsius. Now, the vaccine doses can be stored for up to a year, provided the temperature condition is fulfilled.Early this year, Bharat Biotech sought an extension of the shelf life of the vaccine and submitted real-time stability data for consideration.As Covaxin awaits WHO approval, here's list of countries where it is clearedThe extension of shelf life will reduce wastage of the vaccine as shelf life of six months means if the vaccine remains unused within the six months from the date of manufacture, they are considered to be expired. Now, Covaxin doses are good for use up to one year from the date of manufacture.Covaxin is yet to get the emergency use approval from the World Health Organization, the delay of which has spread apprehension among travellers as Covaxin is not accepted in many countries as it is still waiting for WHO's nod. WHO sought some additional clarifications from Bharat Biotech for Covaxin to conduct a final "risk-benefit assessment" for Emergency Use Listing.Countries are independently recognising Covaxin and Australia and Guyana are the latest two countries to have approved Covaxin. The other countries where Covaxin is accepted are Iran, Mauritius, Mexico, Nepal, Paraguay, the Phillippines, Zimbabwe, Oman, Sri Lanka, Estonia and Greece.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxins-shelf-life-extended-to-12-months-announces-bharat-biotech-101635937325955.html
03-11-2021||India||Yasmeen Wankhede's message to Nawab Malik's family: ‘Teach him to respect women’||With the Nawab Malik-Sameer Wankhede clash continuing even after a majority of the arrested in the drugs-on-cruise case, including Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, is out on bail, Sameer Wankhede's sister Yasmeen Wankhede on Wednesday said Nawab Malik is dragging her in all this to take out his "personal vendetta or his son-in-law's arrest".Yasmeen said she would like to send a message to the women in Nawab Malik's family. "...teach him to respect women...It is illegal to disrespect a woman. It is an infringement of the rights and privacy of women," Yasmeen said."You are in power. . Please do some good work. There are a lot of POCSO Act cases reported in his area. Go work for those people. Please be something of use. Do go mad for your son-in-law that how your son-in-law got arrested despite you being a powerful man," Sameer Wankhede's sister said.Why Sameer Wankhede's sister is in the centre of this clash with Nawab MalikNCB Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede's sister Yasmeen Wankhede is an advocate. Her social media photos have been used by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik to accuse Sameer of extortion, irregularities etc. Yasmeen Wankhede's ex-husband, a witness of Sameer Wankhede's 1st marriage, was also mentioned by Nawab Malik to prove that both Yasmeen and Sameer are ‘Muslims’. What's inside hotel ‘The Lalit’? Nawab Malik teases new revelations on SundayOn November 2, Nawab Malik released some purported screenshots of the WhatsApp chats of 2020 between Yasmeen Wankhede and an alleged 'drug peddler'. "Question arises, is this morally, ethically and legally right?" Malik said on Tuesday. Screenshot of the whatsapp chat between Yasmeen Dawood Wankhede (sister of NCB official Sameer Dawood Wankhede) and a drug peddler.Question arises, is this morally, ethically and legally right ? pic.twitter.com/eeKNIwxS1ZReacting to the WhatsApp screenshot, Yasmeen has said that it was an NDPS case, which she does not take."A peddler, Salman, had approached my sister who is a lawyer. But she doesn't deal with the cases under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) cases so she sent him back. Salman had tried to trap us through a middleman. He was later arrested and is in jail right now. False allegations are being levelled against me by sharing his WhatsApp chat," Sameer Wankhede said reacting to the screenshots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yasmeen-wankhede-s-message-to-malik-s-family-teach-him-to-respect-women-101635935721345.html
03-11-2021||India||Karnataka bypolls: BJP wins Sindgi; CM Bommai says taking Hangal defeat ‘seriously'||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday failed to retain the Hangal constituency as the Congress emerged victorious in the bypolls that were held in the constituency on October 30. The BJP, however, managed to win in the Sindgi assembly segment as it wrested the seat from the Janata Dal (Secular).Congress' Srinivas Mane won by a margin of 7,373 votes defeating his closest rival Shivaraj Sajjanar of the BJP in Hangal. Mane secured 87,490 votes. In Sindgi, Ramesh Bhusanur of the BJP defeated Congress' Ashok Managuli by a margin of 31,185 votes. Bhusanur won by a margin of 31,185 votes.The bypolls in Singi and Hangal were necessitated due to deaths of JD(S) legislators MC Managuli and CM Udasi, respectively.Karnataka chief minister Basavraj Bommai said he is taking the Hangal defeat seriously and all steps to convert the loss into a win will be taken. Bommai campaigned extensively in the Shiggaon assembly segment in Haveri district, which is his constituency and neighbours Hangal, and the loss is seen as a setback to the new chief minister of Karnataka.“Elections are won and lost. These by-elections are fought on particular time and issues, and its outcome is not a complete verdict. However, I have taken this election setback very seriously and we will do all the corrections,” Bommai was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“We will take the loss seriously and take all the necessary measures politically and administratively to convert the loss into win,” he added. The bypolls were the first major electoral change following his taking charge as Karnataka chief minister.Bommai, however, said that Congress candidate Mane worked for the people during the Covid-19 pandemic, attributing his work as a reason behind his win. “The winning candidate from Congress Srinivas Maane has also done some work at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, for which people of Hangal supported him,” Bommai was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bypolls-bjp-wins-sindgi-bommai-says-taking-hangal-defeat-seriously-101635874023483.html
03-11-2021||India||‘Har Ghar Dastak’: Modi rolls out door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaign||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched a month-long “Har Ghar Dastak” campaign for special house-to-house Covid-19 vaccination focussed on those whose second dose is overdue to accelerate the inoculation drive.“So far you have had been making efforts to safely administer Covid vaccine doses at the vaccination centres. Now the time has come to focus your efforts towards house-to-house visits to ensure you cover those who have not been vaccinated as yet,” said Narendra Modi after launching the campaign at a review of 45 districts with low first-dose vaccination coverage across 11 states and a union territory. Chief ministers of states with poorly performing districts, along with the local administrators, were present at the review. “Har Ghar Dastak” literally means “a knock on every door”.Also Read: Dharavi records zero fresh Covid-19 cases on six days in October“During this house-to-house campaign, along with those who are yet to receive their first dose, you all must also focus on administering the second dose. When disease transmission comes down, the feeling of urgency also tends to come down. People start thinking what is the hurry, we will get jabbed later,” said Modi.He added there should be no laxity in the pace of Covid vaccination after having administered one billion doses. Modi asked officials to ensure the vaccination coverage is widened by the end of the year and to enter the new year with renewed self-belief and confidence. He said people have found innovative solutions to problems due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi called for a need to also find innovative solutions to complete vaccination in the remotest regions. He said if required, use songs and jingles to customise plans to vaccinate eligible population in the low coverage regions. Narendra Modi added the challenges could be many such as difficult, hard-to-reach terrain, or limited resources but many such districts have crossed those hurdles successfully. He referred to his meeting with Pope Francis in the Vatican City and emphasised the need for taking the help of religious leaders in spreading awareness and encouraging people to get vaccinated. Modi also spoke about vaccine hesitancy and the local factors behind it.“Develop micro strategies, keeping in mind the experience so far to go for saturation of vaccination by addressing the gaps at local level… You will have to do your best to take your districts nearer the national average,” he said.He urged the district officials to take the help of local religious leaders, especially in fighting ill-founded rumours that can be detrimental in ensuring all eligible beneficiaries get vaccinated sooner.The districts that have covered less than 50% of the adult population with at least one shot of the vaccine, and those with low coverage of the second dose were covered in the review.Modi said under the free-vaccine-for-all campaign, India created a record of administering about 25 million vaccine doses in a day, a feat that bears testimony to India’s capabilities.According to the Prime Minister’s Office, 45 districts in India still lag in vaccination coverage as they are yet to administer even a single shot to more than half of the adult population when the national average is at least 78%.These districts include six in Arunachal Pradesh; one each in Assam, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Mizoram, Tamil Nadu, Delhi; eight each in Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland; five in Maharashtra; and four in Meghalaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/har-ghar-dastak-modi-rolls-out-door-to-door-covid-19-vaccination-campaign-101635934737853.html
03-11-2021||India||Assam Congress plans party revitalisation after assembly bypolls debacle||The Congress party won eight assembly and one Lok Sabha seat in the recently concluded by polls to 30 assembly and three Lok Sabha seats spread across the country. However, the party returned a blank in Assam, where all the five assembly seats contested went to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its ally the United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL). The state unit of the Congress is now planning to reorganise itself and review the reasons for the loss. While candidates from the BJP and its ally UPPL won by huge margins ranging from 25,641 votes (Bhabanipur) and 57,059 (Tamulpur), Congress candidates, who came second on three seats, failed to garner enough votes. Congress was the only party to have fielded candidates on all five seats and had declared that it will win at least two seats. Incidentally, two of the three winning BJP candidates, Rupjyoti Kurmi (Mariani) and Sushanta Borgohain (Thawra), had won on Congress tickets in May this year before they switching sides to the ruling party, barely months after the assembly polls. “Just because we lost the bypolls, it doesn’t mean we will forget our role as opposition. We will continue to raise issues related to the people like price rise,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said. Borah, who was named the Congress’s state unit chief after the party’s loss in the assembly polls, said he didn’t have much time to reorganise the outfit. “I have been in office for just 100 days. Unlike earlier, when the entire state unit was reorganised after appointment of a new chief, we couldn’t do it this time due to the by polls. Since the b ypolls are now over, we will start forming our sub-committees immediately,” he said. Also Read | NE people reposed faith in PM Modi’s leadership: Assam CM after bypoll winFor the by polls, the Congress decided to break with nine other alliance partners including the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and Bodoland Peoples Front (BPF). “The results show that our decision to break away from the alliance was a good one. People know that even before a formal break up, BPF had announced parting of ways,” Borah tried to justify the decision. “We will start preparations for 2024 general elections and 2026 assembly polls from now on. We will work day and night, and we have started a campaign to enlist 3.3 million members. A detailed discussion with senior party leaders will soon take place to find the reasons for the by poll loss,” he added. Borah said the party would try to contest on its own on all 126 assembly seats in the state in future. He added that since Congress has an understanding with the Asom Jatiya Parishad, it will support the regional outfit in by poll to the Majuli assembly seat, scheduled later. With Tuesday’s wins, BJP’s strength in the 126-member house has increased to 62 while ruling allies, UPPL and Asom Gana Parishad have 16 legislators each. Opposition Congress, which ruled Assam for three consecutive terms from 2001 to 2016, has 27 MLAs. AIUDF has 15, BPF has 3 while the CPM and the newly floated Raijor Das have 1 seat each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-plans-party-revitalisation-after-assembly-by-polls-debacle-101635934497770.html
03-11-2021||India||Can the affordable Realme TechLife Air Purifier counter indoor pollution?||Soon after the festival season, as the weather will change and the mercury will dip with the onset of winter, we will face the problem of air pollution. Unlike in other seasons, pollutants will remain trapped in the air. While we cannot do much about the outdoors, there is some hope for the indoors. We spend a lot of hours at home – and it’s quite a lot these days. Air purifiers do provide significant respite inside homes, for all the polluted air that’ll stream in, merging with indoor pollutants such as pollen and fumes, making it a deadly cocktail. Just ahead of what we dismally refer to as the “pollution season”, Realme is making an early move into the air purifier space in India. The Realme TechLife Air Purifier, priced at ₹6,999, will likely make Philips, Honeywell and Xiaomi sit up and take notice. The Realme TechLife Air Purifier’s design does remind us of the larger design language of air purifiers made by Blueair, the Swedish air quality experts. Maybe it’s the contours, maybe it’s the mix of curves and straight lines. This purifier isn’t very tall while the clean air emerges from the top and there are touch controls on the panel within the circumference of the clean air vent. Also Read: Crackers or not, Diwali to plunge air into ‘very poor’ range in DelhiYou may be wondering if this design of the clean air vent will hamper the flow of air from the purifier. Rest assured, it has similar total coverage area as a Philips 2000 series air purifier. In fact, Realme insists that the Air Duct Design on the inside allows more clean air to be churned out. We didn’t see this struggling to spread clean air. The front panel is removable, and that’s where you access the filters from. It is pretty much par for the course that there is a prefilter and a HEPA filter that the air will pass through on its way out. The prefilter is essential to capture the larger dust particles, lest the HEPA filter layer does that job, which will mean it’ll get clogged sooner. The pre-filter can be washed. The HEPA filter itself is a high-efficiency H12 grade spec, which theoretically is among the most capable filters for home air purifiers. These will capture particles as large as or larger than 0.3 microns. A thick filter is what the Realme TechLife Air Purifier uses, which is good since there is more filter for the pollution and particulate to pass through. It will still be some time before it’ll reach that stage, but there are claims that this can last as much as 2,800 hours of use. That will vary significantly based on how polluted your home gets from time to time. Realme has used air quality sensors made by Sharp, to keep tabs on your room’s air quality PM 2.5 levels, also marked as AQI or Air Quality Index. Sharp itself makes very capable air purifiers, which most certainly gives the Realme TechLife Air Purifier a solid foundation to build on. A simple guide - if the air quality in your room is good, the light will be green; if it is moderate, that’ll be yellow; and red, as the colour suggests, is a red flag for bad air quality. You have the choice of leaving this on the auto mode and letting the sensors alter the fan speed and power based on these readings. Or you can simply select one of the three fan speeds manually. A timer lets you set this to turn off after two, four or eight hours. And the Sleep mode, as the name indicates, quietens things down so that even the faint whirring of the fan inside the purifier doesn’t bother you in the silence of the night. In our testing experience with the Realme TechLife Air Purifier, which incidentally is coinciding with a steady increase in pollution and a decrease in ambient air quality, this does seem very sensitive and reactive to even the slightest of AQI changes. Crack open a window for about 30 seconds, after the Realme TechLife Air Purifier has stabilised the air in the room, and this immediately detects a new pocket of air, and speeds up if need be. Testing this with a Laser Egg 2 air quality monitor, this takes 15 minutes to bring down the AQI readings from 123 microgram/cubic meter (ug/m3) to a steady 24 ug/m3. The fan is audible when it is at its max speed, while there is a gentle hum at medium speed and it is barely audible at the lowest fan speed. What’ll definitely count as a miss is the lack of a smartness quotient. And by that, we mean the lack of any Wi-Fi connectivity that would allow for smartphone control. Mind you, it isn’t exactly common in this price range, but the Xiaomi Mi Air Purifier 2S (around ₹8,999) has it. While there are variables such as how long the HEPA filter would last and how well this holds up when the brunt of bad pollution becomes a reality in the peak of winter, there is no doubt that the Realme TechLife Air Purifier is building the blocks of experience on a solid foundation. The thick HEPA filter layer, the air quality sensors made by Sharp and a design that blends into the background in your room, are positives. As is the price tag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-the-affordable-realme-techlife-air-purifier-counter-indoor-pollution-101635932758077.html
03-11-2021||India||TET invigilator arrested in Assam for allegedly leaking question paper||A teacher in Assam has been arrested for allegedly uploading the question paper of Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) 2021, conducted on October 31, on social media platforms, police said.The question paper was uploaded at around 4 pm after the examination and it immediately went viral. Police detained the teacher on Tuesday evening after the principal of Cachar district’s MHC Higher Secondary School, Mustafizur Rahman, lodged an FIR against him.The teacher identified as Baharul Alom Kausar Barbhuiya is a resident of Hailakandi district and is employed at MHC Higher Secondary School, which was one of the 60 examination centres in Cachar district. He was the invigilator at the centre.The question paper had roll and number of a candidate mentioned on it, making it easy to identify the centre from where it was leaked.During the initial interrogation, Barbhuiya confessed to have taken a photograph of the question paper after the examination was over, however, he claimed it wasn’t uploaded on social media platforms by him.“I know it was illegal to click a picture of the question paper but I did it to just read them. I am a teacher and I analyse all possible study materials,” Barbhuiya told media persons at Rangirkhari police station on Tuesday. Taking photographs of the question paper is a violation of the TET guidelines, according to which, the booklets should be kept safe until the results are declared.Also Read | NE people reposed faith in PM Modi’s leadership: Assam CM after bypoll win“I only shared them [the photographs of the question papers] through WhatsApp with my roommate Aszad Hussain Laskar because he is also a teacher. We also discussed the paper. After returning from duty at around 2:30 pm, I took a nap as I was tired and woke up only after getting calls from friends, who informed me about the question paper leak and how my name was getting involved,” he explained.Superintendent of police of Cachar district said the teacher has been arrested under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. “We have arrested the person based on an FIR lodged by the principal of MHC Higher Secondary School. The accused person will be produced before a court today and the court will decide what punishment he gets.” the SP said.The police officer said a group of technical experts under the police department are investigating the matter and trying to find the link from where the question paper was initially uploaded.A departmental probe has also been initiated by the Inspector of Schools of Cachar.“There is possibility of departmental action against him apart from the actions taken by the judiciary,” said one official from the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-teacher-arrested-for-uploading-question-paper-of-teacher-eligibility-test-101635932697810.html
03-11-2021||India||Microsoft’s grand metaverse plans to start with Teams app||Microsoft plans to offer its vision of the metaverse in 2022 with Microsoft Teams - and it includes smartphones. The company has said the upgraded experiences will also be available on smartphones and laptops amid Facebook’s metaverse plans.Microsoft has said next year Teams users will be able to access their meetings on virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) headsets and participate in them as a virtual space. There will be animated avatars at play with expressions and the meeting participants may be able to choose a virtual location too such as a coffee shop, instead of a boring background. Organisations can also build immersive spaces, the company has confirmed signalling scope for companies and businesses using Teams to customise the interactivity experiences for their employees.Also Read: Facebook to Meta: The Metaverse contours go beyond just rebranding“Think of the metaverse as a new version – or a new vision – of the internet, one where people gather to communicate, collaborate and share with personal virtual presence on any device,” Microsoft said in a statement.Jeff Teper, vice president responsible for Teams, SharePoint and OneDrive, said these tools are “to signal we’re in the same virtual space, we’re one team, we’re one group, and help take the formality down a peg and the engagement up a peg”.The experiences will be enabled once Microsoft plugs in the Mesh platform, something the company has been developing for the metaverse before it became a cool topic of conversation and speculation.Microsoft has said the Mesh for Teams will not be restricted to just meetings. The wider scope will include immersive face-to-face meetings, chats, emails, and video calls.Microsoft is attempting to keep the compatibility as extensive as possible. It wants this to work with phones, VR headsets, laptops to a HoloLens mixed reality glass.Microsoft’s metaverse vision for Teams comes amid Facebook’s focus on Horizon Workrooms, a virtual remote work and collaboration platform, which includes mixed reality tracking, avatars, remote desktop streaming, spatial audio, and video conferencing.These workrooms are limited to the Oculus Quest 2 headset users only. Facebook’s work collaboration pitch has not ended there. Quest for Business platform will roll out as a new beta next year, while productivity apps including Dropbox, Slack, Canva and Spike will soon work with VR on the Horizon Home platform. Facebook Messenger will soon bring audio calls in VR as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/microsofts-grand-metaverse-plans-to-start-with-teams-app-101635930537649.html
03-11-2021||India||Dharavi records zero fresh Covid-19 cases on six days in October||Dharavi, one of the largest slum pockets in the country which was hit badly during the first wave of Covid-19 infections last year, has made a remarkable comeback by recording zero fresh cases on six days in October and only one fresh case each on 13 days of the month, logging only 50 cases in all of October, down from 66 cases in September. September had five days when not even a single Covid case was registered in the Dharavi slums. So far, Dharavi has recorded a total of 7,148 Covid-19 cases and has 21 active patients at present. The highest single day spike last month saw seven fresh Covid-19 cases registered on October 8. In comparison, neighbouring Dadar recorded over 200 Covid-19 infections in October, and Mahim registered over 130 cases. So far, Dadar has recorded 10,379 Covid-19 cases including 88 active cases at present; and Mahim has recorded 10,692 infections with 89 active cases at present. Also Read: High court clears way for passenger, Ro-Ro jetties in Palghar and ThaneA senior civic officer said, “During the second wave, Dharavi recorded a spike in cases yet again, and we channelled efforts like mobile fever camps, ramped up testing and contact tracing to contain the spread”. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the fact that it roped in NGOs (non governmental organisations) to help with registrations for vaccination of maximum residents in the early days of the drive in February, March and April, also helped. In April, Dharavi recorded a total of 1,460 new Covid cases, with dropped to 349 in May and 70 in June before a slight rise to 77 cases in July before it dipped again to 47 in August. The infections rose again in September to reach 66 but dropped to 50 in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/less-than-100-new-covid-cases-in-last-5-months-in-dharavi-none-on-6-october-days-101635930484456.html
03-11-2021||India||Akhilesh Yadav getting advice, economic support from Pakistan's ISI: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh Minister Anand Swarup Shukla has alleged that Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav enjoys the patronage of Pakistan spy agency ISI and said he may even go for religious conversion to appease Muslims.He may also be getting economic support from the neighbouring country's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the minister alleged while talking to reporters at his residence on Tuesday."Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has become a challenge for the Islamic world. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav is getting all support from them. Akhilesh is getting 'sanrakshan aur sujhav' (patronage and advice) from the ISI. It is possible that he might also be getting economic support from it," Shukla, who a BJP leader, said.Shukla's remarks come after Yadav in a speech in Hardoi on Sunday spoke of Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and Pakistan founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah in the same breath as leaders who fought for India's independence."To appease Muslims, Yadav had performed 'namaz' and observed 'roza' (fast). He can also go for 'matantaran' (religious conversion) and 'khatna' to get their votes," he said, adding that the former chief minister was doing so at the behest of Pakistan.In his speech, Yadav praised India's 'Iron Man' Vallabhbhai Patel on his 146th birth anniversary but raised eyebrows when he appeared to equate the four leaders, including Jinnah."On the directions of the ISI, Yadav is glorifying Jinnah. He is issuing such statements that Pakistan and the Taliban want," Shukla, who is the minister of state for parliamentary affairs, alleged.He claimed that Yadav's comparison of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel with Jinnah was condemnable and that he should regret it.During the public meeting in Hardoi, the SP leader had said, "Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle."Yadav had also referred to the ban imposed on the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh by Patel, the then home minister, following the assassination of Gandhi in 1948.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-getting-advice-economic-support-from-pakistan-s-isi-up-minister-101635929203830.html
03-11-2021||India||Pakistan refuses use of its airspace for Srinagar-Sharjah flights: Reports||Pakistan has refused to allow Go First's Srinagar-Sharjah flight to fly in its airspace, news agency ANI reported. The matter has been reported to ministries concerned, including the civil aviation ministry, the external affairs ministry and the home ministry, the agency reported. During his recent visit to the Valley, Union home minister Amit Shah flagged off the first flight from Srinagar to Sharjah, an international route which was revived almost after 11 years. According to reports, the first international flight from Srinagar to Dubai commenced in 2009 by Air India Express, but it was eventually discontinued.PM Modi's plane flies over Pakistan airspace, to return from Italy via same routeNational Conference leader and former J&K chief minister Omar Abdullah said the development is very unfortunate. "Pakistan did the same this with teh Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-2010. I had hoped that GoFirst airways being permitted to overfly Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations but alas that wasn't to be," Abdullah tweeted on Wednesday.PDP president Mehbooba Mufi slammed the government and said flagging the flight off was only a ‘PR extravaganza without any groundwork’. “Puzzling that GOI didn’t even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar. Only PR extravaganza without any groundwork,” she tweeted. Puzzling that GOI didn’t even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar. Only PR extravaganza without any groundwork. https://t.co/3Cbj91C6PbThe withdrawal of the permission comes at a time when the Pakistan government is allowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's special VVIP flight to use its airspace. In PM Modi's recent visit to Italy for the G20 summit, PM Modi's flight flew over the Pakistani airspace and came back using the same route. In September, when PM Modi flew to Washington, his flight was allowed to use Pakistan's airspace.India also allowed Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's flight to use India's airspace when he was flying to Sri Lanka. Because of Pakistan’s cussed refusal to allow flights originating from Srinagar to use its airspace the SXR-DXB flight had to take a ‘technical halt’ in Delhi or had to fly south & go around Pakistan airspace. This made the flight completely unviable both in terms of cost & time.On October 23, when the Srinagar-Sharjah flight was announced open, Omar Abdullah expressed doubt over whether Pakistan has indeed changed its heart and allowed Indian flight to enter its airspace. "Regarding the Srinagar-Sharjah flight that has been announced today - has Pakistan had a change of heart & allowed flights originating from Srinagar to use its airspace? If not then this flight will die the way the Srinagar-Dubai flight died during UPA2," he tweeted."Because of Pakistan’s cussed refusal to allow flights originating from Srinagar to use its airspace the SXR-DXB flight had to take a ‘technical halt’ in Delhi or had to fly south & go around Pakistan airspace. This made the flight completely unviable both in terms of cost & time," he had added.As the flight was allowed to use Pakistani airspace, Abdullah had tweeted that satellite image and wrote, "Good to see the refusal of airspace usage is a thing of the past. Perhaps there is hope for relations between the two countries."Now that the permission has been reportedly withdrawn, the flight is taking a longer route over Rajasthan, Gujarat to fly to Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-refuses-use-of-its-airspace-for-srinagar-sharjah-flights-reports-101635929234192.html
03-11-2021||India||Facebook to shut down face recognition for photo tagging||Facebook, which has changed its company name to Meta, has announced plans to shut down the facial recognition system used to tag people in photos and videos posted on the platform for about a decade. The move comes amid privacy issues, negative public perception, and the company’s plans to focus on the metaverse.“This change will represent one of the largest shifts in facial recognition usage in the technology’s history,” said Jerome Pesenti, Meta’s vice-president, artificial intelligence.As with most Meta things, the shutdown of the face recognition algorithms will not be immediate. It will happen sometime over the next few weeks.Facebook has built possibly the world’s largest repository of digital photos anywhere in the world, and the corresponding facial recognition algorithms at work all these years give it precise data of who is who.Also Read: Facebook’s ‘metaverse’ can take up to 15 years, says senior executiveThe feature was first introduced in December 2010, and it automatically suggested tags for people in photos uploaded on Facebook. In 2019, Facebook switched the feature to opt-in. Earlier this year, Facebook paid $650 million in settlement for a lawsuit that said the company’s face recognition algorithms violated the biometric privacy law in the US state of Illinois.Meta has said over a third of its daily active users opted to enable the face recognition setting and were able to be recognised. It has not said it will delete more than a billion individual facial recognition templates.“Looking ahead, we still see facial recognition technology as a powerful tool, for example, for people needing to verify their identity or to prevent fraud and impersonation. We believe facial recognition can help for products like these with privacy, transparency, and control in place, so you decide if and how your face is used,” said Pesenti.Meta has said it will continue working on these technologies and engaging outside experts.Till now, Facebook is believed to have only used the facial recognition data within its platform. The functionalities included the ability to gain access to a locked Facebook account.Facebook has bungled with user data privacy. A whistle-blower last month highlighted the issues related to content moderation and Facebook’s interest in elections in certain countries. They have raised concerns over the facial recognition data it has amassed over the years.Meta’s decision does not change what independent companies such as Clearview AI and others can continue to do: scrape photos and videos off the internet including social media platforms to develop and train their own facial recognition algorithms. Clearview AI claims to be the world’s largest facial recognition platform and has a database of over three million images indexed from the internet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-to-shut-down-face-recognition-for-photo-tagging-101635928799223.html
03-11-2021||India||TMC’s O’Brien hints at ‘working together’ to defeat BJP||In an apparent hint to the Congress, Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O’Brien on Wednesday said that his party could work with others to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“The mindset has to change - we are equal partners in the opposition. Let’s work together on this, rather than talk down to us. There is no need to fight. Our single goal is to defeat the BJP,” O’Brien said in a statement.The appeal came as leaders of the two parties have been involved in a war of words after the TMC said it cannot wait indefinitely for the Congress to bring the opposition parties together against the BJP. The Congress has also questioned the TMC’s intention of fighting the Goa election due next year.Also Read: In Goa, Rahul Gandhi ‘guarantees’ to protect state from becoming ‘coal hub’Congress leader Randeep Surjewala questioned whether the TMC was strengthening the BJP by planning to contest the Goa polls.TMC leader Sukhendu Sekhar Ray cited TMC chief Mamata Banerjee’s meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi and added they waited for six months, but there was no response or initiative. He added that is why they have moved on and decided to expand their base.The row escalated on Monday when the TMC called the Congress leadership the “biggest insurance” of the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lets-work-together-to-defeat-bjp-in-goa-elections-tmc-s-o-brien-to-congress-101635927901252.html
03-11-2021||India||‘If we relax after 1 billion doses...’: PM Modi's warning at Covid meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a review meeting with senior officials from at least 40 districts that are seeing a significant lag in Covid-19 vaccination for adults. The Prime Minister hailed the hard work done by healthcare workers, but said this is not the time to relax."The progress made so far is due to your hard work. Every member of administration, ASHA workers worked a lot. They walked for miles and took vaccination to remote locations. But if we become lax after one billion (doses), a new crisis can come," PM Modi said."They say one must never underestimate disease and enemies. They have to be fought against till the very end. So, I would want that we should not bring even a slight laxity," he added.The meeting was attended by several chief ministers. It was called to discuss situation with district magistrates (DMs) from districts where less than 50% of the adult population has received at least one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine, and also those ones that have very low second-dose number. The 40 districts are spread across Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Meghalaya, among other states, according to the Prime Minister's Office."In this biggest pandemic in 100 years, nation faced several challenges. A significant thing in nation's fight against Corona was that we found out new solutions, used innovative methods," he told the officials and he asked them to work on innovative methods to increase the vaccination rate in their respective areas."You will have to remember that the states that have achieved the goal of administering 100% first dose of vaccine, also faced different challenges in many areas. There were challenges of geographical situation, resources but these districts overcame those challenges to go ahead," PM Modi said.Further speaking, PM Modi also suggested officials to form different strategy each town and a village. He also asked them to constitute a team of 20-25 people in their areas to execute the door-to-door vaccination policy."We can also try to have a healthy competition in the teams you have formed," he also suggested."So far you've been working to take people to vaccination centres, now it's time to reach every house for door-to-door vaccine... You can take help of local religious leaders to spread awareness about Covid vaccines, fight rumours," PM Modi told district officials.On Tuesday, India's overall vaccination coverage exceeded 1.07 billion (107,25,41,626), the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday. The authorities inoculated more than 37 lakh (37,38,574) vaccine doses in a single day (on November 2) till 7pm. India has administered a cumulative 73,61,08,324 first vaccine doses while 33,64,33,302 second doses, the data by the Union ministry showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-we-relax-after-1-billion-doses-pm-modi-s-warning-at-covid-meet-101635926860535.html
03-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh MLA seeks sedition case against Bilaspur DM over invitation to state programme||A Congress legislator has written to Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel requesting that Bilaspur district collector be charged with sedition for ‘neglecting’ and ‘disrespecting’ local public representatives by not inviting them to the Rajyotsav (statehood celebrations) event as guests. Shailesh Pandey, who represents Bilaspur assembly constituency, also demanded removal of the Bilaspur collector, Saransh Mittar, in his November 2 letter to the CM. “This act of the collector amounts to insult of people and the government and it comes under the category of sedition,” he said in his letter. “The collector Saransh Mittar is continuously insulting your (Baghel) government and elected representatives. As per your direction, Rajyotsav programme was held in all district headquarters on November 1 …The state government sent the list of persons who were to be chief guests ….The MLA (member of the legislative assembly) of the ruling party was not invited (as guests) at the function here. Even MLAs of the opposition party should have been invited. Other public representatives like the mayor, chairman of Zilla Panchayat were also not invited by mentioning their names on the invitation card (as guests of the function),” the letter stated. Parliamentary secretary Indrashah Mandavi, an MLA from Mohla-Manpur, was the chief guest at the Rajyotsav event in Bilaspur and no other person’s name was mentioned as guests on the invitation card. A senior IAS official said that the MLA’s demand was weird“ It was a General Administrative Department ( GAD) programme , which sent a list of dignitaries to the collector . As per the list, the collector puts name on the invitation card. The collector had sent an invitation to MLA and others for the programme, hence it is not a case of disrespect,” said the officer, preferring anonymity. Also Read: ‘Raghupati Raghav’, ‘Vaishnav Jan’ to be sung in Chhattisgarh schools A legal expert said as per the law no case can be registered against the collector for not printing the MLA’s name on the invitation for the programme. “The demand made by the MLA to register a sedition case against collector shows mental bankruptcy as such an offence cannot be registered against the collector for not inviting the MLA as a guest. At best, it is a case of violation of protocol directions… Considering the fact that the Congress as a party is seeking the repeal of sedition clause from the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the demand is weird,” said Sudeip Shrivastva , a lawyer and activist based in Bilaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-mla-seeks-sedition-case-against-bilaspur-dm-over-invitation-to-state-programme-101635926517111.html
03-11-2021||India||Congress to take Prashant Kishor's help in Punjab polls? Chief minister Charanjit Channi drops hint||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor may be roped in by the Congress party to devise a strategy for Punjab assembly elections. Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, while speaking to Aaj Tak, indicated that Kishor may be brought on board.Also Read | BJP will remain powerful for decades, predicts poll strategist Prashant KishorChanni said that he has been told by the party's Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary to share the Congress' strategy with Kishor, who in the past has been involved in election campaigns of many parties.Channi further told Aaj Tak that the direction has come from the high command.Kishor is currently lobbying for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the upcoming Goa assembly elections. He had recently announced that he was taking a "temporary break" from active role in public life.Channi's statement has brought the spotlight back on Kishor, who announced his retirement from election management on May 2, the day the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress whose election work he was handling scored a resounding victory in West Bengal.Kishor was appointed as the principal adviser by former Punjab chief minister Captain Amaridner Sigh but he resigned from the post.Kishor, or “PK” as he is often called in political circles, had worked with the Congress in Punjab in the 2017 assembly polls with Amarinder as the state unit president, who wanted him to again manage the party's campaign in next year's assembly elections.The poll strategist was seen as the brain behind the "Coffee with Captain" and "Punjab da Captain" that had worked well for the Congress party and the CM face in 2017. "PK & his team and their work were absolutely critical to our victory in Punjab!" Amarinder had tweeted after the party’s victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-prashant-kishor-help-congress-in-punjab-polls-channi-drops-hint-101635924485132.html
03-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chidambaram's 'thought-provoking analysis' of bypoll results and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Honours are even': Chidambaram's 'thought-provoking analysis' of bypoll resultsSenior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday reacted to the outcome of the by-poll elections in 30 assembly constituencies and noted that the results show "the honours are even" today between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition parties. Read MoreReport warns of deepening inequalities as schools reopenThe reopening of schools cannot be considered a normal “return to schools” and lack of a comprehensive approach at this time may deepen the existing education inequality, the National Coalition on the Education Emergency, a group of academics and educationists, said in a report on Tuesday. Read MoreBJP’s by poll defeat in Himachal casts shadow on Jairam ThakurThe Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) defeat on three assembly and one Lok Sabha seats in by-polls in Himachal Pradesh has cast a shadow on the leadership of chief minister Jairam Thakur. Read MoreIndia adds another supercomputer at Mohali under national missionUnder the National Supercomputing Mission, India has increased its capability by adding a 650-teraflops system at the National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI) in Mohali. Read More3 things India need to do right away to beat Afghanistan and remind critics of their prowess in T20 World CupIndia are in danger of being knocked out of a World Cup with three league matches still remaining, when was the last time something as bizarre as this happened? Read MoreAbhinav Shukla calls threats against Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma’s daughter Vamika ‘new low’Abhinav Shukla came out in support of Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma as their daughter Vamika received threats online. Read More2021 Maruti Suzuki Celerio to launch on November 10. Details hereThe latest Maruti Suzuki Celerio will be officially launched in the Indian car market on November 10. Read MoreWatch | Blaming Nehru won't solve China problem for India: Ex-Foreign Secy Nirupama Rao||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chidambaram-s-thought-provoking-analysis-of-bypoll-results-and-all-the-latest-news-101635922433803.html
03-11-2021||India||'Honours are even': Chidambaram's 'thought-provoking analysis' of bypoll results||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday reacted to the outcome of the by-poll elections in 30 assembly constituencies and noted that the results show "the honours are even" today between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition parties. The veteran politician also wondered about the mood of the voters in the 2022 elections in various states including Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh."Here is a thought provoking analysis of the results of by-elections in 30 assembly constituencies," Chidambaram wrote on Twitter while noting, "BJP won 7 seats and its declared allies won 8 seats. Congress won 8 seats. Non-BJP parties won 7 seats of which only 1 seat was won by a crypto ally of the BJP, namely YSR Congress. The other 6 seats were won by parties opposed to the BJP.""The honours are even today. Which way will the wind blow in 2022? " he then asked, posing a challenge for the BJP ahead of assembly elections in key states next year, including the politically crucial Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.The BJP and its allies on Tuesday won 14 assembly seats while the Congress bagged eight out of 29 seats in the latest round of bypolls, with results mostly favouring ruling parties in the states except in Himachal Pradesh, where the BJP lost all three assembly seats and the prestigious Mandi Lok Sabha constituency to the Congress. In West Bengal as well, BJP's arch-rival Trinamool Congress won all the four assembly seats including the two it had snatched in the assembly elections.Since the results, the Congress is targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while claiming that the BJP is losing its momentum. "BJP is losing its momentum, especially in Hindi heartland" due to its "anti-people policies," news agency PTI quoted Congress' general secretary KC Venugopal as saying.The terms of the legislative assemblies of Goa, Manipur, Punjab and Uttarakhand are coming to an end in March 2022, while the term of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly is scheduled to end in May next year. Polls are also due in Himachal Pradesh in December next year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/honours-are-even-chidambaram-s-thought-provoking-analysis-of-bypoll-results-101635923704766.html
03-11-2021||India||Amit Shah rolls out Ayushman Bharat CAPF healthcare scheme||Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday rolled out the Ayushmaan Bharat CAPF healthcare scheme at a national level for the personnel of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) in all states. It is a joint initiative by home ministry and the National Health Authority (NHA), and it aims to provide cashless and paperless medical treatment at empanelled hospitals and access to health services across the country to CAPF personnel.“On the auspicious occasion of ‘Dhanvantri Pooja’, which is celebrated in the honour of The God of Medicine, the process of distribution of health cards across CAPFs has begun,” stated the press release issued by the ministry of health. It further stated that the number of health cards issued to the CAPFs will be displayed on the website of the ministry of home daily. By the end of December, the scheme is likely to be covering all 3.5 million CAPF personnel.Shah said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given paramount importance to the security forces of the country and taken multiple steps for their welfare and that the CAPFs should take care of the country’s security without any worries, since the Modi government will take care of their families, he added.The ‘Ayushmaan CAPF’ scheme was first launched by Shah in Assam on January 23 this year. It will cover officials and serving personnel and their dependents from seven forces--Assam Rifles, Border Security Force (BSF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), National Security Guard (NSG), and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) under the scheme.Also Read: In Kashmir, Amit Shah gives a glimpse of the Centre’s strategyBeneficiaries of the scheme can collect the Ayushman CAPF e-card from respective forces. This card will be activated at empanelled private hospitals using a copy of service ID and Aadhaar or any other government-approved photo ID. The e-card can also be obtained from Pradhan Mantri Aarogya Mitra (PMAM) stationed at PM-JAY empanelled private hospital using the same documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-rolls-out-ayushman-bharat-capf-healthcare-scheme-101635923456726.html
03-11-2021||India||India adds another supercomputer at Mohali under national mission||Under the National Supercomputing Mission, India has increased its capability by adding a 650-teraflops system at the National Agri-Food Biotechnology Institute (NABI) in Mohali. The system was inaugurated by the minister of state for science and technology Jitendra Singh on Tuesday. The facility has been established at the cost of ₹20 crores.“This will cater to the needs of inter-disciplinary cutting-edge research being carried out in the institute related to agriculture and nutritional biotechnology. It will also be available for scientists of NABI and Centre of Innovation and Applied Bioprocessing and will be open to collaborative work for the scientists and faculties working in neighbouring institutes and universities,” Singh said.He said supercomputers such as these will be a facilitator of 75 chosen start-ups – for the 75th year of Independence – in the fields of telemedicine, digital health, big data, artificial intelligence, and blockchain.So far, at least six other supercomputers have been established or are soon to be under the mission – a 797 teraflops supercomputer at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (Pune), 833 teraflops supercomputer in IIT (Banaras Hindu University), a 1.6 petaflops supercomputer in IIT Kharagpur, a 1.3 petaflops supercomputer at IIT-Kanpur, an 838 petaflops supercomputer at Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, and a 650 teraflops supercomputer at IIT Hyderabad.The supercomputing mission gave the country its first machine capable of petascale computing. Petascale computing refers to the ability to add at least a quadrillion (1,000 trillion) real numbers in a second. That computer speed is equivalent to 5,000-6,000 high-end laptops working in tandem.Also Read: IISER professor Rajesh Gokhale is new DBT secretary The target of the mission is to establish a network of supercomputers ranging from a few teraflops to hundreds of teraflops capability, with at least three systems greater than or equal to three petaflops in research institutes across the country. The mission plans to upgrade the country’s total capacity to 45 petaflops.With the mission, the government aims to move from importing supercomputers initially, to a greater level of integration even at the motherboard level within India in the second phase and manufacturing most of the components other than chipsets in India in the third phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-adds-another-supercomputer-under-national-mission-101635922198527.html
03-11-2021||India||Report warns of deepening inequalities as schools reopen||The reopening of schools cannot be considered a normal “return to schools” and lack of a comprehensive approach at this time may deepen the existing education inequality, the National Coalition on the Education Emergency, a group of academics and educationists, said in a report on Tuesday.The report titled “A Future at Stake – Guidelines and Principles to Resume and Renew Education” outlined a set of recommendations to help with the reopening of schools after over 18 months.“An overwhelming majority of India’s 250 million children who are now returning to schools had no regular contact with teachers or structured learning opportunities during the pandemic, leading to an education emergency of incalculable proportions. Yet, state governments are re-opening schools as if nothing serious occurred, students have been moved up by two grades and the normal syllabus is being followed, often after a short remedial course to bring them up to grade level,” the report said.The education ministry on Tuesday said 22 states and Union territories (UTs) have reopened schools for classes 1 to 12. Six states and UTs have reopened them from classes 9 to 12 and six for classes 6 to 12.The report said special efforts need to be made to recover language and mathematics competencies and for adopting a socio-emotional development approach. “This will allow students to make progress across multiple subjects. It means adjustment to the syllabus and timetable to give adequate time to these curricular areas,” the report said.It highlighted the loss of the most basic language and mathematics skills among children of the rural and urban poor, Dalits, Adivasis, minorities and migrant labourers, leading to millions of drop-outs.“Children have lost the habit of reading and writing. Treating our children’s return to school as business-as-usual would be an irreparable loss to children and their lives and puts India’s future at stake,” said Shantha Sinha, former head of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights and a member of the coalition.Also Read: Delhi govt to provide free coaching to 15,000 students this year Among the recommendations made are regular coaching and mentoring of teachers, provision for additional learning materials for the reorganised curriculum, back to school enrolment drives, health and nutrition for children, regular and simple two-way communications with parents, school management committee members, teachers, members of local authorities and other primary stakeholders, and proactive management through district education emergency units and additional funds.Sajitha Bashir, another member and former global adviser for education to the World Bank, said, “Several countries across the world are modifying the curriculum and teaching methods to enable children to re-engage with education, focusing on core competencies, and providing extra resources and budgets, instructional time and effort to help the disadvantaged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/report-warns-of-deepening-inequalities-as-schools-reopen-101635920336267.html
03-11-2021||India||3 die in Bihar after consuming spurious liquor; 70 deaths so far this year||Three people have died in Bihar's Gopalganj, reportedly due to consuming spurious liquor, the police have said. They have reached Kushhar village in Gopalganj and have launched an investigation into the incident, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.Three other people fell ill after consuming the spurious liquor, Livehindustan further reported quoting Suprintendent of Police Anand Kumar. They are being treated in Champaran, he added.The bodies of three deceased people have been sent to Gopalganj Sadar hospital for post-mortem, which will determine the exact cause of death.This comes days after eight people died and several others fell ill in a similar incident in Muzaffarpur district. This has come as a shock to authorities where total prohibition is in place for five years.The incident took place in Rupauli village under Saraiya police station on October 28. Two persons, including a member of the local panchayat samiti, were arrested in connection with the incident, police said.From January to October this year, 70 people died and many others lost their eyesight after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in Nawada, West Champaran, Muzaffarpur, Siwan and Rohtas districts, according to government figure.Interacting with the media during his 'Janata Ke Darbaar' programme on Monday, chief minister Nitish Kumar appealed to people to cooperate with the government to curb such incidents as liquor is "bad for health and the society"."I know majority of people are in favour of the prohibition in the state. A handful of residents violate it," he said.The Nitish Kumar government had banned the manufacture, trade, storage, transportation, sale and consumption of liquor in the state on April 5, 2016. In September, the state government slightly tweaked its policy, which narrowed the area to be sealed in case of liquor haul.According to modifications in Bihar Prohibition and Excise Rules, 2021, instead of sealing the entire premises, only the portion from where recoveries are made would be sealed.The relaxation, however, would not apply in case of detection of liquor manufacturing or bulk storage from any premises or sale/purchase and supply from there. In that situation, the entire premises would be sealed as per provisions of the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-die-in-bihar-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-70-deaths-so-far-this-year-101635919871384.html
03-11-2021||India||PM Modi to meet officials of 40 districts with low Covid-19 vaccination numbers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold a review meeting on Wednesday with senior officials from at least 40 districts that are seeing a significant lag in Covid-19 vaccination for adults, according to people familiar with the development.During the review meeting, which will also be attended by several chief ministers, the Prime Minister will interact with district magistrates (DMs) representing districts where less than 50% of the adult population has received at least one shot of a Covid-19 vaccine, and also those ones that have very low second-dose numbers, officials said.According to government data, a total of 48 districts are seeing a lag in vaccination coverage as they are yet to administer even a single shot to more than half of their adult population at a time when the national average for such coverage is around 78%. Also Read: India logs 11,903 fresh Covid-19 cases; active caseload lowest in over 8 monthsAt least 38% of the country’s population has received the second dose of a Covid-19 vaccine.“Immediately after returning to the country after attending the G20 summit and COP26, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting with districts having low vaccination coverage, on November 3 at noon via video conferencing. The meeting will include districts with less than 50% coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of Covid vaccine,” according to an official statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office last Sunday.“The Prime Minister will interact with district magistrates of over 40 districts in Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, and several other states with districts having low [Covid-19] vaccination coverage. Chief ministers of these states will also be present on the occasion,” the statement said.To speed up the second-dose coverage, the Centre has asked the states to take up door-to-door vaccination campaigns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-officials-of-40-districts-with-low-covid-19-vaccination-numbers-101635919856135.html
03-11-2021||India||Bihar adds about 20k seats in colleges in bid to raise enrolment ratio||Bihar government has approved addition of nearly 20,000 seats in undergraduate colleges in four universities to meet the demand and expand higher education capacity in the state, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar has been consistently emphasising the need to increase gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education in the state and the decision is significant in this regard. This will ensure that the students don’t have to wander due to lack of seats in colleges,” the minister said.In higher education, the GER in Bihar continues to be low at around 15%, compared to 27.4% at the national level in 2017-18, according to the All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE). In comparison, Tamil Nadu recorded 49% GER. The present enrolment figures also includes those studying through distance mode. Under the new education policy, the target is to take GER to 50% nationally by 2035, for which Bihar will have to make a lot of efforts.Besides, Bihar grapples with a serious shortage of teachers in its higher education institutions, which are at present functioning at around 50% of the sanctioned strength with assistance from ad hoc appointments. Though Bihar state university service commission has started the appointment process, it may take a long time to complete.“With increase in the number of seats, the sanctioned strength of teachers, which has remained unchanged for decades, will also need to be raised to maintain teacher-student ratio and the government should think in that regard. The appointed process should also be sped up, as by the time a new batch of teachers join, greater number retire,” said KB Sinha, working president of the federation of university teachers association of Bihar (FUTAB).Maximum 10,200 seats have been added to the 41 colleges under Lalit Narayan Mithila University, spread across Darbhanga, Madhubani and Samastipur, followed by 4,736 seats in 19 colleges of JP University (Chapra) and 3,388 seats in 11 colleges of TM Bhagalpur University.Also Read: Electricity in Bihar may get cheaper as tariffs likely to be revisedIn the four colleges of Patna University, 505 seats have been increased including 180 seats in Patna College, 260 seats in Patna Women’s college and 60 seats in Patna Science College. College of Art and Craft in Patna has also got 15 additional seats.In 2010-11, the government had decided to increase the number of seats in colleges following the plan to de-link intermediate from colleges in a phased manner, in keeping with the national policy. However, except Patna University in 2007, none of the universities could delink intermediate from colleges and later the government developed cold feet.At present, the number of students passing the higher secondary examination to qualify for admission in degree colleges has increased manifold since 2005-06. In 2021, around 13.65 lakh students registered for the plus two board exams from the state board. The number is likely to further go up, requiring more seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-adds-about-20k-seats-in-colleges-in-bid-to-raise-enrolment-ratio-101635918116220.html
03-11-2021||India||Rising dengue cases: Centre sends teams to nine states, union territories||The country’s health ministry has rushed high-level teams to nine states and union territories that are seeing an escalation in dengue cases, in order to help them take urgent public health measures to control the vector-borne disease and manage the situation, according to a government statement.The high-level teams have been deployed to Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, New Delhi, and Jammu and Kashmir.“This [move] is in accordance with directions from the union health minister, Dr. Mansukh Mandaviya, during a review meeting on the dengue situation in Delhi on November 1, 2021,” the health ministry said in the statement. At the review meeting, Mansukh Mandaviya directed the health ministry to extend all help necessary to the states and union territories where dengue infections are on the rise. A total of 1,16,991 dengue cases have been reported in various states and union territories across the country, according to government data.Also Read: One more person dies from dengue in MohaliA significantly higher number of dengue cases were reported in some states in the month of October, as compared to the number of infections reported during the same month the previous year. A total of 15 states and union territories have reported their highest number of dengue cases this year. They contributed to 86% of the country’s total number of dengue infections until October 31.“In view of this, central teams consisting of experts from the national vector-borne disease control programme, the national centre for disease control, and regional offices have been sent to nine states and union territories that are reporting more cases in October compared to September,” the health ministry said in the statement.The teams are tasked to assist and support the affected states to launch an effective public health response to the escalating crisis. The teams will have to report on the status of vector control, the availability of kits and medicines, early detection of dengue cases, the availability and use of insecticides, and the status of anti-larval and anti-adult vector control measures. The experts will also brief the state health authorities about their observations, any gaps that they spot, and possible solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-dengue-cases-centre-sends-teams-to-nine-states-union-territories-101635916495990.html
03-11-2021||India||Explained: PM Narendra Modi’s commitments at COP26 summit on climate change||In one of the most ambitious targets by a developing country to combat climate change, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that India will achieve net zero carbon emissions by 2070. The announcement, made at the UN-led COP26 climate change summit in Glasgow, will push the developed world to enhance climate finance for the 2021-2030 period.The Indian PM also made it clear that rich countries will have to provide $ 1 trillion in climate finance to the developing world to achieve its climate change mitigation targets, while speaking out in support of vulnerable island nations that are in the danger of submerging because of rising sea levels. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO), a UN body, had said that the global sea level rose by a factor of two - that is, 4.3mm per year - between 2013 and 2021, and the rate of rise is expected to jump further in the coming decade due to rising carbon emissions.India’s five-point climate action plan, which PM Narendra Modi described as “panchamrit (five values)”, is set to give a firm push to India’s plans for increasing renewable energy, and switching to electricity and hydrogen fuels for transport. Also Read: Biden feels not attending COP26 may have cost China influence on world stageIndia is No. 4 in the world when it comes to installed renewable energy capacity, and its non-fossil fuel energy has increased by more than 25% in the last seven years, reaching 40 % of country’s energy mix this year.However, India will continue to grow on fossil fuels for another 20 years, and only after that, its emissions will start to fall, show various studies done on the country’s energy basket. All this will also depend a lot on technology transfer from the western world and the installation of new green energy hubs in India.Here’s an explainer on what India committed at the COP26 climate change summit in Glasgow.Net zero by 2070A paper done by Montek Singh Ahluwalia, then vice-chairperson of the now dissolved Planning Commission, which was released in October 2021, says India’s emissions can peak around 2035 and then move towards net zero sometime between 2065 and 2070. But another paper, done by the Council for Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), says India will have to peak by 2040 to achieve its target of reaching net zero by 2070. For this to happen, the CEEW said coal-based power generation must peak by 2040 and then come down. The CEEW also said solar electricity generation will have to go up to 5,630GW by 2070, while the wind energy will be second biggest contributor by providing 1,792GW by 2070. To achieve net zero, the share of electric cars and the contribution of biofuels for heavier vehicles will have to reach 84% by 2070, the CEEW said, adding that the majority section of industry will have to shift to cleaner biofuels or hydrogen.As of 2019, India installed a capacity to generate about 134GW of clean energy from solar, wind and nuclear sources, the Centre for Science and Environment said. India, as of today, has about 210GW of coal-based capacity – with 39GW under construction and another 25GW in various stages of approval. “Reducing the life [span] of [such] plants to 25 years can help in achieving net zero,” Montek Singh Ahluwalia said. There is unanimity among energy experts that India’s dependence on coal will have to be cut drastically in the next 10-15 years to achieve its net zero target, and the country will have to swiftly switch to cleaner fuels.Ahluwalia also warned that phasing out coal will have financial implications for poor states such as Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Jharkhand, Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. In Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, for example, close to 15% of the state revenue comes directly and indirectly from the mining sector. In addition, these states will lose out on employment as new employment opportunities in the renewable energy sector will be created in western and southern India, which have better solar and wind resources.With India aiming to cover one-third of its geographical area with trees and forest cover, the country’s carbon reducing capacity will go up considerably. Forests can absorb up to 20 % of carbon emissions, according to an environment ministry study conducted in 2011 when India’s green cover was about 24% of the its geographical area. With the green cover increasing, the country’s carbon sequestration ability will also improve.Also Read: Xi Jinping sends written statement to COP26, China alleges video link not givenNet zero basically refers to the balance between the quantity of greenhouse gases emitted and the quantity removed from the air. A country is said to have reached net zero when the quantity of greenhouse gases it adds to the atmosphere is equal to the quantity it manages to remove from the air - cancelling each other out.Net zero was the most hotly debated subject at the COP26 talks in Glasgow as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) had said achieving net zero by 2050 is a must to limit an overall global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius to pre-industrial levels by the end of 2100. India is the fourth largest emitter of greenhouse gases after China, the US and the European Union bloc, and according to the IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report released on August 9, it will be among the most severely affected countries.500GW of non-fossil fuels by 2030This target is easier said than done even though India has prepared a road map for having installed capacity to generate 450GW by 2030. In an analysis for the 500GW target, the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said India’s Central Electricity Authority (CEA) has done a projection for the country’s energy mix for 2030 that shows it will need to have solar energy installed capacity of 280GW and wind energy installed capacity of 140GW. The rest of the energy needs will come from nuclear. This would mean India will produce half of its energy requirements from renewables, which PM Narendra Modi promised at the COP26 summit. According to the CEA, India’s total installed electricity capacity will be 1,100GW by 2030. The CSE said that target is achievable if India stops investing in coal. Cutting carbon emissions by 1 billion tonnesModi announced in Glasgow that India will reduce projected carbon emissions by 1 billion tonnes (Gt) between 2021 and 2030 - but that does not mean India will cut emissions. It basically means 1 billion tonnes of lesser emissions from the business-as-usual scenario. According to the business-as-usual scenario, India’s projected carbon emissions by 2030 will be 4.48 billion tonnes, almost double its present emissions, according to the CSE. This would mean a 22% reduction in carbon emissions.India’s projected emissions in 2030 would be 3.48 billion tonnes, just 9% of the remaining carbon budget of 400 billion tonnes. Of the total global emissions, India’s share will be a relatively small 8.4%, while China and the US will continue to be two biggest carbon emitters, the CSE said.In per capita terms, it would mean India will have emitted 2.98 tonnes of CO2 in a business-as-usual scenario, and going by this target, it will be 2.31 tonnes per capita, less than that of any industrialised country in the world including China. As of today, India’s per capita emissions is 1.98 tonnes of CO2. If you compare this to the world, the US per capita emissions will be 9.42 tonnes in 2030, EU 4.12 tonnes in 2030, India’s will be 2.7 tonnes in 2030 and China’s will be 8.88 tonnes per capita. According to the IPCC, global CO2 emissions must be 18.22 Gt in 2030 for the world to limit the rise in the overall temperature to under 1.5°C.Reducing carbon intensity by 45%Carbon intensity measures emissions of CO2 for per unit of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). So, reducing carbon intensity means India will emit less carbon for its economic growth and its adaptation of cleaner technologies in various sectors of the economy. According to the CSE, India has achieved 25% of emission intensity reduction of its GDP between 2005 and 2016, and is on course to achieve more than 40% by 2030. Achieving 45% won’t be difficult considering India would be meeting half of its energy demand from cleaner technologies by 2030, and there is a broad hydrogen road map for the country to adopt over the next 10 years.India has taken measures to reduce emissions from the transport sector, and the energy intensive industrial sector - especially cement, iron and steel, non-metallic minerals and chemical, which contribute about 30% of the total emissions. In the coming years, India will have to make the measures stringent and force industries to comply with them, Ahluwalia said in his paper. The CEEW said that India will have to reinvent its mobility systems to move people and goods in a more efficient manner. “India can significantly reduce its carbon intensity by giving incentives to adopt hydrogen as fuel for new industries and for non-peak hours,” said Chandra Bhushan, CEO of I-Forest.Climate financeThe United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) defines climate finance as money from government, private and alternate sources of financing. Climate finance is needed for mitigation because large-scale investments are required to significantly reduce emissions. It is also needed for the adaptation process, as significant financial resources are needed to adapt to adverse effects and reduce the impact of changing climate, according to the UNFCCC.Modi categorically said the developing world expects developed countries to provide climate finance of $1 trillion at the earliest to meet net zero targets and adopt a cleaner growth trajectory. Till end of 2020, the rich countries were able to provide $80 billion dollars of climate finance. In 2009, developed countries pledged to raise $100 billion a year by 2020 to help developing countries deal with the impact of climate change. The finance ministers of rich countries at a G20 meeting pushed back the year to 2023 in a bid to end a possible deadlock at the Glasgow summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-pm-narendra-modi-s-commitments-at-cop26-summit-on-climate-change-101635914035710.html
03-11-2021||India||India logs 11,903 fresh Covid-19 cases; active caseload lowest in over 8 months||As many as 11,903 fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were detected in the country in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative infection count to 34,308,140, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Wednesday. The ministry also noted that the national active caseload declined further to 151,209, falling by 2567 cases, and is at its lowest in 252 days, comprising just 0.44 per cent of the total case count. This figure is the lowest since March 2020, MoHFW said in a statement.Also Read | Covid-19 spread: Countries which reported zero cases in last 24 hoursWednesday's bulletin further showed that daily recoveries from the illness stood at 14,159, with the total number of such cases rising to 33,697,740. Daily fatalities were down to 311, as against 443 a day ago, taking the total toll to 459,191. Recoveries and related deaths comprise 98.22 per cent and 1.34 per cent of the overall caseload.Also Read | US gives final nod to Pfizer Covid-19 shots for kids aged 5 to 11Kerala, once again, was the largest contributor to new cases and deaths, logging 6444 (54 per cent) fresh infections and 187 fatalities (60 per cent) respectively. Also, the national daily and weekly positivity rate were recorded at 1.11 per cent and 1.18 per cent, respectively. Both continued to remain below the 2 per cent mark; the former for the last 30 days, while the latter for the previous 40 days.Meanwhile, 4,116,230 more doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered in the 24-hour period, with the number of doses administered thus far rising to more than 1.07 billion. Later today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual interaction with officials from more than 40 districts where the vaccination coverage is extremely low. Several chief ministers, too, are likely to attend this meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-11-903-fresh-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-lowest-in-over-8-months-101635911395890.html
03-11-2021||India||Watch: PM Modi plays drums in meeting with Indian community before his departure from Glasgow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday played the drums with members of the Indian community who were dressed in traditional kurta pyjamas and turbans, gathered to bid goodbye before his departure from Glasgow, Scotland. PM Modi was in Glasgow for the United Nations' COP26 World Leaders' Summit on climate change. He came back to India on Wednesday morning.As he departed from the hotel he was staying in Glasgow, Scotland, the Prime Minister was greeted by members of the Indian community. PM Modi interacted with several children, shaked hands and even gave high-fives. He was also seen holding one cheerful toddler.At the airport, PM Modi was greeted by members of the Indian community who bid him farewell to the accompaniment of the beats of drums and loud cheering. Some even sought autograph of PM Modi.Also read | 'Come join my party': Israeli PM Bennett tells PM Modi, calls him 'most popular person'#WATCH PM Modi plays the drums along with members of the Indian community gathered to bid him goodbye before his departure for India from Glasgow, Scotland(Source: Doordarshan) pic.twitter.com/J1zyqnJzBWDuring his visit, PM Modi held several bilateral meetings with his counterparts from the UK, Israel, Nepal, Italy, France among others. At the COP26 Summit, the Prime Minister announced five "amrit tatva" including the target to attain net-zero emissions by 2070.He also said that India will increase its non-fossil energy capacity to 500 GW and meet 50 per cent of its energy requirements through renewable energy by 2030.COP26 is being held from October 31 to November 12 under the Presidency of the UK partnering with Italy. The high-level segment of COP26, titled the World Leaders' Summit (WLS), was held from November 1-2. Heads of state/government of more than 120 countries attended the summit.On Saturday and Sunday, PM Modi participated in the G20 summit in Rome. He also met outgoing German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Indonesian President Joko Widodo here on the sidelines of the G20.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-pm-modi-plays-drums-in-meeting-with-indian-community-before-his-departure-from-glasgow-101635907887278.html
03-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to meet officials of districts with low vaccination coverage and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: PM Modi to meet officials of over 40 districts with low vaccination coverageAs per a PMO statement, these districts are of states including Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, and others. Read moreAbove normal rain in Peninsular India likely in NovemberRainfall in November is likely to be above normal (>122% of LPA) in South Peninsular India, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreT20 World Cup: India face an Afghan spin testHaving had a couple of nights sleep to digest the implications of their dismal showing, India will resume their campaign against Afghanistan on Tuesday. Read moreShah Rukh Khan kisses baby Suhana Khan in her priceless birthday post, Gauri Khan features tooSuhana Khan is in the US but made sure she sent her love to her father Shah Rukh Khan, who celebrated his 56th birthday on Tuesday. Read more2021 Maruti Suzuki Celerio to launch on November 10Bookings opened on Tuesday and prospective customers can make use of both online as well as offline channels to pay the ₹11,000 reservation amount. Read moreKatrina Kaif in tie-dye corset and skirt set promotes Sooryavanshi on Kapil Sharma ShowKatrina Kaif promotes Sooryavanshi on The Kapil Sharma Show wearing a gorgeous tie-dye printed corset and skirt set. Read morePlaying drums to interacting with kids: Watch how PM Modi ended his Glasgow tripPM Modi met members of the Indian diaspora and played drums along with the drummers at Glasgow before his departure for India. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-101635906673177.html
03-11-2021||India||PM Modi arrives in Delhi after Italy, UK visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Delhi on Wednesday after concluding his official five-day visit to Italy, the city-state of Vatican, and the United Kingdom, for which he left India on October 29. This was his third visit to foreign shores during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic; he was in Bangladesh in March this year, and in the United States in September. #WATCH | Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi returns to the country after concluding his visit to Rome (Italy), Vatican City and Glasgow (Scotland). pic.twitter.com/COHyvgSjCXDuring this latest tour, Italian capital Rome was PM Modi's first destination, followed by Vatican City and Glasgow (UK), respectively. In Rome, the Prime Minister attended the G20 summit, besides holding a bilateral meeting with the host and Italian counterpart Mario Draghi. In Vatican City, which is surrounded by Rome, he met Pope Francis and extended invitation to him to visit India.Finally, in Scotland's largest city of Glasgow, PM Modi attended the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26). He also met world leaders such as his UK and Australian counterparts, Boris Johnson and Scott Morrison, among others. US billionaire Bill Gates, too, called on PM Modi. At 12 noon today, the Prime Minister will hold a virtual interaction with officials from more than 40 districts where the coverage of the ongoing nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive has been extremely low, according to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). A number of chief ministers are also likely to attend the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-arrives-in-delhi-after-italy-uk-visit-101635908101896.html
03-11-2021||India||Above normal rain in Peninsular India likely in November||Rainfall in November is likely to be above normal (>122% of LPA) in South Peninsular India, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The LPA (Long Period Average of rainfall over 50 years) in the region in November from 1961 to 2010 has been about 117.46 mm.The spatial distribution forecast suggests normal to above normal rainfall in most parts of South Peninsular India. Below normal to normal rainfall is likely in parts of north, northwest, and central India. Normal to above-normal rainfall is most likely in the remaining parts of the country, IMD said on Tuesday.Presently, La Niña conditions are prevailing over the equatorial Pacific Ocean and neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions over the Indian Ocean. The latest global model forecasts indicate the La Niña conditions are likely to continue until March 2022 and neutral IOD conditions during the upcoming seasons, IMD said. Normally, during La Nina conditions, rainfall is normal or below normal during the northeast monsoon in southern Peninsular India. But this time rainfall is expected to be above normal because of the favourable location of Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO). “MJO is near Africa now. It will move towards the Indian Ocean. With this the cyclonic potential will be more in the Indian Ocean region and easterly waves will strengthen. Therefore, we are expecting above-normal rain over South Peninsula,” said DS Pai, who heads climate research and services at IMD, Pune.Due to the impact of La Nina, minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to be considerably below normal (by 1 to 2 degrees) in most parts of the country including northwest India. “Our extended range forecast indicates below normal temperatures over most parts of the country,” Pai said.La Niña refers to the large-scale cooling of the ocean surface temperatures in the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean, coupled with changes in the tropical atmospheric circulation--winds, pressure and rainfall. It usually has the opposite impacts on weather and climate as El Niño, which is the warm phase of the so-called El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO).Also Read: Delhi’s AQI to hover around 300 for the next few days, says IMDENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods, and drought. In India, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon. La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above-average rains and colder winters.The MJO is an eastward moving disturbance of clouds, rainfall, winds, and pressure that traverses the planet in the tropics and returns to its initial starting point in 30 to 60 days on average, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Its location and amplitude strongly modulate the intensity of tropical convection and features like low-pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean.The changes in the Sea Surface Temperature conditions over the Pacific and the Indian Oceans are known to influence the Indian climate. IMD is carefully monitoring the evolution of sea surface conditions over these Ocean basins, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/above-normal-rain-in-peninsular-india-likely-in-november-101635909114546.html
03-11-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath govt’s last Deepotsav at Ayodhya set to be grandest||Nine lakh diyas (earthen lamps) will be lit on the fifth and grandest edition of Deepotsav in Ayodhya on Wednesday and is likely to be the last mega event of the Yogi Adityanath government before the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.The celebrations will also include an aerial show by 500 drones that will draw Ramayan era scenes on the temple town’s skyline through animation and stimulation. Other attractions will be a 3-D holographic show, 3-D projection mapping and laser show at the majestic Ram ki Paidi ghat on the banks of River Saryu.The Ayodhya Deepotsav will attempt another Guinness Book of World Record today by lighting at least 7.51 lakh earthen diyas and the tourist department and Ayodhya administration are planning to light Nine lakh lamps as an insurance against any potential disappointment.Around 12,000 volunteers, mostly students of Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Ayodhya, have been engaged for the lighting of diyas event. Another three lakh diyas will be lit across the city at various maths and temples.UP governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and union tourism minister G Kishan Reddy will be the chief guests at the event. This year too, the chief minister will receive artists playing Lord Ram and Goddess Sita at the Ram Katha Park. The artistes dressed up as the deities will descend at the venue from a helicopter to recreate the event of Lord Ram’s return to his kingdom of Ayodhya after 14 years of exile.Also Read: Vantangiyas look forward to celebrate Diwali with UP CMIn 2020, the Ayodhya administration created a new world record by lighting 6,06,569 diyas at the Ram ki Paidi Ghat, breaking its own record of lighting 4,10,000 diyas in 2019.After storming to power in UP in March 2017, the Yogi Adityanath regime has been celebrating Deepotsav in Ayodhya every year on the eve of Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-govt-s-last-deepotsav-at-ayodhya-set-to-be-grandest-101635908694537.html
03-11-2021||India||Dengue outbreak: Centre sends central teams to 9 states, union territories||The Union health ministry has deputed central teams of experts in nine states and union territories (UTs) to assist them in managing outbreak of dengue. These teams will provide technical guidance, including public health measures, to health authorities in states.The decision was taken after Haryana, Punjab, Kerala, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir reported a considerable number of dengue cases.“A total of 15 states/UTs are reporting their maximum cases in the current year; these states contribute 86% of the country’s total dengue cases till October 31,” the Centre said in a release on Wednesday.Expert teams include officials from the National Centre for Disease Control and National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme."It has been decided by the competent authority to depute central teams to the identified states to assist the state governments by providing technical guidance, including public health measures, for managing the ongoing outbreak of dengue," an office memorandum sent to principal secretaries (Health) and directors general of health services of the nine states and UTs.Over 1,530 cases of dengue have been reported in Delhi this year so far, of which nearly 1,200 were recorded in October alone, the highest count for the month in the last four years.In Maharashtra's Pune, the municipal corporation reported 168 cases of the vector-borne disease in the month of October. Though it's less than the 192 dengue cases the city recorded in September, the drop is marginal.The disease has already claimed 33 lives in Chandigarh. In fact, the number of dengue cases reported in October this year is even higher than the annual caseload in the previous three years across the tricity.The emergency wards in hospitals are overflowing with patients suffering from fever.The number of dengue cases is already close to 1,000 in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad. Nearly 68 per cent of these cases have come in the month of October, according to health department.Dengue viruses are spread to people through the bites of infected Aedes species mosquitoes. Once contracted, the infection leads to fever, body ache, nausea, vomiting, and in severe cases, internal bleeding or a fatal drop in blood pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dengue-outbreak-centre-sends-central-teams-to-9-states-union-territories-101635905113977.html
03-11-2021||India||India’s demands for a new finance goal wins support||Several developing countries backed India’s demands at the COP26 climate summit for a new finance goal to support the energy transition they will require to cut greenhouse gas emissions, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged developing countries to not let the promise of financial assistance remain hollow.This new goal will be for the period after 2025, by when developed countries may have delivered on their promised $100 billion funding that was supposed to begin in 2020 but hasn’t till now. Economists said climate finance has always been an important issue in negotiations but at Glasgow, there could be major backlash from developing countries on unfulfilled finance promises.India, in its updated nationally determined contribution, may make some of its contributions conditional to climate finance. “That is still being discussed,” a senior official from the Indian delegation said.Union environment minister, Bhupender Yadav, who is heading the Indian delegation, said at a meeting of the Like Minded Developing Countries that climate finance cannot continue at levels decided in 2009, which is $100 billion. It should be at least $1 trillion, he said -- a view that was supported by others.Guinea, on behalf of G77 and China, raised the importance of climate finance for the success of the COP26 talks and for the effective implementation of NDCs.Bolivia, which represented the LMDCs, said the developed countries’ pledge made in 2009 to mobilise $100 billion per year by 2020 has not come through and the timeline has now been shifted to 2025. Developing countries, meanwhile, are being pushed to raise their ambition on climate actions, it added further.The Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) highlighted that $1.6 trillion went to subsidising fossil fuels globally since the adoption of the Paris Agreement and asked for a decision at COP26 to call for phasing out all fossil fuels subsidies in major economies by 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-demands-for-a-new-finance-goal-wins-support-101635902597479.html
03-11-2021||India||'Come join my party': Israeli PM Bennett tells PM Modi, calls him 'most popular person'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met his Israeli counterpart Naftali Bennett on the sidelines of the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow on Tuesday. A video of their interaction was tweeted by the official Twitter account of the Office of the Prime Minister of Israel. In the video, Bennett praised PM Modi saying: "You are the most popular person in Israel".In a light-hearted conversation, Bennett also invited the Indian Prime Minister to “come join my party” and the two were seen sharing a laugh.PM Modi and Bennett's maiden formal meeting came after their brief interaction on Monday during the climate conference. During their meeting on Tuesday, they reviewed the bilateral ties besides exchanging views about expanding cooperation in areas of high-technology and innovation.Also read | UK PM Boris Johnson 'cautiously optimistic' about COP climate deal"Glad to have met, yet again, PM @naftalibennett. We had fruitful talks on boosting India-Israel friendship in sectors such as research, innovation and futuristic technologies. These sectors are critical for empowering our youngsters," PM Modi tweeted.Prime Minister Bennett described the "deep relationship" between India and Israel as one coming from the heart and not being about interests and urged Modi to work together to take the bilateral ties to "a whole new level"."I want to thank you. You're the person who restarted the relationship between India and Israel, which is a deep relationship between two unique civilizations – the Indian civilization, the Jewish civilization – and I know it comes from your heart. It's not about interests; it's about a deep conviction that you harbour and we feel it," Bennett told Modi at the meeting.PM Modi also extended an invitation to Bennett to visit India as he recalled that next year would mark 30 years of the establishment of full diplomatic relations between India and Israel."Next year will be the 30th anniversary of the diplomatic relation between India and Israel and in this context, PM Modi invited Naftali Bennett to visit India," said foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shrigla during a press conference on Tuesday."Prime Minister Bennett said that he had visited India about three times in the past in his capacity as a minister in the government of Israel but he will be delighted to visit India in the first quarter of 2022," Shringla added.The Prime Minister was in Glasgow, where he attended the COP26 events and held bilaterals with several leaders. The Prime Minister is now on his way back to India. "Departing after 2 days of intense discussions about the future of our planet. India has not only exceeded Paris commitments but has now also set an ambitious agenda for the next 50 years," he said in a tweet.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-join-my-party-israeli-pm-bennett-tells-pm-modi-calls-him-most-popular-person-101635900213371.html
03-11-2021||India||Covid-19: PM Modi to meet officials of over 40 districts with low vaccination coverage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday hold a virtual meeting with senior officials of more than 40 districts across the country, where the Covid-19 vaccination coverage has been sluggish. According to reports, a number of chief ministers are also expected to attend the meeting, which is scheduled to take place at 12 noon.As per the release by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the meeting's primary focus would be districts where less than 50% of the adult population has received at least one shot of the vaccine and those that have low coverage of the second dose. According to the statement, these districts are of states including Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, and others.As per government data from October 27, with 16.1%, Nagaland’s Kiphire has the lowest coverage of at least one dose of the vaccine. This is followed by Bihar's Araria with a slightly better number (49.6%). North West district in Delhi (48.2%), Aurangabad (46.5%), Nanded (48.4%), Akola (49.3%), Deoghar (44.2%) and West Singhbhum (47.8%) are some of the prominent districts among the identified 48 districts that have to catch up to the national average, according to government data.Meanwhile, India's overall vaccination coverage exceeded 1.07 billion (107,25,41,626) on Tuesday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday. The authorities inoculated more than 37 lakh (37,38,574) vaccine doses in a single day (on November 2) till 7pm.India has administered a cumulative 73,61,08,324 first vaccine doses while 33,64,33,302 second doses, the data by the Union ministry showed.On Monday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said 78 per cent of India's eligible population has been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while 38 per cent have received both shots.The government launched a countrywide vaccination program on January 16. During the first phase of the drive, only healthcare workers and frontline workers were allowed to take the jab. The drive was later expanded to all above 18-years of age in the following phases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pm-modi-to-meet-officials-of-over-40-districts-with-low-vaccination-co-101635901245637.html
03-11-2021||India||Strong CMs behind bypoll wins: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday described the outcome of the bypolls held in 29 assembly constituencies across 13 states and in three Lok Sabha constituencies as an endorsement of the incumbent governments barring the exception of Himachal Pradesh where the party lost all three assembly seats it contested and did not win the single Lok Sabha seat as well. Senior party leaders also emphasised that the outcome is not a reflection on the performance of the BJP at the Centre.While it managed to win all five seats in Assam, the party’s performance in Himachal Pradesh, which goes to polls in 2022, and where the BJP is in power, Rajasthan where it emerged third and fourth in the two assembly seats where bypolls were held, and in Karnataka, where it lost a seat in Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai’s hometurf has sounded an alarm.A senior party leader said the outcome in Himachal is a consequence of the Jairam Thakur government having failed to counter grievances. “There is a perception that the government was not seen to be addressing the issues of price rise, which has clearly gone in the favour of the Congress party. The other issue was the decision of not giving tickets to kin of party leaders,” added this person, a senior leader based in Delhi. Thakur attributed the loss to inflation, but it is clear that he may have to take the blame for the loss.
03-11-2021||India||Key victories for Congress but challenges remain||For the Congress—a party currently jockeying with several other parties for the leadership in the Opposition space—the results of the latest round of by-elections are a mixed bag.Sure, it won all three assembly seats and a Lok Sabha seat in Himachal Pradesh, won two assembly seats in Rajasthan, and one each in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, but with Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress tightening its grip over West Bengal by sweeping all four assembly seats at stake, including two that earlier belonged to the Bharatiya Janata Party, its advantage may be minor, analysts say.The TMC is already testing waters in Goa.Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Every victory for the Congress is a victory of our party worker. Keep fighting hate. No fear!”The victories are important for the principal Opposition party ahead of assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab early next year. Congress leaders quickly underlined that the party did well against the BJP where the two were in direct contest, but downplayed the dominance of the BJP and its allies in the North East (where they won all 10 assembly seats at stake) and the BJP’s win in two out of three assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh.“BJP has lost 2 out of 3 seats in the Lok Sabha by-elections. Even in the assembly elections where there is a direct contest between the Congress and the BJP, the BJP has lost. Himachal, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Maharashtra are proof of this. Mr. Modi, Leave the kingdom! Take back the black laws. Stop looting of petrol-diesel-gas,” tweeted Randeep Surjewala.Of the three Lok Sabha seats that went to the polls, the Congress wrested one from the BJP, while the Shiv Sena, a Congress ally in Maharashtra won another. The BJP won the third.For the Congress, winning seats in states where it is in a direct fight with the BJP is important, analysts said. Congress insiders maintain that if the party can perform well in these direct contests, it can stabilize its leadership position in Opposition bloc and also challenge the BJP more meaningfully.Still, Trinamool’s success in Bengal helps chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s cause in national politics theatre, said a senior TMC leader. The party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee wasted no time in tweeting, “A cracker free Diwali in true sense. Wishing folks at BJP a very Happy Diwali!”A senior Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity, “The big victory for the Congress ahead of the polls is significant. It will also help us set our tone for the upcoming polls. But the challenge of dealing with a more powerful Trinamool also becomes more important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-victories-for-congress-but-challenges-remain-101635899158444.html
03-11-2021||India||As Covaxin awaits WHO approval, here's list of countries where it is cleared||The technical committee of World Health Organization (WHO) will meet on Wednesday to discuss the issue of giving Emergency Use Listing (EUL) to made in India Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. The committee had on October 26 sought additional clarifications from Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech.The technical advisory group for EUL is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a Covid-19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use.Bharat Biotech has been stuck in a regulatory loop, with independent technical experts of the UN health body taking longer to analyse the data that previously disclosed timelines.So far, the WHO has approved six vaccines - Pfizer/BioNTech's Comirnaty, AstraZeneca's Covishield, Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, Moderna's mRNA-1273, Sinopharm's BBIBP-CorV and Sinovac's CoronaVac.Yet, there are many countries which have given approval to Covaxin to ease international travel and allow passengers to enter their geographies. These are:• Guyana• Iran• Mauritius• Mexico• Nepal• Paraguay• Philippines• Zimbabwe• Australia• Oman• Sri Lanka• Estonia• GreeceEarlier, a WHO decision on Covaxin EUL was expected on October 5, after the global health body sought additional information on September 27.Experts said it may just be a matter of time before a EUL is granted to Covaxin.The travellers, who have been administered Covaxin and intend to go to the United States or the United Kingdom, will have to wait for the WHO nod, or approval from the European Union (EU). These countries haven't also individually approved Covaxin yet.Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic Covid-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the new Delta variant. The Bharat Biotech said that it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials.Meanwhile, India's cumulative vaccination coverage crossed 1.07 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covaxin-awaits-who-approval-here-s-list-of-countries-where-it-is-cleared-101635897929788.html
03-11-2021||India||Mapping a clean October, and what could lie ahead...||Indians, especially in the northern plains, have so far been spared the toxic air they usually breathe with the end of the monsoon. The windfall of a delayed pollution season is not the result of proactive steps to control pollution. It was mostly delayed rainfall and farm fires, the latter also a result of delayed paddy procurement. None of these factors means that this year will not see a spike in pollution levels. In fact, there is enough data to show that pollution levels and factors which contribute to it are already seeing a spike.October 2021 air was better than October 2020 in most statesIn terms of concentration of PM 2.5, October 2021 was a better air-quality month than October 2020 in most Indian states. This is especially the case for northern India. If one were to look air quality in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the region most infamous for farm-fire driven spike in pollution levels, October was at least 25% cleaner than what it was last year. To be sure, some states in the eastern and southern region did see a rise in pollution levels. However, it needs to be kept in mind that air-quality in southern and eastern states is generally much better than what it is in the northern plains. For example, Odisha saw the highest increase in PM 2.5 concentration between October 2021 and October 2020. However, its average PM 2.5 level in October 2021 was 37 microgram per cubic metre, much lower than Delhi, where PM 2.5 levels declined by 43% between October 2021 and October 2020, but were still at an average of 72 microgram per cubic metre.Rainfall and temperature responsible for clean air in OctoberEven if emission of pollutants doesn’t decrease, the weather can improve air quality. This may be because of rainfall, which washes away pollutants; or a higher temperature or windy conditions, which prevent accumulation of pollutants close to the ground. A combination of these factors helped in improvement of air quality this October in the northern states. Of the six states where air quality has worsened, in four – Assam, Maharashtra, Odisha, and Telangana – October 2021 rainfall is 29% to 65% less than October 2020. In West Bengal and Kerala, where rainfall was more and farm fires aren’t a big issue, maximum temperatures have decreased, and perhaps aided the worsening of air quality.But pollution levels have been rising since the last week of OctoberAs the factors which led to pollution levels being lower than last year dissipate – rains have stopped, temperatures have started falling and farm fires have increased – air quality is already deteriorating in the northern plains. Air quality in last week of October 2021 was closer to the more polluted October 2020 levels than in the first three weeks of last month. With a rise in farm fires, this is only expected to get worseFor most of October, fires in Punjab and Haryana, as observed by satellites, were lower than the number observed at this time of the year in the past. The sum of such fires in the two states from October 1 to October 30 was 14,822. This is the lowest number of fires since 2012, the earliest year for which the data is available from the Suomi-NPP satellite. The only year in the last 10 years with when the number of fires was not in the 20,000-30,000 range is 2018, when 18,512 fires were observed in the first 30 days of October. This situation changed dramatically on October 31. There were 3,140 such fires on the day, still only 7th highest in the last 10 years but comparable to the number of fires observed every year on the day.Pollution data is not as representative as rainfall or temperature dataHT has been using the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) gridded databases to analyse rainfall and temperature patterns in India. When it comes to pollution, the analysis unfortunately cannot be as comprehensive as temperature and rainfall. This is because availability of pollution data is contingent on functioning monitoring stations over a longer term. Unfortunately, there are still very few of them in India.There are currently 312 stations spread over 156 cities. Just 19 cities account for half of these stations and three alone -- Delhi (40 stations), Mumbai (21 stations), and Bengaluru (10 stations) -- account for nearly a quarter of these stations. Not all of these stations have worked consistently. This is a big problem in looking at long-term pollution levels. The analysis given here has used data from just 185 stations across 109 cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mapping-a-clean-air-october-in-delhi-and-what-could-lie-ahead-101635895525036.html
03-11-2021||India||DSP prisons, school principal in Jammu and Kashmir sacked for ‘terror links’||Jammu and Kashmir government has terminated the services of two more senior officers -- a deputy superintendent in J&K prisons department and the principal of Government Girls Higher Secondary School --- for their alleged links with terrorist organisations.In the past one year, the government has sacked more than a dozen employees and officers for their links with militancy.Feroz Ahmad Lone, deputy superintendent of jails, J&K prison department, and Javid Ahmad Shah, principal, Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Bijbehara, have been terminated from services on the orders of J&K Lt Governor, Manoj Sinha.Sources in the government said that after a high-level meeting, the government decided to sack both employees for their links with militant groups. The termination orders have been issued by the government in terms of Article 311.“The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied after considering the facts and circumstances of the case and on the basis of the information available that the activities of Mr Feroz Ahmad Lone, deputy superintendent jail S/o Abdul Gaffar Lone R/o Futlipora, Chari Sharef, are such as to warrant his dismissal from service,” the order said.“The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the state, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Mr. Feroz Ahmad Lone, Deputy Superintendent Jail S/o Abdul Gaffar Lone R/o Futlipora , Chrari Sharief , Budgam,” the order added.Similar termination orders were issued in the name of Javid Ahmad Shah of Eidgah Bijbehara Anantnag by the Lt Governor Manoj Sinha.Sources said that Lone, who was appointed in government service in 2012, had links with former Hizbul Mujahideen operational chief, Riyaz Naikoo, who was killed in an operation in Pulwama last year. Sources said he had hatched criminal conspiracy with militant commanders to send youths illegally into Pakistan/PoK, for weapons’ training and later to get them back into Kashmir for the acts of terrorism.Javid Ahmad Shah was appointed as lecturer in 1989 and had rose to become the principal Bijbehara school. Sources said he was sympathiser of Hurriyat and Jamat-e-Islami (JeI).Last month, J&K government had terminated the services of the grandson of separatist leader, Syed Ali Geelani. Anees ul Islam was working as a research officer in Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre (SKICC).More than a dozen government employees have been already terminated for anti-national activities on the instructions of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha in J&K. Among them were the two sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahudin. They were sacked along with 11 government employees in July.The LG had set up a special task force for this purpose in April this year, to scrutinise and recommend cases under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India and recommended removal of officials from government service over militants links.The earlier dismissal of employees had attracted sharp reaction from mainstream political parties and employees unions, who said the employees have been terminated on flimsy grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsp-prisons-school-principal-in-jammu-and-kashmir-sacked-for-terror-links-101635885952036.html
03-11-2021||India||‘Raghupati Raghav’, ‘Vaishnav Jan’ to be sung in schools : Chhattisgarh government||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh government has mandated mandatory recitation of “Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram” and “Vaishnav Jan to Tene Kahiye Ji” hymns in schools across the state, officials said on Tuesday. “These two favourite hymns of Gandhiji will be recited regularly in the schools of Chhattisgarh. This will inculcate good values and thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi among school students”, said chief minister Bhupesh Baghel. Baghel said the aim to also to pay tribute to the eminent personality.“The spirit of social unity and harmony will be strengthened among the children of the state through the thoughts of Mahatma Gandhi,” said Baghel. Baghel also stressed the need to imbibe the basic spirit of Gandhiji’s favourite hymns and adopt them in everyday life.“The relevance of Gandhiji’s favourite hymns has increased in the changing socio-political environment all over the world. National unity and social harmony are the basic nature of India and to make politics a medium of service, it is the duty of all of us to feel the pain of the needy, victims, and the underprivileged and ensure helping them in every possible way”, Baghel said. In September, the Chhattisgarh government decided to develop an ashram in Nava Raipur along the lines of Mahatma Gandhi’s Sevagram ashram in Wardha to promote the ideals of Mahatama Gandhi. The government claimed that rural art, craft, folk music and other artisans will be promoted and experts will also visit the ashram to provide guidance. The government is also planning to open an old-age home and a school for underprivileged kids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raghupati-raghav-vaishnav-jan-to-be-sung-in-schools-chhattisgarh-government-101635881989005.html
03-11-2021||India||Bypolls an endorsement of incumbent governments : BJP||NEW DELHI: The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday described the outcome of the by polls held in 29 assembly constituencies across 13 states and in three Lok Sabha constituencies as an endorsement of the incumbent governments barring the exception of Himachal Pradesh where the party lost all three assembly seats it contested and did not win the single Lok Sabha seat as well. Senior party leaders also emphasized that the outcome is not a reflection on the performance of the BJP at the centre. While it managed to win all five seats in Assam, the party’s performance in Himachal Pradesh, which goes to polls in 2022, and where the BJP is in power, Rajasthan where it emerged third and fourth in the two assembly constituencies where bypolls were held, and in Karnataka, where it lost a seat in Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai’s hometurf of Hanagal has sounded an alarm. A senior party leader said the outcome in Himachal Pradesh is a consequence of the Jairam Thakur government having failed to counter grievances against price rise, control infighting in the state unit, and erring in ticket distribution.“There is a perception that the government was not seen to be addressing the issues of price rise, which has clearly gone in the favour of the Congress party. The other issue was the decision of not giving tickets to kin of party leaders. While the intent was to create a level playing field, in Jubbal-Kotkhai for instance, the BJP candidate ended up in the third place with a mere 4% vote,” added this person, a senior leader based in Delhi. Thakur attributed the loss to inflation, but it is clear that he may have to take the blame for the loss. A second leader of the BJP said the election results have reiterated the need for strong local leadership. “States where the chief ministers are strong, the by-poll results have gone in their favour. Take the case of Assam and Madhya Pradesh. In MP amid reports of severe anti-incumbency CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan campaigned aggressively and took measures to mitigate public anger; his election campaign was centered around communities especially the marginalised tribes and castes.” Winning Prithvipur and Jobat, both seats held by the Congress has come as a shot in the arm for Chouhan and taken the focus off the loss the party faced in Raigaon which was held by the BJP. The BJP also won the Khandwa Lok Sabha by poll. BJP leader and in-charge of MP, Muralidhar Rao, said the party’s victory was in response to the successful pro people policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Chouhan. “The people’s welfare policies have won the seal of public approval.” The party’s loss in Rajasthan has been exacerbated by the wide margins of loss and the shrinking vote share. “There is need to rejig the party apparatus in the state. The local unit is fraught with infighting. Despite the central leadership’s intervention, the unit has not been able to put asides its differences and fight as a cohesive unit,” said the first functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-an-endorsement-of-incumbent-governments-bjp-101635880969453.html
03-11-2021||India||YSRCP retains Badvel seat, big loss for BJP, Congress||The ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh has retained the Badvel assembly seat in the October 30 by-election with a record majority of more than 90,000 votes over near rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the result of which was announced on Tuesday.YSRCP candidate Dr Dasari Sudha, a practising doctor, was declared elected with a huge margin of 90,411 votes over Panathala Suresh of the BJP. While Sudha secured 112,072 votes, the BJP candidate polled only 21,661 votes. Congress candidate, former MLA P M Kamalamma, finished a poor third with 6,217 votes. Both the BJP and the Congress lost their deposits.The by-election was necessitated due to the death of Sudha’s husband and sitting MLA Dr Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah in March this year.“I am overwhelmed by the affection shown by the people of Badvel, who blessed me with double the majority my husband had got in the 2019 assembly elections. It reflects the people’s endorsement to the governance of our chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy,” Sudha told reporters after being declared elected by the returning officer.In the 2019 assembly elections, Sudha’s husband Subbaiah secured a majority of around 45,000 votes over then Telugu Desam Party (TDP) candidate Obulapuram Rajasekhar.The YSRCP victory was a foregone conclusion as the party has been representing the constituency for the last two terms. Moreover, Kadapa district has been the bastion of Jagan’s family since the days of his father, late Dr Y S Rajasekhar Reddy, former Congress chief minister.When YSR was alive, Congress dominated Kadapa, and after the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the Congress lost its hold as the party cadre shifted loyalties to the YSRCP. In the last general elections, the YSRCP won all the 10 assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats in Kadapa.This time, the TDP opted out of the contest on the grounds of upholding the tradition of not fielding a candidate against the spouse of the deceased MLA in any by-election. So did Jana Sena Party led by popular Tollywood actor Pawan Kalyan.The BJP and the Congress contested the Badvel by-elections, even though they lacked the strength to take on the YSRCP.However, the BJP campaigned extensively only to test its strength. Several BJP leaders, including state party president Somu Veerraju, BJP national general secretary Daggubati Purandeshwari, BJP national in-charge of AP Sunil Deodhar, MPs C M Ramesh and G V L Narasimha Rao and BJP state secretary Satya Kumar campaigned for the BJP candidate.Congress candidate Kamalamma said the polling in Badvel did not take place in a free and fair manner. “The YSRC leaders intimidated the rivals, rigged the elections by bringing voters from neighbouring areas and influenced voters with its money and muscle power,” she alleged.The BJP leaders could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrcp-retains-badvel-seat-big-loss-for-bjp-congress-101635880790739.html
03-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu plans to apply for payment bank licence, says PTR||The Tamil Nadu government is planning to seek a payment bank license to help monitor the disbursal of funds from the government treasury efficiently until it reaches the right beneficiary of various welfare schemes. This is part of the several measures being undertaken by the state finance department so that funds meant for social welfare schemes do not lay idle, aren’t delayed and so that the money earmarked for the same isn’t shifted and parked elsewhere. “The payment banking license system is a minor step, not a complicated step,” said state finance minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Monday while interacting with reporters. “We have already integrated with three or four banks. It will increase data transparency and cut middlemen, and of course, it will expand the reach because many people don’t have accounts in just these four banks.” He added that they state could also use interfaces like UPI, Google Pay to disburse money to the beneficiaries. He said that the process would take a few months, roughly 18 months after the state submits necessary papers. “We have to build the infrastructure first and meet the standards of the Reserve Bank of India.” The finance minister said that a special task force constituted by Tamil Nadu’s ruling DMK tracked funds to the tune of ₹1,946.31 crores unutilised by various district administrations and departments, which can be immediately remitted back to the government treasury. This comes after the minister, in his maiden budget presented in August, had announced the formation of such a task group under the finance department to reconcile the accounts and identify funds that have lapsed and can still be utilised. He had then raised the issue of government funds being shifted to accounts outside the view of the treasury system which they have now tracked. The details of bank accounts where government money was parked as of March 31 this year were collected from multiple sources like banks, district collectors, government departments and other quasi-governmental entities. “The ₹2,000 crore that can be remitted back to the treasury is just a trailer…I don’t want to commit any amount but I am sure several thousand crore rupees will be remitted back to the government account in the next few months as the task force continues to analyse,” he said, addressing a press conference in the state secretariat. The task force’s tenure has been extended till March 31, 2022, to continue with auditing. To ensure that these funds do not remain idle in the future, Rajan said that the state government was putting in place a state-level public financial management system (PFMS) in association with agency banks to track the flow of funds allocated under government schemes from the state exchequer till they reach beneficiaries including pensioners, government servants receiving salaries, recipients of scholarships and final payments for works and supply of goods and services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-plans-to-apply-for-payment-bank-licence-says-ptr-101635880789591.html
03-11-2021||India||AIADMK plans protest over Mullaperiyar dam water storage on Nov 9||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on Tuesday announced that they would hold a protest in five districts of Tamil Nadu on November 9 to condemn DMK’s ruling over the store and release of water in the Mullaperiyar dam.The party accused the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) of succumbing to Kerala’s compulsions and failing to store water up to the permitted 142 feet level in the dam. A joint statement released by AIADMK leaders, O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami said late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s efforts led the Supreme Court to pass a judgment allowing water to be stored up to a level of 142 feet in the dam in 2017, and after maintenance and strengthening work, water could be stored up to 152 feet. The AIADMK said that the DMK released water when it was only at the level of 138 feet. “The dam is under the control of Tamil Nadu. We would like to remind seasoned politician-minister (for water resources) S Duraimurugan that raising shutters in the presence of Kerala ministers as witnessed amounts to questioning the rights of Tamil Nadu,” AIADMK’s statement read. “The DMK’s indifference to the (apex court) order is condemnable.” The party would stage protests in the headquarters of Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram. Stating that the Mullaperiyar dam is crucial to the economy, irrigation needs and livelihood of farmers in these districts, the AIADMK said that the DMK was being inconsiderate to these people. Irrigation and drinking water needs of tail-end districts of Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram could be met only if water is stored up to 152 feet, they added. Last Friday, the Tamil Nadu water resources department said that two spillway gates of the Mullaperiyar dam were opened to release 500 cusecs of water as rains continue to pound the catchment areas. This is being done strictly as per the rule curve approved by the central water commission, the department’s statement said, adding that Tamil Nadu is drawing water through the tunnel to Vaigai dam continuously to maintain the water level (AT?). Last Wednesday, Stalin said that the state is drawing the maximum quantity of water in the Mullaperiyar dam as requested by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Stalin was responding to Vijayan’s letter received on October 24 where he urged for a gradual release of water from the dam through the tunnel to Tamil Nadu fearing that the water would accumulate in the dam as rains intensified in Kerala. Earlier in June, Duraimurugan had said that the Tamil Nadu government has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to instruct the ministry of Environment, forest, and climate change to advise Kerala not to delay in giving the required clearances to carry out the works and to restore the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam to full reservoir level (FRL) of 152 ft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-plans-protest-over-mullaperiyar-dam-water-storage-on-nov-9-101635880728439.html
03-11-2021||India||JD(U) retains 2 seats in Bihar; Congress sweeps Rajasthan||The Janata Dal United retained both the Kusheshwar Sthan and Tarapur assembly seats in Bihar in the bypoll results on Tuesday in an election marked by the return of RJD Chief Lalu Prasad Yadav to Bihar after a four year hiatus, and a break in the RJD-Congress relationship. At Kusheshwar Sthan, JDU candidate Aman Bhushan Hazari beat the RJD’s Ganesh Bharti by a comfortable 12695 vote margin, with the Congress candidate Atirek Kumar in fourth place, polling just 5623 votes. In Tarapur, the results were much closer, with counting swaying this way and then the other, with the JDU candidate Rajeev Kumar Singh eventually emerging on top by 3821 votes, beating Arun Kumar of the RJD. With the bypolls necessitated by the death of the two sitting JDU candidates, RJD leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav said, “We accept the people’s verdict. The sympathy factor worked at both the places.” An upbeat Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, meanwhile said, “In democracy, people are the judge and people have given their verdict. I thank people for the verdict.” In Huzurabad in Telangana’s Karimnagar district, there was also good news for the BJP with Eatala Rajender wresting the seat from the TRS, winning by a margin of 23,865 votes. Rajender secured 1,06,213 votes, while the TRS candidate polled 82,348 votes. Congress candidate Balmuri Venkat, president of state NSUI, ended up with just 2,767 votes, thereby losing his deposit. With the Rajender’s victory, the BJP’s tally in the 119-member Telangana state assembly went up to three. The by-election is necessitated due to the resignation of Rajender, who was state health minister and quit the TRS and joined the BJP in June this year. He was earlier sacked from the state cabinet by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on May 2 on charges of land encroachment, prompting an election that was seen as almost a personal contest between Rajender and the Chief Minister. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh’s Badvel constituency however, there was more humbling news for the BJP with the YSR Congress candidate Dasari Sudha beating Panathala Suresh of the BJP by a wide 90,533 vote margin. In Rajasthan, there was better news for the Congress which won both the Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad seats, wresting the latter from the BJP. In Vallabhanagar, Preeti Shaktawat beat RLP candidate Udailal Dangi with a 20606 vote margin, with the BJP finishing fourth. In Dhariawad, Nagraj Meena of the Congress beat Independent Thawar Chand with a victory margin of 18725 votes, with the BJP in third. “Congratulations and best wishes to Preeti Shaktawat, and Nagaraj Meena, for their victory in the assembly by-elections. Gratitude to the voters of both the constituencies and congratulations to the workers and leaders of the Congress party,” Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said. In Maharashtra’s Deglur, Congress’s Jitesh Antapurkar won the bypoll defeating Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Subhash Sabne by more than 41,000 votes. The victory was considered to be important for the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the backdrop of its emberassing defeat in the Pandharpur bypoll in which BJP had wrested the constituency from Nationalist Congress Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jdu-retains-2-seats-in-bihar-congress-sweeps-rajasthan-101635880672482.html
03-11-2021||India||Kerala HC says ban on pets in residential areas illegal, asks state to step in||Kerala high court on Tuesday observed that clauses in by-laws of the residential associations and management that ban owners and tenants from keeping pet animals of their choice in their apartments are “illegal and unconstitutional”. A division bench of Justice AK Jayasankaran Nambiar and Justice P Gopinath, while hearing a petition of People for Animals (PFA) questioning such provisions, said, “Our coastal state, which announces itself to be the ‘god’s own country, cannot be seen denying just privileges to its animal inhabitants.” The court agreed with the PFA’s contention and said any clause in by-laws or the agreement of resident associations and builders banning pet animals in apartments should be treated as void and unenforceable law. Resident associations and resident welfare committees should also desist from putting up boards and notices prohibiting the keeping or entry of pets in their respective premises, the court said. “Time has indeed come to nudge our citizenry into respecting the claims of other living beings that too have right in our shared ecosystem. Compassion and empathy towards other living beings are the essences of civilization and we must try to preserve these values as part of our culture,” the court observed. The court also said the state should take steps to inculcate the spirit of accommodation towards animals and start awareness programmes at the school level to realise this. The state government also agreed that denying permission to occupants to keep pets of their choice while infringing their fundamental right would also hamper the fundamental freedom of animals as recognised by the law of land.In its petition, the PFA, represented by K S Hariharaputhran and Bhanu Thilak, said the association is being flooded with complaints from many pet owners after residential associations put undue restrictions on them. It also said such associations can not frame rules and regulations contrary to the law of the country. It also pointed out that many pet owners were forced to abandon their pets, and it was a cognizable offence under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. A posh apartment in East Delhi was in news last month after many residents accused the management of harassing them for keeping pets during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-says-ban-on-pets-in-residential-areas-illegal-asks-state-to-step-in-101635880671929.html
03-11-2021||India||Justice Chandrachud rues delay in bail releases||The delay in communicating bail orders to convicts and people under trial is a “serious deficiency” of the criminal justice system that must be addressed on a war footing, Supreme Court judge, justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, said on Monday.Justice Chandrachud, who is chairman of the E-Committee of the Supreme Court, was speaking at an online event organised by the Allahabad high court to inaugurate virtual courts (to settle traffic offences), and 76 e-Sewa kendras to facilitate online legal assistance to litigants.“This is a very serious deficiency in our criminal justice system, that of delay in communication of bail orders, which we need to address on a war footing,” justice Chandrachud. “This touches upon the human liberty of every under-trial or a convict who has got a suspension of sentence pending the hearing on criminal appeal.”A recent example to illustrate the delay observed by the Supreme Court judge relates to the case of Bollywood actor Shahrukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, who spent an extra day at Mumbai’s Arthur Road jail in a drug case despite securing bail from the Bombay high court. The bail order was signed on October 28 but the release memo could not be typed out by the trial court on time.As a result, the delivery of the release order got delayed, leading to the process being completed the following day.To be sure, justice Chandrachud did not refer to this or any other specific case during the event.However, earlier this year in July, the top court came down hard on delays in executing bail orders by jail authorities after the Court came across a four-day delay to release 13 convicts of Agra Jail on bail.A bench headed by CJI NV Ramana rebuked the prison authorities for causing delay and said, “We are in a time when we use information technology tools, and we are still looking at the skies for pigeons to communicate orders... It is too much that prisoners have to wait even after the Supreme Court has granted bail as jails are insisting on the bail order to come by post.”The Supreme Court last month introduced a mechanism for speedy communication of bail orders to prisons under an electronic transmission channel known as FASTER (Fast and Secured Transmission of Electronic Records) -- an initiative that came about while the court was considering a suo moto petition based on a news report published in July where release of convicts on bail was delayed by jail authorities in Agra for want of verification of the court’s order (may be redundant if same as above).By an order passed in September, the Court directed Chief Secretaries of all states and union territories to extend internet facility in all jails to ensure the e-certified copies of Supreme Court can be accessed under the FASTER system, and asked the director generals of all prisons to ensure successful implementation of the initiative.During the online event on Tuesday, also attended by the chief justice of the Allahabad high court Justice Rajesh Bindal and other high court judges, justice Chandhrachud spoke about an e-custody certificate started by the Orissa high court. “Every under-trial and every convict who is undergoing a sentence of imprisonment would have an e-custody certificate tagged to them. That certificate will give us all data with regard to that particular under-trial or convict, right from initial remand to the subsequent progress of each case. This will also help us in ensuring that bail orders are communicated as soon as they are made,” justice Chandrachud said.The judge, who has been a champion of human liberty, has in the past expressed similar views when it comes to release of prisoners on bail. Last November, a bench of the Supreme Court headed by him held a special sitting and granted bail to journalist Arnab Goswami and two others in an alleged abetment to suicide case.While ordering the release of the three, the bench said, “We are dealing with a person’s liberty. If this court is not to interfere today, we are treading on a path of destruction of liberty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-address-delay-in-communicating-bail-orders-on-a-war-footing-justice-chandrachud-101635880670784.html
03-11-2021||India||Constable killed, cop injured as rain lashes Chennai||A woman constable posted at the state secretariat in Chennai died while another policeman got injured after a tree fell on them Tuesday morning, the police said. The large tree, which is near chief minister MK Stalin’s cell, was uprooted due to rainfall around 9 am. The deceased constable has been identified as Kavitha, while the injured policeman, Murugan, was rushed to a government hospital, a police official said. Following the incident, Tamil Nadu director general of police (DGP) C Sylendra Babu visited the spot and supervised the tree removal conducted by the fire and rescue personnel. Chief minister Stalin granted ₹10 lakh as solatium to Kavitha’s family and paid respects to her body. He also visited the injured policeman at the hospital. The incident comes a day after 32-year-old software engineer Mohammad Yunus got killed after hitting a pothole on Chennai’s busy arterial road Anna Salai. The Tamil Nadu highways department, which maintains the road, has begun work on Tuesday to cover several potholes along the road, the police said. Barricades were also put up over the newly-covered potholes on the road. CCTV footage of the accident shows the techie, who was riding a two-wheeler on Anna Salai skid, losing his balance and falling under the rear wheel of a government bus (Metropolitan Transport Corporation-MTC) amid heavy rainfall on Monday. Soon after the accident, the Guindy traffic police rushed to the spot and found the victim dead. The highways department has said that the pothole was caused by a private company, which provides internet and dug up the road to lay the cables. “We haven’t made any arrests yet as we are discussing who is accountabe and who should be named as the accused,” said inspector Kamala Devi of the Guindy traffic police. “Three sections are involved – the highways, the private company and the bus driver.” Tamil Nadu government declared a holiday for schools in nine districts including Chennai, Chengalpattu, Mayiladuthurai, Kancheepuram, Cuddalore, Villupuram and Ariyalur after northeast monsoon picked up pace in the state. Schools for Class 1 to 8 reopened on November 1 as educational institutes were shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A holiday was also announced for colleges in Chennai, and the city was inundated in several parts. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in its bulletin on Tuesday noted that there has been significant rainfall over the past five days and warned of heavy to very heavy rainfall in districts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. According to the observations of the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) as of 5.3-pm on Tuesday, Cuddalore received the highest rainfall of 116.3 mm, Coimbatore received 35.8 mm rainfall and Chennai witnessed 41.2 mm rainfall. “The next 48-hours, there will be thunderstorms with moderate rains, heavy at times in some areas,” said a statement from the RMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constable-killed-cop-injured-as-rain-lashes-chennai-101635880669507.html
03-11-2021||India||Kerala high court grants bail to Swapna, 7 others in UAPA case||The Kerala high court on Tuesday granted bail to Swapna Suresh and seven others in the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with sensational gold smuggling.A division bench of justices Vinod Chandran and C Jayachandran granted bail after several rounds of hearing. Besides Suresh, those getting bail in the case, include Mohammed Shafi P, Jalal AM, Rabins Hameed, Ramees KT, Sharafudeen KT, Sarith PS and Mohammed Ali.While Suresh had earlier secured bail in cases registered by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Customs in connection with the gold smuggling earlier, she will be released after spending 15 months in prison. Suresh’s mother hailed the decision, saying, “She is innocent and I feel she was made a pawn by others.” Advocate Sooraj T Elenjickal, who represented Suresh, said the grant of bail in the NIA case, she can come out of judicial custody as her preventive detention under the COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) had been recently set aside by the high court.The senior lawyer, however, added that this may not be true for the other accused in the gold smuggling case. The detailed order is yet to be made available.NIA last year filed a charge sheet against 20 people under various sections of the UAPA saying proceeds from smuggling activities were diverted for anti-national activities. Additional solicitor general SV Raju, who appeared for NIA, opposed their bail petitions, saying they were kingpins behind a thriving smuggling racket and charges against them were grave. However, counsels for the accused contended that in the charge sheet filed after the completion of investigation, there was no mention of terror funding or involvement of transnational forces. The court relied upon an earlier observation of another bench in February that said mere act of gold smuggling, covered under the Customs Act, will not amount to a terrorist act under the provisions of the UAPA. The court also observed that smuggling was done for mere profit motive and that will not come under the ambit of the UAPA. Besides this, the trial in the case is not likely to begin in near future and they can’t remain in jail till then, the court said. The sensational gold smuggling case came to light in July 2020 after the seizure of 30 kg gold hidden in bathroom fittings in one of the consignments camouflaged as diplomatic baggage of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The case was later handed over to NIA and it arrested Suresh and her accomplice Sandeep Nair from their hideout in Bengaluru.Later, a multi-agency team headed by NIA started probing the case and 34 people were arrested. One of the alleged key funders of the smuggling racket, Rabins Hameed, was extradited from the UAE and another key suspect Faizal Fareed is still at large. The case invited enough embarrassment to the Left front government after the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was arrested by ED. He was later suspended before he secured bail from the high court.Though five central agencies (NIA, ED, DRI, Customs and Income Tax) were probing the case, other than initial arrests, investigation failed to make much headway, officials of the central agencies admit. Main beneficiaries and dispatchers are still at large and some politicians whose names cropped up in the course of investigation also remain untouched.The Union and state governments locked horns several times over the case and the latter even constituted a judicial commission against ED, a first of its sort, alleging bid to implicate many senior leaders including Vijayan in the case. However, the HC squashed the judicial commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-grants-bail-to-swapna-7-others-in-uapa-case-101635880668248.html
03-11-2021||India||BJP emerges victorious in Sindgi, Congress comes second||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) secured a victory in Sindgi, snatching another seat from the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), who had won the constituency in 2018. Ramesh Bhusanur of the BJP led from the very beginning in the seat that fell vacant after the demise of MC Managuli in January, further eroding the JD(S) numbers in north Karnataka where its presence is limited to a few stray seats. As per data from the ECI, the JD(S) managed to secure only 4,353 votes or 2.66% vote share.Bhusanur secured 93,865 votes with 57.31% of the vote share as against his closest competitor, Ashok Managuli of the Congress who managed to secure 62,680 votes or 38.27% of the vote share, data from Election Commission of India (ECI) showed at 3.45 pm. Managuli’s son, Ashok, had joined the Congress just before the bypolls, further aggravating the JD(S). Managuli lost the seat with a margin of nearly 30,000 votes, data from the election commission of India (ECI) showed. “Ramesh Bhusanur has won with a margin of over 30,000 votes which was beyond our expectations,” BS Yediyurappa, who had spent a few days campaigning in the constituency said on Tuesday. The Congress was banking on the sympathy wave to help Managuli’s son, Ashok, win the seat. But with no development platform, the campaigning had turned extremely personal between the senior leadership of all three parties.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had deployed its entire cabinet and senior leadership in both constituencies to help Bommai secure the first electoral battle since he took over as chief minister on July 28. “In Sindgi we were in third place (in 2018). Before Managuli died, he met us and showed interest in joining the Congress. Compare the previous elections and this one, if we see the votes, it is some satisfaction for us,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) said. Former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda too had campaigned in Sindgi, hoping to retain the seat with the regional party that appears to have come down to under 30 seats with recent losses and defections. “They called JD(S) as BJP’s “B” Team with malafide intent and the bypoll results is the right answer to them,” HD Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) leader and former chief minister had said. The JD(S) was also accused of fielding a minority candidate in both constituencies to split the Muslim vote and help the BJP win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-emerges-victorious-in-sindgi-congress-comes-second-101635880608350.html
03-11-2021||India||After Puneeth Rajkumar’s death, Karnataka plans guidelines for gyms||Days after the untimely demise of Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar, the Karnataka government is planning to bring in a guideline for gyms in the state. The 46-year-old actor passed away due to a cardiac arrest following an intense session at the gym on October 29. It still remains unclear if the intense training resulted in his death, but Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Monday said that the state government could bring guidelines for gymnasiums and fitness centres to meet any health-related emergencies at their premises. “After the untimely demise of Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar, several people have been asking me if exercising in gyms was safe at all. It is not right to think so due to stray cases,” he told reporters in Chikkaballapur. He said that he was getting a summary prepared by renowned cardiologists that would be provided to gymnasiums and fitness centers across the state. “The guidelines will be on the type of equipment to be used in the gym and training the trainers to handle an emergency with first aid training,” the minister said. Puneeth’s doctor Dr Ramana Rao, who diagnosed the actor hours before his death on Friday, said there was a strain in his heart. Rao said that Puneeth came to the clinic along with his wife complaining of weakness and didn’t mention any pain. Describing the death, sudden death, or cardiac arrest, Rao said that it is difficult to ascertain the reason for this untimely demise. “(On Friday) around 11.15 am or 11.20 am, Puneeth and his wife Ashwini came to the clinic. I took him almost immediately and he told me that he was just returning from the gym. He also said that apart from his usual routine, he did an additional session of boxing and used steam room extensively,” explained Rao. When Rao pointed out that the actor was sweating a lot, Puneeth said it was normal for him when returned from the gym. “Not to take any chances, within a minute, I checked his ECG. In the ECG we could see strain (in the heart), even though his heartbeat was normal. I didn’t want Appu (Puneeth) to hear this, so I told Ashwini to hospitalize him soon,” said Rao. On his way from the clinic to the hospital, the actor breathed his last.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-puneeth-rajkumar-s-death-karnataka-plans-guidelines-for-gyms-101635880370821.html
03-11-2021||India||Congress makes a dent in BJP bastion Hanagal||The Congress in Karnataka snatched victory in Hanagal constituency from the hands of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who has won here three times in the last five elections since 2004. The Congress had last won Hanagal in 2013.The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) managed only 927 votes according to data from Election Commission of India (ECI) at 9.30 pm. There were 529 votes for NOTA or none of the above options to express no confidence in any of the contesting candidates.CM Udasi has been the candidate from this constituency since 1985 when he was first elected as an independent and has since won five times from the seat. He had lost in 2013 when he followed BS Yediyurappa into the newly formed Karnataka Janata Party (KJP) which was later merged back with the BJP after the saffron outfit was routed in the 2013 assembly elections.The BJP’s loss in Hanagal is also seen as a ‘setback’ to chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, as it is the neighbouring constituency to his Shiggaon assembly segment in Haveri district, where he had extensively campaigned. This was also the first major electoral challenge for Bommai, after taking charge as CM in July this year.Reacting after the defeat, Bommai said,“In Hanagal, we did not get as many votes as we expected. We did fight but CM Udasi died and the votes that he used to get, we couldn’t”.Shivaraj Sajjanar of the BJP lost in Hanagal as he managed 80,117 votes or 46.5% of the vote share as against Srinivas Mane of the Congress who got 87,490 votes or 50.9% of the votes.While Bommai was gracious to acknowledge the good work done by Srinivas Mane, the Congress candidate, the loss is likely to hurt the chief minister and the BJP.Former chief minister and senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Tuesday said the defeat of the BJP candidate in Hanagal assembly bypoll is actually the defeat of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai as the constituency falls in his home constituency.Taking a dig at the BJP, the Congress stalwart in a series of tweets said, “In the Hanagal election, the actual BJP candidate was chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. The BJP lost in his home district. The fact is that the people have discarded him despite his emotional talks such as ‘I am the son of the soil’, ‘I will die here’ and ‘I am the son-in-law of this area’.” “I won’t say that this (bypoll result) is an indicator (for 2023). But this is a wake up call that people have used. People want change in Karnataka,” he further said.Hitting back at the Congress, BS Yediyurappa said that the party should not act like it has “achieved something great” as there is no doubt that the BJP would return to power in 2023 on its own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-makes-a-dent-in-bjp-bastion-hanagal-101635880369328.html
03-11-2021||India||Inspired by celebrities, organ donations record a significant increase in rural Karnataka||Convincing people of rural Karnataka, especially in north Karnataka, to donate organs has been a difficult task for officials over the decades. Thanks to celebrities who have come forward to pledge and donate their organs, the number of donors have increased in recent years, especially in smaller towns and villages. On August 20, 19-year-old Mahesh Revanasiddappa, a resident of Laad Mugali village of Kalburgi in north Karnataka, fell from the upper floor of the building and was declared brain dead. In the following days, his family’s decision to donate his organs gave a new life to four people. His liver was given to a 24-year-old, two kidneys went to two men aged 37 and 39 years while his corneas were donated to a person as well. According to officials of Jeevana Sarthakathe, the nodal agency for organ donations in the state, this was the third organ donation from Chirayu hospital in Kalburgi in two years, which according to them is an important sign. “For years, the number of organ donations from small cities has been very minimal, but this trend is changing. Small cities are coming up for organ donations,” said Lijamol Joseph, chief transplant coordinator for the state. One of the reasons for the increased awareness among the rural population has been celebrities pledging and donating their organs. “There is a big change in attitude. Earlier, we had to sit with families and convince them, but now they are coming forward to offer organs once they realize the medical condition of the family members,” said Joseph. She added the family of actor Sanchari Vijay coming forward to donate his organs has had a big impact. 38-year-old Vijay was declared brain dead on June 15, after he met with a motorcycle accident. “The decision of the actor’s family to come forward to offer his organs had made the headlines and this has helped spread the message among the rural areas, Joseph added. “The news (of actor’s organ donation) has traveled to the rural parts, and we see more people talking about it. This is a good sign. We are happy with how things are changing but as much awareness about organ donation is needed,” she said. Similarly, four corneal blind patients received eyesight, thanks to Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar. The actor’s eyes were donated on Friday afternoon soon after his demise. Doctors who extracted the eyes said that due to the lockdown, there has been a big reduction in the number of donations, and the actor’s gesture is expected to increase the numbers. The actor’s eyes were donated on Friday afternoon in keeping with his father’s promise. As of August, there are 5,056 patients listed for organ transplants. Out of this, 3,756 patients require kidneys, followed by 1,084 patients who need liver transplantation. There is a requirement for 113 heart transplants, 48 lung transplants and there are 22 patients who require both heart and lungs. As per the records of Jeevana Sarthakathe, the donations of organs had dropped drastically during the pandemic. While the state saw 105 donations in 2019, this number dropped to 35 in 2020. The increase in the number of donations in 2021 is however giving hope. Until August 2021, the number of donations has already gone past the numbers in 2020. Officials believe that if the number of donations could surpass the numbers in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inspired-by-celebrities-organ-donations-record-a-significant-increase-in-rural-karnataka-101635880368229.html
03-11-2021||India||JD(S) draws a blank; HDK slams Congress||The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) lost both bypoll constituencies on Tuesday despite former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and his former chief minister HD Kumarswamy campaigning in person.Niyaz Shaikh of the JD(S) could secure only 927 votes or 0.54% of the vote share in Hanagal while Naziya Angadi managed 4,353 votes or 2.66% of the share in Sindgi, according to the Election Commission of India (ECI) data at 8.20 pm on Tuesday.JD(S) had won Sindgi in 2018 but the seat fell vacant after MC Managuli died this January and his son, Ashok Managuli, decided to contest on a Congress ticket.“In both places, when you see the votes, the Congress got their answer for its allegations that we were trying to help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) win,” Kumaraswamy said.He was referring to allegations made by the Congress that the JD(S) had fielded two Muslim candidates and tried to bad-mouth the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to split the minority vote and tacitly help the BJP.Kumaraswamy said that their candidate was “hijacked” by the Congress in Sindgi. He also said that the party had problems even in identifying its own workers in these regions, indicating a lack of grassroot level connection beyond the Old-Mysuru region.Reacting on JD(S) losing both the constituencies, senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah said, “I had said in the beginning, just because you put up a minority candidate, they won’t vote for you. They are intelligent. They know that you have an internal understanding with communal forces.”Deve Gowda, after the defeat on Tuesday said that the BJP had spent more money than the Congress in these parts. He, however, stated that the JD(S) will undertake a state-wide tour and mobilise support for 2023.More importantly, the JD(S) lost another seat in the assembly that further brought down the regional outfit’s tally in the lower house.Since the 2018 assembly polls, three legislators defected to the BJP and three others have openly aired their intent to join the Congress. These three who have made up their minds to leave--Srinivas Gowda, GT Deve Gowda and Gubbi Srinivas--are from south Karnataka where the JD(S) draws most of its strength in numbers from.Despite never having secured a majority, since the turn of the century, JD (S) has allied with both national parties on various levels and Kumaraswamy was made chief minister even when the party had just 38 seats as against 80 of the Congress in the previous elections. But the party has been on a downslide ever since the 2019 assembly elections when Kumaraswamy’s son, Nikhil, lost in its stronghold of Mandya and Deve Gowda lost in Tumakuru.Analysts said that it was hard to rule out the JD(S) since they derive their strength from dissent in either party. The JD(S), a primarily Vokkaliga-backed party, won in regions outside of south-Karnataka only based on the candidate’s ability to win and not on the party symbol, they added.“Post 2019, there has been some deep churning within the party. There were a few people who left but many others did not leave immediately,” said a Bengaluru-based analyst, requesting not to be named.The analyst said that JD(S) had given tickets to disgruntled elements from both national parties which became a way to “self-sustenance” as it continues to “rise from the ashes” each time it appears to be on the brink of oblivion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jds-draws-a-blank-hdk-slams-congress-101635880310040.html
03-11-2021||India||Setback for BJP as party loses in Karnataka CM’s turf||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai suffered a significant setback as the Congress stole a victory in Hanagal in his district, Haveri, about 335 km from Bengaluru.Srinivas Mane, the Congress candidate, won after he secured 87,490 votes and 50.95% of the vote, defeating Shivaraj Sajjanar of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who won 80,117 votes.The BJP got 46.45% of the votes.The defeat in Bommai’s first electoral test added to speculation that all may not be well within the state unit of BJP.“I got all the cooperation from the leaders we asked,” Bommai said in Bengaluru, reacting to the defeat in Hanagal and seeking to scotch rumours that some in his own party may have wanted Sajjanar to lose. Some analysts partially attributed the defeat to the lack of support from the Panchamasalis, the largest sub-sect of the dominant Lingayat community, upset over an unfulfilled reservation-related request.The chief minister, who earlier claimed that the bypoll will be an indicator to the 2023 polls in the state, walked back his earlier statement. “These elections are fought on that particular time and issues so it doesn’t give a verdict to the entire thing. I have taken this election setback very seriously,” Bommai said.He listed three reasons for the loss; one was that the BJP did not get the same support that the party’s now deceased legislator, CM Udasi, did, second, the Congress candidates had done good work in the last 2-3 years, including during Covid-19.The BJP secured a resounding victory in the other assembly seat, Sindgi, defeating the Congress by over 30,000 votes. The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) has effectively lost another seat in the 224-seater lower house of the state legislature. MC Managuli of the JD(S) won this seat in 2018 but died earlier this year, necessitating the bypolls.DK Shivakumar, the KPCC president on Tuesday said that the BJP lost in Hangal despite being in power. “In Hangal, the result was as we expected. We thought we would win with a 10,000-15,000 difference. There was dissatisfaction against the BJP over price rise, corruption, and an incoherent government. Bommai and a dozen ministers camped there for a week. The neighbouring constituency is Shiggaon (Bommai’s constituency). He even made it a prestige battle, was present there, misused power, distributed money, but we still won,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition in the state assembly said.CM Udasi of the BJP died in June and his son, Shivakumar Udasi (BJP MP from Haveri-Gadag seat) demanded that the ticket be given to his wife. This, however, was not to be the case, adding to the already growing differences within the ruling party. Shivakumar Udasi was also overlooked during the recent reshuffle of the union cabinet. The loss piles the pressure on Bommai who has to cope with dissent, is perceived to be under the control of former CM BS Yediyurappa, and has to deal with allegations of a multi-million dollar corruption scandal in which the opposition Congress has accused Bommai of purchasing Bitcoins over ₹2600 crore and the growing clamour of reservation by dominant and marginalised communities. Bommai has borne the burden of assurances made by his predecessor, Yediyurappa.Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami, an influential seer of the Panchamsali, issued a veiled threat against the Bommai government and even mentioned that in both constituencies, Panchamasalis were the deciding vote.Vijayananda Kashyappanavar, the former Congress MLA and president of the Akhila Bharatha Lingayat Panchamasali Mahasabha said that in both constituencies, the BJP had not given a ticket to a member of this community. Even the election incharge and state industries minister, Murugesh Nirani, is from the same community and was overlooked for the post of chief minister, people familiar with the matter said. The BJP also lost another constituency Maski and saw its difference in parliamentary constituency Belagavi, about 4 lakhs in 2019, shrink to a few thousand, both in the May bypolls. “Losing Hangal is a big thing for the BJP. There was more focus on Hangal from the government ,” said A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/setback-for-bjp-as-party-loses-in-karnataka-cm-s-turf-101635880308695.html
03-11-2021||India||BJP retains MP LS seat; first win for Shiv Sena outside Maharashtra||In by-polls to three Lok Sabha seats, the Bharatiya Janata Party retained Khandwa in Madhya Pradesh but lost Mandi in Himachal Pradesh to the Congress. In Dadra and Nagar Haveli, the Shiv Sena registered its first ever LS victory outside Maharashtra, with the party’s Kalaben Delkar winning the seat .Her late husband, Mohan Delkar, died by suicide in a Mumbai hotel in February, and was the sitting independent MP from there. In his note he blamed top officials of the Union Territory, including the administrator Praful Patel for his death. A case has been filed in Mumbai on the basis of the 15-page letter and the statement of Delkar’s son. Kalaben Delkar defeated the BJP’s Mahesh Gavit by 51,269 votes. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut called it a “historic” victory for the party. “First step outside Maharashtra, giant leap towards Delhi via Dadra Nagar Haveli!,” he tweeted. With this victory, the Shiv Sena now has 19 MPs in Lok Sabha and is the sixth largest party in the house after the BJP, Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagham (DMK), YSR Congress and Trinamool Congress.From Mandi, Congress candidate, Pratibha Singh, wife of former chief minister, the late Virbhadra Singh, won by 7,490 votes, defeating BJP candidate Brigadier Khushal Chand Thakur (retd). A former two-term member of Parliament from Mandi, Pratibha polled 3,69,565 votes, while her BJP rival Brigadier Khushal Chand Thakur (retd) got 3,62,075 votes. The election was necessitated by the death earlier this year of Ram Swaroop Sharma from the BJP. Mandi is home district of Himachal chief minister Jairam Thakur, who accepted the defeat, said that sympathy factor for Virbhadra Singh who died in July this year, especially in the tribal areas of Kinnaur and Lahaul and Spiti worked in favour of the Congress. “The Congress also took benefit of the issue of rising prices,” he said. The BJP won Mandi seat in 2019 Lok Sabha elections by a margin of 3.5 lakh votes. In Madhya Pradesh’s Khandwa, BJP candidate Gyaneshwar Patil defeated Congress candidate Rajnarayan Singh by 81,500 votes. After death of senior BJP leader and five-time Member of Parliament (MP), Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan, BJP gave ticket to OBC leader Patil. In the 2019 Lok Sabha poll the winning margin for BJP was 2,4 lakh votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-retains-mp-ls-seat-first-win-for-shiv-sena-outside-maharashtra-101635880010055.html
03-11-2021||India||Income Tax department attaches properties linked to Ajit Pawar across 3 states||The Income Tax (I-T) department has provisionally attached properties allegedly linked to Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in Maharashtra, Delhi and Goa, officials aware of the matter said on Tuesday.According to officials in the investigation wing of Maharashtra’s I-T department, the value of the properties spread over the three states is ₹1,000 crore.The action was taken after the I-T department allegedly discovered details of unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore during searches carried out for five days in the first week of October at 70 premises of two Mumbai-based real estate groups, individuals, and entities allegedly linked to Pawar and his family in Mumbai, Pune, Baramati, Goa, and Jaipur last month.The department in a statement on October 15 said that incriminating documents mentioning the unaccounted income were found during the raids.Pawar’s lawyer Prashant Patil, however, said no property related to the deputy chief minister has been attached by the I-T department and he has also not received any notice. He termed reports of attachment of Pawar’s properties as baseless and misleading. Pawar has also denied the reports.“None of his properties were attached by the I-T department nor he has received any notice in this regard. The I-T department has sought clarification related to some issues. An appropriate response will be given on that particular letter. Appropriate action will also be taken through administrative and legal means… News coming in this regard in the media are baseless and misleading. The media should verify the facts before reporting and do not fall prey to any propaganda,”a statement issued by Patil said.The department is yet to issue any statement on the attachment but officials cited above said the action was taken under the Prohibition of the Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988. The attached assets include an office building at a prime location in Mumbai, a flat in an upscale Delhi locality, a resort in Goa, agricultural land, and a sugar mill in Maharashtra, the officials said.Funds obtained in a “dubious manner” were allegedly utilised for the acquisition of these properties, they added.Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former MP Kirit Somaiya alleged that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar and his family owned the properties attached. “The properties include Jarandeshwar sugar factory worth ₹600 crore, an office owned by Parth Ajit Pawar in South Mumbai worth ₹25 crore, a flat in south Delhi worth ₹20 crore, and a resort named NIlaya in Goa worth ₹250 crore. The properties... are owned by Ajit Pawar, his wife Sunetra, his mother, his son, sisters, and Mohan Patil, son-in-law.”HT could not independently verify the claim.After the searches last month, the I-T department claimed through a statement that there was a suspicious flow of funds allegedly involving an “influential family from Maharashtra,” without naming Pawar or his family. However, department officials who asked not to be named said the family in question was that of Ajit Pawar.The I-T department then carried out searches in the first week of October at the residences of Pawar’s three sisters and son, Parth, who is directly/indirectly linked to properties under tax department’s scanner.Pawar, after the searches, described the agency’s action “harassment”, and alleged government departments were being misused against his family for political reasons.The IT- department, however, has maintained that the searches led to the identification of transactions by business groups with a web of companies that, prima facie, appear to be suspicious.“A preliminary analysis of the flow of funds indicates that there has been an introduction of unaccounted funds in the group by way of various dubious methods like the introduction of bogus share premium, suspicious unsecured loans, receipt of unsubstantiated advance for certain services, collusive arbitration deals out of non-existent disputes, etc,” the agency said in its statement on October 15.It added the value of assets allegedly acquired through funds obtained in a “dubious manner” was about ₹170 crore. The department claimed to have seized unaccounted cash of ₹2.13 crore and jewellery worth ₹4.32 crore during the five-day search operation.Sharad Pawar reacted strongly to the searches, saying the action reeks of abuse of power. He linked it to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) reaction to his position on the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.The NCP is part of the Shiv Sena-led government in Maharashtra, which has had frequent run-ins with the BJP-led central government over the alleged misuse of central agencies.Ajit Pawar last month refuted allegations that he and his family bought the sugar factories for paltry prices. “There are no irregularities involved in the purchase of any sugar factories. The factories were auctioned following all norms,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-tax-department-attaches-properties-linked-to-ajit-pawar-across-3-states-101635879948264.html
03-11-2021||India||All is well in Punjab Congress, will win 2022 elections: Harish Rawat||Despite the ongoing conflict in Punjab Congress, party leader Harish Rawat on Tuesday said that all is well in the state and expressed confidence in its victory in the assembly elections next year.“I had said this earlier, the party is now functioning smoothly in Punjab. Whatever challenges there are, will be faced. I am confident this scenario will continue and you will see Congress win the elections,” Rawat told reporters after meeting Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, among others, here.Both Sidhu and Channi have been at loggerheads with each other over a few senior appointments in the Punjab cabinet.Rawat also expressed confidence in the leadership of the newly-appointed Punjab and Chandigarh units’ in-charge, Harish Chaudhary, saying it is taking the party towards victory in the state.“Harish Chaudhary is someone you can learn from. This is taking us towards victory in Punjab. Congress will win,” he said.Rawat, who earlier served as Punjab Congress in-charge, was replaced by Harish Chaudhary last week months ahead of the elections.Besides Sidhu and Channi, Rawat also met Chaudhary and Punjab Assembly speaker Rana K P Singh, all of whom visited Kedarnath after that.“We bow before all those who come for darshan of Kedarbaba. Whether it is all the leaders from Punjab, or (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi, I pray to Kedarbaba for the welfare of all and showing them a path to progress ahead,” Rawat said.Channi was appointed as the chief minister after his predecessor, Captain Amarinder Singh, resigned following a revolt by Sidhu and several ministers and legislators. However, the change of guard did not end the rift in the state Congress as Sidhu and Channi, who is the first SC chief minister of Punjab, are not on the same page over several issues.On Monday, Sidhu attacked politicians who offer ‘lollipops’ just ahead of the elections and urged people to give their votes on the agenda of Punjab’s welfare.Though the former cricketer did not name anyone, his speech was seen in Congress circles as a direct attack on Channi, who announced slashing of power tariff by ₹3 per unit for the domestic category and increasing the dearness allowance for the government employees and pensioners.Meanwhile, Sidhu shared a photo of his visit to Kedarnath on Twitter, saying: “Life is fragile, handle with prayer …. At Kedarnath, the heavenly abode of Lord Shiva ….Har Har Mahadev !”“Paid obeisance at the Kedarnath Shrine in Uttarakhand and prayed for the progress of Punjab and prosperity of its people,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-is-well-in-punjab-congress-will-win-2022-elections-harish-rawat-101635879713687.html
03-11-2021||India||Central Vista project: Kamladityya lowest bidder for V-P enclave||Kamladityya Construction Pvt Ltd (KCPL) has emerged as the lowest bidder for the construction and maintenance of the new Vice President’s enclave, part of the Central Vista redevelopment project, according to financial bids opened on Tuesday.The ₹214-crore project, which will come up on a 15-acre plot adjacent to North Block and abutting President’s estate, is expected to be complete within 10 months from the start of construction activity.As per the financial bids received by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), KCPL has quoted ₹206.49 crore, which is nearly 3.52% less than the government’s estimate of ₹214.03 crore for the construction of the V-P enclave.“The lowest bidder generally gets the contract, but a final decision in this regard will be taken by the Central Works Board,” a senior CPWD official said, asking not to be named.The selected construction firm will also be responsible for the maintenance of the complex for a period of five years.KCPL has its headquarters in Bokaro, Jharkhand. HT called up on the numbers available on the company’s website, but couldn’t contact company officials.CPWD, which is the nodal agency for the execution of the Central Vista Project, received six financial bids for the project -- of which five were higher than the department’s estimated cost. The second lowest bid received was of ₹220.02 crore from SAM India Builtwell Pvt Ltd.The other four companies which submitted the financial bids are: Ahluwalia contracts (India) limited ( ₹268.76 crore), DEE VEE Projects limited ( ₹238.86 crore), PSP projects Ltd (252.56 crore) and Swadeshi Civil Infrastructure Pvt Ltd ( ₹229.33 crore), according to CPWD officials.In August, 12 construction firms participated in the pre-qualification bids for the project of which only nine firms qualified to apply for financial bids.The enclave is the fourth main component of the ₹13,500 crore Central Vista redevelopment project. As per the proposed plan, the enclave will have the Vice President’s residence, secretariat, sports facility, guest house, and housing facility for security services and staff. Most of the buildings will be double storeyed (ground plus one) and the total built-up area will be around 20,000 sq m, as per the tender document.The initial project cost was ₹192 crore, as per the pre-qualification bid document.“The construction work is likely to start by December this year,” the CPWD official quoted above said.In October 2020, the Centre changed the land-use of the plot in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021 from transportation (bus terminal/parking) and recreational to residential for the redevelopment project. This change in land use has been challenged in the Supreme Court, and the apex court recently sought the Centre’s reply on the petition.In response to the petition, the Centre told the apex court last week that the Central Vista plots sought to be made the new residences of the Prime Minister and Vice President have never been open for any public recreational purpose. Explaining why the Vice President’s residence was proposed for construction on Plot No. 1, the Centre said, “This will in turn help in easing the traffic situation in Central Vista as the movement of Vice President will be mainly to the Parliament when in session. This will be well facilitated by the proposed Vice President Residence being in close proximity to the Parliament.” The matter will come up for hearing on November 16.Meanwhile, the construction work of the new Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue are in full swing. The new Parliament building is expected to be ready by October-November next year, while the revamped Central Vista Avenue will be ready by December.CPWD is in the process of awarding the work for the construction of first three buildings of the proposed Common Central Secretariat (a set of 10 buildings that will house all the 51 central ministries) to Larsen and Toubro Ltd. The construction and infrastructure major was the lowest bidder for the ₹3,254-crore project. L&T’s bid ( ₹3,141.99) was 3.47% less than the government’s estimated cost.The three buildings of the common secretariat will come up where Indira Gandhi Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) was earlier located. IGNCA has been temporarily relocated to the renovated Janpath hotel, and a new IGNCA complex will be constructed at Jamnagar House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-project-kamladityya-lowest-bidder-for-v-p-enclave-101635879708304.html
03-11-2021||India||Won’t attend meeting of senior regional security officials in India on Afghanistan situation: Pak NSA||New Delhi: Pakistan’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Moeed Yusuf on Tuesday said that he will not attend a meeting of senior regional security officials being hosted by India to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Besides China and Pakistan, countries such as Iran, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan have been invited to the meeting expected to be held in New Delhi on November 10. There are no plans to invite the Taliban to the meeting in line with the Indian government’s decision not to rush into recognising the current dispensation in Kabul.“I will not be going,” Yusuf told a news briefing in Islamabad after a meeting with his Uzbekistan counterpart Victor Makhmudov. He was responding to a question from a reporter on whether he would attend the meeting in India.“A spoiler cannot try to be a peacemaker,” he added, in an apparent reference to India.In response to another question, Yusuf said that Pakistan has identified India as a hurdle to regional efforts to establish peace and security.“Pakistan has said repeatedly that if India is prepared to move forward, then we will also be ready. But there are some prerequisites and an enabling environment for moving forward,” he said.Among the prerequisites is addressing the Kashmir issue, he said, adding that he didn’t see how the two sides could move forward in view of the Indian government’s policies and ideology.The Indian side earlier planned to convene a similar meeting in April, with the participation of the former Ashraf Ghani government. However, this was scrapped due to the second wave of coronavirus infections in India and the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan at the time.India recently participated in a meeting of the Moscow Format that was also joined by senior Taliban leaders. Indian officials also held talks with the Taliban leaders on the margins of the meeting in Moscow.Iran also convened a meeting of regional countries to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, though India was not invited to the meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-attend-meeting-of-senior-regional-security-officials-in-india-on-afghanistan-situation-pak-nsa-101635879528081.html
03-11-2021||India||WHO panel likely to discuss emergency use of Covaxin today||A World Health Organization technical committee is scheduled to meet on Wednesday for a closely watched decision on giving an emergency use listing (EUL) to Covaxin, which will amount to a recognition and help pave the way for people who have taken the dose to qualify for vaccine mandates in other countries.Bharat Biotech has been stuck in a regulatory loop, with independent technical experts of the UN health body taking longer to analyse the data that previously disclosed timelines. The panel, WHO’s Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing (TAG-EUL), sought more clarification from the vaccine maker on October 26. A person aware of the matter said Bharat Biotech responded with the clarifications this past weekend, submitting additional data that included immunogenicity response in people 60 years and above, and separate data for responses in men and women.“More data that was asked for has been submitted, and now it is for the technical team to assess and take a decision,” this person added.Earlier, a decision on Covaxin EUL was expected on October 5, after WHO representatives sought additional information on September 27. TAG-EUL is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a Covid 19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure. Experts said it may just be a matter of time before a EUL is granted to Covaxin. “It looks like the company will be granted EUL soon as it has been submitting whatever data is sought from them. It looks like a minor issue,” said Dr NK Mehra, senior immunologist and former dean, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi. In a media briefing last week, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya gave some details of the stage of Covaxin’s assessment at WHO. “WHO has a system in place under which one technical committee observes the data, followed by another technical committee further analysing the data. The first committee has approved the data and the approval for Covaxin will be granted on the basis of what the second committee recommends,” said Mandaviya. On October 5, WHO announced through a series of tweets that emergency use approval for Covaxin was a week away, and also that a vaccine recommended by it for emergency use must be evaluated thoroughly. “We are aware that many people are waiting for WHO’s recommendation for Covaxin to be included in the COVID19 Emergency Use Listing, but we cannot cut corners - before recommending a product for emergency use, we must evaluate it thoroughly to make sure it is safe and effective,” tweeted WHO. It clarified that the time frame for emergency approval depended on how quickly a company produced the required data. “The time frame for the WHO Emergency Use Listing procedure is dependent on how quickly a company producing the vaccine is able to provide the data required for WHO to evaluate the vaccine’s quality, safety, efficacy and its suitability for low- and middle-income countries,” read another tweet. Covaxin has shown 77.8% effectiveness against the disease, and 65.2% protection against the new highly transmissible delta variant. It is the second-most widely used coronavirus vaccine in India after Serum Institute of India’s Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-panel-likely-to-discuss-emergency-use-of-covaxin-today-101635879410316.html
03-11-2021||India||Bypoll results: Clean sweep for BJP, NDA allies in 4 northeastern states||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its partners of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) made a clean sweep in bye-elections to all 10 assembly seats in four northeastern states, results of which were announced on Tuesday, emphasising its dominance of the region.In Assam, where bye-elections were held in five seats, the ruling BJP won three seats while its coalition partner, United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL), won the remaining two.“Today’s victory is both humbling and reassuring and we promise to continue the path of ‘vikas’ (progress) as per vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi… This further strengthens our resolve to continue delivering on good governance,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma posted on Twitter.The Bhabanipur, Thawra and Mariani seats were won by BJP candidates Phanidhar Talukdar, Sushanta Talukdar and Rupjyoti Kurmi, respectively by margins of of 25,641, 30,561 and 40,104 votes from their nearest rivals. Bypolls in these seats were necessitated after Congress MLAs from Mariani and Thawra, Rupjyoti Kurmi and Sushanta Borgohain, and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur, Phanidhar Talukdar, resigned from their parties and joined BJP between August and September this year, barely month after the assembly polls held in March-April.All three secured easy wins, as BJP candidates on Tuesday.UPPL candidates Jiron Basumatary and Jolen Daimary won from Gossaigaon and Tamulpur seats, respectively by margins of 28,252 and 57,059 votes from their nearest rivals. The two seats had turned vacant following the deaths of Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) legislators, Majendra Narzary and Leho Ram Boro, due to Covid-19 complications, inMay this year barely weeks after winning the seats.The bypolls in the state were the first test for chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who assumed the top post in May, replacing his predecessor from the same party, Sarbananda Sonowal.Following Tuesday’s wins, the BJP’s strength in the 126-member Assam Assembly increased to 62, with its allies UPPL and Asom Gana Parishad adding 16 more to its tally.The opposition Congress has 27 MLAs, AIUDF has 15, BPF has 3 and, CPM and newly-floated Raijor Das has 1 seat each.“We accept the people’s verdict with humility and congratulate chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on their win. Congress will continue to play the role of a responsible opposition and keep tab that the government fulfils all promises it made during the polls,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said.In Meghalaya, the ruling National Peoples’ Party (NPP) won two of the three seats which went to the polls. One of its allies, United Democratic Party (UDP), emerged winner in the third one.The Mawryngkneng seat was bagged by NPP’s Pyniaid Sing Syiem, who defeated Congress candidate Highlander Kharmalki by a margin of 1,816 votes. The seat was earlier with the Congress.In Mawphlang, UDP’s Eugeneson Lyngdoh, a former footballer who represented India in the men’s senior national team on 24 occasions, defeated Congress’s Kennedy Cornelius Khyriem by a margin of over 4,000 votes. The seat was earlier represented by Lyngdoh’s father, Syntar Klas Sunn, who succumbed to Covid-19 in September.The Rajabala seat, which was earlier with Congress’ Hashina Yasmin Mondal, was won by ruling NPP’s Mohhamad Abdus Saleh. Saleh was pitted against Congress’ Ashahel D. Shira, and won by a margin of 1,926 votes.All the three seats had fallen vacant due to deaths of sitting MLAs. The BJP is a partner in the ruling coalition in the state.“The people have made their choice by ensuring the victory of our candidates… The victory is dedicated to the people who have put their trust in NPP’s capacity to take the state forward,” Meghalaya chief minister and NPP president Conrad Sangma tweeted.The bypoll results pushed NPP’s tally to 23 and UDP’s to 8 in the 60-member house. The opposition Congress now has 17 seats.In Mizoram, ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) candidate K Laldawngliana won the Tuirial seat after defeating Zoram Peoples Movement (ZPM) candidate Laltlanmawia by a margin of 1,284 votes.The election was necessitated following the death of sitting ZPM MLA, Andrew H Thangliana, in August this year.The ruling MNF, which is a partner of NDA at Centre, now has 28 seats in the 40-member assembly. While the ZPM has six, Congress has five seats. The BJP, which has only one seat, is not part of the state government.“My best wishes to K Laldawngliana who got elected from the MNF’s ticket at the Tuirial assembly bye-election. May you always be a pillar of strength for the people,” Mizoram chief minister and MNF president Zoramthanga tweeted.In Nagaland, the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) retained the Shamator-Chessore assembly constituency with its candidate, S Keoshu Yimchunger, being declared elected unopposed on October 13.Yimchunger, a newcomer in the state electoral politics, was the consensus candidate of the newly-formed opposition-less United Democratic Alliance (UDA) in Nagaland, where the NDPP, BJP, Naga People’s Front (NPF) and two independent MLAs are partners.The by-poll to Shamatore-Chessore seat in Nagaland Legislative Assembly was necessitated following the demise of then sitting NDPP MLA, Toshi Wungtung, in July .With Yimchunger’s victory, NDPP’s total strength in the house of 60 increased to 21, with NPF having 25 MLAs and BJP having 12. There are also two independent legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypoll-results-clean-sweep-for-bjp-nda-allies-in-4-northeastern-states-101635879408987.html
03-11-2021||India||Captain Amarinder Singh quits Congress, floats new party Punjab Lok Congress||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday resigned from the Indian National Congress and announced the formation of a new outfit, Punjab Lok Congress. In a seven-page resignation letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the two-time former chief minister said the “midnight conspiracy” carried out against him at her and her children’s behest by calling a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting over his head in the dead of the night and that too through Twitter was the most “egregious” act. “It was my prerogative as the CLP leader to have called the meeting if the AICC desired it. It was only early next morning that a colleague informed me that such an outrageous act has been committed,” he wrote. He said the crude manner in which the whole operation was executed left a very foul taste in the mouth. Singh said he felt deeply hurt by her conduct and that of her children who he still loved as much as his own children, having known their father since they were in school together in 1954. “…I hope that no other senior Congressperson is subjected to the ignominy that I was put through,” he wrote. The veteran leader resigned on September 18 following a long-drawn tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, four cabinet ministers and several party legislators amid fears that anti-incumbency arising from his style of functioning could hurt the party’s chances in the forthcoming polls. Charanjit Singh Channi, who was among the rebel ministers, was picked by the party as the next CM of the state. Singh wrote in his letter that he was quite concerned about “inexperienced hands” handling Punjab. “It is beyond my comprehension as how these inexperienced hands will handle the security situation in view of the massive influx of weapons and explosives and narcotics. We are gravely threatened by narco-terrorism that our hostile neighbour is sponsoring against us,” he said. The veteran leader also stated that despite his reservations and over the unanimous advice of almost all the members of Parliament from Punjab, Sidhu, whom he called an acolyte of the Pakistani deep state, was appointed as the Punjab Congress president. “Sidhu’s only claim to fame was that he would abuse me and my government on a regular basis. I am old enough to be his father but that did not stop him from using the filthiest and most vile language against me both publicly and privately,” he wrote. Captain Amarinder said that rather than being reined in, Sidhu was patronised by Rahul and Priyanka, while Sonia Gandhi chose to turn a blind eye. “I told you that Sidhu is a person of unstable mind and you will one day regret this decision and it would be too late by then,” he wrote, adding, “I am sure you must be regretting it now”. Training his guns at his former colleagues over illegal sand mining, the ex-CM said that Congress MLAs and ministers, including an overwhelming number in the current government, were the offenders. “One of my enduring regrets would remain as to why I did not take some of them to task. The thought that it would embarrass the party held me back,” the former CM wrote, declaring his intent to make public their names which were provided to him by the state government and intelligence from time to time. Besides listing his achievements during his second term, particularly the state’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, and record 92% implementation of election manifesto, he also recalled, in the letter, the circumstances in which he entered politics and his journey over 52 years of public life, including the tough stance taken by him at various critical moments in Punjab’s history. On his new party, Captain Amarinder Singh said the registration of the party was pending approval with the Election Commission of India. “Since I announced that I will be forming my own party, my team of lawyers is working on the process and had applied to the Election Commission of India for the registration,” he said. He said the Election Commission has no objection to the proposed name, Punjab Lok Congress. About the party symbol, he said the EC has given three symbols from which one has to be chosen. “We have submitted three symbols and the final one will be chosen from the set of six, three suggested by the EC and three proposed by the party,” he said, adding, “The party will be formally launched later, and its policies, programmes, agenda and vision will be spelt out at the time of the launch.”“@capt_amarinder Not just me. Punjabis of entire world expect you will reveal names of ministers, political hunch men, bureaucrats & police officials responsible for drug spread & loot by sand & other mafias. And frankly do not form another party if u still have reservations,” Congress MP from Amritsar Gurjeet Singh Aujla tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captain-amarinder-singh-quits-congress-floats-new-party-punjab-lok-congress-101635879288139.html
03-11-2021||India||India, Russia to hold 2+2 dialogue in November||India and Russia are expected to hold their first 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers in Moscow by mid-November, and this could be followed by an annual summit in December.A number of agreements in the defence, economic, trade, and science and technology spheres are expected to be signed during the summit, India’s outgoing ambassador to Russia, BV Varma said.The two sides are also set to announce the joint commission on technology and science and extend their military-technical cooperation for the period 2021-2031, Varma said in an interview with TASS news agency.Defence minister Rajnath Singh and external affairs minister S Jaishankar are expected to travel to Moscow for the first 2+2 dialogue with Russia. India has similar dialogues only with the US, Japan and Australia.Varma said both sides are working to take forward cooperation in diverse areas during the bilateral summit. “Both sides are actively working on it. There is a high possibility that the summit is taking place in December,” he said.Referring to the 2+2 dialogue, Varma said it was “important for friends like India and Russia to have an additional level of consultations”.“For example, India and Russia can have more focused cooperation in Central Asia, in the Indian Ocean region. A number of developments, including relating to Afghanistan, have created new challenges. And I think the 2+2 dialogue will be a very important addition to the architecture of dialogue that you have rightly pointed out already exists,” he said.Varma said there has been a diversification of India-Russia relations in recent years, and the Indian side is considering major projects in the energy sector and long-term arrangements for coking coal and fertilisers. In the defence field, the value of contracts had gone up from about $2-3 billion dollars a year in 2018 to about $9-10 billion dollars, he said.“We have major defence contracts already under implementation. The S-400 is one of them. We also have a contract relating to the manufacture and production of 1135.6 frigates...,” Varma said.The production of more than 700,000 AK-203 rifles will be done in India, and New Delhi is going to buy additional Su-30-MKI and MiG-29 jets and 400 more T-90 tanks, the envoy said. “Russia has moved back again as the top defence partner of India,” he added.Asked about a meeting between Indian officials and Taliban leaders on the margins of the Moscow Format meet last month, Varma said: “There was a meeting with the Taliban. We put forward our points of view, the Taliban put forward their points of view. This is the dialogue that we continue”.“No decisions were taken either way on both sides. But I think India will engage in the humanitarian situation because the humanitarian situation is quite serious and India’s always placed the well-being of the Afghan people as the topmost priority,” he added.Pavan Kapoor, an Indian Foreign Service officer of the 1990 batch and currently ambassador to the United Arab Emirates, has been appointed the next envoy to Russia. Kapoor has also served as the ambassador to Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-to-hold-2-2-dialogue-in-november-101635879229807.html
03-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Ashish Mishra’s bail plea hearing today||A district and sessions court will hear the bail application of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case will be heard on Wednesday, senior prosecution officer SP Yadav said on Tuesday. Earlier, Mishra’s bail application was rejected by the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court on October 13, after which he applied in the Lakhimpur district and sessions court on October 21. While hearing his application on October 28, the court had deferred the hearing till November 3. Violence had erupted at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3 when four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a speeding vehicle during a protest. A local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were also killed in the subsequent violence. Two FIRs were registered in this connection: one in connection with the death of the four farmers while the second was lodged by Sumit Jaiswal, who had implicated unidentified miscreants in connection with death of the others, including two BJP workers. The minister’s son and 15 other unidentified persons had been implicated in FIR registered in connection with the mowing down of the farmers. The minister and his son have repeatedly denied Ashish Mishra’s involvement in the incident. Yadav said the court will hear the bail applications of Mishra and two other accused Luv Kush Rana and Ashish Pandey on Wednesday. The prosecution officer further said the CJM court has extended the judicial custody of 13 accused — arrested in connection with FIR registered for mowing down of farmers —till November 16. He said the court also rejected the bail plea of three accused — Rinku Rana, Dharmendra and Mohit Trivedi — in the case. On Monday, the CJM court rejected the bail applications of four accused Sumit Jaiswal, Satya Prakash alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht and Shishu Pal. They are among the 13 accused arrested in connection with the FIR lodged over the mowing down of the four farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-ashish-mishra-s-bail-plea-hearing-today-101635879109746.html
03-11-2021||India||COP26: PM Modi launches ‘Infrastructure for Resilient Island States’ for most vulnerable countries||Glasgow: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched the Initiative for the Resilient Island States (IRIS) for developing infrastructure of small island nations, saying it gives a new hope, a new confidence and satisfaction of doing something for the most vulnerable countries.Prime Minister Modi was joined by his British counterpart Boris Johnson on the second day of the COP26 climate summit here. The launch event was also attended by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.“The launch of ‘Infrastructure for Resilient Island States’ gives a new hope, a new confidence,” Modi said, adding that the initiative gives the satisfaction of doing something for the most vulnerable countries.Modi congratulated the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure CDRI for the initiative and said for him the CDRI or IRIS is not just about infrastructure but it is part of a very sensitive responsibility of human welfare. “It is the collective responsibility of all of us towards mankind,” he said. “It is, in a way, a shared atonement for our sins.” “The last few decades have proved that no one is untouched by the wrath of climate change. Whether they are developed countries or countries rich in natural resources, this is a big threat to everyone,” Modi said.Stating that the Small Island Developing States or SIDS face the biggest threat from climate change, Modi said India’s space agency ISRO will build a special data window for them to provide them timely information about cyclones, coral-reef monitoring, coast-line monitoring etc. through satellite.Speaking on the occasion, British Prime Minister Johnson said that it’s incredibly cruel that vulnerable, small island states are right in the frontline of loss and damage that is caused by global warming.“They have done virtually nothing to cause the problem, they didn’t produce the huge volumes of CO2 to be pumped into the atmosphere,” he said.Johnson said that the UK is contributing financially to the initiative IRIS. “We are stomping up as well.” Australian Prime Minister thanked India and the UK for their leadership of the CDRI. “I acknowledge them the Quad support, including the US and Japan support for India’s CDRI,” he said.The IRIS initiative is a part of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient infrastructure that would focus on building capacity, having pilot projects, especially in small island developing states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-pm-modi-launches-infrastructure-for-resilient-island-states-for-most-vulnerable-countries-101635878748154.html
03-11-2021||India||22 states, UTs reopen schools; 92% teachers vaccinated: Centre||As many as 22 states and Union territories have reopened schools for all students, with over 92% of the teaching staff across the country vaccinated against Covid-19, the Centre said on Tuesday.Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who reviewed the reopening of schools and vaccination status of staff, called for restoring normalcy in educational institutions. “Reviewed the vaccination progress of teaching and non-teaching personnel of schools, institutions and skill centres associated with the education and skilling ecosystem. With rapid vaccination at-scale in the country, we are looking at a future with restored normalcy and vibrancy in our schools and other educational and skilling institutions,” he posted on Twitter. As per shared by the education ministry, while over 92% teaching staff were vaccinated across the country, the central government-run institutions recorded 96% vaccination among their teaching staff. Over 86% of non-teaching staff engaged in schools across the country have also been vaccinated, officials aware of the developments said. The ministry data also showed that 22 states/UTs, including Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Kerala and Assam, have reopened schools for classes 1st to 12th. Six states and UTs, including Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, and Puducherry, have reopened schools for classes 9th to 12th. Similarly, six states/UTs, including Ladakh, Gujarat, Punjab, Nagaland and Jharkhand, have reopened schools for students enrolled in classes 6th to 12th. Only West Bengal and Manipur are yet to reopen schools, the ministry data showed. While West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee last week announced that schools will reopen for classes 9 to 12 from November 16, Manipur is yet to take a call on the matter. With schools remaining shut since March 2020, the Centre had allowed state governments to decide on their reopening keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation, in October last year. While several states had partially resumed physical classes, there was a complete closure again in April this year after a second wave of the disease hit the country.With an improvement in the Covid-19 situation in August this year, several states began reopening schools even as concerns were raised over the staff and teachers not being completely vaccinated.As part of the exercise, the Centre had directed states to document the vaccination status of teachers and non-teaching staff from secretaries of the school education department. On October 22, when India achieved its landmark 1 billion vaccinations, the education ministry had sought a tentative timeline from central universities on achieving 100% vaccination coverage of their students and staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-states-uts-reopen-schools-92-teachers-vaccinatedcentre-101635878688264.html
03-11-2021||India||Bengal bypolls: Unprecedented victory for TMC on 4 seats||Unprecedented margins of victory, running into around 150,000 votes in two assembly constituencies having 230,000 and 290,000 voters, and comfortable wins in two others marked the Trinamool Congress’ triumph over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the by-polls held on October 30 to four assembly seats in West Bengal.The BJP, which won the Dinhata seat by 57 votes and Santipur, by 15878 votes in the March-April election, lost the seats by 164089 and 64675 votes respectively. Polls in these constituencies had to be held because the winners, Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar, decided to retain their Lok Sabha seats instead after the BJP lost the state elections comprehensively.At Khardah and Gosaba, where polls had to be held as the TMC’s winning candidates died, the BJP lost by 93832 and 143051 votes respectively.The BJP candidates in Gosaba, Dinhata and Khardah lost their deposits.A TMC leader claimed the margins in the state polls were the highest ever. “The margins in Dinhata and Gosaba are the highest recorded in Bengal assembly polls. When three candidates of a party ruling at the centre lose their deposit, it proves all other parties (other than the ruling TMC) have lost their relevance in the state,” said Saugata Roy, an MP from the TMC.At all four seats, which are located in districts along the Bangladesh border, the BJP sought to make the attack on Hindus during Durga puja in the neighbouring country an issue.Cooch Behar district’s Dinhata is in the north Bengal region where the BJP defeated the TMC in most of the seats in both 2019 Lok Sabha and the March-April state polls.Though the BJP wrested 77 seats in the March-April polls, its tally in the assembly effectively came down to 70 on Tuesday; five BJP legislators have joined the TMC since June although they have not resigned from their party. The ruling party, on the other hand, has won 217 of Bengal’s 294 seats.Top state BJP leaders argued on Tuesday that voters faced intimidation and its workers were not allowed to campaign although more than 90 companies of Central armed police forces were deployed in Bengal by the Election Commission. The turnout on October 30 was around 65%.After the win, Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “This victory is people’s victory, as it shows how Bengal will always choose development and unity over propaganda and hate politics. With people’s blessings, we promise to continue taking Bengal to greater heights!”“At Dinhata and Gosaba, where the margins are exceptionally high, we were not allowed to hold meetings. If the trend continues, we will see similar results in the future. Terror holds the key in Bengal,” BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh, who was the party’s state president till September, said, indirectly referring to the coming civic body elections.The victory came days after Mamata Banerjee and her nephew, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, toured Goa and Tripura respectively to challenge the BJP in those states in the coming assembly polls. TMC leaders interpreted this as people’s desire to see the 66-year-old chief minister as face of the opposition against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.“A cracker-free Diwali in true sense. Wishing folks at @BJP4India a very Happy Diwali!” tweeted Abhishek Banerjee.“We knew we would win all four seats but the scale of the victory projects Mamata Banerjee as the only face against the BJP in India,” said minister and TMC secretary general Partha Chatterjee.Six months ago, the Dinhata seat was won by MP Nisith Pramanik who was made Union minister of state for home affairs in July. Scrutiny of Tuesday’s results showed that BJP received only 97 of around 800 votes at the polling booth in Pramanik’s own neighbourhood where he cast his vote on October 30.“The results have proved that Pramanik is nothing but a paper tiger,” said TMC’s Udayan Guha who defeated Ashok Mondal, a former Forward Bloc leader, at Dinhata.For the Congress, which, like the Left parties, has no assembly seat in Bengal for the first time since Independence, the results brought more bad news.The vote share of the Congress at Santipur, the only seat it contested, was 0.37%. The national party got less votes than NOTA which accounted for 1.07 % of the votes polled in all four seats and the Revolutionary Socialist Party, one of the Left Front partners, which secured 0.4 % at Gosaba, the only seat it contested .“Our organisation has become extremely weak. We have faced repeated attacks during panchayat and assembly polls,” said state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury who has repeatedly accused the chief minister of helping the BJP by poaching Congress leaders in Goa and Tripura and posing a challenge to Sonia Gandhi.“The BJP has not done well even in most of the other states where bypolls where held. It was anticipated that TMC might win all four seats since ruling parties are always in an advantageous position in bypolls. What is significant is the speed at which the BJP’s vote share is depleting in Bengal,” said Kolkata-based political science professor Udayan Bandopadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bypolls-unprecedented-victory-for-tmc-on-4-seats-101635878569337.html
03-11-2021||India||Narendra Modi, Boris Johnson vow to rein in extremism||Glasgow: Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his British counterpart discussed issues pertaining to counter-terrorism and the need to rein in extremist activities by certain fringe separatist outfits, during the “short” bilateral exchange on the margins of the COP26 climate summit here.Addressing the media at the close of day one of the World Leaders’ Summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP26) at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) on Monday night, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said, “The meeting was short, but it did allow short exchanges on concerns that both our countries have on increasing radicalism.” Shringla was responding to a question on whether anti-Indian activities by separatist groups that organise pro-Khalistani activities in the United Kingdom (UK) were among the issues discussed between Modi and Johnson.“In many senses, the extremism that we are seeing in certain fringe groups seems to be speaking out on issues that they have no legitimate right to do so and without traction of any kind. But nonetheless, it’s causing a certain level of disequilibrium and concern in both our countries,” Shringla said.“Prime Minister Johnson felt fully that some of these groups need to be reined in and that clearly, steps have to be taken to see how such activity, which under no means is democratic or constitutional, could be addressed,” the foreign secretary added.He also reviewed the developments of the World Leaders’ Summit, during which PM Modi made a “seminal statement” on India’s contribution towards climate action by unveiling its National Determined Contributions (NBC) of setting a “realistic, responsible and ambitious” goal of achieving net-zero carbon emissions by 2070.“As the Prime Minister has said, climate change for him is an article of faith and India is more than fulfilling its commitments,” Shringla said.When asked if the extradition of high-profile economic offenders such as Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi, who are wanted in India on charges of fraud and money laundering, was discussed, Shringla said the subject was not specifically discussed at length during the short bilateral meeting, adding that the National Security Advisers (NSAs) of both countries are due to deliberate on the issue at length at an upcoming meeting on Wednesday.“The issue of extradition is important and the two Prime Ministers agreed that the specifics of this issue will be discussed between our National Security Advisers who are going to meet in London on 3rd November. So, they would go into detail of consular, security and other aspects of the UK-India relationship,” the Foreign Secretary said.Meanwhile, a readout of the Johnson-Modi bilateral exchange was issued by 10 Downing Street, which said the meeting highlighted the growing strength of the wider UK-India relationship.“The Prime Minister (Johnson) highlighted India’s leadership on climate change and they discussed ways to work together on global approaches, including scaling affordable green technology. Prime Minister Modi welcomed the new UK India Green Guarantee to unlock World Bank funding,” according to the readout.The Green Guarantee is set to add GBP 750 million for green projects across India, announced by the UK at the COP26 summit and welcomed by India as a welcome initiative that can help towards the country’s climate action goals.“The leaders also discussed recent talks on a potential UK-India free trade deal, and the Prime Minister (Johnson) reiterated the UK’s commitment to deepening trade, investment and business ties between our two countries,” Downing Street noted.Further strengthening cooperation on bilateral defence and security and on international issues, including the situation in Afghanistan, were also among the topics of discussion flagged from the latest India-UK exchange on the sidelines of the World Leaders’ Summit – which concludes on Tuesday.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boris-johnson-modi-agreed-on-need-to-rein-in-fringe-anti-india-extremist-groups-shringla-101635878514908.html
03-11-2021||India||J&K school principal, jail official sacked over ‘terror links’||A senior prisons officer and a government school principal on Tuesday were sacked by the Jammu and Kashmir administration for “actively working with terror outfits”, officials familiar with the matter said.Feroz Ahmad Lone, deputy superintendent of jails, J&K Prison Department, and Javid Ahmad Shah, principal of Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Bijbehara, were dismissed from services, on the orders of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, after an investigation by a government task force established their terror links, they said.A high-level meeting was held between senior officials at Raj Bhavan on Tuesday, following which the duo were removed under Article 311 of the Constitution, under which no inquiry is conducted before sacking, the officials cited above said on condition of anonymity.“The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied after considering the facts and circumstances of the case and on the basis of the information available that the activities of Mr. Feroz Ahmad Lone, Deputy Superintendent Jail S/o Abdul Gaffar Lone R/o Futlipora, Chari Sharef are such as to warrant his dismissal from service,” an order issued by the administration said.“The Lieutenant Governor is satisfied under sub-clause (c) of the proviso to clause (2) of Article 311 of the Constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Mr. Feroz Ahmad Lone, Deputy Superintendent Jail S/o Abdul Gaffar Lone R/o Futlipora , Chrari Sharief , Budgam,” it added.A similar termination order was issued in the name of Shah, a resident of Eidgah Bijbehara in Anantnag.Lone, who was appointed in the government service in 2012, allegedly shares links with former Hizbul Mujahideen operational chief, Riyaz Naikoo, who was killed in an encounter with security forces in Pulwama last year, officials said.Lone is also accused of hatching a conspiracy with terrorist commanders to send Kashmiri youth illegally to Pakistan or Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir for weapons training and later bring them back to the Valley for terror acts, they added.“It is learnt that Lone was working for Riyaz Naikoo, the killed Hibzul Mujahideen terrorist. Investigation revealed that two persons from Pulwama district, Danish Ghulam Lone and Sohail Ahmad Bhat, were recruited and asked by Riyaz Naikoo to meet another terrorist Ishaq Palla,” one of the officials cited above said.Shah, on the other hand, was appointed as lecturer in the J&K education department in1989. He was posted as principal of Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Bijbehara. Shah is believed to be a sympathiser of Hurriyat and Jamat-e-Islami (JeI), another official said.“He played the role of an advisor to Hurriyat cadre and JeI working in Bijbehara in 2016 during an agitation against Hizbul Mujahideen leader Burhan Wani. As the principal of a government institution, he ensured that Hurriyat hartal calendars were followed in letter and spirit not only in the government school which he was heading but its subsidiary institutions too,” the first official said.More than a dozen employees and officers have been sacked by the administration in the past one year over alleged links with terrorists. In April, the L-G had set up a special task force to scrutinise and recommend cases for removal from government services, for alleged terror links, under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution. Last month, the government terminated the services of Anees-us-Islam, grandson of separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani, who was working as a research officer at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre. Two sons of Hizbul chief Syed Salahuddin were also sacked along with 11 government employees in July this year. The dismissal of employees had earlier attracted sharp criticism from mainstream political parties and employees unions, who alleged that the sackings were carried out on “flimsy grounds”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-school-principal-jail-official-sacked-over-terror-links-101635878509636.html
03-11-2021||India||Experts praise India’s ‘bold’ net zero emission pledge at COP26||What does India’s announcement of transitioning to net zero emissions by 2070 mean?After all, it isn’t easy for an emerging economy with extremely low per capita emissions (and low per capita incomes), to declare its intent to decarbonize, however gradual the process may be.And what does this deadline mean for when the country’s emissions will peak?The timing of when individual countries’ emissions peak and then decline—especially those of major emitters like the United States and China—is critically important in determining whether the most dangerous climate impacts can be avoided.And how significant is India’s announcement?In the wake of India’s announcements -- enhancing its non-fossil fuel power capacity to 500 gigawatts (GW) by the end of the decade, up from 450GW; getting half of its energy from renewable sources by 2030; reducing carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gross domestic product by 45%; and cutting carbon-dioxide emissions by 1 billion tons from the business-as-usual scenario by 2030 -- HT spoke to experts on the ramifications.Vaibhav Chaturvedi, Fellow, CEEWIndia’s pledge is very significant. This is an unprecedented bold announcement from the Prime Minister. This is more ambitious than either the EU and Chinese announcements. For an economy that is expected to grow fast for the next two decades, even peaking in the next 20 years is not an easy feat.Realistically speaking India should peak by 2040-2045. It takes a pretty long time to change our energy systems. I think 30 years is a reasonable time. So, there will be a lot of growth in the near term. We are trying to clarify with the government if it’s talking about meeting 50% of India’s energy requirements from renewable energy by 2030. It’s not possible. Then you are referring to all sectors. I think they are referring to 50% installed capacity for electricity from renewable energy.This announcement will shake Indian and global energy markets and give a sense of much needed long-term certainty to the investors in the energy domain. The enhanced ambition of 2030 targets make the net-zero announcement even more credible. The Prime Minister has stamped India’s leadership in the climate discourse. Any ambitious target would have its share of challenges. The biggest near-term challenge is in electricity market design and distribution sector reforms. For the longer term, it would be managing the human resources in the coal sector. Skilled human resources for the new shape of energy markets would be critical. So, challenges galore, but strategic planning would help see us through.Professor Lord Stern of Brentford, Chair of the Grantham Research Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics and Political Science (said in a statement)This was a very significant moment for the summit, with Prime Minister Modi pledging stronger action by India on climate change, with five new targets. These include a further increase in clean energy to 500 gigawatts by 2030, a reduction in emissions intensity of its economy by 45% by 2030, and net zero emissions by 2070. Together this might mean that India’s annual emissions of greenhouse gases could peak by 2030.This demonstrates real leadership, based on a track record of action and ambitious targets, that can deliver on both economic development and climate change, from a country whose emissions per capita are about one-third of the global average. The rich world must respond to Prime Minister Modi’s challenge to deliver a strong increase in international climate finance.Sandeep Pai, research lead at Center for Strategic and International StudiesIndia’s net zero pledge is bold. For a developing country which has not even carbonized to talk about decarbonization is ambitious and sets the targets clearly. However, devil will be in the details or in other words what would be the exact plans to achieve this target. In the absence of these plans, this pledge will not mean much. By when India will have to peak to meet the pledge will really depend on the sectoral pathway the country will follow. For example, when will the coal use peak in the power sector?” he said adding that “India’s 2030 targets are achievable but not easy at all. From DISCOM reforms, raising large-scale finance for deployment of renewables, managing land issues, to aligning centre-state climate policies will be key determinants of whether India will be able meet its 2030 targets or not.Sunita Narain, director general of Centre for Science and Environment.Our analysis shows that India’s pledge at Glasgow is achievable. If we just look at Central Electricity Authority’s projections, it shows we are on track. India’s power requirement in 2030 is projected to be 2518 BU and if we target to meet 50% of our requirements from renewables, then the installed capacity will have to increase from the planned 450 GW to 700 GW. If we consider hydroelectricity as part of renewables – as it is considered globally – then we will need to increase new renewable capacity to 630 GW. This is achievable. The issue of net zero emissions is anyway inequitable. If it were to be equitable developed (OECD) countries should have a target of net zero by 2030, China by 2040 and India and rest of the world by 2050.Apurba Mitra, Chirag Gajjar and Ulka Kelkar, climate experts at World Resources Institute (in a statement)Net zero and possible target years for India have been hotly debated in the country over the last year. If today’s announcement refers to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions, it would be very ambitious and more than India’s fair contribution to global efforts to stay within 1.5 degrees Celsius of warming. It would require countering emissions from agriculture and land use, not just emissions from energy and industrial processes.If it refers to net-zero carbon dioxide emissions, it would still send a strong long-term signal to all sectors of the economy and be compatible with 2 degrees Celsius of global warming. Taken together with the other short-term targets for massive capacity growth in renewable energy, India’s net-zero target will provide regulatory certainty to industry to invest in deep decarbonization, and to India’s growing cities and states to plan net-zero pathways to development..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-praise-india-s-bold-net-zero-emission-pledge-at-cop26-101635878208026.html
03-11-2021||India||How ‘caste bias’ in Bikaner college snuffed out a family’s hope||It’s been nearly two months since Prem Devi cooked for her family. Every time someone walks in, she retreats deeper into the shadows. People try to talk to her, but she pulls her red bandhani saree over the face and turns away. Outside, visitors arrive and talk loudly, but indoors Devi collapses into stifled sobs. Only one sentence comes back to her again and again.“He is gone,” she whispers – pointing towards the kitchen where she would make bathua and besan barfis every time her son, 20-year-old Pradeep Meghwal, came home from his college in Bikaner. “It was his favourite,” she says. “And I will never make it for him again.”Pradeep took his life on September 22 after months of alleged caste-based harassment from dominant-caste batchmates and apparent inaction by college authorities in Bikaner. Devi now wonders whether she was wrong to send him to a big city. “I should have stopped him from going back there,” she said. “But I didn’t know what he was going through.”Pradeep’s ordeal mirrors the experiences of many students from marginalised castes and tribes, who battle harassment and bullying in institutions from their higher-caste peers but find it difficult to access redressal. It is also recalls the 2019 suicide of Payal Tadvi, who killed herself after months of casteist abuse and harassment in a Maharashtra medical college in a case that shook the education fraternity.Hope of the familyLocated at the edge of Rajasthan’s desert belt, Karkedi is ringed by dunes of sand. Scrubs and small patches of vegetation dot the landscape, and a dirt road veers off the state highway into the village of 300 households, of which around 45 are Dalits. Farm plots are small, yet many villagers are engaged in agriculture. Young men often make their way to nearby towns of Losal, Kuchaman or Sikar for construction and other temporary labour jobs.Pradeep was the opportunity for his family to climb out of this destitution. The shy boy passed his Class 12 examinations with 82% marks from the state board in 2018 – the first Dalit from the region to secure first division. “He was focused on getting into college; it was his dream to land a job,” said Bhanwar Meghwal, their next-door neighbour.He enrolled in the College of Agriculture in Bikaner in 2018 for the undergraduate honours degree in agriculture, records reviewed by HT show. For a while, everything was great. He passed exams with ease, made friends, and told his parents that he will look for a government job soon. “We wanted him to become an agriculture supervisor (an entry-level state government job that pays roughly R30,000 a month) but he had higher ambitions. He promised us that he will make us proud,” said his father, Omprakash.Every few weeks, Pradeep would leave the hostel and travel back to his village, roughly 250km away, for home-cooked food and time with his two brothers. But unbeknownst to the family, his caste was becoming a hurdle for him in college and pushing him into depression – a change noticed only by his mother. “He stopped eating his fill of rotis and his favourite tea. He became quieter,” said Devi. “But I didn’t know why.”HarassmentTrouble began six months ago, when Pradeep became close with a first-year female student from a so-called higher caste, said police officials aware of the matter and family members of the deceased. This incensed four other boys in the college – one was Pradeep’s batchmate and three others were juniors – all from the other backward class (OBC) community who shared the same caste, Jat, as the woman.“They took his phone and downloaded his conversation with the woman on WhatsApp, and then started blackmailing him. They asked him how he dared talk to a woman of a caste higher than his, and threatened to break his bones,” said Omprakash.On August 18, Pradeep returned home. His family was getting ready to celebrate because he had secured an internship at the local Krishi Vikas Kendra, a step closer to getting a government job.“But when he came, he was shaking like a leaf. He said the threats had escalated and they’d started referring to him by caste slurs in college and thrashed him,” said Ranjeet Meghwal, his elder brother.The men had entered his hostel room the day before he came to the village and told him that if the “low caste” didn’t stay in their bounds, his limbs would not be in a condition to earn him a living, stated the FIR later in Bikaner.That afternoon, when Omprakash was in the field, Ranjeet at the shop and Prem Devi resting in her room, Pradeep stepped out. He returned at night, collapsing on the courtyard. His brother rushed out, only to learn that he had consumed poison.The family took him to the local hospital, and returned with a recovering Pradeep three days later. Despite his protests, the family decided to lodge a complaint with the college authorities.The college set up a five-member disciplinary committee and on the basis of its report, issued an order on September 9, a copy of which is with HT.It put two students named by Pradeep – Ravindra Faroda and Gagan Ajit Singh – under probation and fined them ₹2,500 and ₹1,500 respectively and said the students were found “guilty of indiscipline and misconduct.”Importantly, Pradeep himself, along with two other students, was reprimanded. He was “strongly warned to not involve in any act of indiscipline in the future, failing which disciplinary action will be initiated”.The dean of the College of Agriculture, IP Singh, confirmed the probe and caste-based harassment to HT but added that the institution took adequate action.“The boy was involved with a girl who was his junior. There was a caste difference. He got into a fight with some other boys in the college who belonged to the caste of the girl. They threatened him to keep away from her,” said Singh.He said an inquiry was conducted after the family approached the college. “We took action and identified all the boys; we kept them on conduct probation and fined them.”But the family was livid. “If they knew that the boys were troubling them, why didn’t the college take strict action? Can R4.000 deter anyone?” asked Ranjeet.Final daysFive days later, on date, things came to a head.Pradeep had returned to the college for his term-ending examinations, as had the others. After one such exam, the four OBC men gathered in a common area and gave him an ultimatum; they also roughed him up, according to two friends of Pradeep who requested anonymity. Later that day, he tried to fling himself in front of a truck outside the college, confirmed his family and the college authorities.“The boys kept asking the woman why she continued to talk to “neech” (lower) men. Will you also talk to us, they asked,” stated the FIR, a copy of which is with HT.He was sent back home again. At home, he was a shadow of his former self – silent but restless, unable to sit down but also afraid of venturing out. His parents repeatedly implored him to stay back, or to tell them what’s wrong, but he refused. He was also missing his exams and after a couple of days at home, was itching to get back to college, said Ranjeet.They didn’t know how to help him, or how his mood could lift. They thought of going to doctors but knew no one in the hinterlands who could help Pradeep. They were sure if the caste bullying stopped, Pradeep would recover.They were wary of allowing him back to college. And yet, they knew they had no real choice. “He was missing his exams and his only big chance to make a career for himself,” said Ranjeet.He took a train back to Bikaner on September 22, promising to his family that he will come back after finishing his pending papers.That evening, at 7.36pm, Ranjeet saw his brother had changed his WhatsApp status and posted stories announcing his intent to take his life. For the next several minutes, he tried to frantically dial Pradeep but to no avail. “Reading his two-page note was heartbreaking where he described his feelings for the woman and the pain inflicted on his due to his caste by the men,” said Ranjeet.In the early hours of the morning, police informed the Meghwal family that Pradeep was found dead in the railway tracks behind the college. Their hope had been snuffed out.QuestionsWhy did the family let him return to Bikaner?This question has been gnawing at the Meghwals for about a month, and has been hurled at them by neighbours, authorities and the administration of the College of Agriculture.“His family shouldn’t have left him like this. He was mentally disturbed. He should have got treatment but instead family left him,” said IP Singh.Singh admits that higher-caste boys harassed Pradeep for months but insists the college did all it could. “The woman belonged to caste of the boys. Naturally, in inter-caste conflict, advice is given to the boy that keep away from our girl. We know our Indian society. Caste shackles are very big here,” he said. “The boy was not handsome, he was very ordinary looking. How the friendship with the girl happened; it is very surprising.”He said he even met Pradeep and spoke to him when the probe was conducted and advised him to “leave all this” and concentrate on studies. “We informed the family. Where could we have taken him? If he needed medical attention, I could have sent him to doctor. But he had suicidal tendencies,” he explained.The four men have been booked by police for abetment of suicide and under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act that penalise public abuse and threats to a Dalit person. Two of them were arrested on Saturday.“We had no role in the death, it was a different matter. We didn’t even know him very well. He was depressed,” said Rajkumar Bijarniya, one of the accused. Another accused, Froda, declined to comment. A third accused, Gagan Ajit Singh, said that he didn’t want to be associated with such negativity. “Such things shouldn’t be made into issues,” he said.Pradeep’s family is wracked with guilt and anger. They never stopped Pradeep from going back because they knew how important passing an exam can be in an impoverished Dalit family. “My youngest brother and I dropped out of school and started working because we wanted to put Pradeep through college,” said Ranjeet.Both of them took shifts to work in the field and the shop to pay the roughly Rs1 lakh a year fees for his undergraduate degree. Neither Pradeep nor his family ever imagined that his dropping out of college was an option.There was another reason: Ignorance. “We simply didn’t know how badly he was being harassed. We thought it will go away after complaining with the college. We didn’t know how much he was suffering. We didn’t want to stand in the way of his dream,” said Omprakash.RegretLocal activists say the trajectory of the case is typical in a state with one of the worst investigation records for cases under the SC/ST Act – roughly one in two cases don’t reach the charge sheet stage, according to NCRB data for 2020. “Dalits are murdered, pushed to suicide, raped, stopped from riding horses in weddings or conducting last rites but authorities are not concerned unless protests erupt,” said Hariram Mehrada, chief of the Ambedkar Dalit Adhikar Manch in Rajasthan.Police said the investigation is ongoing. “We are collecting all the facts and recording statements,” said Bikaner circle officer Pawan Kumar, who is probing the case. Bichhwal station house officer Manoj Sharma said the two arrested men – Froda and Singh – have been sent to 14-days judicial custody.These days, the Meghwal household is always a hub of activity. Relatives drop by throughout the day. Activists walk in and out of the house, photocopying documents. Friends of Pradeep call to commiserate.But Prem Devi is unmoved. Her memory is stuck at the last time she saw her son, stepping out of the house. “He was leaving when he turned back, and said, everyone believes in me, but I don’t know if I can live up to their hopes. Why didn’t I tell him he didn’t need to?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-caste-bias-in-bikaner-college-snuffed-out-a-family-s-hope-101635878087324.html
03-11-2021||India||Fertiliser squeeze weighs heavy on rabi sowing||A global supply-chain squeeze and rising prices have hit the availability of fertilisers in the country, weighing heavily on the coming winter-sown or rabi farming season, as cultivators scramble for crop nutrients in states such as Punjab, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh. The Union government has set up a team to monitor supplies. Union minister for chemical and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya assessed the demand situation in key food-bowl states several times last week. He last reviewed the nation’s total fertiliser demand for November on Monday and denied any shortage. “I request farmers not to go by rumours and assure them that the government has made adequate arrangements for the supply of fertilisers,” the minister said in a taped statement.However, inventories of key crop nutrients, especially DAP (diammonium phosphate) and murate of potash (MPO), have a hit a five-year low, the managing director of one of India’s largest crop-nutrient firms said, requesting anonymity. A sharp increase in international prices, lower production of feedstock or raw materials during the peak pandemic phase, and shipping bottlenecks are key reasons for the crisis. According to the fertiliser minister, the government has made arrangements for supply of 1.8 million tonne of DAP against a total demand 1.7 million tonne for the country as a whole for November. The Union government is coordinating and monitoring shipments in over 50 ports and railway heads critical for supplies.On October 14, the Union government revamped parts of its subsidy regime for fertilisers and crop nutrients to continue providing them at below-market rates, while rolling over special discounts announced for the summer-sown season to the oncoming winter-sown months. International prices of raw materials for some crop nutrients such as DAP and 22 grades of phosphatic and potassic (P&K) fertilisers have been increasing for over 18 months, trade data show. Most of these fertilisers have seen a jump of over 50% in prices, forcing the government to expand subsidy. India offers subsidies to compensate fertiliser companies who sell them at below-market rates. The country imports up to a third of its fertilisers to meet domestic demand. China, the largest producer of DAP, is a key supplier of the nutrient to India. “Prices have gone through the roof and urea, for instance, is very, very expensive to buy. That is the main issue,” said KS Raju, chairman of the board at Nagarjuna Fertilizers and Chemicals, a large conglomerate. Although the government has announced additional subsidies under the so-called nutrient-based subsidy regime — the mechanism by which the Centre disburses the subsidy to manufacturers — worth ₹28,602 crore, manufacturers could be buying at a slower pace. “Since extra capital is required because of higher global rates, purchase deferment is taking place, adding to the shortage,” said Ashok Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm. He said shipments, however, were expected to increase. Data show that India needs to ratchet up imports as stocks run low. During the summer-sown months, DAP demand outstripped availability by 13.6%, official data accessed by HT show. “Indigenous production of urea at 7.89 million tonne and DAP at 1.11 million tonne during April-July 2021 declined by 3.9% and 12.3%, respectively, over April-July 2020,” wrote Satish Chander, the director general of Fertiliser Association of India in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Fertilisers. Rumours of a shortage have prompted farmers to panic and buy nutrients like DAP in excess quantities, said Amrik Singh, an official of the Punjab agriculture department. DAP is an essential nutrient for the winter-sown wheat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fertiliser-squeeze-weighs-heavy-on-rabi-sowing-101635878027357.html
03-11-2021||India||TMC forcing BJP leaders to join camp, slapping fake cases: Kailash Vijayvargiya||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national general secretary and central observer of West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya on Tuesday said the Trinamool Congress (TMC)-led state government is intimidating his party’s leaders to join the ruling camp. “Those who are joining the TMC in Bengal are being forced to do so,” he told news agency ANI.His statements came on a day when the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC made a clean sweep in the bypolls to all the four Bengal assembly seats of Dinhata, Gosaba, Khardaha and Santipur.When assembly elections were held in April, BJP candidates Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Naskar had won from Dinhata and Santipur constituencies, respectively. The bypolls were necessitated after they chose not to take oath and continue as parliamentarians.The TMC has now added two more seats to its kitty, thereby having 215 of the 294 seats in the assembly.Vijayvargiya, who was in charge of the BJP during the West Bengal assembly elections 2021, said multiple “fake cases” are being lodged against his party leaders in West Bengal.Also Read | Abhishek Banerjee wishes BJP ‘happy Diwali’ after TMC’s greenwash of Bengal bypolls“There are almost 120 fake cases on BJP MP Arjun Singh, there are 20 cases against me too. Now, how can anyone survive when the government starts killing the opposition like this?” he said. The BJP leader further said the matter of winning and losing in elections emerges when they are held in a fair manner and not where “police, goons and political parties work in nexus for booth capturing”.“They (TMC) snatch seats by capturing polling booths,” he said.Vijayvargiya is not the only BJP leader, who has accused the TMC of snatching votes. Earlier in the day, party’s national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said West Bengal Police “get the voting done” and that elections there are “one-sided and not neutral”.“BJP candidates never get cars, mics, or accommodation during the by-elections here…Earlier, too, we lost the by-elections but won the general elections at the same place,” Ghosh, who was until recently BJP’s Bengal president, told ANI.Ever since the TMC regained power in West Bengal, several TMC turncoats like Rajib Banerjee, Mukul Roy and Sabyasachi Datta have switched sides. Many BJP leaders, including former Union cabinet minister Babul Supriyo, who had lashed out at the people of West Bengal for voting “cruel lady” back to power, have also joined the ruling party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-forcing-bjp-leaders-to-join-camp-slapping-fake-cases-kailash-vijayvargiya-101635877015817.html
03-11-2021||India||Oppn claws out gains; NDA sweeps Northeast||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) reaffirmed its dominance in Assam, and, along with its allies, the North-East; the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal; and the Congress delivered a major upset in Himachal Pradesh, another upset in Karnataka, and held its own in Rajasthan when results were declared on Tuesday to by-elections in 29 assembly and three Lok Sabha constituencies across 14 states and a Union territory. In one seat, in Nagaland, the winner was declared uncontested on October 13.The results of the bypolls can’t be extrapolated to analyse possible outcomes of full-scale state and national elections, but they are, analysts say, usually a weathervane of sentiment.If that’s the case, the BJP has reason for cheer (Assam, Madhya Pradesh, North-East, and Telangana, where it won a hotly contested seat), and concern (Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka and Bengal).And while the Congress can feel encouraged by its performance in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Karnataka (where it gave a black eye to the current chief minister BS Bommai by winning a seat in his home district), its performance in Assam was disappointing. There were sub plots as well – in Bihar, for instance, where the Janata Dal (United) put up a strong showing and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), despite all its talk, didn’t; in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, where the Shiv Sena won its first Lok Sabha seat outside Maharashtra; and in Haryana, where Indian National Lok Dal’s (INLD) Abhay Chautala won back the seat he vacated to protest three controversial central farm laws.This is the last round of elections before high-stakes polls in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, scheduled early next year. In all, the BJP and its allies won 16 assembly seats and one Lok Sabha seat, the Congress won eight assembly seats and one Lok Sabha seat, and other Opposition parties won six assembly and one Lok Sabha seat.HIMACHAL PRADESHIn Himachal Pradesh, the opposition Congress swept the by-elections. It wrested the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment from the ruling BJP and retained the Arki and Fatehpur assembly seats. The state is scheduled to go the polls in November-December next year.The biggest upset was delivered in Mandi, where Pratibha Singh, the wife of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, won by 7,490votes. In 2019, the BJP’s Ram Swaroop Sharmawon the seat by 450,000 votes.The victory was a setback for chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, for whom the election was a litmus test as the state heads into an election year. Mandi is considered Thakur’s home turf.ASSAM AND NORTH-EASTThe BJP and its allies delivered their best performance in the North-East, where they swept all 10 assembly seats in four states. In Assam, where by-elections were held in five seats, the ruling BJP won three and its partner United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) bagged the other two.“Today’s victory is both humbling and reassuring and we promise to continue the path of ‘vikas’ (progress) as per vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi… This further strengthens our resolve to continue delivering on good governance,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.Two of the five seats, Tamulpur and Gossaigaon, fell vacant due to deaths of opposition Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF) and ruling UPPL legislators from Covid 19–related complications.The other three seats went to polls as two Congress MLAs, from Mariani and Thawra, and an All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) MLA from Bhabanipur switched to the BJP. All three turncoats, Sushanta Borgohain (Thawra), Rupjyoti Kurmi (Mariani) and Phanidhar Talukdar (Bhabanipur), secured easy wins on Tuesday.“We accept the people’s verdict with humility,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said.In Meghalaya, ruling National Peoples’ Party (NPP) candidates won two of the three seats while ally, United Democratic Party (UDP), emerged the winner in the third. In Mizoram, ruling Mizo National Front (MNF) candidate K Laldawngliana won the lone bypoll and in Nagaland, the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) retained the Shamator-Chessore assembly constituency with its candidate S Keoshu Yimchunger declared elected uncontested.BENGALThe biggest margins of the day came from West Bengal, where the TMC won all seats that voted on Saturday, wresting two seats from opposition BJP.The BJP, which won the Dinhata seat by 57 votes and Santipur by 15,878 votes in the March-April elections, lost the seats by 160,000 votes and 64,675 votes respectively. Polls in these constituencies had to be held because the winners did not take oath as legislators to retain their Lok Sabha seats. The Dinhata seat, which was earlier won by Union minister of state for home Nisith Pramanik, delivered the biggest assembly poll margin in the state’s history.In Khardaha and Gosaba, where polls had to be held as the TMC’s winning candidates died, the state’s ruling party won by 93,832 and 140,000 votes, respectively.KARNATAKAIn Karnataka, chief minister Bommai suffered a setback as the Congress stole a victory in his home district in Hangal constituency. Srinivas Mane, the Congress candidate, won by 7373 votes.The BJP secured a resounding victory in Sindgi, defeating the Congress by over 30,000 votes. The seat was earlier held by the Janata Dal (Secular), which ran a coalition government with the Congress between 2018 and 2019.“Losing Hangal is a big statement for the BJP. There was more focus on Hangal from the government and all controversial statements came from this constituency,” A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University, said.TELANGANAIn Telangana, the BJP snatched the Huzurabad assembly seat from the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). Former state health minister Eatala Rajender, who contested the by-elections on a BJP ticket, defeated TRS candidate Gellu Srinivas Yadav by 23,865 votes in a keenly fought battle.The by-election was necessitated due to the resignation of Rajender, who quit the TRS and joined the BJP in June this year. The by-election in Huzurabad was seen as a battle of egos between the CM and Rajender.“Had Rajender lost the by-election, it would have been a big question mark on his political career. By winning the seat, he not only proved his hold over the constituency but also improved the prospects of the BJP all over Telangana,” political analyst S Ramakrishna said.BIHARIn Bihar, the JD(U) retained both Kusheshwar Sthan and Tarapur assembly seats despite a high-voltage offensive by the RJD with the return of party chief Lalu Prasad on the campaign trail.JD(U) nominee Aman Bhushan Hazari defeated RJD’s Ganesh Bharti by 12,695 votes in Kusheshwar Sthan. At Tarapur, JD(U) candidate Rajeev Kumar Singh won by 3,821 votes. The election also saw growing bitterness between the RJD and the Congress, which contested the elections separately but couldn’t make an impact.OTHER RESULTSThe BJP gained in Madhya Pradesh by winning two seats- Jobat and Prithvipur -- both Congress bastions and retained the Lok Sabha seat of Khandwa in bypolls. The Congress won one seat, Raigaon, after a period of 32 years.In Rajasthan, the opposition BJP lost both assembly seats - Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad -- to Congress, and stood fourth and third, respectively.INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala retained the Ellenabad seat by defeating his BJP rival, Gobind Kanda, by 6,739 votes. This is his fifth assembly victory from the rural Jat-dominated seat.For the first time since its inception in the 1960s, the Shiv Sena will have an MP from outside Maharashtra with the party nominee Kalaben Delkar, wife of independent MP late Mohan Delkar, winning the bypoll to the Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha seat on Tuesday. She defeated her BJP rival Mahesh Gavit by 51,269 votes.The ruling YSR Congress retained the Badvel assembly seat in Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh, securing a record margin of 90,533 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-claws-out-gains-nda-sweeps-ne-101635877969192.html
03-11-2021||India||Former Maha home minister in ED custody||A Mumbai court on Tuesday remanded former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) custody till November 6, a day after the central agency arrested the 72-year-old Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader in connection with a money-laundering case.Deshmukh was arrested by ED after about 12 hours of questioning in the case linked to an alleged extortion racket in the state police establishment. The NCP, part of Maharashtra’s ruling coalition Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), has said the allegations are politically motivated.A First Information Report (FIR) was registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Deshmukh in April to probe allegations that he asked suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, currently behind bars in relation to the February 25 Antilia bomb scare conspiracy as well as the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5, to collect ₹100 crore every month from the hotels, bars and restaurants in Mumbai.The NCP leader appeared before ED for the first time on Monday after skipping multiple summons for the past five to six months. The central agency even issued a look-out notice against him as he was absconding all these months.On Tuesday, Deshmukh was produced for remand before additional sessions judge PB Jadhav, who presided over the special holiday court, a little after noon. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for ED, sought 14-day custody of the NCP leader, saying his custodial interrogation was required to carry out further probe into the case, which stems from the CBI FIR.Shortly after conducting a medical examination at Sir JJ Hospital in south Mumbai, ED officials produced Deshmukh before the holiday court. Additional solicitor general Singh and Hiten Venegaonkar, who appeared for the agency, submitted that a comprehensive money trail needs to be established to bring the guilty to book, and, since Deshmukh has emerged as the main beneficiary, he is required to be interrogated in custody. In its application seeking Deshmukh’s remand, the agency said a foreign angle could not be ruled out.A money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered on May 11 on the basis of CBI’s FIR of April 21. The CBI FIR was, in turn, based on allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.In a letter written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh alleged that Deshmukh directed certain Mumbai police officers to collect an amount of ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai’s bars and restaurants.ED’s lawyers pointed out that the agency’s probe revealed that, on Deshmukh’s instructions, Vaze called a meeting of bar owners, and that, between December 2020 and February 2021, collected ₹4.7 crore from the owners of so-called orchestra bars in Mumbai to avoid police interference. In his statement to ED, Vaze is said to have revealed that he handed over the “extorted money” in two instalments to Deshmukh’s aide Kundan Shinde.Subsequently, they said, Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh received an amount of ₹4.18 crore routed through Delhi-based shell entities as donations to a Deshmukh-led charitable trust, Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur.Deshmukh’s counsels, advocates Vikram Chaudhri and Aniket Nikam, maintained that the NCP leader’s arrest was illegal. They pointed out that the original complainant Singh himself fled the country and is wanted in several extortion cases, and Vaze, on whose statement the agency is relying, is under arrest for equally serious offences. They added that Deshmukh was in no way related to the controversy and that the investigation itself was mala fide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-maha-home-minister-in-ed-custody-101635877967281.html
03-11-2021||India||‘One Sun, One World One Grid’: PM Modi calls for global solar grid at COP26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched the Green Grids Initiative—One Sun One World One Grid (GGI-OSOWOG), the first international network of global interconnected solar power grids, jointly with his UK counterpart Boris Johnson, at COP26 here.“One Sun, One World & One Grid will not only reduce storage needs but also enhance the viability of solar projects. This creative initiative will not only reduce carbon footprints and energy cost but also open a new avenue for cooperation between different countries and regions,” PM Modi said, while delivering his remarks at the ‘Accelerating Clean Technology Innovation and Deployment’ event at COP26.Modi and Johnson on Tuesday also released the One Sun declaration, which stated, “Realising the vision of One Sun One World One Grid through interconnected green grids can be transformational, enabling all of us to meet the targets of the Paris Agreement to prevent dangerous climate change…these efforts can stimulate green investments and create millions of good jobs. The declaration has been endorsed by 80 ISA member countries.”Modi said the only challenge with the OSOWOG initiative is that this energy is only available during the daytime and is dependent on the weather. “Solar energy is totally clean and sustainable. Challenge is that this energy is only available during the daytime and is dependent on the weather. ‘One Sun, One World & One Grid’ is the solution to this problem. Through a worldwide grid, clean energy can be transmitted to anywhere & anytime,” he said.PM Modi reiterated that the idea for the One Sun One World One Grid (OSOWOG) initiative was put forth by him at the First Assembly of the International Solar Alliance (ISA) in October 2018.PM Modi further expressed hope that a common and strong global grid can be developed through cooperation between countries on this initiative. “I am hopeful that a common and strong global grid can be developed through cooperation between ‘One Sun, One World & One Grid’ and ‘Green Grid’ initiatives. Indian space agency ISRO is going to provide a solar calculator application to the world.”The GGI-OSOWOG will bring together a global coalition of governments, international financial and technical organisations, legislators, power system operators and knowledge leaders to accelerate the construction of the new infrastructure needed for a world powered by clean energy, according to ISA.ISA also aims to mobilize US$1 trillion of funding by 2030 to assist developing countries in expanding their solar power grids to meet their energy needs. “The One Sun One World One Grid and Green Grids Initiative is an idea whose time has come. If the world has to move to a clean and green future, these interconnected transnational grids are going to be critical solutions,” PM Modi said during the launch.According to the One Sun declaration, the main areas of work of the initiative will be: investing in solar, wind, storage and other renewable energy generation in locations endowed with renewable resources for supporting a global grid; building long-distance cross-border transmission lines to connect renewable energy generators; developing and deploying cutting edge techniques and technologies to modernise power systems; supporting the global transition to zero emission vehicles through incorporating the role of electric vehicles to help improve grid flexibility; attracting investment into solar mini-grids and off-grid systems to help vulnerable communities gain access to clean, affordable, and reliable energy; developing innovative financial instruments, market structures for solar grid infrastructure.“We are assessing the readiness for Osowog which would mean connecting regional grids. The sun never goes down; when one side of the planet is dark there is light on the other side. For example, East Asia gets the first light of sun and it is also where the sun sets first but India still gets sunlight when its sunset in East Asia so electricity can flow from India (to East Asia) during those hours. Similarly, west Asia and Africa can supply electricity to India when it’s dark here. The concept offers an opportunity to use solar energy 24 hours a day. ISA is studying the viability of the concept through the World Bank and Électricité de France. They have already found that under certain circumstances this transfer can be economically viable,” Ajay Mathur, director general of International Solar Alliance had said during fourth general assembly of ISA in October.According to Climate Parliament, one of the partner organisations working on GGI-OSOWOG, the initiative aims to combine a massive increase in solar and wind power with international grids on every continent, connecting energy rich locations such as sunny deserts and windy coastlines. Combine large-scale solar power stations, wind farms and grids with rooftop solar and community grids, including village mini grids, to ensure a reliable, resilient, and affordable supply of clean energy for all.In May 2021, the United Kingdom and India agreed to combine forces of the Green Grids Initiative and the One Sun One World One Grid initiative and jointly launch GGI-OSOWOG at the COP26 summit being hosted by the UK at Glasgow in November 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-sun-one-world-one-grid-pm-modi-calls-for-global-solar-grid-at-cop26-101635877791812.html
03-11-2021||India||Congress bags 1 Lok Sabha, 3 assembly seats in BJP-ruled Himachal Pradesh||Shimla/Dharamshala: The opposition Congress swept the by-elections in the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency besides the Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments by defeating the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday.The BJP was the incumbent in the parliamentary constituency and one of the assembly constituencies. Celebrations broke out in the Congress camp even before the Election Commission formally announced the results in the evening.Pratibha Singh, the Congress candidate and wife of former chief minister the late Virbhadra Singh won from Mandi parliamentary constituency by 7,490 votes. A former two-term member of Parliament from Mandi, Singh polled 3,69,565 votes, while her BJP rival Brigadier Khushal Chand Thakur (retd) received 3,62,075 votes.None of the above (NOTA) played spoilsport for the BJP, with 12,626 votes.In the 2019 general election, the BJP won the Mandi seat by more than 4.5 lakh votes. Its voteshare declined by 20.61 percentage points in two years. The party polled 48.14% votes as compared to 68.75% in the 2019 elections. The Congress vote share rose by 23.46 percentage points. In the last elections, it polled just 25.64% votes, while this time it got 49.14% of votes.The Mandi seat is significant as it is the home turf of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for whom this election was a litmus test of his and his party’s popularity as the state heads into an election year. Assembly elections in Himachal are scheduled for late 2022. The win also establishes that Singh will carry forward the political legacy of Virbhadra Singh, a six-time chief minister who passed away in July. Their son, Vikramaditya Singh, actively campaigned for her in the by-election.Infighting costs BJP dear in FatehpurIn Fatehpur assembly segment, Bhawani Singh Pathania of the Congress won by 5,789 votes. Pathania polled 24,449 votes against the BJP’s Baldev Thakur.Former member of Parliament Rajan Sushant, who contested as an independent candidate, polled 12,927 votes, playing spoilsport for his former party, the BJP.The ruling party’s campaign was marred by infighting in Fatehpur, a stronghold of the Congress for more than a decade. The by-election was necessitated after sitting legislator Sujan Singh Pathania passed away due to a prolonged illness in February. His son, Bhawani, quit his job in a banking and insurance company to take the plunge into politics.Congress snatches Jubbal-Kotkhai from BJPThe Congress snatched the Jubbal-Kotkhai seat from the BJP. Congress nominee and a former two-term legislator, Rohit Thakur, defeated BJP rebel turned independent candidate Chetan Bragta by 6,293 votes. The BJP suffered a humiliating drubbing as its candidate, Neelam Saraik, couldn’t even save her security deposit.The death of BJP MLA and former minister Narinder Singh Bragta, Chetan Bragta’s father, necessitated the by-election.Thakur, the grandson of former chief minister Ram Lal Thakur, polled 29,955 votes, while Bragta got 23,662 votes. Saraik managed to get only 2,644 votes. The Congress also retained the Arki assembly seat that fell vacant after former CM Virbhadra Singh’s death in July. Congress candidate Sanjay Awasthi polled 30,798 votes against the 27,579 votes his BJP rival, Rattan Pal Singh, got. In Arki too, infighting harmed the BJP’s prospects, party leaders said.Chief Minister Jairam Thakur accepted the defeat and said the party will deliberate on the reasons for the loss. “We would take necessary steps to overcome shortcoming,” he said, admitting that there was sympathy for former CM Virbhadra Singh in the tribal regions and that the Congress took advantage of it.Himachal Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the election results are a referendum against the ruling BJP Government and sought the CM’s resignation. NEED INDEPENDENT COMMENT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-bags-1-lok-sabha-3-assembly-seats-in-bjp-ruled-himachal-pradesh-101635877789009.html
03-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 3, 2000 — Direct-to-home TV okayed||New Delhi- PHEW! Nearly three years after well-heeled Indian television viewers were tantalised by the prospect of unrestricted access to hundreds of global channels, the Union Cabinet today finally cleared Direct-to-Home (DTH) broadcasting.DTH service obviates the need for your friendly neighbourhood cable operator. What you get will be what you pay for. For an investment of around ₹12,000 on a decoder and a pizza-sized dish antenna, a DTH subscriber will be able to receive global channels.The Centre has, however, built in safeguards against the creation of broadcasting monopolies, compromise of national security and distortion of public taste.There is to be a 49 per cent cap on foreign equity in DTH service providers. Of this, up to 20 per cent is to be foreign direct investment and the rest is to be foreign institutional investors, overseas corporate bodies and non-resident Indian investments.Briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting, Information and Broadcasting Minister Sushma Swaraj said DTH was the first major step towards convergence but extra caution had been taken to ensure that no vertical monopolies were created.“For security reasons, DTH players will have to beam from the home soil through earth stations within the country. They will also have to adhere strictly to the advertisement and programme codes laid down by the Ministry,” she said.For similar reasons, the chief executive officer and a majority of directors of DTH companies would have to be resident Indian citizens.Mrs Swaraj said to obviate creation of monopolies, the share of existing broadcasting companies and cable network owners would be restricted to 20 per cent in the DTH ventures. The new companies will also have to keep the I&B Ministry informed about any changes in the equity pattern.There will be no restriction on the number of DTH licenses to be issued by the I&B Ministry for a 10-year period. While companies will have to furnish an initial deposit of ₹10 crore, they will have to pay ₹40 crore as bank guarantee for the 10-year license period. At least 10 per cent of the total revenue generated will have to be shared with the Government. In case of violation of rules, apart from the threat of revocation of the license, the errant companies will have to shell out penalty to the tune of ₹50 crore. They will be required to preserve for at least 90 days, recordings of all programmes to be able to make those available for Government scrutiny. Mrs Swaraj said Doordarshan could also provide DTH service but the final decision in the matter rested with Prasar Bharati. Companies keen on using the technology for other services like fax and internet will have to obtain separate licenses. DTH service providers will have to show Doordarshan channels on the must-carry mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-3-2011-union-cabinet-okays-dth-tv-okayed-101635871487595.html
03-11-2021||India||Mapping a clean-air October in Delhi, and what could lie ahead...||Indians, especially in the northern plains, have so far been spared the toxic air they usually breathe with the end of the monsoon. The windfall of a delayed pollution season is not the result of proactive steps to control pollution. It was mostly delayed rainfall and farm fires, the latter also a result of delayed paddy procurement. None of these factors means that this year will not see a spike in pollution levels. In fact, there is enough data to show that pollution levels and factors that contribute to it are already seeing a spike.October 2021 air was better than October 2020 in most statesIn terms of concentration of PM 2.5, October 2021 was a better air-quality month than October 2020 in most Indian states. This is especially the case for northern India. If one were to look air quality in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the region most infamous for farm-fire driven spike in pollution levels, October was at least 25% cleaner than what it was last year. To be sure, some states in the eastern and southern region did see a rise in pollution levels. However, it needs to be kept in mind that air-quality in southern and eastern states is generally much better than what it is in the northern plains. For example, Odisha saw the highest increase in PM 2.5 concentration between October 2021 and October 2020. However, its average PM 2.5 level in October 2021 was 37 microgram per cubic metre, much lower than Delhi, where PM 2.5 levels declined by 43% between October 2021 and October 2020, but were still at an average of 72 microgram per cubic metre.Rainfall and temperature responsible for clean air in OctoberEven if emission of pollutants doesn’t decrease, the weather can improve air quality. This may be because of rainfall, which washes away pollutants; or a higher temperature or windy conditions, which prevent accumulation of pollutants close to the ground. A combination of these factors helped in improvement of air quality this October in the northern states. Of the six states where air quality has worsened, in four – Assam, Maharashtra, Odisha, and Telangana – October 2021 rainfall is 29% to 65% less than October 2020. In West Bengal and Kerala, where rainfall was more and farm fires aren’t a big issue, maximum temperatures have decreased, and perhaps aided the worsening of air quality.But pollution levels have been rising since the last week of OctoberAs the factors which led to pollution levels being lower than last year dissipate – rains have stopped, temperatures have started falling and farm fires have increased – air quality is already deteriorating in the northern plains. In the last three days of October, air quality has gradually moved closer to the levels in October 2020.With a rise in farm fires, this is only expected to get worseFor most of October, fires in Punjab and Haryana, as observed by satellites, were lower than the number observed at this time of the year in the past. The sum of such fires in the two states from October 1 to October 30 was 14,822. This is the lowest number of fires since 2012, the earliest year for which the data is available from the Suomi-NPP satellite. The only year in the last 10 years with when the number of fires was not in the 20,000-30,000 range is 2018, when 18,512 fires were observed in the first 30 days of October. This situation changed dramatically on October 31. There were 3,140 such fires on the day, still only 7th highest in the last 10 years but comparable to the number of fires observed every year on the day.Pollution data is not as representative as rainfall or temperature dataHT has been using the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) gridded databases to analyse rainfall and temperature patterns in India. When it comes to pollution, the analysis unfortunately cannot be as comprehensive as temperature and rainfall. This is because availability of pollution data is contingent on functioning monitoring stations over a longer term. Unfortunately, there are still very few of them in India.There are currently 312 stations spread over 156 cities. Just 19 cities account for half of these stations and three alone -- Delhi (40 stations), Mumbai (21 stations), and Bengaluru (10 stations) -- account for nearly a quarter of these stations. Not all of these stations have worked consistently. This is a big problem in looking at long-term pollution levels. The analysis given here has used data from just 185 stations across 109 cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mapping-a-clean-air-october-in-delhi-and-what-could-lie-ahead-101635870107313.html
03-11-2021||India||Shiv Sena’s jibe at PM Modi over G20 Summit||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena on Tuesday took potshots at prime minister Narendra Modi for not wearing a mask during his visit to Rome, Italy for the G20 Summit and while meeting other heads of state. An editorial in party mouthpiece Saamana said that because Modi did not wear a mask during his foreign visit, the pace of immunization against Covid-19 in the country dropped.“Except Modi, all the leaders of the countries wore masks during the G20 summit. Modi was the only one roaming in this manner. He did not wear a mask when he met [US president] Joe Biden and French president [Emmanuel Macron]. This has led to a lot of criticism, but for ‘bhakts’, Modi is a ‘super power’. So he is not afraid of germs and viruses. Modi has shown the world to live without masks,” the editorial said.On the sidelines of the summit, Modi and other world leaders visited Trevi fountain on Sunday. The delegation also threw a coin over their shoulder in the fountain. It is believed that if you throw a coin over your shoulder into the water of the fountain, you will be sure to return to Rome.“Like Trevi fountain, there are many such fountains and spots in India. Even if this is superstition, Modi went there and put a coin in the water. What must he have wished for? All this is superstition but there are people who have blind faith in Modi in India,” the editorial remarked. As a policy, Maharashtra BJP does not respond to criticism or remarks in Saamana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-s-jibe-at-pm-modi-for-not-wearing-mask-during-g20-summit-101635869688693.html
03-11-2021||India||Military purchases worth ₹7,965 crore cleared in Make-in-India push||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) on Tuesday cleared the purchase of locally produced military hardware worth ₹7,965 crore, including light utility helicopters (LUH) for the army and the air force, fire control systems for the navy, super rapid gun mounts (SRGM) for warships, and the upgrade of Dornier aircraft for coastal surveillance, the Union defence ministry said.DAC, headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for 12 LUHs from Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), Lynx U2 fire control system from Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) to boost the navy’s detection, tracking and engagement capabilities, and indigenous SRGMs from Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) to enable warships engage fast manoeuvring targets, officials said.Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military equipment.“All the proposals are under Make-in-India with focus on design, development and manufacturing in the country... In further impetus to Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India campaign), a global procurement of naval guns has been foreclosed with the quantity added to the upgraded SRGMs manufactured by BHEL,” the ministry said in a statement.The statement refers to an earlier plan of the Indian Navy to buy the Mk 45 gun system from the US --- it has now been shelved. In November 2019, the US cleared the sale of 13 Mk 45 anti-surface and anti-air naval gun systems, along with ammunition and related add-ons, to India for an estimated cost of $1 billion. The gun systems are made by BAE Systems. “The SRGM was earlier to be imported from the US. But now this project will be given to BHEL to give a push to the Make-in-India drive. This will help save ₹3,000 crore,” an official said.The government has taken several measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years. These include raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing, creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying two lists of 209 defence items that cannot be imported in bans that will be progressively enforced from 2021 to 2025.These items include airborne early warning and control systems, light combat aircraft, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, specified types of helicopters, and artillery guns.Former army vice chief Lieutenant General AS Lamba (retd) said the indigenisation drive was finally coming of age with the government’s comprehensive approach towards self-reliance in the defence sector.“We are now seeing a new trend wherein the Indian industry is making complete weapons and systems in the country, in contrast to the past when indigenisation was limited to components and sub-systems,” Lamba added.LUH is an important project as it will eventually replace the army and the air force’s ageing fleets of Cheetah and Chetak helicopters whose safety record has been blemished by a string of crashes. Around 15 Cheetah and Chetak helicopters crashed during the last 10 years killing several pilots. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, then a lieutenant general, survived a Cheetah crash in Dimapur on February 3, 2015.The LUHs cleared by DAC are six each for the army and air force. HAL expects the army and the air force to place combined orders for at least 187 light helicopters in the coming years -- 126 for the army and 61 for the air force. The design of the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters is more than 50 years old.HT reported on October 7 that after wrapping up rigorous flight testing of prototype helicopters in challenging conditions, HAL has set August 2022 as the deadline for carrying out the maiden test flight of the first chopper in the LUH limited series production.HAL is expected to deliver the first set of LUHs to the two services in two to three years of the signing of the contract. Subsequent orders will be executed at a faster pace as LUH production will also begin at HAL’s new helicopter factory in Tumakuru in Karnataka. The LUH’s first test flight will be carried out from the Tumakuru facility. The Bengaluru and Tumakuru facilities will be capable of rolling out 100 LUHs every year.The LUH has proved its capabilities in multiple rounds of trials in extreme conditions in the northern sector, Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director-general, Centre for Air Power Studies, has previously said.India is also looking at jointly building with Russia the Kamov-226T light helicopters in the country. The Kamovs are also expected to replace the Cheetah and Chetak helicopters. However, the $1-billion programme, under which Russia will supply 60 helicopters in flyaway condition and the remaining 140 will be manufactured in India, is yet to kick off. The army, air force and navy together need around 500 light helicopters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-purchases-worth-7-965-crore-cleared-in-make-in-india-push-101635848254717.html
03-11-2021||India||2020 riots: Facebook representatives to appear before Delhi House committee||Facebook’s representatives will appear before the Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee in connection with the February 2020 riots in the national Capital even as the company has sought more time for it, the panel said on Tuesday. The committee has accordingly rescheduled its hearing to November 18.The panel last week issued a notice to the social media company, asking it to send by October 31 the names and designations of representatives, who will appear before it on November 2.In a statement, the panel said in response to its notice dated October 27, Facebook requested for a 14-day extension to ensure the availability of senior representatives, who are best placed to provide the ruling Aam Aadmi Party lawmaker Raghav Chadha-led committee with the required data. It added Facebook India’s public policy head made the request via an email on October 29.Also Read: ‘Step down and allow change’: Facebook whistleblower urges Mark ZuckerbergThe panel said considering the request and reasons stated therein, it decided to grant the extension to Facebook India to make available suitable senior representatives. It added in continuation of the panel’s previous proceedings, it called upon representatives of Facebook India to depose before the committee.In its response to the committee over email, which the panel shared with the press, Facebook said: “We will be happy to appear and offer our assistance to the committee... However, we respectfully request an extension of at least 14 days to appear before the committee in order to ensure the availability of senior representatives with the requisite knowledge and who are best placed to provide the committee with the data required.”A Facebook spokesperson confirmed the company has responded to the committee’s summons but did not comment further on the matter.The notice sent to Facebook on October 27, a copy of which HT has seen, said the failure in complying with it could lead to proceedings for breach of contempt/privilege of the assembly.The committee is examining the communal disharmony that led to the violence in Delhi last year and for recommending suitable measures to defuse the situation and restore harmony among communities. The violence left at least 53 people dead.The panel justified the notice citing the Supreme Court’s July 8 order upholding the powers of the panel to summon both members and non-members including representatives of Facebook.It told the Supreme Court in October 2020 that it summoned Facebook India vice-president and managing director, Ajit Mohan, as a witness to ascertain the social media platform’s views on whether it contributed in any way to the build-up of the February 2020 communal violence.The panel wants suggestions on how social media platforms could be used to strengthen unity among citizens. Facebook executives were summoned as witnesses, not as accused, an affidavit filed by Delhi deputy secretary Sadanand Sah said. Sah added no coercive action was intended.Mohan and Facebook moved Supreme Court on September 22 last year, challenging the panel’s notices. The summons stemmed from the committee’s decision to look into Facebook’s role following several foreign media reports that purported to show that the social media company may have acted in a politically partisan manner.Earlier this year, the assembly panel issued a fresh notice to Facebook India, asking that a “senior competent person” appear and testify before it.Mohan has previously questioned the jurisdiction of the panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2020-riots-facebook-representatives-to-appear-before-delhi-house-committee-101635839013947.html
03-11-2021||NA||Highlights: PM Modi departs from Glasgow in Scotland after attending COP26||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi departs from Glasgow in Scotland after attending COP26Prime Minister Narendra Modi has departed from Glasgow in Scotland after attending the COP26 climate conference. "Departing after 2 days of intense discussions about future of our planet. India has not only exceeded Paris commitments but has now also set an ambitious agenda for next 50 yrs," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Will shut down facial recognition system on network: FacebookFacebook said it will shut down its facial recognition system on network, AFP reported.Israeli PM Bennet said he'd be delighted to visit India in Q1 of FY22: Shringla in GlasgowIsraeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennet has told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that he would be “delighted” to visit India during the first quarter of 2022, India's foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told news agency ANI. “During their meeting, PM Modi mentioned to the Israeli PM that next year would mark 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between India and Israel and invited him to visit India in that context,” Shringla was quoted as saying.Tokyo 2020 Olympic medalists Neeraj Chopra, Lovlina Borgohain among 12 sportspersons to receive Khel Ratna award on Nov 13National Sports Awards will be held on November 13 in New Delhi, which will see Tokyo 2020 Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra get the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award. Besides Chopra, 11 more sportspersons will be honoured with the award, including other Tokyo 2020 Olympic medalists Lovlina Borgohain (Boxing), Sreejesh PR (Hockey) and Ravi Kumar (Wrestling), among others.Puducherry declares holiday for govt, aided, pvt schools from Nov 5-6Puducherry government has declared holiday to all government, aided and private schools in the Puducherry, Karaikal and Yanam regions on November 5 and 6, ANI reported.CIA director meets Russian security council chief: AgenciesCentral Intelligence Agency director William Burns meets Russian security council chief in Moscow, AFP reported citing agencies.CBI files first charge sheet in Indian Navy leaks caseThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed the first charge sheet in the case associated with the alleged leakage of confidential information from the Indian Navy about the modernisation of its Russian-origin Kilo class submarines, ANI reported.PM Narendra Modi to hold virtual review meeting with districts having low Covid vaccination coverage on Nov 3Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual review meeting with Indian districts having a low Covid-19 vaccination coverage on Wednesday at 12noon.Suicide bomber, gunmen responsible for Kabul hospital attack: TalibanIn a statement Taliban state that suicide bomber and gunmen were behind the Kabul hospital attack, AFP reported.Only green crackers allowed for sale and use during festivals: J&K govtThe Jammu and Kashmir government has allowed the sale and use of only green crackers during Diwali and other festivals, ANI reported citing the Valley government. Green crackers can be burst between 8 and 10pm in the Valley.Captain Amarinder Singh floats own party ‘Punjab Lok Congress’Former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh announces formation of his own party named ‘Punjab Lok Congress’ on Tuesday. He also submitted a seven-page resignation to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.Former Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh resigns from CongressFormer Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has resigned from Congress. He sent a seven-page resignation letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, and even announced the formation of his own party.19 dead, 50 wounded in Kabul hospital attackAs many as 19 people have died and 50 others injured after an attack near military hospital in Afghanistan's Kabul, AFP reported citing an official.Delhi govt gives nod to over ₹104 cr for installing mast tricolours at 500 locations across cityThe AAP-led Delhi government has given its nod to funds of more than ₹104 crore for installing 35-metre-high-mast tricolours at 500 sites across the national capital, PTI reported citing official document.Smog yet to develop in Delhi; AQI better this year: IMDRK Jenamani, scientist of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Delhi's AQI will be remain around 300 (poor to very poor) for the forthcoming days, with a minimum temperature of 14°C-15°C. “This year the AQI has been better, comparatively. Smog hasn't been developed, due to many factors,” he told ANI.Explosion and gunfire heard close to military hospital in KabulExplosion and gunfire heard on Tuesday near military hospital in Afghanistan's capital Kabul, AFP reported citing a witness.China asks families to stock up necessities in case of emergencies, directs authorities to maintain ample food itemsChina has asked families to stock up necessities in view of emergencies and also directed authorities to maintain ample food supplies, triggering an online speculation on the possible reasons behind the directive. The unusual notice issued by the country's commerce ministry comes in the aftermath of heavy rain in October, which led to flooding and damage to crops.Kerala HC grants bail to prime accused Swapna Suresh in gold smuggling caseKerala High Court on Tuesday granted bail to the prime accused Swapna Suresh of the gold smuggling case lodged by the NIA. The bail has been given to her on a bond of ₹25 lakh and two solvent sureties, ANI reported.Delhi Commission for Women issues notice to Delhi Police over alleged rape threats to Virat Kohli’s 9-month-old daughterभारतीय क्रिकेट टीम के कप्तान @imVkohli और @AnushkaSharma की बेटी को ट्विटर पर बलात्कार की धमकी मिलने के मामले में दिल्ली महिला आयोग ने भेजा पुलिस को नोटिस।DCW अध्यक्ष @SwatiJaiHind ने बताया घटना को शर्मनाक, आरोपी की गिरफ्तारी की मांग pic.twitter.com/qUEWeLeyLxAnil Deshmukh produced before special holiday court by ED in money laundering caseFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh produced before special holiday court by Enforcement Directorate in money laundering case.PM Modi’s climate action commitments leave room for India's economic growthPrime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment towards climate action with India promising to achieve net zero emissions by 2070 appears to have been taken with global strategic landscape in mind. Read MoreFacebook India seeks 14-day time fromm Delhi peace panelFacebook India seeks 14-day time from Delhi Legislative Assembly's committee on 'Peace & Harmony' to appear before them and give statement. In an email sent to Committee, they say the're selecting an appropriate officer for it. Committee asks them to appear before them on 18th November, reports ANI.Income tax dept seizes Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar’s property worth ₹1000 croreThe Income Tax department has provisionally attached various properties worth around ₹1,000 crores across Maharashtra, Delhi and Goa linked to Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar. The attached properties include a cooperative sugar factory. The action was taken by I-T department after discovering unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore last month during the massive search operation.COP26: World leaders back deal to end deforestation by 2030Leaders of more than 100 countries pledged late Monday to stop and reverse deforestation and land degradation by the end of the decade, according to the COP26 chair of the United Kingdom. Read MoreIndia's Covid-19 tally rises by 10,423India reports 10,423 Covid-19 cases, 15,021 recoveries and 443 deaths in last 24 hours as per the Union Health Ministry.Boris Johnson accepts Modi's invite to India, to plan visit soonBoris Johnson, the prime minister of the United Kingdom, has accepted Prime Minister Narendra Modi's invitation to come to visit India, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday. Read MoreAnil Deshmukh, arrested by ED, to oppose remand before court todayFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) late on Monday in connection with its money laundering probe in an alleged extortion racket, will on Tuesday oppose his remand before the court, according to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader’s lawyer. Read MorePetrol price sees hike of 35 paisePrice of petrol in Delhi at ₹110.04 per litre after a hike of ₹0.35. Diesel price remain unchanged and is selling at ₹98.42 per litre. Petrol & diesel prices per litre- Mumbai: ₹115.85 & ₹106.62 respectivelyKolkata: ₹110.49 & ₹101.56 respectivelyChennai: ₹106.66 & ₹102.59 respectivelyIndia pledges new climate crisis goal: Net zero by 2070India will reach carbon neutrality by 2070, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced as part of a five-point action plan that included reducing emissions to 50% by 2030, making the boldest pledge on Monday at the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow, where he also urged developed countries to deliver on their promise of climate financing. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-breaking-news-november-2-2021-101635811228705.html
