04-11-2021||India||CCTV footage confirms SRK's manager visited Lower Parel after Aryan was detained: Reports||A CCTV footage of Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani at Lower Parel has been found by the special investigation team probing the allegation of extortion in connection with the cruise drugs case, reports said. KP Gosavi's former aide Prabhakar Sail claimed that Gosavi and Sam D'Souza met SRK's manager Pooja in that area and there was allegedly a deal of ₹18 crore. Sam D'Souza, meanwhile, claimed he was not part of the deal, but ₹50 lakh was taken from Pooja Dadlani which was returned to her after Aryan Khan was arrested.Reports also claimed that police may register a case against Gosavi, who is in the custody of Pune Police till November 5 in an old fraud case.The drugs case in which Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested took a surprising turn with Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the case, alleged that Sameer Wankhede made him sign blank papers. In his complaint, he mentioned that he overheard a conversation between KP Gosavi and Prabhakar Sail where he heard the amount ₹18 crore which was supposed to be demanded from Shah Rukh Khan in exchange for the release of his son. Sail also claimed that he heard Gosavi as saying that Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede would be a party to receive a portion of that amount.While these allegations are being investigated, a new claim has been made by Sam D'Souza who said Pooja Dadlani paid ₹50 lakh to Gosavi as Gosavi told SRK's manager that he could help Aryan release as no drugs were found on him. This took place between October 2 and October 3, when Aryan Khan was detained in the NCB raid of the cruise but was not arrested. On October 3, Aryan was arrested. After spending 22 days in Mumbai's Arthur Rod jail, he was finally released from the jail on bail on October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cctv-footage-confirms-srk-s-manager-visited-lower-parel-after-aryan-was-detained-reports-101636045467086.html
04-11-2021||India||Gujarat earthquake: PM Modi calls CM Bhupendra Patel, takes stock of situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday spoke to Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel on the phone to take stock of the situation arising due to an earthquake near Dwarka, informed sources.An earthquake of magnitude 5.0 on the Richter scale hit Dwarka, Gujarat on Thursday, informed the National Center for Seismology (NCS)."An earthquake of magnitude 5.0 on the Richer Scale hit 223 km north northwest of Dwarka, Gujarat today at 3:15 pm," the NCS said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-earthquake-pm-modi-calls-cm-bhupendra-patel-takes-stock-of-situation-101636043752333.html
04-11-2021||India||Girl writes to CJI seeking restoration of bus services, he gets it done||P Vaishnavi, a Class 8 student in Telangana, wrote to Chief Justice of India NV Ramana demanding restoration of bus services to her village Rangareddy district. Vaishnavi in her letter said that she and her siblings, Preethi and Praneeth, were facing issues commuting to school because of the sudden halt of services in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic, legal news website LiveLaw said in a report.Vaishnavi also highlighted that it was not possible for her to afford an auto-rickshaw to go to school. She said that her father passed away due to Covid-19 during the first wave and her mother runs the family on a meagre income.The Chief Justice of India upon receiving the letter took prompt action and alerted the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) regarding the issue. The CJI told them that the services need to resume so as to honour the child’s right to education.Soon after the CJI’s intervention, VC Sajjanar, the managing director of the TSRTC, informed via Twitter that the bus service was restored. “Spoke to P Vaishnavi also with her mother, greeted Diwali wishes and appreciated the baby (the student) for writing about the issue to CJI Ramana sir,” he said in a tweet.He also shared a video where Vaishnavi’s mother was seen speaking on the phone to Sajjanar. “TSRTC management sincerely thanks the Hon'ble apex court Chief Justice of India CJI Ramana sir for alerting us to restore buses to send students on school timings in token of honoring RTE,” he said in another tweet.This was not the first time that the CJI responded to children’s queries and requests. Earlier in June he responded to a girl from Kerala who drew a picture of a judge at work and thanked the courts for helping in taking measures which helped the country during fighting the second wave of Covid-19. CJI Ramana wrote back to her saying that he was ‘impressed’ with her keeping track of ‘happenings in the country and the concern that she displayed for the well being of people in the wake of pandemic’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-writes-to-cji-seeking-restoration-of-bus-services-he-gets-it-done-101636040825155.html
04-11-2021||India||‘Will ask Mamata to reduce tax if…’: TMC leader counters BJP on petrol prices||KOLKATA: After several Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states followed the Centre’s cue and reduced local taxes on petrol and diesel, the party’s West Bengal unit on Thursday mounted pressure on chief minister Mamata Banerjee, demanding a similar step.“The BJP will hit the streets of Bengal after Bhai Dooj, demanding a cut in state taxes on petrol and diesel. Several states have done it. Why can’t Mamata Banerjee follow their example?” Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said on Thursday.Bhai Dooj, a ritual performed by Hindu women, will be observed on November 6.Of the total taxes charged on prices of petrol and diesel in Bengal, the state’s share accounts for around 37%. In February, ahead of state elections, Mamata Banerjee reduced the state tax by Re 1 per litre but there has been no further revision since then. The TMC, as well as opposition parties such as the Congress, have held demonstrations against the Centre on the price issue in recent months.The retail price of petrol came down by ₹5.7 to ₹6.35 per litre across the country on Thursday on account of the ₹5 reduction in Central Excise Duty while diesel prices came down by ₹11.16 to ₹12.88 due to the ₹10 reduction. Apart from base price and taxes charges by states and the Centre, the retail price of petrol and diesel also includes freight charge and dealers’ commission.The ₹5 and ₹10 reduction of Central Excise Duty was the highest ever in excise duty and rolls back a part of the ₹13 and ₹16 per litre increase in taxes on petrol and diesel effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing on to consumers the sharp fall in international oil prices.After the Centre’s announcement, Gujarat, Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Goa have either notified or announced a reduction in state taxes on both petrol and diesel in addition to the relief offered by the Centre.Bengal BJP’s Bhattacharya said the Centre never claimed that the prices would return to what they used to be five years ago.“The government only took a positive step to help people. Instead of appreciating that, the Trinamool Congress resorted to political attack, calling the action an eyewash,” said Bhattacharya.The TMC leadership, however, did not change its stance.“The tax reduction by the Centre is similar to what we often see in local markets during festivals. Traders hike prices by 40% and then offer shoppers a discount of 10 % to fool them,” TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told HT.Roy also brushed aside the reduced taxes on fuel announced by BJP-ruled states, saying this was only done in view of the coming assembly elections.Five states - Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh - are scheduled to go to the polls in early 2022. Except for Congress-ruled Punjab, the other four states have a BJP leader as chief minister.“The BJP-ruled states have cut taxes in view of the coming assembly polls. Let the elections take place. If the BJP returns to power in these states and continues to charge less on petrol and diesel, TMC leaders will request Mamata Banerjee to cut the state taxes in Bengal,” Roy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-ask-mamata-to-reduce-tax-if-tmc-leader-counters-bjp-on-petrol-prices-101636038787190.html
04-11-2021||India||Why Sameer Wankhede's clothes, assets, lifestyle are under scrutiny||Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede's properties, lifestyle have come on the radar in connection with the several allegations levelled against him, which are under investigation. Social media users are debating over the brand of clothes Sameer Wankhede has been seen wearing in various photos after Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik brought allegations of extortion against the government official.To substantiate his allegations of extortion, Nawab Malik recently claimed that Sameer Wankhede wore a trouser worth ₹1 lakh, a shirt costing over ₹70,000 and watches worth ₹25 lakh to 50 lakh. Haww...honest officer. Sure see the tee, co/- & cost pic.twitter.com/1WXtudHQp7Burberry shirt ₹50,000Louis Vuitton Belt ₹1 LacRolex Submariner ₹10 LacsHonest Officer Lifestyle 😍 pic.twitter.com/Nzmhv6pmEG While this debate over the price of his branded clothes is going on, Wankhede family members, including the NCB official, have spoken on the issue. Sameer Wankhede said Nawab Malik should go to the Lokhandwala area to check the price of the clothes. His sister Yasmeen Wankhede said those watches that Nawab Malik mentioned were a gift from their mother. "My mummy has gifted him all these watches and to me also... these were purchased around 17 years back. My brother saves money the whole year to do shopping one day...he wears these clothes for entire year. He makes a list of what he wants and then goes for shopping," Yasmeen said, as quoted by PTI.Yasmeen also said that instead of raising questions over Sameer Wankhede's lifestyle, one should ask how Nawab Malik's son-in-law travels in a Jaguar, how he gets such kind of money.Sameer Wankhede's wife, Marathi actor Kranti Redkar Wankhede said Sameer's entire property belongs to her mother and it is definitely not worth ₹50 to 100 crore, she said. "Sameer owns them since 15 years of age onwards. All documents are produced to the government every year as per rules for civil servants. They are not BENAMI," Kranti tweeted.The NCB official's wife on Tuesday also posted the photo of their lunch and provided the details and wrote, "..just in case someone puts allegations tomorrow morning that we ate some food that a government official's family must not have."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-sameer-wankhede-s-clothes-assets-lifestyle-are-under-scrutiny-101636037035966.html
04-11-2021||India||India asks Pak to restore overflight clearance for Srinagar-Sharjah flights||NEW DELHI: India has asked Pakistan to continue granting overflight clearance for the recently launched Srinagar-Sharjah flight in the interest of people who have booked tickets for the route.Since October 31, Pakistan has refused to allow the use of its airspace for the international flight, which was inaugurated by Union home minister Amit Shah on October 23.Pakistani authorities initially granted overflight clearance to GoFirst airline’s flights on the Srinagar-Sharjah route for October 23, 24, 26 and 28, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Subsequently, Pakistan put the clearance for flights on the same route on hold for the period from October 31 to November 30, the people said.“This matter was promptly taken up with Pakistan through diplomatic channels and we have requested Pakistan to grant overflight clearance for this flight in the interest of the common people who booked tickets for this flight,” one of the people cited above said.Since Pakistan refused to allow the use of its airspace, GoFirst has been forced to use a longer route from Tuesday. Political leaders have criticised the development.The duration of the Srinagar-Sharjah flight has gone up by 45 minutes, increasing from three hours and 30 minutes to four hours and 15 minutes, according to a GoFirst official. The airline has also not ruled out an increase in the fare if the longer route remains in place.Srinagar international airport director Kuldeep Singh said the flight received a good response, and the airline has had full occupancy.Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah was among the politicians who were critical of Pakistan’s decision.“Very unfortunate. Pakistan did the same thing with the Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-2010. I had hoped that @GoFirstairways being permitted to overfly Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations, but alas that wasn’t to be,” he tweeted.The first international flight from Srinagar airport to Dubai was launched in 2009. However, all international flights stopped after some time because of a variety of reasons, including Pakistan’s refusal to allow the use of its airspace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-asks-pak-to-restore-overflight-clearance-for-srinagar-sharjah-flights-101636035008009.html
04-11-2021||India||Jammu & Kashmir slashes VAT on fuel price; L-G calls it Modi's 'Deepawali gift'||The administration of the Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir on Thursday announced a reduction in Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by ₹7."PM @narendramodi has given a great Deepawali gift by announcing a reduction in excise duty on Petrol&Diesel," the Office of Lieutenant Governor of Jammu & Kashmir tweeted from its official account.Hon'ble PM @narendramodi Ji has given a great Deepawali gift by announcing reduction in excise duty on Petrol&Diesel. In addition,J&K admin has decided to reduce additional Rs.7 on Petrol&Diesel,thereby reducing Petrol price by Rs.12/litre &Diesel by Rs.17/litre in UT from today."In addition, J-K admin has decided to reduce an additional Rs.7 on Petrol&Diesel, thereby reducing the Petrol price by Rs.12/litre and Diesel by Rs.17/litre in UT from today," it added.The Centre on Wednesday reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel to bring down the prices of fuel, which had been seeing an upward trend, news agency ANI reported.The relief to consumers came on the eve of Diwali after the Union finance ministry said that excise duty on petrol will come down by ₹5 and that on diesel by ₹10 with effect from Thursday.Announcing the decision on Wednesday evening, the Union finance ministry said: “Government of India has taken a significant decision of reducing Central Excise Duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 (per litre) respectively from tomorrow.”It urged the states "to commensurately reduce" VAT on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers.Central excise on petrol, which is currently ₹32.90 per litre, will be reduced to ₹27.90 on Thursday, and the levy on diesel will be reduced from ₹31.80 to ₹21.80, an executive in state-run oil marketing company said on condition of anonymity. “As these taxes are specific and not ad valorem, the entire excise duty reduction will be immediately passed on to the consumer,” an official familiar with the development said.The reduction is the highest ever in excise duty and rolls back a part of the ₹13 and ₹16 per litre increase in taxes on petrol and diesel effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing on to consumers the sharp fall in international oil prices, Hindustan Times reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-kashmir-slashes-vat-on-fuel-price-l-g-calls-it-modi-s-deepawali-gift-101636032740745.html
04-11-2021||India||Top US trade official Katherine Tai to visit India on Nov 22-23||WASHINGTON: Top US trade official Katherine Tai will travel to India on a two-day visit from November 22 for talks with her Indian counterpart commerce minister Piyush Goyal, it was announced on Wednesday after the two officials met virtually and reaffirmed their commitment to expanding the bilateral trade relationship.Tai’s visit will be the first substantive attempt by the Biden administration to address compounding trade tensions between the two sides marked by an exchange of punitive measures and tariffs during the Trump administration. The effort comes at a time trade volumes have surged.India exported $46.2 billion worth of goods to the US in the eight months from January to August this year, according to US government statistics, compared to $51.2 billion for all of 2020 and $57.8 billion for 2019.The US Trade Representative’s office said Tai and Goyal at their virtual meeting “agreed to take a comprehensive look at ways to expand the bilateral trade relationship and ensure the future success of the US-India Trade Policy Forum (TPF)’.Established in 2005, TPF is the highest-level platform for the two countries to discuss trade issues. It has met infrequently in the past despite a growing slate of disputes and disagreements it was intended to address.There were no indications if the two sides will pick up the trade talks from where the Trump administration left off, which is essentially a full plate of differences and higher tariff announced by the two sides in a mini-trade war sparked by then President Donald Trump’s unilateral levies on aluminium and steel to offset trade imbalances, and his decision to end preferential treatment of Indian exports under the Generalised System of Preferences.India and the Trump administration tried to resolve these and many old and new differences stemming from American demand for more access to Indian markets and removal of Indian measures that are seen as trade barriers. But a deal, no matter how modest, remained out of reach till the end.Commerce minister Piyush Goyal publicly blamed the Trump administration for this failure, alleging it kept changing the goalpost by constantly introducing new issues.People familiar with the talks and the upcoming meeting said the two sides could take a shot at “early harvest” agreements that are easily manageable and achievable. They are essentially issues that the two sides have already resolved or are close to it, and leave the rest for a later date. Tai and Goyal have talked and met virtually a few times since they first spoke in March after Tai formally took over on being confirmed by the US Senate.But trade talks have been at a near standstill, as borne out by the official readout of their meetings/interactions. The two officials agreed to “work constructively to resolve key outstanding bilateral trade issues and to take a comprehensive look at ways to expand the trade relationship”, the USTR said at the time.The language was about the same on Wednesday.People in the know cautioned against hopes of an ambitious deal and pointed to the Biden administration’s handling of trade relations with America’s largest trade partner and rival China as proof. It wants Beijing to fulfill its commitments made under the deal and has dropped plans of a larger deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-us-trade-official-katherine-tai-to-visit-india-on-nov-2223-101636031106612.html
04-11-2021||India||Karnataka slashes sales tax on petrol, diesel; BJP's jibe at ‘lecturing opposition’||With BJP-ruled states announcing VAT cut in petrol and diesel following Centre's announcement of reduction of petrol, diesel excise duty, the BJP on Thursday questioned the opposition-ruled states about their status of petrol and diesel price. The Twitter handle of BJP Karnataka said the NDA state governments immediately decided on reducing the VAT, benefitting crores of people, but the opposition-ruled states are yet to announce the same. The swipe came as Karnataka claimed to be the first state to reduce salex tax on petrol and diesel, which will bring down by ₹19.47.Petrol, diesel cheaper on Diwali as multiple states cut VAT on fuel. Full listOpposition Parties were lecturing about price rise of petrol & diesel.Yesterday, PM @narendramodi Govt reduced excise duty on Petrol & Diesel.NDA State Govts immediately reduced the VAT on them benefiting crores of people.Opposition ruled States are yet to reduce the same.The government release said diesel prices were reduced from ₹104.50 on November 3 to ₹85.03, which is a reduction of ₹19.47. Petrol prices were reduced from ₹113.93 on November 3 to ₹100.63, which is a reduction of ₹13.30.Karnataka’s share of Sales Tax on Petrol is reduced from 35 to 25.9 percent and that on diesel has been reduced from 24 to 14.34 per cent, by virtue of today’s notification, it added."Opposition parties were lecturing about price rise of petrol and diesel. Yesterday, PM Narendra Modi reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel. NDA state governments immediately reduced the VAT on them benefitting crores of people. Opposition-rules states are yet to reduce the same," BJP Karnataka wrote.Apart from the BJP-ruled states, Odisha has announced VAT reduction, while Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said VAT imposed by state will get reduced automatically with the Centre slashing its excise duty. "I would once again urge prime minister (Narendra Modi) to reduce excise duty so that people can get the relief from rising inflation. Our government is ready to bear the revenue loss for public welfare," Gehlot said. In Rajasthan, petrol will be cheaper by ₹6.8 per litre and diesel by 12.6 per litre.Assam, Tripura, Manipur, Karnataka, Goa, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand have announced VAT cut after the Centre reduced excise duty by ₹5 on petrol and ₹10 on diesel.The Congress has been critical of the Centre's announcement a day before Diwali and termed it a 'jumla'. Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday said the decision was a "by-product of by-elections". To this, former petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said, "If the accusation is being sensitive to people’s demand and sharing their sorrow, we happily accept it as the #ModiGovt stands for being with the people in their happiness as well as in grief." Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said the decision was out of fear and not from the heart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cuts-sales-tax-on-petrol-diesel-bjp-s-jibe-at-lecturing-opposition-101636030587629.html
04-11-2021||India||HT This Day: Nov 5, 1988 - Indian troops crush Male coup||New Delhi- In a swift operation crack Indian para troopers today (November 4) successfully crushed the coup bid by foreign mercenaries in Maldives and helped President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom to secure full control of the strategic island republic in the Indian Ocean.  As a result of the operation that ended around 2.30 a.m. today the paratroopers who were air-lifted from Indian bases chased away 400 mercenaries said to have been recruited by disgruntled ex-patriate Maldivian citizens. The coup bid thus collapsed in less than 24 hours after the mercenaries had stormed Presidential Palace and national security headquarters in Male, the capital, early yesterday morning.  The Indian forces intercepted one of the two boats from which the mercenaries had launched the attack on Male yesterday and were in hot pursuit of another boat believed to be carrying mercenaries and some hostages including Transport Minister Ahmed Mujuthaba. The second boat spotted on high seas by an Indian naval aircraft and would be intercepted very soon, a foreign office spokesman said here this evening.  The 5000 tonne-capacity boat, spotted on the high seas, is believed to be carrying some rebels, mercenaries and hostages, the spokesman said.  Male airport is safe and there is no report of fighting at present. There is no casualty on the Indian side, he said. Asked about the total strength of Indian troops sent to Male, the spokesman said the first bath sent last night numbered 300. Some more were sent this morning but the exact number was not known," he said.  Involved in the four hour operation were the Army, Navy and the Air Force. First hand reports said that the national security service headquarters and buildings around it which had witnessed heavy fighting yesterday bore marks of extensive damage. The Indian troops are in control of strategic buildings and points in the city.  Additional Indian troops were rushed to Male after the paratroopers successfully completed their mission. They cordoned off Male and began a house-to-house search to apprehend any possible mercenary in hiding.  The spokesman said the Government of India had the first call for military assistance yesterday morning from a close aide of President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom, who had left his palace for security. This morning the Maldivian President had personally talked to Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on telephone.  Reports coming in from diverse sources indicate that the 2,320 tonne frigate, INS Betwa, was the first to reach the anchorage off Male today followed by the newly commissioned training ship INS tir (2,000 tonnes) which carries a helicopter on deck.  Both these ships were cruising close to the Lakshadweep and Minicoy group of islands and were ordered to set course for this mission. The third ship expected to be in the Maldive waters by tomorrow is the frigate INS Godavari (3,600 tonnes), which was off the east coast of Sri Lanka on way back from the Australian fleet review in Sydney harbour.  This afternoon, the other freight ship used by the Maldivian expatriates and mercenaries in the coup attempts, was brought under rocket fire by the Indian forces and sunk. But the men on board have managed to escape with the Maldivian Transport Minister as hostage. While full details of the deployment of the Indian security forces to Maldives are yet to be officially announced, it is learnt that close to a thousand troops, airlifted and para-dropped in a swift inter-service operation, carried out the task of restoring the capital city of Male to the constitutional authority in less than four hours.  The sources denied reports that INS Viraat, the aircraft carrier, had been committed in this operation. Such a large deployment was not required, they said.  Among the first to reach Male and overfly it with full sound and fury were the reconnaissance aircraft of the Indi- an Air Force. The naval surveillance aircraft also carried out sorties in support. Well informed sources monitoring the operations said some of the mercenaries fleeing Maldives in a boat may have died as a result of the boat being rocketed and sunk by the Indian forces. Details of the casualties were being awaited.  Besides the Navy, six Coast Guard speed boats are understood to have been dispatched to Male from Cochin.  The troops were flown in with the help of IL-76 Gajaraj and AN-32 Satluj from Bangalore and Trivandrum.  In a radio broadcast, Mr Gayoom thanked Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi for saving his nation from bloodshed. According to reports from Male, people who had kept indoors throughout yesterday came out to the streets at Daybreak today. President Gayoom went on the radio, urging calm and thanking god for delivering his nation of islands from violence. Ali, the Sri Lankan High Commissioner, said he had seen people walking and travelling by bicycles and motorcycles but few cars were on the road. Today is the weekly holiday when most businesses and shops close. Mosques were open for prayers as, life started to return to normal. Radio Male resumed broadcasting at 7.00 a.m. for the first time since it went off the air.  Mr Gayoom noted that he had survived three coup attempts since he was elected to office in 1978, but he gave no indication who was behind the latest attempt to remove him.  However, diplomatic sources and a Sri Lankan military official in Colombo blamed the attack on Sri Lankan Tamil guerillas and said they were recruited by an agent of former President Ibrahim Nasir.  DPA quoted the Maldivian High Commissioner Ahmed Abdulla in Colombo as saying that the Government of Mr Gayoom was in "total control" of the situation and the intruders had been repulsed. Mr Abdulla said some of the mercenaries were arrested while others escaped either by boat or to some of the hundreds of islands that make up the Archipelago. Other sources said the intruders fled in two ships shortly before the Indians landed. Mr Abdulla admitted casualties in several hours of fighting. He did not give further details.  Radio Male said 700 Indian paratroopers were on Male after landing last night on Hulule Island, a 10minute boat ride away. An Indian Navy ship was standing by off shore, the radio added.  Electricity flickered back today for the first time since the coup attempt started.  Sources in Male and Colombo, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the attackers inflicted heavy grenade and bullet damage on the Presidential Palace and other Government buildings, including the security force headquarters. But these sources said that human casualties appeared to be light.  "Indian troops have been seen guarding all main government buildings," Mohammad Sharif, a male resident said "everything is quiet now, our Government is under control." Mr Sharif said he had not heard any gunfire since about midnight Thursday.  Tourism and diplomatic sources in Colombo, about 800 km northeast of Male, said they were unaware of any tourists endangered by the attempted coup. A Colombo travel agent said he had been told there would be no commercial flights into the Maldives until at least Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-nov-5-1988-indian-troops-crush-male-coup-101636026949838.html
04-11-2021||India||Endangered lesser florican rescued in Maharashtra’s Solapur||A female lesser florican - an endangered species of bustard endemic to India of which less than 270 are estimated to be alive in the wild - was rescued by the forest department in Solapur, Maharashtra earlier this week. The bird was tagged with a metal ring bearing a unique ID number and released at Solapur’s Great Indian Bustard Bird Sanctuary, where, officials said, it will have a higher chance of survival.The sighting of the bird was reported on Tuesday by Hiremath, a resident of Nannaj in Solapur North, who noticed it taking shelter near his home seemingly to escape stray dogs. Hiremath informed the nearby sanctuary and the forest department’s office in Nannaj. Also Read: Doctor clicks rare Mottled Wood Owl in PrayagrajA team from Solapur’s forest department and the NGO Wildlife Conservation Association (WCA) moved the female bird to the district veterinary hospital as it had a minor injury on a wing.After examining the bird and administering first aid, the district veterinarian’s office issued a certificate stating that it was fit to be released back into the wild. It was released at the bird sanctuary the same afternoon in the presence of deputy forest conservator Dhairyashil Patil, range officer Shubhangi Jawale and WCA members. A female bird of the same species was last seen in Maharashtra in August this year, when it was photographed at the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve.The bird is locally known as “tanmor” or “kharmor”, a forest department official said. “Four years ago, a lesser florican was also seen near the district police headquarters in Solapur. They are an endangered species. This sighting is important because it tells us they are still present in the area,” said the official, who requested not to be named.The lesser florican is one of three bustard species endemic to the country, the others being the Bengal florican and the Great Indian Bustard. A report by the Wildlife Institute of India in 2018 had estimated their population in the wild to be not more than 264, indicating a decline of about 80% over the last two decades.The species is classified as “endangered” by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and it also features in Appendix II of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), which “includes species not necessarily threatened with extinction, but in which trade must be controlled in order to avoid utilisation incompatible with their survival.” It is also protected under Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife Act.Kedar Gore, a wildlife biologist and director of the Corbett Foundation and member of three separate IUCN commissions, said the main reason behind the rapid decline in lesser florican numbers is the disappearance of grasslands and associated ecosystems. “Forests in India are better protected, but grasslands are not seen as having any ecological value. After hunting first drove down the numbers of these birds, their habitat has been under threat in Maharashtra mainly due to expansion of industries in grassland areas,” Gore said. “In Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, renewable energy projects have been established on grasslands where these birds mate. The Corbett Foundation, Bombay Natural History Society, state governments and various experts have been actively working on conservation measures, but there needs to be a wide-ranging policy to arrest the sort of land-use change that is destroying lesser floricans’ habitat,” Gore said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/endangered-lesser-florican-rescued-in-maharashtra-s-solapur-101636025586465.html
04-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Probe ordered after man branded ‘terrorist’ in prison and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Punjab prisoner allegedly tortured, branded as 'Atwadi'; probe orderedAkali leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa termed this as 'malicious intent' of the Congress in Punjab to paint Sikhs as terrorists. Read more here. ‘Black 2021’: Car sales plunge; US, China, Europe and India report declineCar sales have been tumbling across the world with a semiconductor chip shortage taking a mammoth toll. While demand remains strong in most markets, production is rather sorry tale. Read more here. Pakistani actor makes huge allegation against BCCI after India beat Afghanistan, Aakash Chopra gives fitting replyTeam India on Wednesday recorded their first win in this edition of the T20 World Cup, beating Afghanistan by 66 runs in Abu Dhabi. Read more here. Akshay Kumar reveals how Katrina Kaif actually slapped him in Sooryavanshi, says 'asli mein pail diya'Katrina Kaif said that she really slapped Akshay Kumar while shooting. In The Kapil Sharma Show, she also said that she did it without any retake. Read more here. Vaani Kapoor sizzles winter fashion in blue fleece sports bra, shrug, jeansVaani Kapoor's ‘magic’ in blue fleece sports bra, shrug and jeans are the only blues we are accepting this winter. Read more here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-probe-ordered-after-man-branded-terrorist-in-prison-and-all-the-latest-news-101636024909242.html
04-11-2021||India||Punjab prisoner allegedly tortured, branded as 'Atwadi'; probe ordered||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has ordered an investigation into the allegation that a 28-year-old prisoner in a jail in Punjab's Barnala was tortured and branded as 'terrorist' on his back with an iron rod."A jail inmate in Barnala, Karamjit Singh beaten brutally by Jail Superintendent. The word “Attwadi” meaning TERRORIST engraved on his back! This is disgusting and a serious violation of human rights. We demand strict possible action against officials involved," Akali Dal leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa tweeted on Wednesday. ਬਰਨਾਲਾ ਜੇਲ ਦੇ ਕੈਦੀ ਕਰਮਜੀਤ ਸਿੰਘ ਨੇ ਮਾਨਸਾ ਦੀ ਅਦਾਲਤ ਚ ਪੇਸ਼ੀ ਦੌਰਾਨ ਜੇਲ੍ਹ ਸਟਾਫ ਵੱਲੋ ਉਸਦੇ ਸਰੀਰ ਤੇ ਇਤਰਾਜ਼ਯੋਗ ਸ਼ਬਦ ਲਿਖੇ ਹੋਣ ਦੇ ਦੋਸ਼ ਲਗਾਏ ਗਏ ਹਨ। ਜਿਸਦੇ ਮੱਦੇਨਜ਼ਰ ਘਟਨਾ ਦੀ ਡੂੰਘਾਈ ਨਾਲ ਜਾਂਚ ਕਰਨ ਦੇ ਹੁਕਮ ਜਾਰੀ ਕਰ ਦਿੱਤੇ ਗਏ ਹਨ। @CHARANJITCHANNI @DGPPunjabPolice @PunjabPoliceIndSirsa termed this as 'malicious intent' of the Congress in Punjab to paint Sikhs as terrorists. "Punjab Police beats undertrial Sikh prisoner and engraved word ‘Atwadi’ on his back. We demand immediate suspension of jail superintendent and strict action for human rights violation," he tweeted. A jail inmate in Barnala, Karamjit Singh beaten brutally by Jail Superintendent. The word “Attwadi” meaning TERRORIST engraved on his back!This is disgusting and a serious violation of human rights. We demand strict possible action against officials involved @CHARANJITCHANNI Ji https://t.co/mYKcWyPWMh pic.twitter.com/icmiIiBSitKaramjit Singh, the inmate, is under trial in about 11 cases, including cases falling under the NDPS Act. Singh made this allegation at a court in Mansa district where an NDPS case was being heard. Reports said the jail superintendent who has been accused of this torture denied the allegation and said Karamjit is a repeat offender who was found with a cell phone in his barrack a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-prisoner-allegedly-tortured-branded-as-atwadi-probe-ordered-101636023744772.html
04-11-2021||India||Delhi's air quality remains 'very poor' amid concerns over a worsening crisis||Delhi's air quality remained in the 'very poor' category (at 02:21 pm) on Thursday afternoon, with the overall air quality index (AQI) recorded at 339.The information was shared by the ministry of earth sciences' System of Air Quality & Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR) amid heightened concerns over a worsening pollution situation in the national capital region (NCR) on the occasion of Diwali as the day began on a smoggy note.The authorities have said the crisis is only likely to get worse from here even if no crackers are burst during the festivities.This was the third consecutive day when the capital’s air quality remained "very poor" for the second consecutive day on Wednesday.While SAFAR has said the air quality may become 'severe' on November 5 and 6 if firecrackers are burnt, an official from the India Meteorological Department said model predictions do not indicate the AQI reaching the 'severe' category "even with higher emissions", according to a PTI report.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the capital recorded a 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) of 314 on Wednesday, 303 on Tuesday and 281 on Monday.The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (337), Gurgaon (330), Ghaziabad (353) and Noida (327) also recorded very poor air quality on Wednesday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.On Wednesday, SAFAR said 3,271 farm fires accounted for eight per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution on Wednesday. It is likely to increase to 20 per cent on Thursday and further to 35 to 40 per cent on Friday and Saturday with the wind direction changing to northwest, it said.Northwesterly winds carry smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana towards the national capital.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-air-quality-remains-very-poor-amid-concerns-over-a-worsening-crisis-101636017369825.html
04-11-2021||India||Won LS seat without using Modi’s name: Shiv Sena on Dadra and Nagar Haveli win||Shiv Sena on Thursday said it won the by poll for Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha seat without using Prime Minister Narendra Modi ‘s name or image and it showed that the party’s first ever victory on a Lok Sabha seat outside Maharashtra was a verdict against ‘dictatorial’ attitude. Sena candidate Kalaben Delkar won the Lok Sabha seat with over 51,000 votes in the October 30 by polls.“Just ahead of Diwali, the lantern of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is out of light; these are not good signs. The results of the by polls have put a crack in their arrogance that they are invincible and unbeatable,” an editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said. “Without using the name of Modi or using his picture on posters, Shiv Sena won in Gujarat’s bordering [Union] territory. Despite chanting ‘Modi-Modi’ in Deglur, BJP had to taste defeat,” the Saamana editorial said, referring to the fact that Deglur assembly seat by polls in Nanded district was won by the Congress.Calling it a “historic” win, Sena mouthpiece said the party’s journey so far has been from Dadar to Dadra, and will now head toward Delhi. “The Sena’s journey has been from Mumbai’s Dadar to Dadra [and Nagar Haveli], it will definitely knock on the doors of Delhi soon… The victory in Dadar Nagar Haveli is not just a win but it is a setback to the dictatorial attitude in the country,” the Sena said.Also Read | Covid-19 pandemic: 19 districts in Maharashtra have less than 50 active casesThe mouthpiece added that Shiv Sena ally, the Congress, had taken a lead in the by polls held in 13 states for a total of three Lok Sabha and 29 assembly seats. It further added that the BJP had lost to Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and to Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Deglur-Biloli assembly seat in Maharashtra, while the Congress won two assembly seats in the by poll in Rajasthan apart from winning one seat in the BJP ruled state of Karnataka.“Those who were saying that Congress has weakened have got a smack on their faces with the hand (The hand is the Congress party’s election symbol),” Saamana said, and further remarked, “This means that the time of merely taking Modi’s name to win elections has passed.” As a policy, Maharashtra BJP does not respond to criticism or remarks in Saamana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/won-ls-seat-without-using-modi-s-name-or-picture-says-sena-after-dadra-nagar-haveli-win-101636016646393.html
04-11-2021||India||On Diwali, PM Modi lauds role of women in providing security to the nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that the role of women in the security of the nation is touching new heights."Our daughters have time and again showincased their valour in our defence forces. They have played an immeasurable role in protecting our country," the Prime Minister said while addressing soldiers at Nowshera in Jammu and Kashmir."The role of women in the area of security of the nation is touching new heights. The women are being given a permanent commission in the army now. The doors of premier military institutions have also been opened for them now," he added.The government had earlier given the nod for admitting girl cadets to Sainik Schools across the country.Speaking on the occasion the PM reiterated his vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and said that the commitment to self-reliance in the defence sector is the only way to change old methods of procuring defence equipment."Today's India is Aatmanirbhar and Sashakt! We are changing the narrative of importing defence equipment. Today, 65 per cent of our defence budget goes into buying defence equipment that is Made in India," the Prime Minister said."With the changing times, we have to change our defence preparedness. We are increasing our connectivity pool and laying down optical fibres across the borders," he added.The Prime Minister today continued his annual tradition of celebrating Diwali with soldiers. He left from Delhi for Nowshera today with minimum security arrangements.In his address at Nowshera, the Prime Minister said, "I am not here as a PM but as your family member to celebrate Diwali."Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister paid tribute to soldiers who lost their lives in the line of duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-diwali-pm-modi-lauds-role-of-women-in-providing-security-to-the-nation-101636013701619.html
04-11-2021||India||China prepared for spike in border tensions with India: US defence dept report||The Chinese army’s acceleration of its training and fielding of heavy military equipment has prepared it for any escalation of border tensions with India and to support a “Taiwan contingency”, according to a new US defence department report.The annual report prepared for the US Congress on military and security developments related to China has a special section on the India-China standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that began in May 2020 and has taken bilateral relations to an all-time low.The report said that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, border clashes with India and other significant events in 2020, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) “accelerated its training and fielding of equipment from the already fast pace of recent years”.Also Read: Nuclear woes, defence plans: Key points from Pentagon’s detailed report on ChinaThis equipment fielding during 2020 “focused on improving mobile firepower and mobility with the PCL-171 120mm self-propelled howitzer and the PCL-181 155mm self-propelled howitzer, as well as field testing of the Z-8L heavy-lift transport helicopter”. PLA units also conducted “extensive combined arms and joint training throughout 2020”.The report said, “Significant training likely prepared the [PLA] for any escalation of border tensions with India, as well as preparing to support a Taiwan contingency.”The “Taiwan contingency” was a reference to China’s long-standing plan to unify the island with the mainland.The PLA, which has about 975,000 active duty personnel in combat units, strove to increase the realism of its training”, and its units conducted “robust combined-arms training and extensive joint training exercises” with other services.“In 2020, the [PLA] highlighted training for... potential contingencies in high-elevation regions (suggesting a possible focus on India given border clashes in 2020) and projecting forces across the Taiwan Strait,” the report said.There was also a significant PLA “force build-up and establishment or enforcement of forward positions” along the LAC during 2020, and these “tensions likely provided the [PLA] with valuable real-world operational and tactical experience”, the report said.Also Read: ‘Blaming Nehru would not solve China problem’: Nirupama RaoAt the height of the LAC standoff in 2020, the PLA installed a fibre optic network in remote areas of the western Himalayas to provide faster communications and increased protection from foreign interception. The PLA field commanders now “view near real-time ISR and situational data as well as redundant and reliable communications as essential to streamlining decision making processes and shortening response timelines”, according to the report.The PLA also noted progress in “increasing its warfighting readiness” and Communist Party publications “often state that preparing for winning wars is the logical starting point of the PLA’s reforms”. The party publications also praised the PLA for strengthening troop training and preparations, while citing “improvements in key competencies such as mobilising to support China’s responses to the Covid-19 outbreak and floods in central China, and successes in military-civil fusion, particularly in delivering logistics during mobilisation and deterrence exercises along the Indian border in 2020”.The report noted that diplomatic efforts by India and China to resolve the standoff “are making slow progress as both sides resist losing perceived advantages on the border”. The two sides withdrew frontline forces from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February and from Gogra in August, they have been unable to make headway on disengagement at other friction points despite numerous rounds of diplomatic and military talks.After the face-off began in May 2020, China and Indian deployed almost 50,000 troops each in Ladakh sector of the LAC. “The PRC (China) blamed the standoff on Indian infrastructure construction, which it perceived to encroach on PRC territory, while India accused the PRC of launching aggressive incursions into India’s territory,” the report said.In June last year, troops from the two sides clashed in Galwan Valley, resulting in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops. This incident was the deadliest clash between the two sides in 45 years. In addition, on September 8, 2020, a PLA patrol fired warning shots at an Indian patrol near Pangong Lake – the first shots fired along the LAC in decades.The report noted that Chinese had “sought to downplay the severity of the crisis, emphasising Beijing’s intent to preserve border stability and prevent the standoff from harming other areas of its bilateral relationship with India”.It added, “The PRC seeks to prevent border tensions from causing India to partner more closely with the United States. PRC officials have warned US officials to not interfere with the PRC’s relationship with India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-prepared-for-spike-in-border-tensions-with-india-us-defence-dept-report-101636013284862.html
04-11-2021||India||Will remember the day forever: PM Modi lauds role of jawans in surgical strikes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday recalled the surgical strikes of 2016 and lauded the role played by the Army brigade in the Nowshera sector during the attack on militant launchpads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.Addressing the jawans on the occasion of Diwali at Nowshera sector in the border district of Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir, Modi said the day the surgical strikes were conducted is etched in his memory forever as he sat beside his phone checking on the whereabouts of every soldier.Also read | I join family to spend Diwali every year, PM Modi tells jawans at J&K's Nowshera“The role played by this brigade during the surgical strike fills everyone with pride. I will remember that day forever as it was decided that all soldiers should return before sunset... I was sitting beside the phone and was asking about the whereabouts of every soldier,” Modi said.India had conducted the surgical strikes on September 29, 2016, across the Line of Control as a response to a terrorist attack on an Army base in the Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir.Modi said many attempts were made to spread terrorism here after the surgical strikes but they were given a befitting reply.#WATCH The role played by this brigade during the surgical strike fills everyone with pride. I will remember that day forever as it was decided that all soldiers should return before sunset... I was sitting beside phone & was asking about whereabouts of every soldier...: PM Modi pic.twitter.com/AijhKq7JHnThe Prime Minister, who distributed sweets among soldiers and interacted with them, further said India must enhance its military capabilities in line with the changing world and modes of war. He said modern border infrastructure has been built to augment connectivity and troop deployment.He said connectivity in border areas has improved -- be it from Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Jaisalmer or Andaman and Nicobar Islands.“Borders and coastal areas lacking normal connectivity now have roads and optical fibres, and this boosts deployment capabilities as well as facilities for soldiers,” he added.Modi also said that earlier the country had to depend mostly on imports in the defence sector but his government's initiatives have given a boost to indigenous capabilities.He hailed the courage of soldiers and said their capability and strength has ensured peace and security for the country.(With inputs from agencie)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-remember-the-day-forever-pm-modi-lauds-role-of-jawans-in-surgical-strikes-101636012193299.html
04-11-2021||India||WHO approval opens up Covaxin for worldwide use, says ICMR chief||The approval given by the World Health Organization (WHO) to Covaxin has opened up the indigenous vaccine for worldwide use, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava has said. The vaccine has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR, which comes under the Union health ministry.The UN health body put its stamp of approval on the safety and efficacy of India's indigenous vaccine on Wednesday."It is a great day for India. It is a classic example of how private-public partnership has been a success in this field. The hard work of scientists and healthcare workers has led to this approval today. This makes India very proud. We should keep up this momentum," Bhargava told ANI shorty after the approval was announced on Wednesday."It means the whole world is open for us for sending this vaccine. And, in India, we have already administered a large number of doses, therefore we will be able to send this vaccine to the rest of the world," he added.The approval comes after a long wait, as the WHO had sought additional clarifications from the manufacturer of Covaxin, in order to conduct a final emergency use listing (EUL) risk-benefit assessment for global use of the vaccine.The approval was done on the recommendation of the Technical Advisory Group (TAG) for Emergency Use Listing (TAG-EUL), an independent advisory panel that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a Covid-19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure.The United States has already allowed those who have received Covaxin shots to enter when the country opens its borders for international trvallers on November 8. The WHO approval will allow for a larger recognition of Covaxin by other countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-approval-opens-up-covaxin-for-worldwide-use-says-icmr-chief-101636011845530.html
04-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi celebrates Diwali with jawans at J&K's Nowshera and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.I join family to spend Diwali every year, PM Modi tells jawans at J&K's NowsheraPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said he wished to celebrate Diwali with family members and hence, he joins soldiers at the borders every year on the occasion. The Prime Minister, who reached Nowshera in the border district of Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir a while ago, said he brought along with him the blessing of crores of Indians for the jawans there. Read MoreAdi Shankaracharya’s statue to be unveiled at KedarnathAdi Guru Shankaracharya’s 12 feet tall statue at Kedarnath, weighing 35 tonnes, has been made by Mysore-based sculptors from Chlorite Schist Stone, which is known to withstand rain, sunshine, and harsh climate, said tourism officials. The statue, to be unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 5, has been polished with coconut water to bring out its shine, the officials added. Read MoreSomebody intended to ‘sabotage': Lawyer on tragedy on Baldwin movie setA lawyer for the armorer who oversaw weapons used on the "Rust" movie set suggested on Wednesday that someone deliberately put a live round into the gun used by Alec Baldwin when he accidentally shot dead a cinematographer. Read MoreIndia's Covid-19 tally rises by 12,885; positivity rate at 1.21%India's Covid-19 tally saw a marginal rise on Thursday as the country reported 12,885 new cases of infection in the last 24 hours, the numbers updated on the Union health ministry's website showed. On Wednesday, there were 11,903 cases in the same span of time. Read MoreChris Hemsworth is punching his ‘way through jet lag,’ like this…Chris Hemsworth knows a quick fix to jet lags. The actor, who is a fitness enthusiast and swears by high intensity workouts, is often spotted working out in animal mode at his gym. Chris’s pictures and videos, fresh from his fitness routine, are extremely motivating for his Instagram family. Read More‘Best wishes to my partner in many enjoyable stand’: VVS congratulates Dravid after appointment as new India coachBatting stalwart Rahul Dravid was appointed as the new coach of Team India, a decision BCCI announced while Virat Kohli and co. were playing against Afghanistan at the ongoing T20 World Cup on Wednesday evening.Dravid, who has featured in 164 tests and 344 ODIs, will take the reign from Ravi Shastri after the conclusion of the World Cup. Read MoreInside Ekta Kapoor’s Diwali party: Ibrahim Ali Khan, Karishma Tanna, Anita Hassanandani light up celebrations, see picsEkta Kapoor hosted a Diwali party at her residence on Wednesday night. Many celebrities were in attendance, including television stars Karishma Tanna, Anita Hassanandani, Krystle D’Souza, Mouni Roy, Hina Khan, Ridhi Dogra, Mohit Sehgal, Sanaya Irani, and others. Saif Ali Khan’s eldest son Ibrahim Ali Khan was also seen at the festivities. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-celebrates-diwali-with-jawans-at-j-k-s-nowshera-and-all-the-latest-news-101636009634637.html
04-11-2021||India||PM Modi's cavalcade moves in normal traffic in Delhi with minimal security||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Nowshera in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday to celebrate Diwali with soldiers of the Indian Army. This is the continuation of the tradition he started after assuming office in 2014.The Prime Minister addressed the jawans in Nowshera, saying he came to the Army base to celebrate the festival of light "with family".The Prime Minister not only boosted the morale of the soldiers deployed at the border, he also took special care while leaving for the airport in Delhi to avoid inconvenience to the common people.When PM Modi left his residence in the morning, there were minimal security arrangements in place and no traffic route was deployed, according news agency ANI. It posted the video of the cavalcade's movement in Delhi.#WATCH Early morning today, when PM Modi left for Nowshera, J&K, minimal security arrangements and no traffic restrictions were in place on the route in Delhi(Source: Doordarshan) pic.twitter.com/QJ3DrRtmyyIn the video, the cars in the Prime Minister's convoy were seen moving through usual traffic on the morning of Diwali, and even stopping at traffic signals, but without causing any inconvenience to the commuters. This is very unusual as the Prime Minister's routes are always sanitised for smooth movement, with people not even being allowed to stand on roadsides.ANI obtained the visuals from national broadcaster Doordarshan.PM Modi has been taking special care to ensure that his visit and movement of convoy don't cause any kind of trouble for the common people on the road. In April, during the peak of campaigning for West Bengal assembly elections, his cavalcade cleared the way for two ambulances in Barasat.The ambulances were allowed to take the same route through which the Prime Minister's convoy was passing.In 2018 too, PM Modi's convoy was seen traversing through normal traffic conditions without any special security restrictions, when he visited a school in Delhi's Paharganj to carry out his Swachhata Shramdaan (voluntary cleaning work).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-cavalcade-moves-in-normal-traffic-in-delhi-with-minimal-security-101636009902853.html
04-11-2021||India||I join family to spend Diwali every year, PM Modi tells jawans at J&K's Nowshera||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said he wished to celebrate Diwali with family members and hence, he joins soldiers at the borders every year on the occasion.The Prime Minister, who reached Nowshera in the border district of Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir a while ago, said he brought along with him the blessing of crores of Indians for the jawans there.“Our soldiers are the 'suraksha kawach' of 'Maa Bharti'. It is because of you all that people of our country can sleep peacefully and there is happiness during festivals,” he said, adding, “Your capability, strength ensure peace and security for the country.”“I have spent each Diwali with soldiers guarding our borders. Today, I have brought along with me the blessings of crores of Indians for our soldiers here,” he said.#WATCH "I am not here as a PM but as your family member to celebrate Diwali," PM Modi to army personnel at Nowshera in Jammu & Kashmir pic.twitter.com/YJOb1sVGvESince taking over as prime minister, Modi has made it a point to meet troops in a border region on Diwali, starting from a visit to Siachen in 2014.Recalling the surgical strikes the Army carried out against militant launch pads in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir,  the PM said it fills every Indian with pride on the role this brigade played during the surgical strike. “Many attempts made to spread terrorism here after that, but (the jawans) gave a befitting reply,” he added.Modi further spoke about procurement of defence equipment that used to take years. “The commitment to self-reliance in the defence sector is the the only way to change old methods,” he added.“We have to enhance, adapt our military capabilities in line with changing world and mode of war,” he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-join-family-to-spend-diwali-every-year-pm-modi-tells-jawans-at-j-k-s-nowshera-101636008343033.html
04-11-2021||India||Adi Shankaracharya’s statue to be unveiled at Kedarnath||Adi Guru Shankaracharya’s 12 feet tall statue at Kedarnath, weighing 35 tonnes, has been made by Mysore based sculptors from Chlorite Schist Stone, which is known to withstand rain, sunshine and harsh climate, said tourism officials. The statue, to be unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 5, has been polished with coconut water to bring out its shine, the officials added. The unveiling of the statue will be live-streamed at the rest of the 11 Jyotir Lingas, four maths (monastic institutions) and major Shiva Temples, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said. In the 2013 Uttarakhand floods, Adi Guru Shankaracharya’s samadhi (final resting place) next to the Kedarnath temple was washed away. Shankaracharya’s new statue has been installed just behind the Kedarnath temple as part of its reconstruction project. Mysore’s Yogiraj Shilpi, a sculptor rooted in five generation of craftsmanship, completed the work on the new statue with help from his son, Arun. Yogiraj Shilpi was contracted by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) after a nationwide search. Yogiraj started making the statue in September 2020 with around 120 tonnes of stone procured for its carving. The sculpture, which weighs around 35 tonnes, depicts Adi Shankaracharya in a sitting position, said officials. The tourism officials said both the Centre and the state governments were equally committed to the reconstruction of Kedarnath Dham, to be done in phases, for which more than ₹500 crores was sanctioned. Also Read | Won’t protest during Modi visit, promise Kedarnath priests after Dhami’s pledgeState tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said reconstruction works in Kedarnath would not have been possible without the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “We welcome his presence here soon. He will also be inaugurating the second phase of reconstruction works at Shri Kedarnath,” he added Uttarakhand’s tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar said, “I would like to thank PM Narendra Modi and Jindal Steel Works for their generous efforts towards rebuilding the monument. We are firm that this establishment will not only manifest the belief of devotees in the teachings of this great sage but will also help in getting further tourist footfall in the state.” The Kerala born Adi Shankaracharya was an 8th-century Indian mystic and philosopher who consolidated the doctrine of Advaita Vedanta and made a significant contribution in unifying Hinduism by setting up four mathas (monastic institutions) across India. Uttarakhand Himalayas hold much significance in the context of Adi Shankaracharya as he is said to have taken samadhi here at Kedarnath. It was in Uttarakhand where he established one of the four mathas at Jyotir Math here in Chamoli district and also established the idol at Badrinath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adi-shankaracharya-s-statue-to-be-unveiled-at-kedarnath-101636005424223.html
04-11-2021||India||Excise duty cut on fuel by-product of bypoll outcome, says P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram said results of the recently concluded by-elections had a by-product in the form of a reduction in excise duties on fuel.On Wednesday, the Narendra Modi-led central government cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by record amounts of ₹5 and ₹10, respectively, per litre, to bring down their rates from the highest-ever levels.Chidambaram said the government’s move was a confirmation of the Congress’ charge that fuel prices were high mainly because of high taxes.Also read | Petrol, diesel cheaper on Diwali as multiple states cut VAT on fuel. Full list“And our charge that high fuel taxes is because of the greed of the central government,” he said.It is a confirmation of our charge that fuel prices are high mainly because of high taxesAnd our charge that high fuel taxes is because of the greed of the central governmentSenior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram said results of the recently concluded by-elections had a by-product in the form of a reduction in excise duties on fuel.On Wednesday, the Narendra Modi-led central government cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by record amounts of ₹5 and ₹10, respectively, per litre, to bring down their rates from the highest-ever levels.Chidambaram said the government’s move was a confirmation of the Congress’ charge that fuel prices were high mainly because of high taxes.“And our charge that high fuel taxes is because of the greed of the central government,” he said.|#+|Taking to Twitter, the former finance minister wrote, “The results of the 30 Assembly and 3 LS by-elections have produced a by-product. The centre has cut excise duties on petrol and diesel! It is a confirmation of our charge that fuel prices are high mainly because of high taxes.”The BJP and its allies won 14 of the 29 Assembly seats that went to polls on October 30 and the results of which were declared on Tuesday. The Congress bagged eight, including all three assembly seats and the prestigious Mandi Lok Sabha constituency in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excise-duty-cut-on-fuel-by-product-of-bypoll-outcome-says-chidambaram-101636005092476.html
04-11-2021||India||J&K: PM Modi celebrates Diwali with soldiers in Nowshera, pays tribute to martyrs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in Jammu's Nowshera on Wednesday morning to celebrate Diwali with soldiers. It is an annual tradition of the Prime Minister, ever since he assumed office in 2014, to travel to the frontiers of India's border points on Diwali each year to bring some joy to the lives of the armed forces personnel posted at some of the remotest security check posts.The Prime Minister also paid his tributes to the soldiers who lost their lives in the line of duty.#WATCH PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to soldiers who lost their lives in the line of duty, at Nowshera in Jammu and Kashmir pic.twitter.com/L5RRppPG3sPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrives in Nowshera, Jammu, to celebrate #Diwali with soldiers pic.twitter.com/Eob4aUkOBnPrime Minister Narendra Modi pays tribute to soldiers who lost their lives in the line of duty, at Nowshera in Jammu and Kashmir pic.twitter.com/bXspR9sAslThe Nowshera sector in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), where Modi is visiting this time, is located along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Rajouri district. The Prime Minister had last visited this sector in 2019 when he celebrated Diwali with the soldiers of the Indian Army.The ANI news agency reported, citing footage from Doordarshan, that Prime Minister Modi left for Jammu's Nowshera very early in the morning, with minimal security arrangements and almost no traffic restrictions on the route in the national capital.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi extended greetings to his fellow countrymen on the occasion of Diwali, the festival of lights. Wishing everyone a very happy Diwali, the Prime Minister hoped that the auspicious occasion brings happiness, prosperity, and good fortune to the lives of his fellow citizens.Also Read | Happy Diwali: PM Modi greets Indians on festival of lights, wishes good fortune“Greetings to the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Diwali,” the Prime Minister posted in Hindi from his official handle on Twitter on Thursday. “I wish that this festival of lights brings happiness, prosperity, and good fortune in your life. Wishing everyone a very Happy Diwali.”As India celebrates Diwali on Thursday with the country gradually normalising to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, most studies show a high prevalence of Covid antibodies among people, with more than a billion doses of vaccines having been administered. High-frequency indices on the economy and mobility are also looking up, making the projections for Diwali this year a lot better than that of the last year. However, experts still advise caution, rightly so, as 248 million cases and 5 million (accounted) deaths across the world so far tell us that it will be dangerous to lower the guard against the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-arrives-in-j-k-s-nowshera-to-celebrate-diwali-with-soldiers-101636003355655.html
04-11-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally rises by 12,885; positivity rate at 1.21%||India's Covid-19 tally saw a marginal rise on Thursday as the country reported 12,885 new cases of infection in the last 24 hours, the numbers updated on the Union health ministry's website showed. On Wednesday, there were 11,903 cases in the same span of time.The number of active cases was below 1.50 lakh, as per the government data. The number of total fatalities jumped to 459,652.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the number of active Covid-19 cases in India stands at 1,48,579, the lowest in 253 days.Since the April surge, the Covid-19 tally is falling steadily, however, concerns regarding a fresh spurt in cases has emerged amid the ongoing festivities. According to the government data, the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 27 straight days, and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 130 consecutive days now.The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.21 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for 31 days.On the vaccination front, 107.63 crore doses has been administered across the country by the health authorities so far. Out of this, 27 lakh jabs were administered on Thursday.On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with officials of more than 40 districts with sluggish vaccination pace. During the meeting, PM Modi asked the officials to take the vaccination drive door-to-door and for their strategies according to a particular area.Cautioning against any laxity after surpassing the milestone of 1 billion vaccine doses, Modi warned "a new crisis can come" and said one should not underestimate "diseases and enemies as they should be fought till the very end".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-rises-by-12-885-positivity-rate-at-121-101636002751002.html
04-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh MLA Devvrat Singh dies from heart attack||A 52-year-old four-time Chhattisgarh lawmaker died from cardiac arrest on Thursday, his family said. Devvrat Singh complained of chest pain around midnight and was rushed to a hospital, where doctors declared him dead.A member of the erstwhile royal family of Khairagarh, Devvrat Singh was first elected as a legislator in 1995 on a Congress ticket. He was re-elected in 1998 and 2003. In 2007, he won the Rajnandgaon parliamentary seat.Devvrat Singh quit the Congress in December 2017, saying he was forced to do so as he was being neglected and sidelined. Two months later, he joined former chief minister Ajit Jogi-led Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) in February 2018. He contested the 2018 assembly election and became lawmaker for the fourth time from Khairagarh on Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) ticket.“We are all shocked over the death of Devvrat Singh... I had close relations with him since 1998... Huge loss for party,” said Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) president Amit Jogi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-mla-devvrat-singh-dies-from-heart-attack-101636000384012.html
04-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Travellers vaccinated with Covaxin allowed to enter US and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After WHO nod, travellers vaccinated with Covaxin allowed to enter US from Nov 8The United States has updated its list of approved vaccines and given green light to those who have been inoculated with Covaxin to enter the country. The revised rules will come into effect from November 8, when the US opens its borders to vaccinated foreign travellers. Read MorePentagon report details how China beefed up border infra in standoff with IndiaA report by Pentagon has said that China installed a fibre optic network in remote areas of the western Himalayas region during the height of the border standoff with India in 2020. Read MorePetrol, diesel cheaper on Diwali as multiple states cut VAT on fuel. Full listFacing months of intense pressure over rising fuel prices in the country, the central government on Wednesday cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by record amounts of ₹5 and ₹10, respectively, per litre, to bring down their rates from the highest-ever levels. Read More‘It’s official? I had no idea': Rohit Sharma's first response to Rahul Dravid's appointment as India head coachRohit Sharma was only made aware about the legendary Rahul Dravid's appointment as the Indian men's cricket team head coach after this T20 World Cup in the press conference after the India vs Afghanistan Super 12, Group 2 encounter in Abu Dhabi. Read MoreKangana Ranaut shares video of her as a teen snubbing Karan Johar at awards show, says her attitude was always ‘kharab’Kangana Ranaut revisited her long-running feud with Karan Johar by sharing a video of her snubbing him at the Filmfare Awards in 2007. She said that even though she was new in Bollywood back then, she had the same attitude. Read MoreJioPhone Next, Google and Jio's much-awaited budget smartphone, launches todayThe much-anticipated JioPhone Next, a budget Android-based smartphone made by Google and Jio Platforms, will go on sale on November 4, adding a new gadget offering to the gizmo markets this Diwali. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-travellers-vaccinated-with-covaxin-allowed-to-enter-us-and-all-the-latest-news-101635995607741.html
04-11-2021||India||'Out of fear': Priyanka Gandhi on Centre's move to slash petrol, diesel prices||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday took a jibe at the Centre, which announced a cut in levies on petrol and diesel. In a tweet, the Congress general secretary said that the decision has been taken out of fear."This is a decision out of fear, not from the heart. Vasooli government will get an answer for the loot in the coming elections," she said in her tweet.ये दिल से नहीं डर से निकला फैसला है। वसूली सरकार की लूट को आने वाले चुनाव में जवाब देना है।#PetrolDieselPriceThe Union government on Wednesday announced reduction in central levies on petrol by ₹5 a litre and diesel by ₹10 a litre, providing major relief to consumers amid spiralling fuel prices. The new prices are effective from Thursday - when the country is celebrating Diwali.After the reduction, petrol will come down from the current rate of over ₹110 a litre in Delhi to about ₹105. The diesel rate will be reduced from over ₹98 per litre to about ₹88.The Centre also urged states to further bring down the rates, following which a number of state governments announced reduction in fuel rates.Also Read | Petrol, diesel cheaper on Diwali as multiple states cut VAT on fuel. Full listEarlier, Congress leader Randeep Surjewala had attacked the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, terming the move as "Jumlanomics"."First, increase the prices of petrol and diesel by ₹28 and ₹26 per litre in 2021, decrease it by ₹5 and ₹10 and call it a Diwali gift," Surjewala said on Twitter.The increase in fuel prices was criticised by opposition parties, which linked the decision to recent bypoll results in which the Opposition made inroads in some key areas, and demanded that the government reduce excise duty further.Domestic prices of petrol and diesel have been surging to record levels almost every day since October 1 because of two key reasons - surging international oil prices due to prolonged supply squeeze by producers’ cartel, and high incidence of central and state taxes on the two fuels.The reduction is the highest ever in excise duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-fear-priyana-gandhi-on-centre-s-move-to-slash-petrol-diesel-prices-101635995536325.html
04-11-2021||India||After WHO nod, travellers vaccinated with Covaxin allowed to enter US from Nov 8||The United States has updated its list of approved vaccines and given green light to those who have been inoculated with Covaxin to enter the country. The revised rules will come into effect from November 8, when the US opens its borders to vaccinated foreign travellers."CDC's travel guidance applies to FDA approved or authorized and WHO Emergency Use Listing vaccines and encompasses any new vaccines that may be added to either of those lists over time," US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) press officer Scott Pauley told news agency ANI.The CDC had on Wednesday acknowledged the WHO's granting of emergency use listing (EUL) to India's indigenous vaccine, which has been developed by Bharat Biotech.“WHO has granted emergency use listing (EUL) to #COVAXIN® (developed by Bharat Biotech), adding to a growing portfolio of vaccines validated by WHO for the prevention of #COVID19,” the global health body said in a tweet.The approval, which comes after a long wait, will allow for a larger recognition of Covaxin by other countries to allow Indian travellers who have taken the dose to qualify for exemptions that countries offer to those vaccinated.Covaxin has a 78 per cent efficacy rate against Covid-19 and is "extremely suitable" for low- and middle-income countries because it is easy to store, according to WHO.The vaccine was co-developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which comes under the Union health ministry.The new US travel rules will also accept travellers fully vaccinated with Pfizer-BioNTech, Johnson & Johnson, Moderna, Oxford-AstraZeneca, Covishield, Sinopharm and Sinovac.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-who-nod-travellers-vaccinated-with-covaxin-allowed-to-enter-us-from-nov-8-101635992525526.html
04-11-2021||India||Happy Diwali: PM Modi greets Indians on festival of lights, wishes good fortune||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday extended greetings to his fellow countrymen on the occasion of Diwali, the festival of lights. Wishing everyone a very happy Diwali, the Prime Minister hoped that the auspicious occasion brings happiness, prosperity, and good fortune to the lives of his fellow citizens.Also Read | PM Modi to spend Diwali with Army personnel in J&K's Rajouri“Greetings to the countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Diwali,” the Prime Minister posted in Hindi from his official handle on Twitter on Thursday. “I wish that this festival of lights brings happiness, prosperity, and good fortune in your life. Wishing everyone a very Happy Diwali.”दीपावली के पावन अवसर पर देशवासियों को हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। मेरी कामना है कि यह प्रकाश पर्व आप सभी के जीवन में सुख, संपन्नता और सौभाग्य लेकर आए।Wishing everyone a very Happy Diwali.On Diwali every year since assuming his office in 2014, Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to the frontiers of India's border points to bring some joy to the lives of the armed forces personnel posted at some of the remotest security check posts.Continuing with this annual tradition, the Prime Minister will celebrate Diwali this year, too, with soldiers of the Indian Army. He is likely to visit the Nowshera sector, along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Thursday. The Prime Minister had last visited this sector in 2019 when he celebrated Diwali with the soldiers.Also Read | Happy Diwali, but do not lower your guard against Covid-19As India celebrates Diwali on Thursday with the country gradually normalising to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation, most studies show a high prevalence of Covid antibodies among people, with more than a billion doses of vaccines having been administered. High-frequency indices on the economy and mobility are also looking up, making the projections for Diwali this year a lot better than that of the last year. However, experts still advise caution, rightly so, as 248 million cases and 5 million (accounted) deaths across the world so far tell us that it will be dangerous to lower the guard against the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-diwali-pm-modi-greets-indians-on-festival-of-lights-wishes-good-fortune-101635990964856.html
04-11-2021||India||JioPhone Next, Google and Jio's much-awaited budget smartphone, launches today. Details here||The much-anticipated JioPhone Next, a budget Android-based smartphone made by Google and Jio Platforms, will go on sale on November 4, adding a new gadget offering to the gizmo markets this Diwali. The JioPhone Next runs on Pragati OS, an operating system powered by an “extremely optimised” version of Android which includes other customised features - including translating text on the screen to as many as 10 Indian languages.In a statement, Google and Jio informed that their smartphone will be available on the markets at a cost of only ₹6,499, with multiple equated monthly instalments (EMIs) also available, starting at ₹2,000. The JioPhone Next packs a 5.45-inch Corning Gorilla Glass 3 display with HD+ support. It is powered by a Qualcomm quad-core chipset that can clock up to 1.3GHz, and has 2GB of RAM and 32GB of internal storage, which can also be expanded later.Also Read | JioPhone Next isn’t redefining budget Android phones, but EMI bundles add valueThe battery capacity is also decent, with the JioPhone Next packing a 3,500 mAh battery. The phone has a 13-megapixel rear camera with HDR support, and an 8-megapixel front camera with a selfie sensor as well.Google has been trying to expand its outreach in India with budget smartphones for a while, and the JioPhone Next is its latest attempt at establishing its base among the masses - this time with the help of telecom giant Jio, operated by the Reliance group. Sundar Pichai, the chief executive officer of Google, had noted back in 2017 that markets such as India need phones priced at the $30 (around ₹2,233) point to effectively qualify for mass adoption.Also Read | JioPhone Next or Redmi 9A Sport: Which budget smartphone should you pick?Now, with the help of Jio, Google is hoping to help as many as 300 million users in India, who are yet to catch up to technology beyond 2G, upgrade to the smartphone age and faster networks. “I have always been a firm believer in the power of Digital Revolution,” said Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance Industries, in a statement last month. He added that in the past, the company has “enriched, enabled, and empowered” the lives of 1.35 billion Indians with connectivity. Now, it is doing the same thing but with a smartphone device, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jiophone-next-google-and-jio-s-much-awaited-budget-smartphone-launches-today-details-here-101635990341279.html
04-11-2021||India||PM Modi to spend Diwali with Army personnel in J&K's Rajouri||Continuing with his annual tradition, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will celebrate the festival of Diwali with soldiers of the Indian Army. He is likely to visit Nowshera sector, along the Line of Control (LoC), in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Thursday.The Prime Minister had last visited Rajouri in 2019 when he celebrated Diwali with the soldiers. Since assuming office in 2014, PM Modi has been celebrating the festival of lights with soldiers.During the visit, the Prime Minister will interact with the soldiers deployed on the ground. His visit to the union territory comes in the backdrop of a spike in violence against the civilians and security forces' encounter with terrorists which claimed the lives of the soldiers.The recent terrorist attacks in the Union territory have mostly targeted non-Kashmiri people living in the valley. According to reports, five migrant workers were among 11 civilians killed in the region last month.In Poonch's Chamrer and Nar Khas areas, at least nine soldiers, including two junior commissioned officers, were killed in an encounter on October 11 and 14, respectively. Separately, an officer and a soldier were killed in a mine blast on October 30 in Rajouri.Meanwhile, Army Chief General MM Naravane arrived on a two-day visit to Jammu to review the security situation and operational preparedness.General Naravane also carried out aerial reconnaissance of forward areas in the Jammu region. He was also briefed by commanders on the ground on the prevailing security situation along the LoC.Earlier on October 18 and 19, the Army Chief had conducted a two-day tour of the Jammu region and reviewed the ground situation and the ongoing counter-infiltration operations. During this visit, Naravane had also visited the border districts of Rajouri and Poonch, where a massive operation to track down terrorists hiding in the forest areas of Mendhar, Surankote and Thanamandi is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-spend-diwali-with-army-personnel-in-j-k-s-rajouri-101635989928014.html
04-11-2021||India||Govt implements 'yoga break' in offices to help employees rejuvenate during work||The central government has implemented 'yoga break' in its office to boost productivity of employees, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Thursday. Taking some time off and performing some simple exercises will rejuvenate the employees and boost their productivity, reported Livehindustan quoting government officials.The Ayush ministry sent a letter to all the ministries asking them to encourage employees to take 'yoga break', according to Livehindustan. Accordingly, the ministry of road transport implemented the measure in National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and National Highways and Infrastructure Development (NHIDC) offices from November 2, it added.An official of the ministry Livehindustan spoke to said that 'yoga break' was first implemented on a pilot basis in January last year in six major metro cities. Through various set of asanas, the five-minute break introduced the employees to yoga. The short routines were aimed at reducing work-related stress and make the employees feel fresh.The 15-day trial was conducted by Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga in collaboration with six leading Yoga institutes of the country.The Ayush ministry found out in a survey that changing lifestyle and spending long hours on computers are resulting in work-related stress among employees. Keeping this in mind, the ministry, along with well-known yoga practitioners, developed a short 'yoga break' protocol in 2019.The 5-minute protocol is a set of yoga exercises to de-stress, refresh and refocus on work to increase the productivity of individuals at the workplace, according to the Ayush ministry.The protocol comprises Tadasana- Urdhva-hastottanasana- Tadasana, Skandha chakra- Uttanamandukasana– Kati Chakrasana, Ardha Chakrasana, PrasaritaPadottanasana- Deep Breathing, Nadishodhana Pranayama, Bhramari Pranayama- Dhyana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-implements-yoga-break-in-offices-to-help-employees-rejuvenate-during-work-101635988791452.html
04-11-2021||India||Petrol, diesel cheaper on Diwali as multiple states cut VAT on fuel. Full list||Facing months of intense pressure over rising fuel prices in the country, the central government on Wednesday cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by record amounts of ₹5 and ₹10, respectively, per litre, to bring down their rates from the highest-ever levels. Announcing the decision, a government statement said the Centre has also urged states to commensurately (in an equivalent measure) reduce the value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers.Also Read | Centre announces massive cuts on petrol, diesel excise duty on Diwali eveSubsequently, multiple states heeded the central government's advice to bring down the petrol and diesel prices. Here's a list of states which have reduced petrol and diesel prices in their respective territories by bringing down the VAT attached to the fuel rates:UttarakhandUttarakhand has announced a reduction in VAT on petrol by ₹2 per litre in the state. With this, petrol prices in Uttarakhand are going down by ₹7 per litre.Thanking the Union government for its decision to reduce the excise duty on fuel prices, Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said on Wednesday that his government has decided to give the extra relief of ₹2 per litre on petrol (in addition to the ₹5 per litre relief provided by the Centre), thus making petrol cheaper in the state by ₹7 per litre.KarnatakaThe Karnataka government announced that it is going to reduce the VAT on both petrol and diesel prices by ₹7 per litre from November 4. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai himself made the announcement on Wednesday, taking to his official handle on Twitter.HaryanaThe Haryana government has also reduced VAT on fuel prices in the state. Now both petrol and diesel will be cheaper by ₹12 per litre in the northern state.Taking to his official handle on Twitter, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said, "On the occasion of Diwali, the central government has announced a reduction in the prices of petrol and diesel. Taking it forward, the Haryana government has also reduced the VAT on fuel prices; now both petrol and diesel in the entire state will be cheaper by ₹12 per litre.AssamThe Assam government, in consonance with the reduction in excise duty on part of the central government, has also announced a reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel by ₹7 per litre.Earlier last month, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said that the state government was ready to cut its share of taxes on fuel if the high rates continue for a longer period.GoaGoa chief minister Pramod Sawant also announced slashing the VAT by ₹7 on both petrol and diesel in the state.He also expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving relief to the common man and helping control inflation.TripuraTripura announced that petrol and diesel will be cheaper by ₹12 and ₹17, respectively, per litre from November 4 as the state government provided a further relief of ₹7 per litre on the prices of both these fuels, in addition to the relief provided by the central government by reducing the excise duty.Uttar PradeshActing on the Centre's plea to states to “commensurately reduce” VAT on petrol and diesel, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday said that the prices of diesel and petrol in the state will be reduced by ₹12 per litre each.GujaratGujarat government also announced on Thursday the implementation of the Centre's decision and reduced prices of petrol and diesel by ₹7 per litre in the state.ManipurFollowing the lead of other states, the Manipur government on Wednesday announced to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel by ₹7 each with immediate effect.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh, while welcoming Centre's decision to reduce excise duty on petrol and diesel, tweeted, “Heartily welcome PM Narendra Modi Ji's decision to reduce excise duty on petrol and diesel as a gift to the people of this nation on this Diwali.”SikkimSikkim chief minister Prem Singh Tamang on Thursday announced a reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel by ₹7 per litre, hours after the central government reduced excise duty on fuel.Petrol would now be cheaper by ₹12 per litre and diesel by ₹17 per litre in the state.Fuel prices in metro citiesPetrol price on Thursday was cut by ₹6.07 per litre and diesel price by ₹11.75 in Delhi as oil companies passed on a record reduction in excise duty rates to consumers. Petrol will cost ₹103.97 per litre in Delhi against ₹110.04 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Diesel rates accordingly will reduce to ₹86.67 per litre from ₹98.42 per litre.In Mumbai, the petrol price has been cut by ₹5.87 to ₹109.98 per litre and diesel by ₹12.48 to ₹94.14 per litre. Kolkata saw the price of diesel being reduced by ₹5.82 to ₹104.67 per litre and that of diesel by ₹11.77 to ₹89.79 per litre.Petrol price in Chennai has been reduced by ₹5.26 to ₹101.40 per litre and diesel by ₹11.16 to ₹91.43 per litre.Since states charge local sales tax or VAT not just on the base price but also on the excise duty levied by the centre, the total incidence of price reduction is higher. The VAT rates differ from state to state, leading to differential rates of fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-cheaper-on-diwali-as-multiple-states-cut-vat-on-fuel-full-list-101635982639978.html
04-11-2021||India||Pentagon report details how China beefed up border infra in standoff with India||A report by Pentagon has said that China installed a fibre optic network in remote areas of the western Himalayas region during the height of the border standoff with India in 2020. It also said that the border row along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) resulted in significant force buildup by China's military and establishment or enforcement of forward positions."At the height of the border standoff between the PRC and India in 2020, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) installed a fibre optic network in remote areas of the western Himalayas to provide faster communications and increased protection from foreign interception," the report titled "Military and Security Developments Involving the People's Republic of China 2021" said.This set up gave them access to near-real-time ISR (intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance) and situational data for streamlining decision-making processes and shortening response timelines, the report released on Wednesday further said.The Pentagon regularly reports to the US Congress about various issues, including the India-China border standoff in eastern Ladakh, which began with a skirmish between the two militaries in June last year. Both sides suffered casualties in that incident and have held several rounds of talks to resolve issues but no significant breakthrough has been achieved.The Pentagon report, meanwhile, noted that despite the coronavirus disease pandemic, border clashes with India, and other significant events, the Chinese army in 2020 accelerated its training and fielding of equipment from the already fast pace of recent years.The Pentagon said despite the ongoing diplomatic and military dialogues to reduce border tensions, China has continued "taking incremental and tactical actions" to press its claims at the LAC.It also said that China is indulging in aggressive and coercive behaviour with its neighbours, India in particular.Talking about the build-up of nuclear force, the Pentagon said in its report that China is doing that much faster than US officials predicted just a year ago, which could enable Beijing to match or surpass US global power by mid-century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pentagon-report-details-how-china-beefed-up-border-infra-in-standoff-with-india-101635985796594.html
04-11-2021||India||UK unveils commemorative £5 coin marking Mahatma Gandhi’s legacy||A new £5 coin to commemorate the life and legacy of Mahatma Gandhi has unveiled by the UK chancellor of the exchequer, Rishi Sunak, during the festival of Diwali.The non-circulating commemorative coin is part of the Royal Mint’s wider Diwali collection, including the UK’s first gold bar depicting an image of the goddess Lakshmi. The special collectors’ coin, available in a range of standards, including gold and silver, was designed by Heena Glover and features an image of a lotus, India’s national flower, alongside one of Gandhi’s most famous quotes: “My life is my message”.This is the first time Gandhi has been commemorated on an official UK coin, and its release builds on the strong ties and cultural connections between the UK and India. The final design was chosen by Sunak, who is the “Master of the Mint”.Sunak said: “This coin is a fitting tribute to an influential leader who inspired millions around the world... I am proud to unveil this coin during Diwali. Mahatma Gandhi was instrumental in the movement for Indian independence and it is fantastic to have a UK coin commemorating his remarkable life for the first time.” The coin, which goes on sale from November 4, is part of the Royal Mint’s wider Diwali collection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-unveils-commemorative-5-coin-marking-mahatma-gandhi-s-legacy-101635985340945.html
04-11-2021||India||India conducts key flight test of anti-airfield weapon||On Diwali eve, the Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) successfully tested an indigenous smart weapon that can target enemy airfield assets such as radars, bunkers, taxiways and runways, at a firing range in Rajasthan, officials familiar with the development said on Wednesday.This was the second successful test firing of the smart anti-airfield weapon (SAAW) from the Jaguar fighter plane in a week -- it was earlier fired on October 28. The weapon has a range of 100 km.The November 3 test is significant as it involved the imaging infrared seeker technology that exponentially enhances the terminal accuracy of the weapon, said one of the officials cited above. The weapons earlier tested -- SAAW has been test fired around 10 times -- were equipped with GPS-based navigation and terminal guidance systems.“The two different configurations based on satellite navigation and electro optical (EO) sensors have been successfully tested. EO seeker-based flight test of this class of bomb was conducted for the first time in the country. EO configuration of the system is equipped with imaging infrared seeker technology that enhancing the precision strike capability of the weapon,” the defence ministry said in a statement.In both tests, the newly adapted launcher ensured smooth release of the weapon and intended targets were hit with high accuracy, it added.“SAAW is an important tactical weapon whose equivalent glide bombs have thus far been imported. Once inducted, SAAW will fill a critical indigenous capability gap,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.The November 3 test came a week after India carried out the latest test of the 5,000 km range Agni-V missile from the APJ Abdul Kalam Island off the Odisha coast, a significant step towards boosting the nuclear deterrence against China.In January 2021, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) announced that a Hawk-i aircraft successfully fired SAAW for the first time off the coast of Odisha. It was seen as a significant boost to an upgrade programme for the Hawk advanced jet trainer operated by IAF and navy.The Hawk-i project (or upgraded Hawk) seeks to equip the trainer jet with combat capabilities through an internally-funded HAL programme. HAL is in talks with IAF and navy for the weaponisation of their Hawks.SAAW has been designed and developed by DRDO’s Research Centre Imarat with support from IAF.Chopra said in recent months, there has been a significant forward movement in the defence indigenisation sector, with the defence ministry clearing a raft of projects. In a needed self-reliance push, India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹62,000 crore in less than two months to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-conducts-key-flight-test-of-anti-airfield-weapon-101635984577194.html
04-11-2021||India||Covaxin's shelf life extended to a year||The national drugs regulator has approved increasing the shelf life of Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to up to 12 months from the earlier approved nine months, according to people familiar with the development.The extension given by the central drugs standard control organisation (CDSCO) means that the expiration date of the vaccine, has been increased from the date of manufacturing, therefore reducing the risk of vaccine wastage.“The process is, when any drug or a vaccine is given emergency use authorization by the drugs controller general of India, its shelf life is determined by the stability data that is furnished by the manufacturer at that point in time when approval for an EUA is sought. As the drug or the vaccine becomes older, there is addition to the data and further extensions are given on the basis of stability and sterility data,” said a senior health ministry who asked not to be named.Bharat Biotech has submitted updated stability data to the drugs regulator for approval.The company confirmed the news in a statement.“ CDSCO has approved the extension of shelf life of Covaxin up to 12 months, from the date of manufacture. This approval of shelf life extension is based on the availability of additional stability data, which was submitted to CDSCO. The shelf life extension has been communicated to our stakeholders,” said Bharat Biotech in a statement.Covaxin was co-developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the extension of the shelf life is based on the stability response of the vaccine vial that is stored at two to eight degrees Celsius.On January 3, this year, Covaxin was granted emergency use authorization, and at that time the shelf life of six months was approved by the drugs regulator. This was subsequently increased to nine months in July, and, on Wednesday, 12 months.In October, Bharat Biotech supplied (6 crore) 60 million doses of Covaxin under the immunisation programme.Gagandeep Kang, vaccine expert from Christian Medical College, Vellore, said “Basically all vaccines start with short expiration dates because the data for stability are from when batches are made for clinical testing. As time goes on, more stability data is collected based on the original batches. If the regulator is okay with the data, expiration can be extended.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxins-shelf-life-extended-to-a-year-101635983364794.html
04-11-2021||India||Centre rushes teams to 9 states as dengue surges||The Union health ministry, on Wednesday, rushed high level teams to nine states and Union territories reporting high caseload of dengue to support them in public health measures for control and management of the vector-borne disease, a health ministry statement said.These nine states and Union territories are Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir.Over 116, 000 dengue cases have been reported by states from across the country, according to the government data.On November 1, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, during the review meeting, directed the ministry to extend help to states and union territories that have a high incidence of dengue cases.”This is in accordance with directions of Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Dr Mansukh Mandaviya during the review meeting on the Dengue situation in Delhi on 1st November, 2021,” read the statement from Union health ministry.A significantly higher number of cases in some states are reported in October as compared to number of cases during the same period previous year. A total of 15 states and Union Territories are reporting their maximum cases in the current year; these states contribute 86% of the country’s total dengue cases till October 31.“In view of this, central teams consisting of experts from national vector borne disease control programme, national centre for disease control, and regional offices have been sent to 9 States/UTs that are reporting more cases in October compared to September,” the health ministry statement further read.The teams are tasked to assist and support states to mount an effective public health response. The teams will have to report on status of vector control, availability of kits and medicines, early detection, availability and use of insecticides, status of anti-larval and anti-adult vector control measures etc. They will also brief the state health authorities about their observations, any gaps and possible solutions.Punjab nodal officer for dengue control, Dr Gagandeep Singh said that the central team visited certain affected areas and also inspected the laboratories. “They also held a meeting with the district health administration. The team was satisfied with our efforts to deal with the outbreak. We will wait for their report and recommendations to act accordingly,” said the nodal officer.Punjab has, so far, registered 17, 837 cases of dengue in this season. The state has reported over 70 dengue deaths.Meanwhile, “Uttarakhand has reported 702 dengue cases this year so far,” said Dr. Pankaj Kumar Singh, state nodal officer for vector borne diseases and assistant director health director in state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-teams-to-9-states-as-dengue-surges-101635983388990.html
04-11-2021||NA||Breaking News: Bengal minister Subrata Mukherjee passes away||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Subrata Mukherjee, panchayat minister of West Bengal, passes awayAiling West Bengal Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee dies: OfficialBengal minister Subrata Mukherjee passes away9 die in Gopalganj after consuming spurious liquorNine people died and seven were admitted to a hospital allegedly after they consumed spurious liquor in Bihar’s Gopalganj district, said the district magistrate Dr Nawal Kishor Choudhary.Pentagon report on nuclear arsenal 'full of prejudice': ChinaThe Pentagon report claiming China is intending to produce over 1,000 nuclear warheads by 2030, is full of prejudice, says China.PM Modi's cavalcade moves in normal traffic in Delhi with minimal securityPrime Minister Narendra Modi reached Nowshera in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday to celebrate Diwali with soldiers of the Indian Army. This is the continuation of the tradition he started after assuming office in 2014. Read MoreChina stocks rebound as consumer staples and automobiles jumpChina stocks rose on Thursday after three straight sessions of falls, as consumer staples and automobiles jumped, a day after the government advised people to stock up on essential groceries for the winter and as some food companies hiked prices. Toxic 'forever chemicals' contaminating US tap water, claims reportMillions of people living in the United States are at the risk of developing cancer and other problems such as liver disease due to the contaminated tap water they are consuming, a report by a leading environmental group has claimed. Read MoreChina’s developer bond slump deepens as selling spreads onshoreThe selloff in Chinese property dollar bonds intensified on Thursday amid signs of cracks emerging in the nation’s much larger onshore market. Read MorePM Modi recalls surgical strike in Nowshera; thanks brigade for their role‘It fills every Indian with pride on the role this brigade played during the surgical strike,' says PM Modi in Nowshera. “Many attempts made to spread terrorism here after surgical strike, given befitting reply," PM Modi also said.‘Wanted to spend Diwali with family members': PM Modi tells soldiersI want to spend Diwali with family members; so I join you on festival, PM  Modi tells soldiers in J&K's Nowshera sector.China seeks to produce over 1,000 nuclear warheads: Pentagon reportThe People's Republic China (PRC) is rapidly expanding its nuclear arsenal and "intends to produce over 1,000 warheads by 2030", a new report by the Pentagon has revealed. Read MoreExcise duty cut on fuel by-product of bypoll outcome, says P ChidambaramSenior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram said results of the recently concluded by-elections had a by-product in the form of a reduction in excise duties on fuel. Read MorePM Modi meets soldiers in Nowshera on DiwaliPM Narendra Modi arrives in Nowshera sector of Jammu and Kashmir, meets soldiers on occasion of Diwali.3.7 magnitude earthquake hits AssamEarthquake of magnitude 3.7 on the Richter scale occurred 35 km west-southwest of Tezpur, Assam at 1019 hours: National Center for SeismologyIndia records 12,885 new Covid-19 cases, 150 fatalities in last 24 hoursIndia's Covid-19 tally rises by 12,885. With this, the cumulative number of infection has now reached 3,43,21,025. Petrol price in Delhi cut by ₹6.07, selling at ₹103.97 per litre nowPetrol price on Thursday was cut by ₹6.07 per litre and diesel price by ₹11.75 in Delhi as oil companies passed on a record reduction in excise duty rates to consumers. Petrol will cost ₹103.97 per litre in Delhi against ₹110.04 per litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.Gandhi to be commemorated on special UK collector's coinThe life and legacy of Indian independence movement leader Mahatma Gandhi will be commemorated on a British special collectors' coin for the first time, UK Treasury Chief Rishi Sunak announced Thursday.After WHO nod, travellers vaccinated with Covaxin allowed to enter US from Nov 8The United States has updated its list of approved vaccines and given green light to those who have been inoculated with Covaxin to enter the country. The revised rules will come into effect from November 8, when the US opens its borders to vaccinated foreign travellers. Read MorePM Modi extends greetings on Diwaliदीपावली के पावन अवसर पर देशवासियों को हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। मेरी कामना है कि यह प्रकाश पर्व आप सभी के जीवन में सुख, संपन्नता और सौभाग्य लेकर आए।Wishing everyone a very Happy Diwali.Akhilesh to ally with uncle Shivpal Yadav, says will give him ‘full respect’Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday announced an alliance with his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav’s party for the upcoming assembly elections, attempting to bring the curtain down on a family feud that erupted five years ago over control of the party. Read MorePentagon report details how China beefed up border infra in standoff with IndiaA report by Pentagon has said that China installed a fibre optic network in remote areas of the western Himalayas region during the height of the border standoff with India in 2020. It also said that the border row along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) resulted in significant force buildup by China's military and establishment or enforcement of forward positions. Read MoreCrackdown in Capital on crackers as AQI stays in red zoneThe air quality in the national capital worsened on Wednesday, stoking fears of a severe uptick in pollution levels on Diwali day amid concerns that widespread violations of the firecracker ban may plunge Delhi into a health emergency, even as Delhi Police flying squads fanned out across the city to crack down on the sale and use of crackers. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-november-4-2021-101635983851635.html
04-11-2021||India||Adi Guru Shankaracharya statute to be unveiled by Modi washed with coconut water||DEHRADUN: The 12-feet tall statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya, which weighs 35 tonnes, has been made by Mysore-based sculptors from chlorite schist, a rock which is known to withstand rain, sunshine and harsh climate, tourism officials said on Wednesday.The statue at the Kedarnath shrine premises has been polished with coconut water to bring out its shine , they added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unveil Shankaracharya’s statue on November 5. The event will be live-streamed to the 11 Jyotir Lingas, four maths (monastic institutions) and major Shiva temples, said chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami.Adi Guru Shankaracharya samadhi was washed away in the 2013 floods. The new statue has been prepared with a special design under the reconstruction works of Kedarnath Dham. It has been built by excavating land just behind the Kedarnath temple and in the middle of the samadhi area, said officials.Mysore sculptor Yogiraj Shilpi, with a legacy of five generations, completed the work on the new statue with help from his son, Arun. Yogiraj was contracted by the Prime Minister’s Office after a nationwide search. Yogiraj started work on making the statue in September 2020.The Kerala-born Adi Shankaracharya was an 8th-century Indian spiritual leader and philosopher who consolidated the doctrine of Advaita Vedanta and made a significant contribution in unifying Hinduism by setting up four mathas (monastic institutions) across India. Uttarakhand’s Himalayas hold much significance in the context of Adi Shankaracharya as he is said to have taken samadhi here at Kedarnath.It was also in Uttarakhand that he established one of the four mathas at Jyotir Math in Chamoli district and also installed an idol at Badrinath.Tourism officials said both Centre and the state government have been on the same page on reconstructing Kedarnath Dham, a project that has been closely tracked by PM Narendra Modi. A total allocation of over ₹ 500 crore was approved and was allocated to be spent in phases for this reconstruction assignment, they added.Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said reconstruction works in Kedarnath would not have been possible without the vision of PM Modi. “We welcome his presence here soon. He will also be inaugurating the second phase works at Kedarnath.”Secretary tourism Dilip Jawalkar said, “The samadhi of Shankaracharya was destroyed in the 2013 flash flood that hit Kedarnath area. I would like to thank PM Narendra Modi and Jindal Steel Works for their generous efforts towards rebuilding the monument.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adi-guru-shankaracharya-statute-to-be-unveiled-by-modi-washed-with-coconut-water-101635971223091.html
04-11-2021||India||Won’t protest during Modi visit, promise Kedarnath priests after Dhami’s pledge||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Wednesday promised priests at the Kedarnath shrine that he will resolve issues related to the prickly issue shrine board by this month-end, an assurance aimed at persuading the priests not to go ahead with their protest during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Kedarnath visit on Thursday.The priests had earlier threatened to intensify their protest against the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, the umbrella body formed to regulate shrines and temples under its purview, during PM Modi’s November 5 visit and had gone to the extent of saying that this might even include preventing the prime minister’s entry to the shrine.On Monday, the priests demonstrated how far they were willing to go when they prevented former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat from stepping into the Kedarnath shrine. The board that they oppose is a legacy of the TS Rawat government.Dhami and his two cabinet colleagues, Subodh Uniyal and Harak Singh Rawat, spoke to representatives of the priest community on Wednesday and assured them that the state government will never hurt their respect and sentiments. The priests were also assured a November-end deadline to resolve the dispute.“We had gone to Kedarnath to check the arrangements ahead of the PM’s visit. Almost all the arrangements have been completed. Never have so many works been undertaken in Kedarnath area like this. We thank Modi ji for this and welcome him here,” the chief minister said after his damage-control mission succeeded.“Following the assurance, they (priests) said they will not hold protests on Modi’s arrival and accord him a warm welcome,” Subodh Uniyal, cabinet minister and spokesperson of the state government, later told reporters.Dhami also met Manohar Kant Dhyani, who is chairman of the high-powered committee formed by the state government on the future of the board, on Tuesday evening. They discussed the concerns raised by the priests.The board was formed under the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Act, 2019, when Trivendra Singh Rawat was the chief minister. Priests have been protesting its existence but the state government has not accepted their demand to abolish it yet.KK Kotiyal, president of the Char Dham Tirath Purohit Haq Haqooki Mahapanchayat, the body of priests that opposes the board, said chief minister Dhami spoke to him and other priests and sought time till November 30 to resolve the matter.“I told him that priests have been betrayed first by Trivendra Singh Rawat, then by Tirath Singh Rawat and now by you (Pushkar Singh Dhami). We were promised that Char Dham Board will be scrapped by October 30. Now because of Modi, you have come here,” Kotiyal said.He, however, added that because they are priests and their main work is to offer prayers and blessings for pilgrims, they will wait till November end.Kotiyal said Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines receive ₹25 to 30 crore donations annually. “There is a wrong perception that priests are looting the donations. All donations used to go to Kedarnath Badrinath temple committee which was been formed in the British era. Priests and pandas only get some money when pilgrims conduct some special prayers or rituals on their own.”The priests already have the support of the opposition Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) which have promised to scrap the board when they come to power in the state.Harish Rawat, former chief minister and senior Congress leader, said Modi should scrap the Char Dham Board before he comes.“If they are not doing it, Congress will do it. Scrapping the Board will be our first decision after we come to power here. The priests are angry over the delay in resolving the matter as had been promised to them,” the senior Congress leader said.Ganesh Godiyal, Uttarakhand unit president, alleged the government wants to manage the money received as donations by these shrines. “They don’t trust the priests. Before Char Dham Board, Kedarnath Badrinath temple committee managed all the Char Dham affairs and the money. The priests were given money by the committee. But many priests also get offerings from devotees. The government wants to control all money inflow in the shrines.”Sanjay Bhatt, AAP state unit spokesperson, said AAP workers staged protests on Wednesday in various parts of the state, demanding immediate scrapping of the Char Dham Board.Badrinath and Kedarnath received offerings of 45 kg gold, over 38 quintal silver and 8100 silver coins since the formation of Uttarakhand in 2000, according to a reply given by the government to an RTI query filed by activist Hemant Gauniya in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-protest-during-modi-visit-promise-kedarnath-priests-after-dhami-s-promise-101635969545754.html
04-11-2021||India||Kerala: People with single dose of Covid vaccine to be allowed in cinema theatres||The Kerala government on Wednesday announced that “those who have taken a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine can enter theatres” in the state. The decision was taken in a Covid-19 review meeting chaired by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.The chief minister directed the Health Department to issue guidelines on the matter including keeping physical distancing in theatres and wearing masks.It was also decided that up to 100 people can attend closed room weddings, funerals, and other social, political, cultural, and community events and in open spaces up to 200 people will be permitted to gather.The government received a good response from the public after schools were opened and 80 per cent attendance have been recorded on the first day of opening, said Vijayan. The meeting was attended by Health Minister Veena George, revenue minister K Rajan, chief Secretary VP Joy, state police chief Anil Kant, department secretaries, district collectors and district police chiefs. Kerala recorded 7,312 fresh Covid-19 cases and 362 related deaths which raised the caseload to 49,87,710 and the fatalities to 32,598, the state government said on Wednesday.The state government also said that all those who have taken a single dose of Covid vaccine can enter theatres.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a release, said the decision was taken in the Covid review meeting held during the day.Besides that, it was also decided in the meeting that with schools opened, as and when children there exhibit health problems, doctors should go and examine them, he said and added that this will help to reduce fear of Covid among them.It was also decided that weddings, funerals and other social, political, cultural, and community events held in closed rooms may be attended by up to 100 people and where these are held in open areas, the attendance may be up to 200.With 8,484 more people recovering from the virus since Tuesday, the total recoveries touched 48,81,414 and the active cases reached 73,083, an official press release said.Of the 362 deaths, 51 were reported over the last few days, 72 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 239 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, the release said.As many as 69,680 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralapeople-with-single-dose-of-covid-vaccine-to-be-allowed-in-cinema-theatres-101635967621256.html
04-11-2021||India||Andhra set to push for special category status at key meet||Andhra Pradesh will raise a wide range of issues, including the demand for special category status to the state, at the Southern Zonal Council conference, scheduled to be held in temple-town Tirupati on November 14.Union home minister Amit Shah will chair the SZC conference in which Chief Ministers of Kerala, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Puducherry will take part.Lieutenant Governors of Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Administrator of Lakshadweep will also attend the day-long conference.Ahead of it, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday held a preparatory meeting with ministers and top officials on the issues to be raised by the state at the conference.All issues listed in the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, that remained unresolved so far will be top on the state’s agenda at the SZC event, a release from the Chief Minister’s Office said.AP will also seek release of pending payments related to the Telugu Ganga project, which supplies drinking water to Chennai city, from Tamil Nadu.Contentious issues with another neighbouring state Telangana like payment of ₹6,300 crore electricity charges, division of assets between the two states post-bifurcation, freezing of fixed deposit accounts and civil supplies dues will also be raised.AP will express its unhappiness over the “irrational” PDS rice allocation policy of the Centre.The state will seek the Centre’s action to bring the Jurala irrigation project under the Krishna River Management Board’s jurisdiction.The release said the Centre will also be asked to clear the pending revenue deficit grant and the Polavaram project cost.The Centre’s proposals related to interlinking of rivers will also be discussed.Ministers P R C Reddy, Buggana Rajendranath, M Sucharita, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma and other top bureaucrats attended the preparatory meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-set-to-push-for-special-category-status-at-key-meet-101635967141185.html
04-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu logs 962 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths||Maintaining the declining trend, eleven districts in Tamil Nadu reported less than 10 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday, even as the state reported 962 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 2,705,548.As many as 19 people have succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 36,176, a medical bulletin said.With 1,078 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours, recoveries rose to 2,658,360, leaving 11,012 active infections.A total of 115,237 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined to 51,509,851.Chennai and Coimbatore accounted for the majority of new infections with 105 and 109 cases, respectively, while the remaining was scattered across other districts.Ramanathapuram and Theni districts recorded the least number of fresh cases with one each.Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian said the health department has commenced works to administer Covid vaccine to people at their residences in over 80,000 villages across the state.He said 60 lakh people were eligible to receive the second shot.“Till date 71 per cent of the population have been vaccinated, while 31 per cent of them have received the second dose as well. On November 6, the eighth mega vaccination camp will be held through 50,000 vaccination camps”, he said.In Tamil Nadu, 59.3 million people have been vaccinated till date and there are about 60 lakh doses in stock, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-logs-962-new-covid-19-cases-19-deaths-101635966541173.html
04-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu opens eight gates of Mullaperiyar dam||After closing down five shutters of Mullaperiyar dam a day before, Tamil Nadu on Wednesday opened 8 shutters of the reservoir as heavy rains overnight increased the water level there.Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said he has written a letter, on the issue, to Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin who has responded with an assurance that interests of both states would be safeguarded.The Kerala CM was responding to queries raised regarding the 126-year-old dam during the assembly session on Wednesday.The eight shutters of the dam were raised by 60 centimeters (cm) by Tamil Nadu in the first half of the day, the Idukki district administration said in a release.A total of 3,981 cusecs of water is being released from the dam, it said and added that the water level at noon was 138.95 feet.Kerala had already taken precautions, like relocating people living downstream of the dam, before its shutters were opened on October 29 morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-opens-eight-gates-of-mullaperiyar-dam-101635966061354.html
04-11-2021||India||Women, minor spend 36 days in jail over ‘fake’ Covid test||Three women and a 7-year-old boy who came to Uttar Pradesh from Kerala on September 23 to meet their relatives in prision had to spend 36 days in jail for allegedly faking their RT-PCR tests. The four, who returned to Kerala on October 31, without meeting their relatives, however, denied the charge claiming that in all 11 people including local contacts and other relatives took the same RT-PCR test, but they were singled out by the Uttar Pradesh Police and jailed for violating Covid-19 protocols. They said that since they can’t speak Hindi they had to go through a ‘terrible time in jail’ and the two of the four who were above 60, their routine medication were affected as well. HT is not revealing the identities of the four in order to protect the identity of the minor. The three women had come to Uttar Pradesh to meet their two releatives, who was arrested by the UP Police earlier this year on terror charges, alleged members of the Popular Front of India, a controversial outfit. A relative of the four said that they had first gone to the Gosaiganj police station in Lucknow on September 24 after being told that their kin will be produced in court, and they could meet them there. After spending the whole day at the police station they were told that the accused will be produced in the court virtually. Next day, they were advised to go to the jail after taking RT-PCR tests and they subsequently submitted the reports at the district jail. The relative said that on September 25 they were picked up from the hotel they were staying and the arrest was recorded two days later. They were booked under Sections 419 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code after a complaint was filed by prison officer Ajay Raj at the Gosaiganj police station. “They said they had a tough time as police officers intimidated and threatened them. Though they knew they don’t understand Hindi they frequently asked questions in Hindi. They said only two women constables were present when they were picked up from their hotel,” the relative said. “First five days they were kept in a Covid-19 observation centre and they even failed to get proper food and were forced to wear the same dress for five days or so. Once they were shifted to the women jail; things turned normal,” the relative said. The relative said that a bail application was moved in a local court on September 29, which was turned down since several non-bailable provisions were added in the case. Another application was moved on October 20 at the chief judicial magistrate court and bail was finally granted. The relative said that the bail provisions were so strict that they had to furnish six sureties for three women and property documents worth ₹50,000. “There were strict verifications of documents in the police station and later at revenue offices. It took us 10 days to clear them,” the relative said, adding they were finally released on October 31 evening. “The mother told me that they were not even treated as human beings,” the relative added. The UP Police, however, denied the charges. Gosaiganj assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Shweta Chowdhary said, “The FIR was lodged on the basis of an enquiry conducted by the jail administration. The investigation officer of the case has been asked to submit an explanation for delay in the probe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-minor-spend-36-days-in-jail-over-fake-covid-test-101635965760834.html
04-11-2021||India||‘Need to measure climate damage in monetary terms’: UN special rapporteur||The United Nations special rapporteur on human rights and the environment, David Boyd, has said that new taxes on air travel and maritime shipping could raise money needed to compensate countries for “loss and damage” associated with extreme climate events. Loss and damage refers to the impacts of both extreme events such super cyclones, and slow onset events such as sea level rise. Vulnerable countries have been asking for these events to be compensated by the highest emitters, and the issue of loss and damage will be discussed at COP26.In Glasgow, small islands such as Antigua, Barbuda and Tuvalu have agreed to establish a Commission of Small Island States on Climate Change and International Law for legal redressal of climate impacts. These developments are important for India, which has decided to support strong rules on loss and damage.Boyd said an interview to HT that loss and damage should be measured in monetary terms now.Edited excerpts:You have proposed levies on air travel and shipping to generate funding for adaptation and loss and damage. What has been the response of UNFCCC to your proposal?No response thus far, but this is an acid test for the success of COP26 after decades of wealthy nations ducking and delaying.Why did you zero in on these two sectors and not other industries?Air travel and shipping are the focus because these are the industries identified in previous proposals for levies put forward by Small Island Developing States. The two industries are major polluters (combined emissions equal to all the emissions by South America), and since their emissions are not counted in national emissions inventories, are largely unregulated. They also largely benefit wealthy people who can afford to pay small levies. These two levies combined could easily raise tens to hundreds of billions of dollars annually.Do you think developed countries will accept a polluter pays principle like this?Yes, because these levies are a new source of climate finance that do not require governments to find the money in their budgets. Also, there is huge pressure to boost climate finance to address the rapidly escalating impacts of the climate crisis.What exactly is the provision of loss and damage?Loss and damage refers to the economic costs of damage inflicted by climate disasters as well as the non-economic damages like pain and suffering. To use a concrete example, the small Caribbean nation of Dominica has been hit by two Category 5 hurricanes in recent years, damaging over 90% of buildings, wrecking infrastructure, and inflicting costs larger than the whole country’s annual GDP. The people of Dominica are not responsible for the climate crisis but are on the front lines of adverse impacts of climate chaos. It is unjust to expect them to pay for the repairs and rebuilding. On the other hand, it is just for the wealthy nations who caused the crisis to pay for the loss and damage.Do you think there will be progress on loss and damage during cop 26? What are your expectations?Progress is vital but must be measured in billions of dollars this year and next, not just processes and future promises. Climate vulnerable countries have been waiting for almost thirty years for loss and damage funding to flow from North to South.What are the various legal means that vulnerable countries can access to claim losses?At present there are none. No vulnerable nation has been compensated for the loss and damage they have already suffered.Has climate attribution science made it easier to claim legal damage?The improving precision of climate attribution increases the probability that the major polluters, both nations and corporations, will be held liable one day for their outsized contributions to the climate crisis, just as increased attribution of respiratory illnesses, heart disease and cancer to smoking resulted in tobacco companies eventually being held liable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/interview-need-to-measure-climate-damage-in-monetary-terms-david-boyd-un-special-rapporteur-101635965283083.html
04-11-2021||India||Universities told to translate all literature into Indian languages||The Centre has asked all universities in the country to translate their learning material and literature into all Indian languages as a part of the government’s Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav (AKAM) celebration to mark 75 years of India’s independence. The universities have been asked to chalk out plans with a timeline by November 20, according to a letter to them from University Grants Commission secretary Rajnish Jain dated November 2. The letter is a follow-up to the decision, which was taken during a meeting chaired by Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on August 31 to review the events being planned by his ministry under AKAM. “One of the actionable plans identified under the ongoing celebration was to translate the existing learning material and literature in all Indian languages. It has also been recommended by the national education policy (NEP) 2020,” a senior official in the education said, asking not to be named.Jain’s letter, addressed to the vice chancellors of all universities, including central and state universities and private universities, asked them to come up with a plan and timeline and send it to the commission by November 20. “As you are aware, the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 also emphasises on expanding India’s translation and interpretation efforts in order to make high quality learning materials and other important written and spoken material available to the public in various Indian languages. Such an activity would give students and faculty both a sense of unity and the beautiful cultural heritage and diversity of India.” Officials at several universities said they will discuss the matter in the coming days. “It will be a massive task to translate each and every thing available in English or any other language into other Indian languages. We will have to plan it strategically. We will conduct a meeting with university officials and decide how to go ahead with the task,” said a senior official at the Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi.An official in Delhi University also said they will discuss the plan with their colleagues and come up with a plan. A senior official at Jamia Millia Islamia said, “We welcome the step. But we can only chalk out the plan after getting more details on it.”A second senior education ministry official said that the National Mission on Education through Information and Communication Technology (NMEICT), a centrally funded initiative, has also been translating existing digital study material for higher education institutions in regional languages. “It’s not possible to teach in regional languages in central universities catering to the students from across the country. Therefore, it is very important to have study material available in all local or regional languages available at least in online format. The NMEICT is doing that work and it has almost translated the online study material available for first year students,” added this person.This year, for the first time, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has given approval to 20 engineering colleges across 10 states to offer select undergraduate courses in six regional languages. The AICTE also translated study material in these six regional languages.NEP 2020 advocates teaching in the mother tongue up to Class 5, and suggests that textbooks shall be made available in local languages/mother tongue. For higher education institutions, NEP 2020 recommends the use of mother tongue/local language as a medium of instruction, and bilingual programmes in order to increase access and also to promote the strength, usage, and vibrancy of all Indian languages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/universities-told-to-translate-all-literature-into-indian-languages-101635965040136.html
04-11-2021||India||Occult practitioner, the father held for minor girl’s death in north Kerala||The Kerala police on Wednesday arrested an occult practitioner and father of an 11-year-old girl for allegedly denying her medical treatment, which eventually led to her death, the police said. According to police, the seventh class student was suffering from a high fever for three days, and instead of taking her to the hospital, they took her to a local Imam, who is also an occult practitioner, and treated her with prayers and ritual water. On Monday morning, she was rushed to a local hospital where doctors declared the girl was brought dead. The issue came to light after some of the relatives alerted police, saying the girl was forced to chant religious hymns and given blows to heal her illness. Parents were in a rush to bury the body, but after complaints, the police intervened. “We have arrested the father and a local Imam in connection with the death of an 11-year-old. Cases will be registered under the juvenile justice act and culpable homicide,” said district police superintendent R Ilango. He said the police would also inquire into four more deaths in the family in recent years. Many relatives and locals also raised charges against the Imam. The post-mortem revealed that severe respiratory infection led to her death, and she could have been saved had she gotten timely medical help, the police said. Police further said they would also interrogate some of the Imam followers. The tragic death of a girl, hailing from a middle-class family, has sent shockwaves across the state. In 2019, the state government had passed a bill in the assembly, Kerala prevention and eradication of evil practices, sorcery and black magic bill, to award stringent punishment for such offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/occult-practitioner-the-father-held-for-minor-girl-s-death-in-north-kerala-101635964920614.html
04-11-2021||India||Bengaluru: Man’s body found in bag with limbs tied||Bengaluru: Police have started a murder probe after body of a man in his early 20’s was found near a stormwater drain in D’Souza Nagar on Tuesday. The body was found kept in a gunny bag with his hands and legs tied. Police are yet to identify the deceased, but senior officers said they have some leads about his identity. “The body was found by rag pickers, who saw the gunny bag. When we inspected, we found a body with the hands and legs tied. His nose and mouth were closed with adhesive tape as well. This is a clear case of murder,” said a Rajarajeshwari Nagar police official. Police said the man appears to have been either strangled or smothered. “There are some signs of struggle but the cause of death will be identified only after the post-mortem. Our teams are looking at CCTV cameras in the areas to identify the vehicle that was used to bring the body. From our initial investigation, the murder has taken place else and the body was dumped here,” said the official. The victim is said to be aged between 20-25 years “We are yet to ascertain his identity. We have sent his pictures to all police stations to see if there was any missing complaint. At the same time, we have a lead on his identity which our teams are trying to verify. We will try to crack it at the earliest” said a senior officer. Rajarajeshwari police said that all angles of the case will be probed but the priority is to identify the victim. On September 28, Belagavi police had found body of a 25-year-old in a similar manner. In the investigation that followed, 10 people including the leaders of a Hindu right-wing organization were arrested for murdering the Muslim youth for being in a relationship with a Hindu girl. The girl’s parents were also arrested. The youth was murdered in Belagavi city and later his body was dumped on the railway track to make it look like an accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-man-s-body-found-in-bag-with-limbs-tied-101635964804178.html
04-11-2021||India||I-T dept detects unaccounted income of ₹70 crore after raids on business group||The Income Tax department has detected unaccounted income of over ₹70 crore after it recently conducted a raid on one of the leading business groups of Karnataka. Though department in a statement on Wednesday didn’t name the group of companies but said that they were engaged in the civil construction of roads and irrigation projects. The raids were conducted on October 28 in various locations in north Karnataka, read the statement from the I-T department. “The search operation has revealed that this group has been suppressing its profits by booking bogus expenses in the purchase of materials, labor expenses and payment to subcontractors,” the statement stated. Adding that various incriminating documents including digital evidence indicating non-genuine claim of such expenses have been found and seized the raid, the I-T department said: “Analysis of the same (digital evidence) shows that unaccounted cash has been received by the key group person from such vendors/ suppliers of materials,” the statement added. The I-T department also claimed that these owners of these companies used their own relatives/friends/employees conduits in the name of subcontractors who neither executed any work nor did they have the capability to execute the work. “The assessee group has been generating unaccounted cash from these transactions. The search action has led to the detection of unaccounted income of more than Rs. 70 crore which has been admitted as undisclosed income by the assessee group,” the I-T department claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-dept-detects-unaccounted-income-of-rs-70-crore-after-raids-on-business-group-101635964802318.html
04-11-2021||India||Headmistress in Tamil Nadu sorts students based on caste||The Chennai administration transferred a government primary school headmistress and served her with a show-cause notice after she allegedly sorted children of Class IV based on their caste and not by alphabetical order as is the norm, people familiar with the matter said.Since schools reopened on November 1 in Tamil Nadu, children have been grouped in different batches to come in for in-person classes, keeping in mind social distancing norms. The headmistress, who is also the class teacher for Standard IV, was shifted to another middle school run by the Greater Chennai Municipal Corporation while it awaits a formal response from her.“She should have received the notice yesterday (Tuesday). The procedure is to give her seven days to explain what had happened and why it had happened,” said a civic official of the education department who IS in charge of the case.The corporation has not received any complaints from parents on this issue. “But we acted after the school education commissioner received a complaint after the school register began circulating on WhatsApp,” the officer quoted above said on condition of anonymity. “From our enquiries so far with the school, we are given to understand that the teachers maintained a list of the students’ castes so that they could avail of government schemes meant for the marginalised school students.”Other teachers at the school have been warned against following such a practice.Confirming the same, deputy commissioner for education of the Greater Chennai Corporation, D Sneha, said that from a preliminary inquiry, it seemed inadvertent on the part of the teacher, but it is true that students were separated based on their castes into three categories. The class register, a copy of which is with HT, shows the names of students of class four assorted by the terms Scheduled Castes (SC), Backward Class (BC) and Most Backward Class (MBC).“Whether intentionally or unintentionally, the teacher has named the communities of the children and they have been numbered as per their community and split into three batches,” said Sneha. Each batch was a group of students belonging to the same community. “We are looking at whether this was caste-based segregation,” said Sneha.The state government has not reacted to the issue. However, caste pride and discrimination inside classrooms have been commonplace in the state. In 2019, it was found that in rural Tamil Nadu several schools used coloured wristbands for students to identify them by their caste. Following this, the director of school education had instructed officials to identify and act against such schools.“Marriage and elections have kept caste alive,” said social and political activist Senthil Arumugam. “Both the DMK and AIADMK use anti-caste rhetoric, but it is not being practised in spirit. They field candidates based on the caste composition of the constituencies. So, this is a small incident that has happened because serious steps haven’t been taken to eradicate caste.”Arumugam said that alphabets or random numbers should have been used to rotate students in class. “Now the school has induced in the minds of children that things function by caste, and they will be separated by caste. The purpose of education is to move away from caste. It’s shocking that this has happened in a state like Tamil Nadu where Periyar (EV Ramasamy, known as the father of the Dravidian movement) was known for social justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/headmistress-in-tamil-nadu-sorts-students-based-on-caste-101635964800706.html
04-11-2021||India||Puneeth Rajkumar and the limits of stardom||This Deepavali is a quiet and sombre one in Bengaluru, not only because of Covid-- its long shadow is finally fading-- but because of the sad and untimely death of Kannada superstar Puneeth Rajkumar at age 46.“Look at these crowds,” said a hardened news reporter, filming the hundreds of thousands of weeping fans who had gathered. “To touch so many lives so deeply is something amazing.”The death of a Bollywood actor does this-- we know. But Puneeth Rajkumar seemed to wear his fame lighter than most. Perhaps it was being born as the son of Rajkumar, a legend and icon in Karnataka. Perhaps, it was being the youngest son in a joint family of 30 people. Whatever the reason, the word that most people use to describe the “power star” is “humble.” You can see it in the movie clips that are currently playing on loop on Twitter. There is a lovely one made by Hombale Films, in which fans are describing how they watch Puneeth’s films-- first-day first show for many. As they talk, Puneeth quietly walks up behind them and ad-libs a phrase. “Will you give me a ticket to see the movie with you?” he mutters. The woman fan turns to find her matinee idol standing behind. He grins, she screams, they shake hands. You can see the delight in both parties.Beyond the crowds, beyond the condolences from Prime Minister Modi, to Sadhguru to Sanjay Dutt to Virendra Sehwag to pretty much everyone in the Kannada film fraternity, one news item stood out: the fact that two fans died of a heart attack when they heard about Puneeth’s death. Now, a fan can commit suicide, as some did when they heard of MGR’s death in Tamilnadu. But to die of a heart attack (of natural causes) requires you to be so linked to this actor emotionally that the grief of his passing is quite heart-breaking. That, if true, tells us that Puneeth Rajkumar had an emotional resonance with his fans that few can equal. Part of the reason for the shock is of course that Puneeth died tragically young-- he was just 46. Also, the fact that he seemed fit.There is a fake message, ostensibly from Dr Devi Shetty, another denizen of Karnataka that is making the rounds. It talks about people who are seemingly fit-- like Puneeth was, who take exercising every day to the extreme-- Puneeth allegedly died after working out for two hours in his gym. The message ends with the cheery call for moderation. Eat what your ancestors did, and exercise in moderation, the message said. Fake though it is, the message resonated with many, including me, partly because all of us have lost friends and family who are ridiculously young in this pandemic, and not just because of Covid. The truth is that I know four people who died young in the last year, all of them because of a heart attack. When people die young, the public post-mortem includes their lifestyle. Puneeth was known to be a fitness fiend, and suddenly, that is being called in question. A friend of mine cancelled a marathon because he is exactly Puneeth’s age (46) and his wife is freaked out by his “extreme fitness” as she calls it.To me, the message in Puneeth Rajkumar’s death is not about altering your lifestyle or your fitness routine. It isn’t even about moderation or being careful about what proteins or steroids or muscle relaxants you take. It is the limits of human intervention and being humble about what you can control. People say that the only certain things are death and taxes. To that shortlist, I add pain. The one thing that lies in your future and mine is heartbreak. Some months ago, our family endured the loss of a young person-- also of a heart attack. It was horrible, unfair and heartbreaking. We are still reconciling with this loss-- just as Puneeth’s wife, Ashwini and his two daughters, Vanditha and Drithi will in the coming months and years. It is easy to say that pain is and will always be part of the human condition. But living through it is hard because this pain will hit you when you are least expecting it. How then to make sense of it? Well, our ancients tried to view pain as a pathway to the higher self. When the human ego is beaten, they said, the soul instantly recognizes this as an opportunity to shed what is no longer needed. When the heart is broken, the soul is released from its prior constellations. It begins the ancient process of dissolution, dismemberment, and new life. Rebirth. This is not a comfortable process. But it is a necessary one. Not all of us get to do it. Puneeth’s family will have to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puneeth-rajkumar-and-the-limits-of-stardom-101635964742546.html
04-11-2021||India||Momentous occasion for Indian science: Bharat Biotech MD on WHO nod of Covaxin||Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s MD Krishna Ella on Wednesday hailed Covaxin getting the emergency use listing (EUL) from the World Health Organisation (WHO) as a “momentous occasion for Indian innovation, entrepreneurship, startup and Indian science.”“We are grateful to the honourable Prime Minister of India (Narendra Modi) and many respected people who took Covaxin to instill confidence in Indian science,” Ella added in a video message.Also Read | WHO approval will expedite Covaxin imports, allow procurement by COVAX: Bharat BiotechHe thanked the Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya and all the senior officials at the ministry for their “hardwork”. Ella also thanked the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) for their partnership.On Wednesday, the EUL was granted to Covaxin by the WHO after facing several setbacks leading up to it. Bharat Biotech had applied for the EUL back in April, and the process has been getting delayed since then owing to the health agency needing additional data.In a series of tweets, the WHO said that Covaxin was given a go-ahead to be inoculated to individuals aged 18 and above, following a meeting convened by its technical advisory group. The Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) has also approved the India-made vaccine in two doses, with a gap of 14 or more days between the two.“Covaxin was found to have 78% efficacy against Covid-19 of any severity…and is extremely suitable for low-and-middle-income countries due to easy storage requirements,” WHO tweeted.#Covaxin was found to have 78% efficacy against #COVID19 of any severity, 14 or more days after the second dose, and is extremely suitable for low- and middle-income countries due to easy storage requirements.After the WHO approval was announced, several ministers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders thanked PM Narendra Modi. Mandaviya said that the nod is a “sign of capable leadership” and the story of “Modiji’s resolution.”Also Read | 'Diwali of Aatmanirbhar Bharat': Health minister hails PM Modi for Covaxin's WHO approval“This is the language of the faith of Indians. This is the Diwali of a self-reliant India,” he tweeted.Meanwhile, Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said that the nod is a “global recognition” of PM Modi’s vision of “Atmanirbhar Bharat.”Regional director of WHO South-East Asia Poonam Khetrapal Singh also congratulated India for getting the approval for the indigenously produced Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/momentous-occasion-for-indian-science-bharat-biotech-md-on-who-nod-of-covaxin-101635963597006.html
04-11-2021||India||WHO gives Covaxin its stamp of approval||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Wednesday granted emergency use listing (EUL) to Bharat Biotech’s Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, the UN health body announced, putting its stamp of approval on the safety and efficacy of India’s indigenous vaccine, and also endorsing the manufacturing abilities of its maker.The approval, which comes after a long wait, will allow for a larger recognition of Covaxin by other countries to allow Indian travellers who have taken the dose to qualify for exemptions that countries offer to those vaccinated.“WHO has granted emergency use listing (EUL) to #COVAXIN® (developed by Bharat Biotech), adding to a growing portfolio of vaccines validated by WHO for the prevention of #COVID19,” WHO said in a tweet.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya thanked WHO for the EUL.“This is a sign of a capable leadership. This is the story of Modi ji’s resolve. This is the language of the faith of the countrymen. This is a Diwali of self-reliant India. Thanking @WHO for granting emergency use listing (EUL) to Made-in-India #Covaxin,” he tweeted on Wednesday.The vaccine was co-developed by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which comes under the Union health ministry.The Technical Advisory Group (TAG), an independent advisory committee of the World Health Organisation, recommended Covaxin for EUL in its meeting on Wednesday, followed by WHO evaluating Covaxin’s clinical trial data for grant of EUL. The approval came after a request for additional information that the committee sought from Bharat Biotech. It first considered Bharat Biotech’s request for an EUL for Covaxin on October 26. “The Technical Advisory Group, convened by WHO and made up of regulatory experts from around the world, has determined that the #Covaxin vaccine meets WHO standards for protection against #COVID19, that the benefit of the vaccine far outweighs risks & the vaccine can be used across the planet,” read another tweet by WHO.Millions of Indians and the government have been watching the process, which was expected to reach some sort of conclusion by the end of October.Bharat Biotech welcomed the decision.“The Emergency Use Listing approval by WHO validates the international safety and quality standards of COVAXIN®. Bharat Biotech is motivated to mitigate the worldwide pandemic,” the firm tweeted.Later, in a statement, it said that countries can now expedite their regulatory approval processes to import and administer Covaxin, and Unicef, pan-American Health Organization (PAHO) and GAVI COVAX facility, will now be able to procure the vaccine for distribution to countries worldwide.“Validation by WHO is a very significant step towards ensuring global access to India’s widely administered, safe, and efficacious Covaxin. As an organization, we have focused on maintaining stringent quality and safety standards that meet rigorous assessment, and scientific standards established by WHO, as a result, many of our vaccines have received WHO prequalification. The EUL authorisation for Covaxin will enable us to contribute to accelerating the equitable access of Covid-19 vaccine, and the access to our vaccine globally thereby addressing the current public health emergency,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director, Bharat Biotech.Covaxin was approved for emergency use in India on January 3. Around 10% of the 1.07 billion doses administered so far in the country are of Covaxin.The grant of EUL will also make the vaccine eligible for distribution to low and middle income countries under the COVAX facility of WHO and GAVI, the vaccine alliance, which aims to make free vaccines available to the poorest countries.TAG-EUL is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a Covid-19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure. Emergency-use listing is a thorough exercise undertaken by WHO and the technical advisory group of independent experts to determine if a manufactured product, in this case Covaxin, is quality-assured, safe and effective or not.“The TAG gave its recommendations in Covaxin’s favour, and WHO Geneva granted the approval. It was on the expected lines,” said a senior central government official aware of the development, on condition of anonymity.Earlier, Covaxin was also reviewed by WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE), which recommended its use in two doses, with a dose interval of four weeks, in all age groups 18 and above.Bharat Biotech was stuck in a regulatory loop, with independent technical experts of the UN health body taking longer to analyse the data that previously disclosed timelines. WHO’s independent technical advisory group, in its meeting on October 26, sought additional clarifications from the company for Covaxin to conduct a final risk-benefit assessment for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine.Bharat Biotech on Friday submitted the additional data that included immunogenicity response in people 60 years and above, and also separately in both men and women.Earlier, a decision on Covaxin EUL was expected on October 5, after WHO representatives sought additional information on September 27.Covaxin has shown 77.8% effectiveness against the disease, and 65.2% protection against the new highly transmissible delta variant. Covaxin is an inactivated whole virion vaccine. Countries that recognised Covaxin for travel before WHO EUL include Australia, Mauritius, Iran, Nepal, Oman, Mexico, and Greece.However, WHO has not recommended Covaxin use in pregnant women, saying more studies are required on the subject.“Available data on vaccination of pregnant women with the #Covaxin vaccine are insufficient to assess vaccine safety or efficacy in pregnancy; studies in pregnant women are planned, including a pregnancy sub-study and a pregnancy registry,” WHO said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-gives-covaxin-its-stamp-of-approval-101635964380920.html
04-11-2021||India||Karnataka:Challenges, hurdles mark 100 days of Bommai at the helm||Bengaluru The Basavaraj Bommai government will complete 100 days in power on Thursday, however the road leading to it was not so smooth as the chief minister had to face dissent from within the party, pressure from the Panchamasalis over reservation, infrastructure issues and the recently concluded bypolls in two constituencies. Bommai was a surprise choice to replace BS Yediyurappa who was forced to step down on July 26 after nearly two years of uncertainty.“(There is) nothing special in 100 days but we will share what we have done during this time. 100 days is not like some benchmark like one year. During this time, how our government is moving forward, what problems we are facing is something we will share with the people,” Bommai said on Wednesday in Bengaluru.The problems Bommai referred to possibly includes the challenges he faces from within his own party’s state leadership who felt “betrayed” for being overlooked for that top job with a person who joined the BJP just 13 years ago as against those who have grown up in the party and spent decades building it.Bommai’s 100-day benchmark comes a day after he suffered a humiliating defeat in his own backyard after Srinivas Mane of the Congress defeated Shivaraj Sajjanar of the BJP in Hanagal in the chief minister’s home district of Haveri.A section within the BJP says that the defeat was engineered by some leaders themselves as they did not want to enhance Bommai’s image in front of the national leadership.A Bengaluru-based analyst said that there was little to suggest that any one person or section of leaders could pull off such a stunt to bring down the party to settle personal scores.“In a bypoll such tactics become harder as there is extensive focus on just a couple of constituencies and it is more difficult to pull off such stunts,” said one analyst, requesting not to be named.The simmering dissent within the leadership boiled over when union home minister Amit Shah projected Bommai as the next chief ministerial candidate on September 2 in Davangere.Bommai has also been unsuccessful in emerging out of the shadows of Yediyurappa who is still believed to hold the reins of the government. Most of Yediyurappa’s loyalists were inducted in the Cabinet while all his detractors were kept out.Bommai continues to rely on Yediyurappa for his day-to-day operations and BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, in a recent statement, had said that the party will head to the next elections under the leadership of the incumbent chief minister and his predecessor.The chief minister is also under pressure over the Panchamasali agitation, demanding to be moved up to 2A category in the state reservation list.Vijayananda Kashappanavar, former Congress MLA and president of the Akhila Bharatha Lingayata Panchamasali Mahasabha said that the BJP is yet to heed to its reservation request.“We have already started mobilising support at the grama panchayat level and will not stop until we the order of the reservation reaches the district and local offices,” Kashappanavar said.An influential seer of the Panchamasalis, the largest sub-sect under the Lingayats, had even issued a veiled threat ahead of the October 30 bypolls, asking that the report of reservation be brought from the backward classes commission.The sub-sect have given three months to the Bommai government to heed to its demands or that they will revive the agitation again. Even the marginalised and backward communities have approached the courts to release the findings of the 2015 caste census and block any proposal to allow the Panchamasalis into the 2A category which would further deny benefits to groups who have long since lost out due to the presence of dominant communities within their categories.But one of the bigger challenges staring Bommai is the allegations levelled by Congress Siddaramaiah over purchases of Bitcoins to the tune of several thousand crores.“He (Siddaramaiah) has made the allegations so he should reveal any proof if he has. Secondly we have filed the chargesheet in court and it is a public document,” Bommai said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakachallenges-hurdles-mark-100-days-of-bommai-at-the-helm-101635964336909.html
04-11-2021||India||Karnataka minister slams Congress over Bitcoin scam allegations||Bengaluru: Hitting back at the Congress over its allegation that senior BJP leader were involved in ‘Bitcoin scam’, Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra on Wednesday claimed that it was Congress leaders are the ones who are involved in such scam. This comes even as Karnataka chief minister denies knowledge of any scam involving cryptocurrency. Talking to reporters Jnanendra on Wednesday denied Congress’ accusation of the opposition that the ruling BJP is shielding influential people in the case. “Hacker Sriki was caught in an incident in UB City (a popular mall) in 2018. Why did the then CM Siddaramaiah not get him arrested? Why did he not arrest and hold an inquiry when two Congress leaders were caught along with third children,” he said without elaborating on the allegation. “When we caught Sriki in the drugs scandal, we came to know that he is involved in the Bitcoin scam also. So we have recommended an inquiry by Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Interpol,” he added. It was an ED probe into an 11-month-old case in Bengaluru involving a cryptocurrency hacker Sri Krishna alias Sriki that snowballed into a political controversy with the Opposition accusing the ruling BJP of a cover-up last week. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah told the media that two influential politicians were involved and there was an attempt to cover up their role in the case. 25-year-old Srikrishna had allegedly hacked into three bitcoin exchanges, multiple online poker applications, and one government e-procurement website. Bitcoins worth ₹9 crore were recovered from him, which he had either stolen using data theft or through online extortion. He is also accused in the case of stealing ₹11 crore from the e-procurement portal. Srikrishna was caught on November 18 after police arrested some drug dealers, to whom he had allegedly sold drugs procured from the dark web. Srikrishna graduated in computer science from a college in Amsterdam in the Netherlands in 2017. A senior police officer said Srikrishna would encrypt data and demand payment from owners for the site to be unlocked by attacking the sites online, apart from using cryptocurrency for money laundering. Srikrishna was questioned recently by the ED in connection with a case registered earlier this year by the agency into the alleged hacking of accounts of bitcoin holders between 2018 and 2020, and the encashment of the bitcoins by the hawala route after-sale to third parties. Meanwhile, Congress leader Siddaramiah has demanded that chief minister Basavaraj Bommai make the names of politicians allegedly involved in the Bitcoin scam public, irrespective of which party they belong to. “Let it be Congress or BJP, it does not matter. People should know the truth. I have information about politicians being involved in this scam. If there is no case, why did the CM hand it over the case to ED?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-minister-slams-congress-over-bitcoin-scam-allegations-101635964329150.html
04-11-2021||India||On Diwali eve, Centre slashes petrol price by ₹5, diesel by ₹10||The Union government on Wednesday announced reduction in central levies on petrol by ₹5 a litre and diesel by ₹10 a litre from Thursday, providing major relief to consumers amid spiralling fuel prices, even as it urged states to further bring down the rates.From Thursday – when Diwali will be celebrated – the price of petrol will come down from the current rate of over ₹110 a litre in Delhi to about ₹105. The diesel rate will be reduced from over ₹98 per litre to about ₹88. To be sure, there may be minor variations depending on global oil prices and if there are any additional cuts by state governments.“The decision was announced immediately after the Prime Minister gave his nod to providing relief to consumers, tame inflation and boost growth,” an official with direct knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be named.Announcing the decision on Wednesday evening, the Union finance ministry said: “Government of India has taken a significant decision of reducing Central Excise Duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 (per litre) respectively from tomorrow.”“States are also urged to commensurately reduce VAT [value-added tax] on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers,” it added.Central excise on petrol, which is currently ₹32.90 per litre, will be reduced to ₹27.90 on Thursday, and the levy on diesel will be reduced from ₹31.80 to ₹21.80, an executive in state-run oil marketing company said on condition of anonymity. “As these taxes are specific and not ad valorem, the entire excise duty reduction will be immediately passed on to the consumer,” he said.Taking cue from the Centre, Assam, Goa, Karnataka and Tripura governments announced ₹7 per litre reduction in state levies (value-added tax) with immediate effect. Bihar also announced ₹1.30 per litre reduction in VAT on petrol and ₹1.90 on diesel.The increase in fuel prices was criticised by opposition parties, which linked the decision to recent bypoll results in which the Opposition made inroads in some key areas, and demanded that the government reduce excise duty further.Domestic prices of petrol and diesel have been surging to record levels almost every day since October 1 because of two key reasons – surging international oil prices due to prolonged supply squeeze by producers’ cartel, and high incidence of central and state taxes on the two fuels. On Wednesday, petrol was being sold in Delhi for ₹110.04 and diesel for ₹98.42.The reduction is the highest ever in excise duty and rolls back a part of the ₹13 and ₹16 per litre increase in taxes on petrol and diesel effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing on to consumers the sharp fall in international oil prices.“I thank PM Narendra Modi for the significant reduction in Excise Duty on Petrol & Diesel. A big relief for fuel consumers, particularly our farmers just ahead of Rabi season. The states should add to this celebration by reducing VAT on fuel to give further relief to consumers,” Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted.Through 2020, as global crude prices plunged (below $20 a barrel in April last year), the central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States, too, followed suit as their revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the central excise and state VAT (which is ad valorem) on petrol and diesel went up to 53% and 46.9% of their respective retail prices.State-run oil companies are expecting petrol and diesel rates to go down further if the producers’ cartel – Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (together known as OPEC+) – on Thursday decides to increase output to calm oil prices under international pressure. At Glasgow on Tuesday, US President Joe Biden blamed OPEC for the current surge in oil and gas prices because of supply squeeze.Ahead of the OPEC+ meeting and a jump in the US crude stockpile, international oil prices slumped. Benchmark Brent crude fell 3.19% at $82.02 per barrel in the Wednesday session.“If OPEC+ decides to raise output, international oil prices will fall further and retail prices of petrol and diesel could be reduced by more than ₹5 and ₹10 [per litre respectively]. Public sector oil marketing companies will be happy to pass on the benefit of falling oil prices to the consumers immediately as government is also keen to check inflation,” the official quoted in the first instance said.The official said the fiscal impact of the excise duty reduction would be about ₹50,000 crore in the current financial year, which could be compensated to a great extent by robust Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections. GST revenue in October surged to ₹1.3 lakh crore, the second highest since the new tax was launched in July 2017. Even the highest GST collection was reported in April this year at ₹1.41 lakh crore and the trend is expected to continue in the festive months of November and December on rapid economic recovery after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, and increased compliance.“The reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel will also boost consumption and keep inflation low, thus helping the poor and middle classes. Today’s decision is expected to further spur the overall economic cycle,” the finance ministry said in its statement.In recent months, crude oil prices have witnessed a global upsurge. Consequently, domestic prices of petrol and diesel increased in recent weeks, exerting inflationary pressure, it said. “The world has also seen shortages and increased prices of all forms of energy. The Government of India has made efforts to ensure that there is no energy shortage in the country and that commodities such as petrol and diesel are available adequately to meet our requirements,” it added.“The reduction in excise duty on diesel will be double that of petrol. The Indian farmers have, through their hard work, kept the economic growth momentum going even during the lockdown phase and the massive reduction in excise on diesel will come as a boost to the farmers during the upcoming Rabi season,” it said. The move is also to give a further fillip to the economy, it added.While petrol is above ₹100-a-litre-mark in all major cities, diesel has crossed that level in more than one-and-a-half dozen states. The total increase in petrol price since the May 5, 2020, decision of the government to raise excise duty to record levels now totals ₹38.78 per litre. Diesel rates have during this period gone up by ₹29.03 per litre.The Opposition, however, said more needed to be done.“After losing 14 bye elections & 2 Lok Sabhas, reducing Petrol-Diesel price by ₹5 & ₹10 is tom-tommed as ‘Diwali Gift’ of Modi Ji!” tweeted Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien said: “Happy Diwali for Government of India. Last year, excise duty on petrol INCREASED by 65% but now decreased by 15%. Between Apr-Sept ‘21, Govt’s collection from excise on petrol ROSE 33% compared to last year. Collection of excise is 79% more than pre-Covid levels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-diwali-eve-centre-slashes-petrol-price-by-5-diesel-by-10-101635964200813.html
04-11-2021||India||Vaccines to data: India made push on issues key to developing countries||India made a strong push on key issues that are important to developing countries, including data, vaccines and climate change, while shaping the outcomes of the G20 Summit.At the summit held in Rome during October 30-31, the grouping of the world’s 20 largest economies was focused on data free flow with trust and cross-border data flows. India brought the issue of data for development into the Rome Declaration, issued at the end of the summit, as an important point for developing countries, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.“We acknowledge the importance of data free flow with trust and cross-border data flows. We reaffirm the role of data for development. We will continue to work on addressing challenges such as those related to privacy, data protection, security and intellectual property rights, in accordance with the relevant applicable legal frameworks,” the Rome Declaration said.It added that the G20 states will push for common understanding and work to identify “commonalities, complementarities and elements of convergence between existing regulatory approaches and instruments” to enable the flow of data with trust to foster future interoperability.In the field of climate action, India pushed for the inclusion of “critical enablers”, such as sustainable and responsible consumption and production and provision of finance and technology for climate action, into the Rome Declaration. These critical enablers are seen as key to achieving the climate goals, first decided under the Paris Accord, by developing countries that need more finance and green technologies, the people cited above said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also made a personal push by highlighting the need for sustainable lifestyles, which found resonance in the Rome Declaration.On the issue of phasing out coal as part of efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions, India’s suggestion of not financing unabated coal-powered plants, rather than phasing out coal completely, was accepted, the people said.Unabated coal power generation refers to the use of coal that is not mitigated with technologies to reduce CO2 emissions, such as “carbon capture utilisation and storage”.In the field of Covid-19 vaccines and post-pandemic recovery, India highlighted the need to optimise the processes and procedures of the World Health Organization (WHO) for vaccine approval and emergency use authorisation, and this was endorsed by the G20 leaders.“This will strengthen WHO so that it can recognise vaccines faster,” one of the people cited above said.India’s call to work on a common framework for accepting vaccine certificates for the reopening of international travel was also included in the Rome Declaration.The declaration noted that post-pandemic recovery “remains highly divergent across and within countries, and exposed to downside risks, in particular the possible spread of new variants of Covid-19 and uneven vaccination paces”.G20 leaders also agreed on India’s push for declaring Covid-19 immunisation as a global public good.Modi’s suggestion of a global minimum 15% corporation tax rate, originally made at the 2014 G20 Summit, found acceptance from the grouping’s leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccines-to-data-at-g20-summit-india-made-push-on-issues-key-to-developing-countries-101635963720617.html
04-11-2021||India||‘Truth cannot be held hostage for long’: Rahul Gandhi writes letter to SRK||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had reached out to Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan when his son, Aryan, was in prison in connection with a drugs case, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.In the letter dated October 14, the Congress leader extended his support to the actor and his wife, Gauri Khan, and mentioned how it was not easy to see a close one in “such a situation”.The Congress MP from Wayanad also asked Aryan’s parents to take solace in the fact that “truth cannot be held hostage for long”, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.“The letter mentioned how the Khans are compassionate and have created goodwill in the community,” a person familiar with the matter said.“That’s why the Congress leader can see widespread support for the Khan family. The Congress leader also wished the actor peace and strength,” the person added.Aryan was arrested following a raid on a cruise ship anchored at the International Cruise Terminal in Mumbai on October 2. The cruise was set to go to Goa when a team of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) searched the guests and arrested Aryan along with his friend Arbaaz Merchant.The agency claimed that six grams of charas in a plastic pouch concealed in Merchant’s shoe was seized and the contraband material was purportedly meant for consumption by both of them.Both Aryan and Merchant were lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road central prison from October 3 till they were granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 28. While Aryan walked out of jail on October 30, Merchant was released a day later.HT has not seen a copy of the letter by the Congress leader to the actor.When HT reached out to Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, he said that the letter, if any, was personal and could not be made public.Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik and Congress’ Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had previously come out in support of the actor while raising questions over the conduct and nature of the NCP probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/truth-cannot-be-held-hostage-for-long-rahul-gandhi-wrote-in-letter-to-shah-rukh-khan-101635963420931.html
04-11-2021||India||Six IAF personnel among 25 new Zika cases in Kanpur, tally at 36||Kanpur: Six Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel were among the 25 people who tested positive for zika virus in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur district on Wednesday, taking the number of infected persons to 36 in the district, officials from the state health department said.Kanpur district magistrate Vishak G said among the fresh cases, 14 are women while six IAF personnel have also contracted the infection.The DM said the health department had collected blood samples of 586 people on Sunday and sent them to Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU) for testing. Twenty-five samples tested positive for Zika virus on Wednesday, he added.The Uttar Pradesh health department on Monday sounded an alert across districts and intensified surveillance under its infectious disease control campaign to identify cases of infection, including Zika virus disease, in the early stages. To check the spread of the disease and track its source, health teams have been pressed to undertake sanitisation programmes, including anti-larvae spraying, identification of fever patients, screening of seriously ill people and pregnant women. Health officials have been asked to strengthen surveillance and ensure door-to-door sampling and testing, senior health officials said.“We advise locals not to panic regarding the sudden spurt in zika virus cases,” the DM said.On Monday, Dr Vedvrat Singh, Uttar Pradesh director general of medical health, said, “We are conducting the infectious disease control campaign in the state and all health staff have been briefed about the zika virus cases and asked to keep a watch in their respective areas. Although, no other district other than Kanpur has reported zika virus cases till now.”The first case of the zika virus in Kanpur was confirmed on October 23. An IAF warrant officer suffering from fever was admitted in the Air Force hospital where the doctors decided to go for further tests. His samples were sent to SGPGIMS (Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences) in Lucknow, where it was confirmed that he was infected with the zika virus. The Union health ministry then sent a high-level multidisciplinary team to Uttar Pradesh to monitor the situation.A high alert has been sounded in the periphery of hangars of the IAF station, said a senior health officer.Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of infected Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. According to the World Health Organisation, Aedes mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon or evening.In normal course, the symptoms of the zika virus disease are mild and include fever, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain and rashes.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-iaf-personnel-among-25-new-zika-cases-in-kanpur-tally-at-36-101635963361865.html
04-11-2021||India||Abhinandan Varthaman, who shot down F-16, promoted as group captain||Abhinandan Varthaman, who was awarded Vir Chakra for shooting down a Pakistani F-16 during a dogfight over the Line of Control (LoC) on February 27, 2019, picked up the rank of group captain on Wednesday morning, people familiar with the development said. A group captain is equivalent to a colonel in the army.The dogfight in which Abhinandan was involved took place a day after the Indian Air Force’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Pakistan’s Balakot in response to the Pulwama suicide attack in Kashmir in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed on February 14, 2019. Abhinandan was a wing commander then, equivalent to a lieutenant colonel in the army.Abhinandan, then 35, scripted military aviation history by downing an F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject. Experts then hailed it as the first ever kill of an F-16 by a MiG-21 Bison, fighter jets of two different generations. He was captured after he bailed out of his aircraft, but Pakistan returned him to India on March 1, 2019, after holding him captive for almost 60 hours.The fighter pilot is currently posted in the North-east, said one of the persons cited above.He was awarded Vir Chakra on Independence Day two years back. Vir Chakra is India’s third-highest wartime gallantry award, after Param Vir Chakra and Maha Vir Chakra.Abhinandan’s Vir Chakra citation, published in the Gazette of India in December 2019, said he courageously engaged the Pakistani aircraft package despite its “immense numerical and technological superiority,” and his aggressive manoeuvres forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos.In February 2019, Abhinandan was posted with a MiG-21 Bison squadron and was on ‘operational readiness platform’ duty at air force station Srinagar when a large Pakistan Air Force fighter aircraft package was detected heading towards LoC. The hostile jets were armed with advanced beyond visual range (BVR) air-to-air missiles and modern air-to-ground stand-off weapons.Abhinandan was scrambled to intercept this package five minutes after it was detected.“Displaying exceptional air combat acumen and knowledge of the enemy’s tactics, Abhinandan scanned the low altitude airspace with his airborne intercept (AI) radar and picked up an enemy aircraft that was flying low to ambush the Indian fighter interceptor aircraft… Abhinandan alerted the other formation pilots towards this surprise threat,” the citation said.“He then consolidated the riposte, by gathering his wingman in an offensive formation against the hostile Pakistani aircraft now dropping weapons on Indian Army positions. This audacious and aggressive manoeuvre forced the enemy aircraft into tactical chaos,” it further said.The citation said the wing commander pursued a retreating enemy fighter bomber aircraft and in the ensuing aerial combat, shot down an F-16. “However, in the melee, one of the enemy aircraft fired multiple advanced BVR missiles, one of which hit his aircraft forcing him to eject in enemy territory,” it said.On February 26, IAF’s Mirages hit three targets in Balakot with Israeli-origin Spice 2000 bombs with penetrator warheads that allowed the weapons to pierce through the rooftops before exploding inside to cause maximum damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhinandan-varthaman-who-shot-down-f-16-promoted-as-group-captain-101635963187920.html
04-11-2021||India||Don’t have any more proof to share against Anil Deshmukh: Param Bir Singh||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, on Wednesday, submitted an affidavit through his lawyer before the justice (retired) Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal inquiry commission stating that he does not have any more evidence to share against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, whom he accused of corruption. The affidavit, filed last month by Singh’s power of attorney, reiterates the stand that he had taken earlier before the commission. Singh’s lawyer on Wednesday confirmed that the senior IPS officer submitted the affidavit in a previous hearing of the commission.Special public prosecutor, Shishir Hirey, appearing for the inquiry commission said, “Param Bir Singh has refused to give any more evidence in the matter, over and above what he had said in the letter written to the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) making serious corruption allegations against Deshmukh. He is also not ready for cross-examining any witness.” In March this year, the Maharashtra government formed the one-member commission of retired Justice Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to probe Singh’s allegations against Deshmukh. The former Mumbai police commissioner has been untraceable since past few months.Despite the commission issuing multiple summons and a bailable warrant against Singh, he has not appeared before the it so far.The commission had thrice imposed fines of ₹5,000 in June and ₹25,000 each on two other occasions on Singh for failing to appear before it.Last week, rhe courts in Mumbai and Thane have issued non-bailable warrants against Singh, who faces five FIRs. A look-out circular (LOC) has also been issued against him.Deshmukh resigned from the post of Maharashtra home minister in April this year after the corruption allegations. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader has repeatedly denied the allegations against him.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Singh.Deshmukh was on Monday arrested by the ED in connection with a money laundering case linked to an alleged extortion racket in the state police. He was on Tuesday remanded in the ED’s custody till November 6||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-have-any-more-proof-to-share-against-anil-deshmukh-param-bir-singh-101635962820626.html
04-11-2021||India||Carbon emissions set to return to pre-Covid levels: Global Carbon Project report||Global carbon emissions in 2021 are set to rebound to pre-Covid levels, according to the projections of the Global Carbon Project report, which was released during the Glasgow Climate Change Conference (COP 26). The report also warned that the global CO2 (carbon dioxide) emissions are likely to rise steeply during the coming year, instead of declining immediately, and so efforts must be made to keep global warming to under 1.5 degree Celsius over the pre-industrial levels.Globally, CO2 emissions dropped by 5.4% in 2020 due to lockdowns induced by the Covid-19 pandemic, but the new report projected an increase of 4.9% this year (4.1% to 5.7%) to 36.4 billion tonnes in total. The report was prepared by a research team of University of Exeter, University of East Anglia (UEA), Center for International Climate Research (CICERO) and Stanford University.Researchers said a further rise in emissions in 2022 is also likely if road transport and aviation return to pre-pandemic levels and coal use is stable. “The rapid rebound in emissions as economies recover from the pandemic reinforces the need for immediate global action on climate change,” said Professor Pierre Friedlingstein, of Exeter’s Global Systems Institute, who led the study.Prof Corinne Le Quéré, Royal Society Research Professor at UEA’s School of Environmental Sciences, contributed to this year’s analysis. She said: “It will take some time to see the full effect of the Covid-related disruptions on global CO2 emissions. A lot of progress has been made in decarbonising global energy since the Paris Agreement was adopted in 2015, plus renewables is the only energy source that continued to grow during the pandemic. New investments and strong climate policy now need to support the green economy much more systematically and push fossil fuels out of the equation.”The report has projected that China’s emissions are likely to rise 4% compared to 2020, reaching 5.5% above 2019, and will represent 31% of global emissions. India’s emissions are projected to rise 12.6% compared to 2020, reaching 4.4% above 2019, representing 7% of global emissions. USA’ emissions are projected to rise 7.6% compared to 2020, reaching 3.7% below 2019, representing 14% of global emissions. EU27’s emissions are projected to rise 7.6% compared to 2020, reaching 4.2% below 2019 representing 7% of global emissions.The analysis doesn’t include international transport, particularly aviation. To have a 50% chance of limiting global warming to 1.5°C, 1.7°C and 2°C, the researchers estimate the remaining “carbon budget” has now shrunk to 420 billion tonnes, 770 billion tonnes and 1,270 billion tonnes, respectively — equivalent to 11, 20 and 32 years from the beginning of 2022.“Reaching net zero CO2 emissions by 2050 entails cutting global CO2 emissions by about 1.4 billion tonnes each year on average. Emissions fell by 1.9 billion tonnes in 2020 – so, to achieve net zero by 2050, we must cut emissions every year by an amount comparable to that seen during Covid. This highlights the scale of the action that is now required, and hence the importance of the COP26 discussions,” Friedlingstein said in a statement on Wednesday.IPCC’s report ‘The Physical Science Basis’ released in August suggests that to even attempt keeping global warming under 1.5 degree C, global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions will have to decline by about 45% from 2010 levels by 2030, reaching net zero by around 2050. United Nations’ updated nationally determined contribution (NDC) synthesis report, released on October 25, confirmed that for all available NDCs of 192 Parties taken together, there is likely to be a 16% increase in global GHG emissions in 2030 compared to 2010. Such an increase, unless changed quickly, is likely to lead to a temperature rise of about 2.7 degree Celsius by the end of the century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carbon-emissions-set-to-return-to-pre-covid-levels-global-carbon-project-report-101635962760556.html
04-11-2021||India||UP elections: Earlier funds spent on ‘kabristans’, now used for temples, says CM||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) uses public funds for welfare and temples whereas earlier administrations used it to construct boundary walls of “kabristans” (burial grounds), Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday, attacking the Samajwadi Party without naming it. Adityanath was speaking at the fifth Deepotsav celebrations at the Ram Katha Park in Ayodhya, months before crucial assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh early next year. “Earlier, public funds were being utilised for constructing boundary walls of graveyards, but today, it is being spent on public welfare and temples,” he said. “You (public) have made this possible due to the power of democracy.”Adityanath condemned the firing on kar sevaks, or Hindu religious volunteers, in Ayodhya on October 30, 1990 and November 2, 1990 during the height of the Ram temple movement, and blamed the then SP government for it. “No one can forget what happened in Ayodhya 31 years ago. Karsevaks were lathicharged. But today, flowers are showered over them,” he said. “Whenever there is another kar seva in Ayodhya, their (SP) entire family will line-up (for kar seva),” the chief minister said in an apparent reference to the SP, The CM also assured the gathering that the Ram temple will come up in Ayodhya by December 2023. He inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹600 crore for Ayodhya. The chief minister announced extension of the free ration scheme for poor till the festive occasion of Holi in 2023. This scheme was to end in December. He issued an appeal to people to follow Covid norms and get vaccinated as the pandemic was not over. This is the fifth consecutive Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya. After coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in March 2017, the BJP government started celebrating Deepotsav in Ayodhya on Diwali eve every year.In 2017, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had courted controversy after he compared the number of cremation grounds with graveyards in the state. “If you create kabristaan (graveyard) in a village, then a shamshaan (cremation ground) should be created. If electricity is given uninterrupted in Ramzan, then it should also be given during Diwali without a break. Bhedbhaav nahin hona chahiye (there should be no discrimination,” Modi told a rally in Fatehpur district during the state assembly elections in 2017. The remarks were criticised by several political party leaders, with the Congress saying that the Prime Minister was talking “senseless things”, sensing his party’s “imminent” defeat in the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-earlier-funds-spent-on-kabristans-now-used-for-temples-says-yogi-adityanath-101635962640781.html
04-11-2021||India||COP26: HAC asks all parties to deliver on net zero emissions target||The High Ambition Coalition (HAC), which includes the US, Germany, France and several others, in a statement issued at the Glasgow climate change conference (COP 26) on Tuesday, called on all 196 parties to deliver on mid-century net zero greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) goals with strategies for their implementation that align with a 1.5 degree C trajectory as soon as possible, and in time for consideration by leaders at the global stocktake in 2023.The HAC has also called on parties to commit to a collective goal of reducing global methane emissions by at least 30% from 2020 levels by 2030, and to take aggressive action to reduce emissions of all super-pollutants, including hydrofluorocarbons and black carbon. HAC’s intervention could pose a challenge to emerging economies like India and others who have been calling for equity and common-but-differentiated responsibilities (a principle within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) that acknowledges different capabilities and differing responsibilities of individual countries) in mitigating climate crisis.The Republic of the Marshall Islands formed the HAC in run-up negotiations to the Paris Agreement in 2015. The HAC helped secure key elements of the Paris deal, including the 1.5 degree C temperature goal, the net zero global emissions pathway by the second half of the century, and a five-year cycle for updating mitigation contributions, according to their website.The HAC also stressed the need to halve global emissions by 2030 and called on all Parties to deliver more ambitious NDCs in line with a 1.5 degree C trajectory as soon as possible and well ahead of COP27. Several climate vulnerable island nations, such as Palau, Marshall Islands, Fiji, Antigua and Barbuda, are also part of the coalition. US President Joe Biden, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron have signed off the statement.“This could be a problem going ahead. It has the US in it which is powerful. There is no mention of equity. It’s aligned to an ambitious target of 1.5 degree C with no mention of common but differentiated responsibilities. It can pose a challenge, especially to emerging economies,” said a senior climate negotiations expert on condition of anonymity.HAC has also called on all developed countries to deliver on the goal of mobilising $100 billion annually till 2025 in the “context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency on implementation.” Some developing countries may have reservations on this also as to which actions will be considered meaningful. The coalition suggested that the adaptation finance gap be addressed by scaling up adaptation finance to at least double the current levels.“Reiterate our commitment to make finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development, and commit to initiating deliberations for a post-2025 finance goal based on the best available science, an assessment of the needs and priorities of developing countries, and lessons from the $100 billion goal,” the HAC statement said.“Why should we align to a common timeframe of achieving net zero emissions by mid-century? We have always said if that time frame needs to be aligned with, then historical emitters should transition at least by 2030. They can say all this in their statement but CBDR will have to be respected,” said a member of the Indian delegation in Glasgow.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on November 1 that India will reach carbon neutrality by 2070. He also announced a five-point action plan that includes: India will increase its non-fossil fuel power capacity to 500 gigawatts (GW) by the end of the decade, up from 450GW; half of India’s electricity (installed capacity) will come from renewable sources by 2030; India’s 2030 carbon intensity goal — measured as carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gross domestic product — will be increased from 35% to 45%; and the country will also strive to produce half of its electricity using renewable energy and cut carbon-dioxide emissions by 1 billion tonnes from business as usual by 2030.Another expert said, “If you go by this statement, then there will be pressure over China also as they have announced net zero transition by 2060 and their NDC is weak. But China has already emitted a lot and is now the largest emitter in the world.”According to a recent analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment, in the coming ten years, China will take up 33% of the remaining carbon budget of 409 GtCO2 and India may occupy only 9.54% of the budget. Between 1870 and 2019, China occupied 13.4% of the global carbon budget; India 3.16% and the seven historical polluters— United Kingdom, United States, European Union-27, Russia, Japan, Australia, and Canada occupied 60.53% of the carbon budget. The share changed quite a bit between 1990 and 2019, when China occupied nearly 21% of the carbon budget. This means China went through a very intense phase of development mainly dependent on fossil fuels during those 20 odd years.The issue of net zero emission is anyway inequitable. If it were to be equitable, developed (OECD) countries should have a target of net zero by 2030, China by 2040 and India and the rest of the world by 2050, the Centre for Science and Environment highlighted in a statement on Tuesday.HT reported on Wednesday that several developing countries have backed India’s demands at the COP26 climate summit for a new finance goal to support the energy transition.Apurba Mitra, Head, Climate-policy, World Resources Institute India, said: “The high ambition coalition is a subset of the parties to the UNFCCC and this will be one of the proposals discussed and negotiated over the next two weeks resulting in a final decision or declaration in Glasgow. Some of the elements of this proposal may find uptake, but may not be all. We will just have to wait and see how the element of differentiation and equity will be introduced in the final declaration, which is currently missing in this text.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26hac-asks-all-parties-to-deliver-on-net-zero-emissions-target-101635962520656.html
04-11-2021||India||PM Modi unveils door-to-door drive to cover those yet to get the jab||Prime minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday launched the month-long Har Ghar Dastak (knock on every door) campaign aimed to conduct a special house-to-house Covid-19 vaccination drive, with special focus on those whose second dose is overdue, to accelerate complete vaccination. Modi launched the drive during a review of 45 districts, across 11 states and a union territory that have low coverage of the first dose. The chief ministers of these states and the district administrators were present during the review.The special vaccination drive will be held between November 3 and 30.“So far you have had been making efforts to safely administer Covid vaccine doses at vaccination centres. Now the time has come to focus your efforts on house-visits to ensure you cover those who have not been vaccinated as yet,” Modi said. The 11 states whose chief ministers attended the meeting are: Arunchal Pradesh (6 districts with low coverage of first shots), Assam (1), Chhattisgarh (1), Haryana (1), Jharkhand (8), Maharashtra (5), Manipur (8), Meghalaya (4), Mizoram (1), Nagaland (8), Tamil Nadu (1) and Delhi (1).Till 7 PM on Wednesday night, India had administered 1,076.3 million doses of the vaccine. Of the eligible (18 years and above) population of 940 million, 337.27 million had received both doses and 739.04 million, one dose, translating into a 78.6% coverage in terms of those who have received at least one dose of the vaccineAccording to the Co-WIN dashboard, the coverage of first doses across Indian states ranges from 61% to over 100% (on the basis of population projections made by the National Commission on Population). The top five states and UTs are: Himachal Pradesh (103.6% coverage), Jammu and Kashmir (101.2%), Kerala (94.9%), Uttarakhand (92.9%), and Gujarat (91.7. And the bottom five are Jharkhand (60.8%), North-eastern states excluding Assam (66.7%), Uttar Pradesh (67.1%), Bihar (68.3%), and Punjab (70.3%). By districts, the bottom five districts (in terms of first dose coverage) as of November 2 are: Senapati in Manipur (25.1%), Kiphire in Nagaland (25.6%), Ukhrul in Manipur (27.8%), Kurung Kume in Arunachal Pradesh (28.9%), and Narayanpur in Chhattisgarh (30.5%). Since there are no official population projections at the district-level, these coverage figures use the number of electors in the district (2011 census districts taken here) before the 2019 Lok Sabha election as a proxy for adult population.Experts say while vaccination pace has picked up, going door-to-door will be idea to take care of last mile coverage. “Those who had to come to get vaccinated on their own have largely come, and now for the ones left governments will have to make an effort to reach out to them. Even though there is no data to support how much is good enough, I would say covering as high as possible will be good,” said Dr Giridhara Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health. “During this house-to-house campaign, along with those who are yet to receive their first dose, you all must also focus on administering the second dose. When disease transmission comes down, the feeling of urgency also tends to come down. People start thinking what is the hurry; we will get jabbed later,” the PM added.According to the government data, as on October 27, at least 103.4 million second doses were overdue, a cause for concern because only both doses provide adequate protection against symptomatic infection by the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19, hospitalisation, even death. . HT first reported this on October 23, when India administered its billionth vaccine. At that time, around 90 million second shots were overdue. Modi said there should be no laxity in the pace of Covid vaccination even though we have administered one billion doses, and asked the officials to ensure that the country must widen its vaccination coverage by the end of the year and enter the new year with renewed self-belief and confidence.During his meeting with PM Modi on Wednesday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray apprised him about Mission Kavach Kundal, a drive undertaken to step up rate of vaccination in the state. “Vaccination tends to prevent infection and also blunts the effects of the virus. Citizens should take both doses,” said Thackeray. Chhahttisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel in his letter to PM Modi on Wednesday said, “During the conference it was pointed out that 38,82,646 second doses are due in Chhattisgarh against which we only have 31,93,735 doses for the second round. While we have no vaccines for the first dose.In addition to this we are also facing syringe shortage. As against the 31,93,735 doses of vaccines we have only 19,76, 722 syringes which is hampering the vaccination drive in the state.”The PM also told the states that the pandemic resulted in people finding innovative solutions to problems, and similarly there was a need to find innovative solutions to complete remaining vaccinations in the remotest regions. The interventions suggested by the PM to encourage people to take the vaccine include: taking the support of religious leaders; jingles in local languages; posters and pamphlets etc. The Prime minister discussed the issue of vaccine hesitancy and the local factors behind it in detail.“Develop micro strategies, keeping in mind the experience so far to go for saturation of vaccination by addressing the gaps at local level… You will have to do your best to take your districts nearer the national average…,” he told the administrators. “Last mile is always the most challenging and it has been seen that the states are capable of vaccinating in large numbers, and supplies are also not an issue anymore. What is now required is micro planning as even during the Universal Immunisation programme governments held social mobilization and outreach camps at areas where coverage seems low,” added Babu. Modi also suggested creating teams of 20-25 people depending on the region, and have healthy competition between them in terms of number of vaccinations. “We have granular data available with us till the district level through CoWIN platform; our district officials can do line-listing which means cross check names with numbers and also get addresses of target beneficiaries. Health care workers on ground such as ASHA workers can be made use of for conducting door-to-door visits,” said a senior health ministry official aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity. The districts that have covered less than 50% of the adult population with at least one shot of the vaccine, and those districts that have low coverage of the second dose were part of the review.The Prime Minister emphasised that under the free vaccine-for-all campaign, India created a record of administering about 25 million vaccine doses in a day, a feat that bears testimony to India’s capabilities.On September 17, to commemorate Modi’s birthday, states across India administered 26.7 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines. In October, an average of 5.58 million vaccine doses were administered every day. According to the Prime Minister’s Office, there are currently 45 districts in India that are still seeing a heavy lag in vaccination coverage as they are yet to administer even a single shot to more than half their adult population at a time when the national average for such coverage is at least 78%.While 38% of the population is fully vaccinated, there are still at least 103 million beneficiaries whose second dose is overdue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-unveils-door-to-door-drive-to-cover-those-yet-to-get-the-jab-101635962223572.html
04-11-2021||India||Akhilesh to ally with uncle Shivpal Yadav, says will give him ‘full respect’||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday announced an alliance with his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav’s party for the upcoming assembly elections, attempting to bring the curtain down on a family feud that erupted five years ago over control of the party. Akhilesh told reporters that the party will work together to bring Shivpal into the alliance on SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav’s birthday on November 22. Shivpal, SP MLA from Jaswantnagar (Etawah), is Mulayam’s younger brother. “It has been the endeavour of the Samajwadi Party to stitch an alliance with smaller parties. Naturally, we are going to forge an alliance with Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L), the party of uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav as well. The SP will give him full respect,” Ahilesh told reporters. “Many small parties have joined hands with us. Recently, Om Prakash Rajbhar (president of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party) held a historic programme in Mau and allied with the SP,” he added.When asked whether the PSP-L will merge with the SP, Akhilesh said: “Alliance, not merger.” This is the first indication of a rapprochement in the first family of the SP since Shivpal left it in 2018.Shivpal served as public works department and irrigation minister in Akhilesh’s government before the two fellout in August 2016 over control of the SP. After Akhilesh took over the reins of the party from Mulayam Singh Yadav in 2017, Shivpal broke away from the SP and floated his own party in 2018.In the 2017 assembly polls, the SP suffered big losses, slipping to 47 from 224 seats in 2012. The family feud was considered to be one of the causes of the party’s bad showing at the hustings.Shivpal always projected himself as the lieutenant of Mulayam Singh Yadav, claiming he had worked very hard with the SP founder in building the party since its inception in 1992. He was always known for his organisational skills in the party. He also had a powerful role in the party and was often referred to as the de facto chief minister, till Akhilesh became the chief minister in 2012. However in 2016, an internal conflict emerged between Shivpal and his nephew and intensified to a point where Mulayam Singh Yadav replaced Akhilesh and appointed Shivpal as the state unit chief. Akhilesh retaliated by dismissing Shivpal from the state cabinet. A couple of months later, Mulayam (as national president of SP) expelled Akhilesh and SP national general secretary Ramgopal Yadav from the party for six years only to revoke the decision a couple of days later. Eventually on January 2017, at an emergency national convention of the party, Akhilesh was elected the national president of the party and Mulayam was named the chief patron. Shivpal contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections against SP candidate and then sitting MP Akshay Yadav from Firozabad. However, both parties lost the seat to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Since 2018, Shivpal had been trying to stitch an alliance with the Opposition but Akhilesh remained non-committal on the matter. “We had been saying that like-minded socialists should come together. Whenever socialists have come together, they have won the elections,” PSP-L leader Deepak Mishra said.HT tried to reach out to Shivpal for a comment but could not get one immediately. “We had been saying that like-minded socialists should come together. Whenever socialists have come together, they won elections,” Deepak Mishra, a PSP-L leader, said.“A family uniting is good news. We want families to remain united. But, with SP lawmakers and leaders eyeing to enter BJP, the big question is if the SP would remain united under its Jinnah-loving party head,” BJP spokesperson Harish Srivastava said.Political analyst and former head of Political Science department of Lucknow University, Prof SK Dwivedi, said: “I had always said that it is important for the SP to ally with Shivpal. Ending the acrimony would not only send a good signal to voters but also help SP. Shivpal many have not won any seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but if he contests the 2022 polls without SP, then even if he fares badly, it would harm the SP as the vote banks of both SP and PSP-L are common. I always said that now that Akhilesh is the national president of the party, he should be generous to Shivpal.” Meanwhile, Akhilesh hit out at chief minister Yogi Adityanath over his remarks that the former should issue an apology for comparing Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel with Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah.“The BJP engages in the politics of hatred. It is always on the lookout for such chances. They do not talk about unemployment and development,” Akhilesh said. At a public meeting in Hardoi on Sunday, Akhilesh had said that “Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, and Mohammed Ali Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped [India] get freedom and never backed away from any struggle.”The speech came on the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhai Patel, independent India’s first home minister and the man who united the country by convincing the princely states to merge with the Union of India. Unlike the other three who studied law at the Inner Temple, Patel studied at the Middle Temple. In response, Adityanath said the comment smacked of “Talibani mentality, which the people of the country and Uttar Pradesh will not tolerate”.On the chief minister’s proposed visit to Etawah on November 6, Akhilesh said: “Maybe he (Yogi Adityanath) is visiting Etawah to inaugurate some of the works that our government has done. He does not have any work of his to showcase. When he comes here, ask him what significant work he did.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-akhilesh-yadav-to-ally-with-uncle-shivpal-yadav-says-will-give-him-full-respect-101635962100807.html
04-11-2021||India||Happy Diwali, but do not lower your guard against Covid-19||Covid-19 cases in India have been falling, more than a billion doses of vaccines have been administered, most studies show the high prevalence of Covid antibodies among people, and high-frequency indices on the economy and mobility are looking up. On all these counts, this Diwali is a lot better than last year. Yet, two years of experience with the pandemic – researchers estimate November 17, 2019 to be a likely date when the first Covid-19 case was detected in China – and 248 million cases and 5 million (accounted) deaths across the world tell us that it will be dangerous to lower the guard against the viral disease.Global cases rising since late OctoberThe seven-day average of daily new cases of Covid-19 in the world has been increasing since October 17. This number was 402,130 on October 17; it was 423,606 on November 2. To be sure, these numbers are significantly lower than the previous peaks of daily new cases in the world. But the increase is still a matter of concern. Russia is seeing a surge. China is seeing a resurgence and is threatening localised lockdowns through the coming winter months. Regions that are experiencing a surge and are reporting at least a thousand cases (apart from the US, where the 7-day average is still a high 74,330) include countries in Europe, South Korea and Vietnam.Even better vaccinated Europe is witnessing a surgeThe biggest change between now and a year ago, as far as the global fight against the pandemic is concerned, has been the availability of vaccines. There is a massive inequality among countries when it comes to vaccination coverage. However, what is really concerning about the recent spike in Covid-19 cases is the fact that even countries with higher vaccination coverage are experiencing a rise in number of Covid-19 cases. For example, the share of population which has been fully vaccinated in Hungary and Germany is 60% and 66%, yet, these countries are at the top of the list in terms of growth in number of daily new cases.India accounts for only 3% of global cases right nowThe seven-day average of India’s contribution to new Covid-19 cases was just 3.12% on November 2. This number has been declining with brief interruptions for 176 days now and is far lower than both peaks of India’s contribution to global cases. In the week ending 11 September 2020, India contributed 34% to global cases (the first peak of India’s share in global cases). In the week ending May 10 this year – the second peak of India’s contribution – the country’s share was 50.5%.Past Covid-19 surges associated with public events and festivalsWhile India’s Covid-19 trajectory is on the decline right now, a disruption in this will not be surprising in the festival season. India’s first wave – in terms of 7-day average of cases – peaked on 16 September 2020. This number kept falling until October 31. However, from November 1 (five days after Dussehra) to November 8, the growth rate of cases was positive on six days. From November 19 (five days after Diwali) to November 24, the growth rate was again positive. Cases continued to decline after that until another cocktail of mass gatherings – the Kumbh Mela starting January (despite being officially restricted to April), Holi and the election campaign in four states (the polls were announced on February 26) led to a surge in cases. To be sure, this is also when the Delta variant struck in India. For close to three months -- from February 15 to May 6 -- the growth rate of seven-day average of cases remained positive every day, leading to a second wave peak on May 9 (seven-day average of 391,819 cases) that was four times as big as the first wave peak (average of 93,617 cases).A middling share of fully vaccinated people means India needs to remain cautiousWhile India has done a credible job in administering at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to almost 80% of its adult population, only 36% of adults has been fully vaccinated. European countries with higher shares of fully vaccinated population are experiencing a surge in cases. The festive season has seen some much-needed momentum in economic activity and mobility levels and sustained efforts are being taken towards normalizing other important activities such as resumption of physical classes in schools and colleges. It will be a travesty if a reversal in the caseload trajectory on account of carelessness were to disrupt the much-awaited normalization of the economy, education and life in general.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-diwali-but-do-not-lower-your-guard-against-covid19-101635954960128.html
04-11-2021||India||Rajasthan judge arrested for ‘sexual assault on boy’: Police||A judge, who was suspended after being booked for allegedly sexually exploiting a 14-year-old boy in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur, was arrested on Wednesday, police said, adding that he was questioned for two days in Jaipur before his arrest. Bharatpur superintendent of police Devendra Kumar Bishnoi said the judge, identified as Jitendra Singh, has been booked for sodomy under Section 377 (unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The SP added that two other accused, identified as Anshul Soni, the judge’s steno, and Rahul Katara, another staff of the judge, were absconding. The 52-year-old judge, who presided over a special anti-corruption court in Bharatpur, was arrested after the boy’s mother lodged a complaint against him on Sunday. The judge, however, accused the boy and his family of blackmailing him for money. The Rajasthan high court, on October 31, suspended the judge and constituted a team to probe into the matter. According to the police, the minor boy’s mother has alleged that they were being threatened and pressured to withdraw the case. In her complaint, she said the judge met her son at a tennis court and befriended him last month. She has alleged that the special judge and the two other accused had been sexually assaulting her son by intoxicating him with some narcotic substance for the past one month.She has also claimed that the judge threatened to implicate her and her brother in false cases if they reported the matter, police said. The family first suspected something was amiss when the boy started to avoid them. He finally narrated his ordeal on October 28, the mother said. She added that when her son did not go to the tennis court the next day, the judge sent his associate, a police officer and a few others to their residence. “On refusing to send the boy, the judge called us (on phone) later at night, on October 29. When I told him we were aware of what happened, he hung up,” she said. “The next day, the judge, along with one other person, came to our residence, accepted what he had done, and apologised. That same evening, a senior police officer came and threatened us with dire consequences,” the woman said in her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judge-arrested-for-sodomising-boy-in-rajasthan-101635939538383.html
04-11-2021||India||Tripura violence: Delhi lawyer booked under UAPA for promoting enmity||Agartala Tripura Police on Wednesday booked an advocate under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for allegedly sharing fake information, on social media, on the recent violence in Panisagar, where a mosque, few houses and shops were reportedly vandalised by activists of Vishwa Hindu Parishad. The state police registered the case against Mukesh, a Delhi-based advocate for the People’s Union For Civil Liberties (PUCL), for allegedly “promoting enmity among two religious groups as well as provoking the people of different religious communities to cause breach of police”. The case was filed under Section 13 of UAPA, besides various sections of the Indian Penal Code. Asking the advocate to appear for questioning by November 10, police, in its notice, said: “During the investigation, your involvement has been found in connection with the case. As such, there are reasonable grounds to ascertain the facts and circumstances relating to the case.” The police also directed the lawyer to remove the alleged posts on social media. The police move came hours after it booked 71 people and filed five criminal cases over alleged fake and provocative posts on social media aimed at disturbing peace and communal harmony in the state.A mosque, a few houses and shops were reportedly vandalised by activists of Vishwa Hindu Parishad during their rally on October 26. While four people were arrested in this regard, police later said that no mosque was burnt and photographs showing the same were not from Tripura. “Strict action shall be taken against those persons who are trying to create hatred in the society,” the state police said in a tweet. A senior police officer requesting anonymity said that the five cases were filed for allegedly spreading rumours on social media platforms on the issue of recent communal violence incidents in Tripura. “Preliminary investigations revealed that fake pictures and videos were uploaded on social media to tarnish the image of the government and the state police,” the officer added. The police appealed to people “not to like or retweet provocative posts since it amounts to rumour-mongering”. Fake news is being circulated that a mosque in Kakraban area of Gomati district has been damaged and vandalised, the police tweeted. “This is a complete misrepresentation of facts. The mosque in Dargabazar area of Kakraban is completely fine & Gomati police is working to maintain peace and tranquility,” they added. The cybercrime department of the state police, while replying to a tweet, said, “These are fake videos being circulated under criminal conspiracy to disturb the peace and communal harmony in the state and defame the state government and police. Police has registered criminal cases and suitable action against the fake rumours is being taken expeditiously.” Meanwhile, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) sought an action taken report from the Tripura government on the October 26 violence. The human rights panel also sought the report, within four weeks, from Tripura chief secretary, DGP Tripura police and secretary of Tripura state human rights commission on the alleged rise in political violence in the state on the basis of a complaint filed by Trinamool Congress national spokesperson Saket Gokhale.In his complaint, Gokhale alleged that leaders and workers belonging to the TMC were attacked, during poll campaigns, by those belonging to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state. In one such incident, one sitting Parliamentarian and TMC workers were injured and their vehicles vandalised, the complainant added. Gokhale further referred to the October 26 violence in Panisagar, where a mosque and two shops were reportedly set on fire during a rally organised by Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP). “... post such incidents, there is an atmosphere of immense fear among the members of that community in the area with regard to their life and safety. The complainant is seeking intervention of the Commission in the matter,” the letter said.Taking note of the TMC spokesperson’s complaint, the NHRC, in its order, said: “The Commission has considered the complaint and directed its Registry to transmit the copy of the complaint to the Chief Secretary, Govt. of Tripura and the Director-General of Police, Tripura to submit an action taken report within a period of four weeks.”“The concerned authorities shall also intimate the Commission, if any notice, order etc., has been received by him/them in the instant matter from the State Human Rights Commission? If yes, a copy of such order is also sent to the Commission within four weeks. Let a copy of the complaint be also transmitted to the Secretary of the concerned State Human Rights Commission, calling upon him to inform this Commission the date of cognizance, if any, taken at their end in the instant matter within four weeks,” it added. Last week, the Tripura high court had taken cognisance of the violence and sought a detailed report from the state government by November 10. The report, however, is yet to be submitted, according to people aware of the developments. The state government on October 29 said that a group with vested interest from outside had hatched a conspiracy against the administration to create unrest in Tripura and malign its image by uploading fake photographs of a burning mosque on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/71-booked-for-provocative-social-media-posts-over-communal-violence-in-tripura-101635933597857.html
04-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Hearing on bail pleas of Ashish Mishra deferred till Nov 15||Lucknow/Lakhimpur Kheri: A district and sessions court on Wednesday deferred till November 15 the hearing on the bail applications of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish and two other accused, Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana, in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, senior prosecution officials said. District government counsel (DGC) Arvind Tripathi said the prosecution urged the court of district and sessions judge Mukesh Mishra for some more days as some forensic reports are still awaited. The judge deferred the hearing till November 15. Violence had erupted at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3 when four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a speeding vehicle during a protest. A local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were also killed in the subsequent violence. Two FIRs were registered in this connection: one in connection with the death of the four farmers while the second FIR was lodged in connection with the violence during which four others, including two BJP workers, a journalist and the driver of the car, which allegedly mowed down the farmers, were killed. Ashish Mishra, Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana are among the 13 accused, identified and arrested during investigation of the first FIR. The other accused include Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti, Latif alias Kale, Mohit Trivedi, Rinku Rana, Dharmendra, Nandan Singh Bisht, Shishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam. All the 13 are in judicial custody. In the second FIR, two people identified as Vichitra Singh and Gurwinder Singh have been arrested. They, too, are in judicial custody. Tripathi said defence counsel Awadhesh Dubey moved an application in the court enclosing a purported photograph and urged the court for an explanation from the prosecution as to how a BJP worker, Shyam Sundar Nishad, who was seen in the photo in police custody, died. The prosecution objected to the photo, which was yet to be verified, Tripathi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-hearing-on-bail-pleas-of-accused-deferred-until-nov-15-101635929577250.html
04-11-2021||India||Diya sales up, pottery industry gets new lease of life in UP||The smiles are broader at the houses of potters this Diwali and the lights seem to shine brighter. Driven by burgeoning government demand and mega events like the Deepotsav in Ayodhya, the sale of earthen diyas or lamps is expected to cross 10 million, a record. The numbers represent a remarkable turnaround for the small-scale industry that was nearly driven out of the market by lights manufactured in China a few years ago. Compared to 2019, sales of diyas are up 50%, say industry associations. “In 2020, around 200,000 to 250,000 diyas were sold in Ayodhya and its adjoining regions. This year, the sale has gone up to somewhere between 450,000 to 500,000 diyas,” said Jagat Prajapati, a local potter. For the Deepotsav celebrations at Ram Ki Paidi in Ayodhya where about 9 lakh lamps will be lit, diyas are largely sourced locally through a tender by the Ayodhya administration. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also plans to light 4.5 million diyas to reflect the number of beneficiaries of the Awaas Yojana, the government’s housing scheme. The administration also plans to buy another 3 million diyas to light the houses of party workers. The government’s push has also boosted demand from ordinary citizens, who have ditched electronic lights for diyas to spruce up their home decoration on Diwali. Potters at Nandpur, a hamlet with roughly 60 artisans near Lucknow,, say they haven’t witnessed such demand in decades. “The Covid crisis badly affected all trades and pottery was no exception. In contrast to what was anticipated, the pottery business is doing well as the demand for earthenware, especially designer and wax diyas, is quite high this Diwali,” said Jafar Ali, a potter . Another potter Afsar Alam, 33, said unlike previous years, when there used to be marginal or even no profit on Diwali, this time Nandpur has been witnessing long queues of retailers since Karva Chauth, which was celebrated on October 3.“A majority of bulk buyers placed the orders for designer diyas,” said Alam, a traditional potter from Nandpur village. “In contrast to previous years, the sale of diyas has gone up. We used to sell 800 to 2,000 earthen lamps a day (including regular and designer ones), this year we have recorded the sale of around 3,000 to 4,500 diyas in a day.”Around 135 km from the state capital, around 40 families of potters in Ayodhya’s Jaisinghpur are racing against time to meet orders. “This Diwali, the sale of diyas has picked up as compared to last year when festivities were hit by the pandemic,” said Jagat Prajapati, a resident of Jaisinghpur. At the core of this demand surge is the Deepotsav in Ayodhya. The state government also organises Deepotsav in around 217 places including 200 Nagar Palikas. “There is no doubt that the almost dying traditional pottery industry has got a new lease of life due to Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya,” Naresh Kumar, a potter said. The Mati Kala Board set up by the state government in July 2018, the 2020“vocal for local” campaign and the department of micro, small and medium enterprises helped popularise diyas, said a state government official. Additional chief secretary for home and religious endowment departments, Awanish Awasthi, said, “UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath first asked us to light 51,000 earthen lamps in 2017. This number has gone up to the lighting of nine lakh plus earthen lamps in 2021. The Deepotsav has given a push to Ayodhya’s economy with the number of pilgrims visiting the temple town going up manifold.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-demand-for-diyas-brings-potters-back-into-business-this-diwali-101635928977191.html
04-11-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh: Jairam Thakur’s role under lens after BJP’s bypoll loss||New Delhi: The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) defeat in three assembly and one Lok Sabha seat in bypolls in Himachal Pradesh has cast a shadow on the leadership of chief minister Jairam Thakur, people familiar with the matter in the ruling party said.Though Thakur attributed issues such as inflation for the disappointing outcome for the BJP on Tuesday, leaders in the party indicated that his inability to mitigate public anger over a host of issues, including the government’s Covid -19 response, price rise and a spate of natural disasters that hurt the economy and ecology of the state, contributed to the loss.“The BJP will introspect the causes for the defeat, will formulate a strategy to overcome its shortcomings and do everything possible to ensure victory in the 2022 assembly elections,” Thakur said. He also hinted at friction within the state unit as one of the reasons behind the loss.In a body blow to the BJP and Thakur in particular, the party could not even retain the Lok Sabha seat in Mandi ,which is his home turf. Congress member Pratibha Singh, wife of former chief minister, late Virbhadra Singh, won the constituency.The defeat raised questions if the BJP can afford to go to the 2022 assembly polls with Thakur as the party’s CM face as it revisit its election strategy in the hill state.A BJP leader in Delhi said that price rise was a pan India concern and there was a perception within the party that Thakur could not gauge public anger and come up with interventions. The margin of losses was another cause of concern for the BJP, which only mustered 28% votes as against the Congress’s 48% . Thakur will have to iron out differences within the state unit apart from overseeing candidate selection. The decision to not give tickets to tje kin of BJP leaders was also cited as a reason for the loss in Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituency.Though there is no telling if the central leadership will opt for a change of CM, it would not be a surprise given the recent changes in leadership in election bound states such as Uttarakhand and Gujarat. The party replaced Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani with Bhupendra Patel in September and switched Tirath Singh Rawat with Pushkar Singh Dhami in Uttarakhand in July. Both states are slated to go to the polls in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-by-poll-defeat-in-himachal-casts-shadow-on-jairam-thakur-101635919615977.html
04-11-2021||NA||Breaking news: Bihar announces ₹1.30 VAT cut on petrol, ₹1.90 on diesel||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Bihar announces ₹1.30 VAT cut on petrol, ₹1.90 on dieselIn Bihar there will be further reduction of state VAT by 1.30 Rs.on Petrol and 1.90 ₹.on Diesel apart from Rs5 & 10 ₹reduction on excise duty .Effectively Petrol will be cheaper by Rs.6.30 & Diesel by 11.90 in Bihar.@ABPNews @ANI @ZeeBiharNews @News18BiharDelhi records 41 new Covid-19 cases, zero deathsThe national capital on Wednesday registered 41 new Covid-19 cases, which took the caseload to 1,439,963, according to the health department's bulletin. No patient succumbed to the viral disease and the toll remains at 25,091. Assam, Tripura announce ₹7 VAT cut on petrol and diesel, reports ANIAssam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma announced a reduction of ₹7 in VAT levied on petrol and diesel, reported news agency ANI. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb also announced a reduction in VAT. New Pentagon report warns China is expanding its nuclear force faster than predictedIn its annual report to Congress on China’s military, the Pentagon warned that China is expanding its nuclear force at a much faster pace than what was originally predicted, reported Reuters.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri urges states to reduce VAT on fuelUnion petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri urged states to add to the “celebration” brought by Centre's reduction of excise duty on petrol and diesel on Wednesday by reducing the amount of VAT charged by states on fuel. “The states should add to this celebration by reducing VAT on fuel to give further relief to consumers,” he tweeted.India-Bhutan to have seven additional entry/exit points for tradeIndia-Bhutan to have seven additional entry/exit points for trade: Ministry of Commerce & IndustryCentre reduces excise duty ₹5 on petrol, ₹10 on diesel from tomorrowCentre announced excise duty reduction on petrol and diesel on Wednesday, reducing the excise duty levied on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 respectively from Thursday, news agency ANI reported.US blacklists Israel's NSO group citing Pegasus spywareThe US Commerce department blacklisted Israel's NSO group citing Pegasus spyware, reported Reuters on Wednesday. The department alleged that the company sold spyware to foreign governments that is being used to target government officials, journalists and others.US 'absolutely' has ability to defend Taiwan, says top Pentagon officialGeneral Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told reporters that even though China is unlikely to try to militarily seize Taiwan in the next couple of years, they might choose to do so at some point in the future. "Based on my analysis of China, I don't think that it is likely in the near future -- being defined as, you know, six, 12, maybe 24 months, that kind of window," Milley said, reported Reuters.Delhi's LNJP hospital sets up burn ward for Diwali Delhi's LNJP hospital set up a 10 bed burn ward for treating burn injuries in wake of Diwali celebration. "Firecrackers are banned, so we don't expect many casualties, but if they do, we're fully prepared," Dr. Prabhat Shrivastava told ANI.DRDO, IAF conduct two flight tests of smart anti-airfield weaponThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Air Force (IAF) carried out joint flight tests of indigenously-developed smart anti-airfield weapon, the defence ministry said on Wednesday.WHO grants emergency use listing to Covaxin🆕 WHO has granted emergency use listing (EUL) to #COVAXIN® (developed by Bharat Biotech), adding to a growing portfolio of vaccines validated by WHO for the prevention of #COVID19. pic.twitter.com/dp2A1knGtTThe Technical Advisory Group, convened by the UN health agency, determined that the Covaxin meets WHO standards for protection against coroanvirus disease (Covid-19) and the benefit of the vaccine far outweighs risks. "Covaxin vaccine was also reviewed by WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE), and recommended use of this vaccine in two doses, with a dose interval of four weeks, in all age groups 18 and above," WHO said in a series of tweets.BSF, Border Guard Bangladesh exchange sweets on Diwali eveWest Bengal: Border Security Force and Border Guard Bangladesh exchange sweet in Fulbari on the eve of #Diwali pic.twitter.com/2vrKEjmgMsWHO technical team recommends emergency use listing of CovaxinThe World Health Organization's (WHO) technical advisory team recommended Bharat Biotech's Covaxin for emergency use listing (EUL) on Wednesday. Centre releases GST compensation of ₹17,000 crores to statesCentre released GST compensation of ₹17,000 crores to states on Wednesday, said the finance ministry. So far during the year 2021-22 centre has released ₹60,000 crores as GST compensation to states and UTs.Ambassadors of Vietnam, Kenya and Trinidad perform ‘Rajtilak’ in AyodhyaThe Ambassadors of Vietnam, Kenya, and Trinidad performed ‘Rajtilak’ on artists dejecting characters of Lord Ram, Lord Laxman and Goddess Sita during Diwali celebrations in Ayodhya, reported ANI.CDSCO approves extension of Covaxin's shelf life up to 12 monthsCDSCO( Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation) has approved extension of self life of Covaxin up to 12 months, from date of manufacture. This approval is based on the availability of additional stability data, which was submitted to CDSCO: Bharat Biotech pic.twitter.com/BlhIPmvTBVSP will ‘endeavour’ to form an alliance with Shivpal Yadav: Akhilesh Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav told news agency ANI that his party will attempt to form an alliance with his uncle Shivpal Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohiya). “It has been the endeavour of Samajwadi Party to stich alliance with smaller parties. Naturally, we are going to forge an alliance with the party of uncle (Shivpal Singh Yadav) as well. Samajwadi Party will give him full respect,” he said. If we become lax, new crisis can come, says PM Modi at review meetAt a Covid-19 vaccination review meet with districts Prime Minister Narendra Modi told officials that they "can take help of local religious leaders, make their short videos and circulate it" to help vaccination pick up pace and to dispel any rumours and misinformation amongst the masses, reported ANI.SBI reports record $1 billion quarterly profit: ReportState Bank of India, the country's largest lender by assets, reported a record quarterly profit on Wednesday as provisions for bad loans more than halved, said a report by Reuters. SBI's net profit rose 66.7% to 76.27 billion rupees ($1.02 billion) for the three months ended Sept. 30, from 45.74 billion rupees a year earlier, beating analysts' expectations for a profit of 71.82 billion rupees, according to Refinitiv IBES data. If we become lax after 1 billion doses, new crisis can come, says PM Modi at review meetPrime Minister Narendra Modi, during a review meet with the districts having low vaccination coverage, warned that a new crisis will follow, if the country becomes lax after achieving a milestone of administering 1 billion (100 crore) vaccine doses.“Progress made so far is due to your hardwork. Every member of admn,ASHA workers worked a lot, walked for miles & took vaccination to remote locations. But if we become lax after 1 Billion, a new crisis can come,” news agency ANI quoted PM Modi as saying on Wednesday. Read morePakistan refuses its airspace to Go First's Srinagar-Sharjah flight, reports ANIPakistan has refused its airspace to Go First's Srinagar-Sharjah flight and has raised concerns over the use of their airspace by the airline, news agency ANI reported a government source as saying.“Matter reported to the concerned ministries. MoCA, MEA & MHA looking into it,” the source further told ANI.J&K admin to handover 122 acres of land to AAI to build new airport terminal at Jammu, reports PTIThe Jammu and Kashmir administration will soon hand over 122 acres of land to the Airports Authority of India to build a state-of-the-art 25,000 square metre new terminal building at the airport here, news agency PTI quoted officials as saying on Wednesday.Kejriwal appeals to people to wear mask amid Diwali festivitiesDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said even though Covid-19 cases have gone down, people should continue to wear masks if they are visiting markets during Diwali festival.“Dengue cases are also rising. By removing all sources of stagnant water, we can prevent dengue,” he added. Delhi govt preparing web portal to aid businessmen, professionals to promote their products: KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced that his government is preparing a web portal named Delhi Bazaar for businessmen, industrialists, professionals, through which they can promote their products all over the world. 2,000 EV charging stations to be established in next 12 months: Indian Oil Corporation chairmanChairman of Indian Oil Corporation SM Vaidya on Wednesday said that his company will be setting up a total of10,000 EV charging stations in the next three years. “2000 EV charging stations will be established in the next 12 months and another 8000 in the next two years to achieve target of 10,000 EV charging stations in the next three years,” he added.NIA arrests Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) terrorist from West Bengal, reports ANINIA has arrested a Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) terrorist from West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district, news agency quoted National Investigation Agency (NIA) as saying on Wednesday.US raises travel advisory for Ethiopia to Level 4: ReportThe US State Department in a statement said it has raised the travel advisory for Ethiopia to level four, warning the American public not to travel to the country, reported news agency ANI. The report, citing the advisory, said the level four warning was issued due to the ongoing armed conflict, civil unrest, communications disruptions, and the potential for terrorism and kidnapping in border areas. Senior Taliban commander among dead in hospital attack, reports AFP citing an officialSenior Taliban commander was among 19 dead in an attack on a military hospital in Kabul on Tuesday, reported AFP citing an official.Republican Youngkin elected Virginia governorRepublican former business executive Glenn Youngkin has won Virginia’s governor’s race, a major political turnabout in a state that had been trending increasingly blue, reported AP.India records 11,903 new Covid-19 cases, 311 deaths in 24 hoursIndia has reported 11,903 new cases of Coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, and 311 Covid-19-related deaths in the past 24 hours. Further, as many as 14,159 people recovered from the viral disease in the past 24 hours.With today's numbers, the active caseload now stands at 1,51,209 (lowest in 252 days).Total Covid-19-related recoveries in the country have soared to 3,36,97,740.Sabarimala temple in Kerala opens for devotees for Chithira Attavishesha pujaSabarimala temple in Kerala has opened for devotees for Chithira Attavishesha puja. It'll close at 9pm after the puja, according to news agency ANI. Devotees will need to produce vaccination certificate or an RTPCR report not older than 72 hours for entry into the temple. Notably, the temple will open for a two-month-long pilgrimage season on November 15, 2021.PM Modi arrives in India after concluding his visit to Rome, Glasgow #WATCH | Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi returns to the country after concluding his visit to Rome (Italy), Vatican City and Glasgow (Scotland). pic.twitter.com/COHyvgSjCXPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday returned to India after concluding his visit to Rome (Italy), Vatican City and Glasgow (Scotland)Centre sends central teams to 9 states, union territories amid dengue outbreakThe Union ministry of health has sent central teams of experts in nine states and union territories (UTs) to assist them in managing outbreak of dengue. These teams will provide technical guidance, including public health measures, to health authorities in states. Read morePM Modi to hold meeting with districts having low Covid-19 vaccine coverage todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Wednesday hold a virtual review meeting with over 40 districts where Covid-19 vaccination coverage has been low. According to reports, the meeting will take place at 12 noon and many chief ministers are expected to attend it. Read moreSyria reports Israel air raid on military post near DamascusSyria’s military said Israel has carried out an air raid that hit a military post on the outskirts of the capital of Damascus early Wednesday, causing material damage, reported AP. Notably, this was the second Israeli attack to target areas near the capital in four days, the report added.WHO likely to discuss emergency use of Covaxin todayA World Health Organization technical committee is scheduled to meet on Wednesday for a closely watched decision on giving an emergency use listing (EUL) to Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-3-2021-101635901246545.html
