05-11-2021||India||In 31 countries, 28mn years of lives lost in Covid year||At least 28 million years of life were lost in 31 rich countries last year, a study published in the journal BMJ recently has found, offering a new perspective on the human cost of the Covid-19 pandemic that has caused at least 5 million reported fatalities till now.Known deaths are certain to be an undercount and researchers expect the true toll to be two-to-four times higher. The new study, by researchers from Oxford, Cambridge and Harvard, now shows that in 31 of the 37 nations they analysed, life expectancy has plummeted, giving a better picture of the magnitude of premature deaths. India was not among the countries covered by the study“Reduction in life expectancy in men and women was observed in all countries studied except New Zealand, Taiwan, and Norway, where there was a gain in life expectancy in 2020... The highest reduction in life expectancy was observed in Russia (men: −2.33, women: −2.14) and the United States (men: −2.27; women: −1.61)...” the authors wrote.In Denmark, Iceland and South Korea, life expectancy levels remained constant. The countries where it fell, apart from Russia and US, included Bulgaria, Lithuania, Spain, Italy, Belgium, England and Wales, Sweden, France Israel and Germany.The change in life expectancy was based on the expected life expectancy in 2020 as per historical trends in the 2005-19 period, and what was recorded in reality. The drop in life expectancy was also portrayed as excess years of life lost (YLL) – which takes into the total years that people who die prematurely would have otherwise lived, a number that came to 28 million in the 31 countries.“Our findings of a comparable or lower-than-expected YLL (years of life lost) in Taiwan, New Zealand, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, and South Korea underscore the importance of successful viral suppression and elimination policies, including targeted and population based public health policy interventions,” the authors wrote. “As many of the effects of the pandemic might take a longer time frame to have a measurable effect on human lives, continuous and timely monitoring of excess YLL would help identify the sources of excess mortality and excess YLL in population subgroups,” they added.Nazrul Islam, research fellow at University of Oxford’s Nuffield Department of Population Health, and one of the authors of the study, said in a tweet: “Overall, excess years of life lost to the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 were more than five times higher (2,510 per 100,000) than those associated with the seasonal influenza flu epidemic in 2015 (458 per 100,000)”.In Russia, Bulgaria, Lithuania and the US, the excess YLL in people younger than the age of 65 was relatively higher than in all other countries, which means that a disproportionately larger number of younger people was affected in these countries. In all countries, the drop in life expectancy was higher in men than women. The report comes weeks after another Oxford University centre, the Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science, analysed data from 29 countries spanning most of Europe, the US and Chile and found and found that the drop in life expectancy was the biggest since the second World War in several Western European countries.The authors of the latest study make a case of reliable data. “Our study was restricted to countries with reliable data for the whole study period of 2000-20. Therefore, we did not include most countries from Asia, Africa, and Latin America,” they wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-31-countries-28mn-years-of-lives-lost-in-covid-year-101636136056535.html
05-11-2021||India||PUCL criticises Tripura police for booking lawyer, part of fact-finding group||AGARTALA: Rights group People’s Union for Civil Liberties ( PUCL) on Friday criticised the Tripura police for registering a complaint against a team of Delhi-based advocates under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and Indian Penal Code (IPC), claiming that the police action against a lawyer, Mukesh, was linked to the group’s fact-finding report on the recent violence in Tripura’s Panisagar, where a mosque, few houses and shops were reportedly vandalised by activists of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP).Mukesh was part of the team that authored the report, the group said.The lawyer has been booked for allegedly “promoting enmity among two religious groups as well as provoking the people of different religious communities to cause breach of police”. The case was filed under Section 13 of UAPA, besides various sections of the penal code.No reaction from the Tripura police was available on the PUCL statement over the case against the lawyers from Delhi who are part of a group, ‘Lawyers for Democracy’.In its notice that told Mukesh to appear for questioning by November 10, the Tripura police said: “During the investigation, your involvement has been found in connection with the case. As such, there are reasonable grounds to ascertain the facts and circumstances relating to the case.”The state police have booked 71 people and filed five criminal cases over alleged fake and provocative posts on social media.“..police have invoked the draconian provisions of UAPA law only because of the findings of the FFT (fact-finding team) that the large scale violence which destroyed numerous homes, shops, mosques and other properties of Muslims in many towns in Tripura was the result of orchestrated violence unleashed by Hindu majoritarian groups like the VHP and HJM, against minority Muslims with the tacit connivance and conscious abdication of their duties by the Tripura police, “ PUCL said in its statement.The fact finding team of advocates Mukesh, Ansar Indori, Ehtesham Hashmi and Amit Srivastav came to Tripura on October 29 , three days after vandalism of a mosque, few houses and shops at Panisagar in North District.The National Human Rights Commission has sought a report from the state government to seek details of the action taken on the violence at Panisagar within four weeks. The Tripura high court also took suo moto notice and sought a detailed report from the state government by November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pucl-criticises-tripura-police-for-booking-lawyer-part-of-fact-finding-group-101636135817089.html
05-11-2021||India||Fire breaks out at LPG cylinder shop in Delhi's Jaffrabad, seven injured||A fire broke out at an LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) cylinder's shop in the Jaffrabad area in Delhi on Saturday evening following a blast in a cylinder causing injury to five personnel of the fire brigade and two civilians.#UPDATE | Fire broke out in LPG cylinder's shop due to blast in LPG cylinder, 5 personnel of fire brigade were injured and taken to GTB Hospital. Two civilians also got injured: Fire Department, Delhi pic.twitter.com/xlj12ULWhzThe injured personnel were taken to Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) Hospital in the capital, the fire department said.(This is a developing story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-lpg-cylinder-shop-in-delhi-s-jaffrabad-seven-injured-101636129859258.html
05-11-2021||India||‘India aims to raise exports of technical textiles from $2 bn to $10 bn in 3 years’: Goyal||Union commerce and textiles minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said the time has come to target a five times increase in export of technical textiles to $10 billion in three years, an official statement said. Production-link incentives (PLIs) for the textile sector will help the states in offering affordable infrastructure for textile manufacturing such as cheap land and power, he said while speaking to representatives of the Indian Technical Textile Association (ITTA) in Delhi on Friday.The Cabinet in September approved a PLI scheme worth ₹10,683 for domestic technical textiles firms, and manufacturers of fabrics and apparel in the man-made fibre segment provided they make a specific investment in greenfield projects and achieve stipulated turnover. Technical textiles are engineered textile products for specific applications using basic raw materials such as jute, silk and cotton, polymers, carbon, glass, and metals. Technical textiles are the technology of the future.“We should align [our units] with best standards in textile manufacturing. There should be no difference in the quality of textile meant for international and domestic consumers,” the statement quoting Goyal said. The minister suggested the public-private participation (PPP) model in the research and development of technical textiles. The technical textile in India has gained momentum in the last five years and it is currently growing at an 8% per annum rate, the statement said. India’s target is to hasten this growth to a 15-20% range in the next five years. The government’s National Technical Textiles Mission, launched in February 2020, also aims to boost India’s textile sector. “Our aim is to transform India into a major player in innovations, technology development, applications in key areas (agriculture, roads and railways, water resources, hygiene and healthcare, personal protection) with emphasis on higher education and skilled workforce,” Goyal said. Due to policy efforts, the technical textile trade balance that was negative ( ₹2,788 crore in 2018-19 and ₹1,366 crore in 2019-20), turned positive with ₹1,767 crore in 2020-21, he said. During the year 2020-21, India’s major share of exports is in PPE kits, N-95 masks and surgical masks. Talking about the policy efforts to promote technical textiles, the minister informed that 92 items have been made mandatory for use by government organisations covering agriculture, highways, railways, water resources, medical applications.Goyal said the Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS) has issued standards for 377 items and another 100 are in the pipeline.Based on their area of applications, technical textiles in India are divided into 12 categories, including packaging textiles (Packtech) with 38% share, geotechnical textiles (Geo-tech) 10%, agricultural textiles (Agrotech) 12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-aims-to-raise-exports-of-technical-textiles-from-2-bn-to-10-bn-in-3-years-goyal-101636129096914.html
05-11-2021||India||Odisha mulls Goonda Act that keeps witness identity secret, hold in camera trial||BHUBANESWAR: Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik government is considering enactment of special legislation to introduce stringent provisions to deal with hardcore criminals and “anti-social” elements who were committing crimes and going unpunished due to loopholes in the legal system, people familiar with the matter said.The proposed bill, tentatively titled “Odisha Goonda and Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Bill”, has been drafted on the lines of similar laws enacted by Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra to restrict crime syndicates. It will be placed before the state cabinet after the legal department vets the draft bill and once cleared, will be tabled in the assembly. The proposed law comes against the backdrop of the government’s sharp criticism by opposition parties over the law and order situation.According to the proposed bill, a person will be counted as a “goonda” under the legislation if they use violence, threat, intimidation or coercion to disturb public order or gain any undue financial or any other advantage.A statement of objectives of the proposed bill cited deterioration in law and order in cities, particularly in the twin cities of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar, where crimes such as extortion, land grabbing, illegal money-lending, contract killings, immoral trafficking, child trafficking and sexual exploitation have increased.“The recent incidence of builders and land mafia taking over possession of land by manufacturing forged documents, kidnapping and abduction for extortion, harassment of senior citizens by criminals, activities of stalking and eve-teasing of girls and cybercrimes against them have resulted in several suicides in the state. These serious incidences of crime also appear to have been perpetrated with aid of public servants who either support the commission of these crimes or by wilful omission, facilitate the commission of these crimes by refraining from performing their duties,” the proposed bill said, laying down the context for the special legislation.HT has reviewed a copy of the proposed bill.The proposed bill has proposed a minimum sentence of seven years for people convicted under the special law and seeks to give district magistrates power to attach properties of the accused if they believe that the same has been acquired through proceeds of crime even before the court takes cognisance of the charge sheet.The government will need to give its sanction before a designated special court can try the accused.The special law seeks to give the district magistrates the power to seize assets believed to have been bought from proceeds of crime, proposes a minimum three year prison term - 10 years will be the maximum punishment - for officials who help criminals by their action or inaction, or intentionally avoid carrying out directions of any court or superior officer.Similarly, any person found to be in possession of assets for anti-social elements which they can’t account for will also face a minimum jail term of three years. The property will also be liable for attachment.The trial under this special law will be held in camera and tried by special courts which will have precedence over other pending trials against the accused. The proposed law also mandates that the identity and address of witnesses will be kept secret and their names will not be reflected in case records or court verdicts.The draft bill said the special law can be invoked for offences under a long list of laws including Indian Penal Code, Odisha Excise Act (2005), Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (1985), Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act (1956), the Protection of Children from Sexual offences Act (2012), Protection of Cow Slaughter Act (1960) and Orissa Money Lenders Act (1939). It added that such offences are likely to cause, directly or indirectly, a feeling of insecurity, danger or fear among the general public and pose danger to the safety of individuals or cause loss or damage to the public exchequer.The draft bill also seeks to prosecute accused for offences such as ​assaulting employees or owners of public or private enterprises, violence to collect loan or interest, illegal weapons, counterfeit currency, violation of cow slaughter law, child pornography, acid attack on women, cyber stalking or other offences under Indian Penal Code that are punishable with at least five years imprisonment.It said existing laws enacted by the state as well as the central government are found to be inadequate to deal with “hardcore criminals who fearlessly commit crimes and easily escape from the clutches of law finding loopholes in the legal system.”Odisha director general of police Abhay refused to speak on the proposed law, saying it was still being vetted by the law department.A senior police official said the proposed law would take quite some time to be implemented since the state would require clearance from Delhi.Legal experts said a special law to deal with organised crimes was a good step, but said the problem in dealing with such crimes mostly lies with the state police.“Odisha police have a poor record when it comes to filing charge sheets against the accused and following up cases during trial. The existing Indian Penal Code is enough to deal with rising crime cases. In the past, the state has enacted special Acts such as Odisha Protection of Interest of Depositors Act, but have they been able to give justice to common men,” asked senior lawyer Pitambar Acharya.BJP leader and Bargarh MP Suresh Pujari said just adding one more special law would not lead to any solution and may rather add to the burden of prosecuting agencies.“Odisha police don’t have enough people to manage regular day-to-day law and order activities as well as probe crimes. Secondly, the investigating skills of the existing officials is not upto the mark. How would the new law solve these basic issues,” asked Pujari, who trained as a lawyer before switching to politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-mulls-goonda-act-that-keeps-witness-identity-secret-hold-in-camera-trial-101636127655872.html
05-11-2021||India||Drugs case: NCB says no officer removed, new team to conduct deeper probe||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday said it functioned across India as a single integrated agency and no officer or officers were removed from their present roles and they would continue to assist their operations branch investigation as required.The statement was issued soon after the agency transferred six of its cases, including the drugs-on-cruise case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son is an accused, from the Mumbai branch to its Delhi team. It was further informed NCB’s Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede, who is facing extortion allegations, would no more investigate the sensational case.Among the six cases is also one in which Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan is an accused. Malik said the Wankhede's removal as head from the cases was “just the beginning” and a lot more would have to be done to clean the system.NCB PRESS RELEASE 05/11/21 pic.twitter.com/FnrFQGNMaQThe NCB said a special investigation team (SIT), comprising officers from its operations branch, had been constituted by the agency’s director general, SN Pradhan, to take over from its Mumbai zonal unit the six cases as they had national and international ramifications.The SIT would conduct a deeper investigation to find out forward and backward linkages, it further said.Also read | On bail in drugs-on-cruise case, Aryan Khan appears before NCBA team from the Delhi NCB operations will now camp in Mumbai to take the probe in these cases forward.The NCB had arrested Aryan and several others in the drugs on cruise case on the intervening night of October 2-3 and Wankhede is facing a departmental vigilance probe after an independent witness in the case levelled an extortion attempt against the agency, its director and some others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drugs-case-ncb-says-no-officer-removed-new-team-to-conduct-deeper-probe-101636126741587.html
05-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 11, 1999 — Pope John Paul II’s arrival in India sparks no fireworks||New Delhi- The changed protocol did not allow an elaborate welcome ceremony at the airport and, in the 13 years that passed since he last landed in Delhi, Pope John Paul II had aged enough to lean on a walking stick as he slowly walked down from the special Alitalia aircraft this evening. The temporal head of the Holy See and the supreme spiritual leader of one billion Catholics worldwide arrived at the Delhi airport without so much as a whimper of the protests that have marred the long period of preparations for his visit. The Pope’s quiet arrival at the Palam technical area proved to be an anticlimax for all those who were expecting fireworks at the airport. There were no frenzied protestors demanding apologies, no placards and banners announcing arbitrary bans on conversions. The elaborate security arrangements ensured that no miscreant entered the seven kilometre area from the airport to the Vatican embassy where the Pontiff would be staying during his three-daylong visit. The Archbishop of Delhi Reverend Alan de Lastic led the group of priests in black to welcome the Pope. The chairman of the organising committee of the Pope’s visit to India Dr Dominic Emmanuel received other members of the Pope’s entourage while Sister Dolores represented the religious sisters with Delhi laity leader A. C. Michael representing the Catholic men and women of the city. The Minister of State for External Affairs Ajit Panja extended the state’s welcome to the Pontiff while a posse of policemen held the cameramen and other media personnel at bay. A gleaming black limousine waited at the tarmac while the Pontiff was being greeted by scores of bishops from the across the country. Unlike the last time when the Pope had quickly bent and kissed the ground minutes after he landed in India, he merely stood glancing reverently at the soil while the cameras flashed around him. The Pope had last come to Delhi in February, 1986 and had been welcomed at the airport by the President and the Prime Minister. Elaborate speeches were made at that time both by the Heads of Indian State and by the Pontiff.‘’I have come to meet as many beloved Indian people as well as to come to a deeper understanding of the rich culture of your country,” the Pope had said in his speech made at the airport on February 1, 1986. Since security considerations have led to a change in the protocol, the Pope would now be received as a State Guest at the Rashtrapati Bhavan tomorrow mornmg. The 79-year-old Pontiff has come to India with the specific purpose of proclaiming the document Eccleia in Asia (Church in Asia) which marks the conclusion of the Synods of Bishops for Asia. The Asian Synod was held in Vatican City in May, 1998. The Pope’s visit this time is much shorter compared to the last time when he had spent ten days in India. He would be meeting the President K. R. Narayanan tomorrow and the heads of various religions in India, including the Shankaracharya of Prayag Peeth Madhavananda Saraswati. As a State Guest, the Pontiff would be given a formal reception at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Vice President Krishan Kant and PM AB Vajpayee would call on the Pontiff during the visit. Scores of people have gathered in the city to have a glimpse of the Pontiff. While there was no statement from the Vatican Embassy or the Media Committee on whether the Pope would be granting them an audience separately, it was assumed that due to tight security, the Pontiff would not be able to mingle with the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pope-john-paul-ii-s-arrival-in-india-sparks-no-fireworks-101636127056544.html
05-11-2021||India||‘No plan to cut fuel tax,’ says Kerala finance minister||Two days after the Union government slashed excise duty on petrol and diesel, Kerala on Friday reiterated that it has no plan to cut sales tax considering the poor financial situation of the state. Talking to newsmen in the state capital, state finance minister KN Balagopal said the government had introduced many welfare programmes during the peak of the pandemic and they will be affected if the tax on fuel was cut. He said the Centre was forced to take such a decision in the wake of setbacks the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party suffered in recent by-elections. “There is no need to reduce tax in Kerala. When the Centre reduced ₹10 and ₹5 for diesel and petrol, it has actually been reduced by ₹12.30 and ₹6.56 in Kerala due to the tax structure. The value-based structure is formulated in the state like this,” he said. “Centre did not do a big thing. After hiking the price for almost every day, it made a small reduction. In last seven years, it increased tax by over ₹31 but the reduction was only slight,” he said, adding states were not given the share of revenue collected through additional tax. He said the government’s sales tax collection was not in tune with the soaring government expenditure so it can’t take any risk now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-to-cut-fuel-tax-says-kerala-finance-minister-101636126817323.html
05-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: India pavilion at Dubai expo crosses 200,000 footfalls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India pavilion at Dubai expo crosses 200,000 footfalls in a month: GovtThe India pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai has received more than 2 lakh visitors in about a month signifying the successful promotion of India as an investment destination, the commerce ministry said in a statement on Friday. Read more…Kiran Gosavi, NCB witness in drugs-on-cruise case, sent to police custody till Nov 8The Pune court on Friday sent Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness in the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise raid that involves Bollywood star Shah Rukh’s son Aryan Khan, to police custody till November 8. He was sent to police custody till November 5. Read more…Govt says edible oil prices show declining trend after duty cutsIn an attempt to reign in the continuous price rise of edible oil, the Central government on Friday announced that it has cut the basic duty on crude palm oil, crude soybean oil, and crude sunflower oil to nil from 2.5 per cent. The ministry of consumer affairs, food & public distribution said that the agri-cess on crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil has been brought down from 20% to 5% while the agri-cess on crude palm oil has been reduced to 7.5%. Read more…‘Kedarnath…’: What PM Modi’s ‘inner voice’ told him after 2013 U’khand floodsPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that he had rushed to Kedarnath after the 2013 Uttarakhand floods and witnessed the destruction and pain. He added that an inner voice told him that Kedarnath would rise again after the 2013 devastation. Watch hereVirat Kohli quips after winning first toss in 7 T20Is for IndiaIt had to be his birthday for Virat Kohli to finally get back to winning ways… well, as far as the coin toss is concerned. Celebrating his 33rd birthday on Friday, India captain Kohli broke a six-toss losing streak in T20Is to finally be on the right side of the coin, as they say, and opted to bat against Scotland in their Super 12 must-win match at the Dubai International Stadium. Read more…Eternals movie review: Hey, at least it’s not as bad as Black Widow!Chloe Zhao’s Oscar follow-up, Eternals, gets so much wrong, it becomes a task to keep up even after a short while. While it does often diverge from the Marvel formula, it’s rarely for the better — be it the forced, utterly awkward sex scene or the feeble attempts to impress the ever-growing desi audience. No amount of an affable Ibu Hatela can make up for the number of poor choices made. Read more…How to know if your child has ADHDOne of the common complaints of parents is that their child is not attentive enough or doesn't sit at one place. While inattentiveness and not following instructions may be a temporary phase for most children which they would outgrow after a certain age, children with ADHD (Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) continue to struggle at home, school and social situations as they have shorter attention spans, make careless mistakes, are impatient with tasks that is time consuming, unable to listen to instructions, and face problems with organizing tasks. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-pavilion-at-dubai-expo-crosses-200-000-footfalls-and-all-the-latest-news-101636124032170.html
05-11-2021||India||‘Why have the opposition-ruled states not cut fuel prices?’ BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Friday attacked the opposition parties, including the Congress, for not announcing cuts in fuel prices in states ruled by them just as the BJP ruled states have. A bunch of BJP ruled states have announced a cut ranging between ₹5 to ₹10 on petrol and diesel prices. The announcement that was made on the eve of Diwali is perceived to have been taken in view of the by-poll results announced on Tuesday that were a mixed bag for the BJP. BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia lashed out at the Congress, TMC and the AAP for not announcing a cut in the fuel prices even as these parties had been criticising the BJP government at the centre for failing to announce cuts in the prices of fuel that had steadily increased.“In Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has lowered the prices of petrol and diesel by ₹12, similarly, in Gujarat and Assam too the prices of fuels have been reduced by ₹7. This is in addition to the cuts that were announced by the union government,” Bhatia said addressing the media.He said the BJP has shown responsibility and sensitivity towards the people during the challenging Covid pandemic.“Free ration has been provided to 80 crore people. ₹19 lakh crore has been given to the beneficiaries through direct benefit transfer. Each rupee that is collected as tax is used in the development of the country and for the people. Another example is the vaccine. It is a matter of pride that 108 crore vaccines were provided free of cost and the government is committed to providing free vaccines to the rest,” he said.Attacking the opposition for not announcing similar cuts in fuel prices he said, “In Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and Rajasthan people want to know why such steps have not been taken by the state governments… the steps that were taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and emulated by the BJP ruled states are not being implemented by other governments,” he said.He made a pointed reference to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s tweet and said the opposition ruled states need to accept that they have the responsibility toward people, just as they have a share in the collections from tax. Gehlot previously tweeted, “With the reduction of excise duty by the Center, the VAT levied by the states is automatically reduced in the same proportion. We demand that the Center should further reduce excise duty to reduce inflation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-have-the-opposition-ruled-states-not-cut-fuel-prices-bjp-101636124836450.html
05-11-2021||India||13-year-old Maha boy, addicted to mobile chat app, leaves home; found in Goa days later||A 13-year-old boy, a resident of Badlapur in Maharashtra's Thane district, who was addicted to a social messaging mobile phone app, left his home and was later found in Goa, police said on Friday. The boy was reunited with his parents on Wednesday, three days after he left home, they said. "The teen left his house on October 31, after informing his parents that he would be away for one year," assistant police inspector Sandesh More of Badlapur East police station said. His parents then lodged a complaint with the police and a case of kidnapping was filed in this connection, he said. "When the police inquired with his friends, they came to know that the boy was connected with other children on Discord mobile app and used to chat in the group for hours," he added. His friends also told the police that the members of the chat group had decided to leave their houses to do something in life in order to prove themselves, More said. Accordingly, the cyber cell of the Thane police were roped in, who traced the IP address of the mobile phone used by the boy and found the chats through which they came to know that he was in Goa. "The police tracked him down at Calangute in Goa and was reunited with his family. He had travelled to the neighbouring state via Kolhapur," the police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13yearold-maha-boy-addicted-to-mobile-chat-app-leaves-home-found-in-goa-days-later-101636123166509.html
05-11-2021||India||NCB's Delhi team takes over Aryan Khan case, Sameer Wankhede calls move ‘coordination’||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday transferred six of its cases, including the drugs-on-cruise one in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan was granted bail a week ago, from the Mumbai team to their Delhi counterparts.The move came amid serious allegations of extortion being levelled against the NCB and its Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede. However, Wankhede said it was his writ petition that the matter be probed by a central team and that he was not removed from the case.Mumbai | Total 6 cases of our zone will now be investigated by Delhi teams (of NCB), including Aryan Khan's case and 5 other cases. It was an administrative decision: Mutha Ashok Jain, Deputy DG, South-Western Region, NCB(File photo) pic.twitter.com/vmjP65YOOvEarlier, the NCB’s deputy DG of south-western region, Mutha Ashok Jain, six cases from Mumbai NCB zone have been transferred to the agency’s operation team in Delhi for further investigation. He further said that while Wankhede would no more supervise the Aryan Khan case, he would continue in his role as the Mumbai zone director.Also read | Why Sameer Wankhede's clothes, assets, lifestyle are under scrutinySpeaking to reporters, Wankhede said, “I've not been removed from the investigation. It was my writ petition in court that the matter be probed by a central agency. So Aryan case & Sameer Khan case are being probed by Delhi NCB's SIT. It's a coordination between NCB teams of Delhi and Mumbai.”A team from Delhi will reach Mumbai on Sunday.Wankhede had a rapid fall from grace after his team busted a rave party aboard a Goa-bound cruise and detained the Bollywood star's son among several others on October 2. He was arrested a day later and was granted bail by the Bombay high court on October 30. Also read | Yasmeen Wankhede's message to Nawab Malik's family: ‘Teach him to respect women’Maharashtra minister and senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader brought several charges against him, including extortion and fraudulent use of caste card to secure his job.Soon after, the senior officer was called to Delhi, while a team from the national capital came to Mumbai to probe the extortion allegations.Meanwhile, the new twists kept coming in as the NCB's own witnesses turned hostile and reiterated the extortion allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncbs-delhi-team-takes-over-aryan-khan-case-sameer-wankhede-says-coordination-101636121832386.html
05-11-2021||India||India pavilion at Dubai expo crosses 200,000 footfalls in a month: Govt||NEW DELHI: The India pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai has received more than 2 lakh visitors in about a month signifying the successful promotion of India as an investment destination, the commerce ministry said in a statement on Friday. “The India pavilion has hosted over 200,000 visitors as on 3rd November with various sector and state-specific sessions to discuss India’s growth roadmap,” the ministry said, adding that the pavilion was “one of the most visited pavilions at the event”.Commerce minister Piyush Goyal inaugurated the pavilion on October 1, 2021. The The expo, which was postponed for a year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, will run till March 31, 2022. Aman Puri, consul general of India in Dubai and deputy commissioner general for India at the Expo said, “The October month was a huge success for the India pavilion. We saw a strong visitor turnout and expect this momentum to continue in the coming months.” “While the India pavilion will showcase more business opportunities for collaboration and investment, the popularity of India’s festivals, food, and cultural performances, have been crucial aspects in attracting visitors from across the globe,” he said, according to the statement.The ministry of new and renewable energy conducted several sessions that highlighted India’s renewable energy goals and climate action plan to the world, it said. The pavilion celebrated the climate and biodiversity week from October 3-9.It was followed by space and urban and rural development weeks, where discussions around the future of the sectors and the role of government regulations and incentives were discussed, it said.Besides sector-specific weeks, the India pavilion also hosted specific weeks for Gujarat, Karnataka and Ladakh.Gujarat organised events at the India pavilion where Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel virtually showcased the state’s vibrant pharma sector along with its plan for sustainable development. Similarly, the Karnataka week witnessed the presence of Murugesh Nirani, minister for large and medium scale industries and CN Ashwath Narayan, minister for higher education of Karnataka. During the Karnataka week, a partnership between the state and Gulf Islamic Investments (GII) to strengthen investment ties between India and UAE was also announced. GII’s investment approach in India is sector-agnostic and the firm plans to invest another $500 million in India in the next three years., the statement said.Additionally, a series of events showcasing opportunities in Ladakh across focus sectors like sustainable infrastructure, connectivity, food processing and tourism were discussed during the Ladakh week at the India pavilion.The climate and biodiversity week saw virtual participation from dignitaries such as Union power minister RK Singh. The space sector sessions were addressed by Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K Sivan.An array of cultural activities were also organised during Dusshera and Navratri celebrations including folk dances, storytelling and music for visitors and dignitaries.The ongoing Diwali celebrations at India pavilion comprise of colourful installations, lighting in the form of swarangoli or LED rangoli, virtual display of firecrackers and performances by leading artists such as Salim-Sulaiman, Dhruv and Rooh bands from India and Dubai, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-pavilion-at-dubai-expo-crosses-200-000-footfalls-in-a-month-govt-101636118715015.html
05-11-2021||India||'Just a lollipop': Congress says Centre's excise duty move on fuel an eyewash||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday took a swipe at the Narendra Modi-led Central government over its recent move to cut excise duty on fuel and said it was nothing more than a “lollipop”.Baghel said the excise duty should have been slashed further like the way the Congress-led UPA government did during its tenure when it brought down the rates from ₹30 to ₹9.The Union government on Wednesday cut excise duty on petrol by ₹5 per litre and that on diesel by ₹10 a litre to bring relief for consumers battered by record-high retail fuel prices.Also read | Expert says petrol, diesel prices will increase again in coming months: Report“If the NDA government decreases excise duty from ₹30 to ₹9 like the UPA government did, petrol-diesel costs will definitely go down. Increasing the petrol cost by ₹30, then bringing it down by ₹5 is just a lollipop,” news agency ANI quoted Baghel as saying in Raipur.All India Congress Committee general secretary KC Venugopal said the cut on excise duty has not been significant, adding the party will continue its agitation over the fuel prices.“It has not decreased much. During the UPA rule, excise duty on petrol was ₹9.48/litre & diesel ₹3.56/litre. They should reduce it more. LPG rates are still the same and need to be reduced. We'll continue our agitation and start a massive campaign from November 14,” ANI quoted Venugopal as saying.Also read | After Centre, BJP-ruled Haryana, Himachal cut fuel rates furtherA report by news agency PTI stated the latest cut was the highest-ever reduction in excise duty. It rolls back a part of the ₹13 and ₹16 per litre increase in taxes on petrol and diesel effected between March 2020 and May 2020 to avoid passing on to consumers the sharp fall in international oil prices at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, the report added.That hike in excise duty took central taxes on petrol to their highest level of ₹32.9 per litre and that on diesel to ₹31.8 a litre.Notably, the tax cut came after an unrelenting hike in international oil prices, pushing pump rates across the country to their highest-ever levels. Petrol soared to above ₹100-a-litre-mark in all major cities, while diesel crossed that level in more than one-and-a-half dozen states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-a-lollipop-congress-says-centre-s-excise-duty-move-on-fuel-an-eyewash-101636112458136.html
05-11-2021||India||Terrorists fire at security forces at Srinagar hospital, area cordoned off||Terrorists fired on the security forces at a hospital in Srinagar after which a brief gunfight broke out between them. The incident took place near the Sher E Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), prompting the police to cordon off the hospital and its hostel and launch a search operation.Srinagar Police said that the terrorists managed to escape by taking the advantage of the civilian presence in the area. “There was a brief fire fight between terrorists and security forces at SKIMS Hospital, Bemina. Terrorists managed to escape taking advantage of civilian presence,” Srinagar Police tweeted.There was a brief fire fight between terrorists and security forces at SKIMS Hospital, Bemina. Terrorists managed to escape taking advantage of civilian presence. @JmuKmrPolice @KashmirPoliceThis is the first major terrorist attack after the recent civilian killings particularly targeting people from minority communities and migrant workers in the Valley. The targeted killings were followed by counter-terrorism operations by security forces.Union home minister Amit Shah recently visited Jammu and Kashmir, first time after the abrogation of Article 370, and declared that he would rather talk to the youth of Kashmir, and not Pakistan, to improve the situation in the region.“I want to convey to the youth of Kashmir that those who handed stones and weapons to you, please tell them that there is electricity and hospitals in Kashmir,” Shah appealed, urging them to not get swayed by rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-fire-at-security-forces-at-srinagar-hospital-area-cordoned-off-101636109797248.html
05-11-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Punjab sees sharp rise in farm fires and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.With nearly 70% of paddy harvest completed in Punjab, the hinterland of the state is seeing a sharp rise in the number of farm fires, with 3,032 separate blazes reported on Thursday. Read moreThe Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Friday said the Income Tax Department detected unaccounted cash of ₹63 lakh and jewellery worth over two crore after it recently raided people engaged in dry fruits trade in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab. Read moreIndia's Super 12 clash against Scotland on Friday holds plenty of significance. Like the game against Afghanistan two evenings ago, the outcome of the India vs Scotland game will determine whether the Men in Blue can progress into the semi-finals of the T20 World Cup. Read moreFinally releasing after 19 months, Sooryavanshi is nothing short of a celebration of mainstream Hindi cinema, bringing back whistles and cheers to a theatre after a long time. Sooryavanshi is fuelled by director Rohit Shetty's trademark action and Akshay Kumar brings it in abundance. Read moreYour oral health depends a lot on your food choices. While sugar-laden food and eatables that stick to the teeth for long deteriorate your dental health, whole fruits, calcium and protein-rich foods and vegetables help in cleaning teeth, preventing cavities, as well as providing essential nutrients to your pearly whites. Read moreThe United States of America plans to make Diwali a nationally recognised federal holiday. Three Democratic lawmakers announced introducing a bill in the US Congress on Wednesday. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-punjab-sees-sharp-rise-in-farm-fires-and-all-the-latest-news-101636110420143.html
05-11-2021||India||Fuel price reduction: Opposition questions government’s move, overall handling||Opposition parties slammed the government on Friday, questioning its intention and its overall position on handling fuel prices in the long run, two days after the Centre slashed the prices of petrol and diesel.The Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday posted a scathing tweet in Hindi, alleging that the Haryana government was conning the public by reducing value added tax (VAT) on petrol while increasing it on diesel. “Have a look at what the ‘loot jeevi’ Khattar-Dushyant government is up to. In Haryana, the VAT on petrol has been reduced by ₹1.12 and it has been raised on diesel by ₹1.78. The people of the state know these lies and understand them. Shame on such an anti-people government,” Surjewala tweeted, also sharing the notification issued by the excise department.Also Read: Gehlot urges Centre to reduce excise duty further on petrol, dieselOn Wednesday, a day before the country celebrated Diwali, the Centre slashed excise duty by ₹5/litre on petrol and by ₹10/litre on diesel. The move was followed by several states cutting VAT.Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien also took a jibe at government’s latest move. He posted a wordplay of a famous quote from former US president Abraham Lincoln, switching “fool” with “fuel”. The TMC leader wrote, “You can fuel all the people some of the time and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fuel all the people all the time.” He shared a graph comparing the prices of crude oil, petrol and diesel in January 2014 and November 2021.Shiv Sena spokesperson Sanjay Raut criticised the reduction in petrol price by ₹5 as too little, arguing that the Centre should have reduced it by “at least ₹25 per litre to provide relief to people… They (Centre) realised that prices need to be slashed after they lost the bypolls”. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia reacted to the criticisms, saying, “The Centre along with the BJP-led states, took the initiative of reducing VAT on fuel prices for the common people. So why isn’t the Congress doing the same in their ruling states? Why can’t Congress, Mamata Banerjee and Arvind Kejriwal ji take a bold step like us?”“While the public received our decision joyously, the Opposition parties - Congress, AAP, TMC - opposed our decision and politicised it for their own benefit,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-price-reduction-opposition-questions-government-s-move-overall-handling-101636110553914.html
05-11-2021||India||₹63 lakh cash, jewellery found after raids on dry fruits traders in Punjab & J&K||The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Friday said the Income Tax Department detected unaccounted cash of ₹63 lakh and jewellery worth over two crores after it recently raided people engaged in dry fruits trade in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab.In a statement, the CBDT said the searches were carried out on October 28. According to the report by news agency PTI, the group has been "inflating" purchases of dry fruits exorbitantly over the years."Seized evidence also supports the fact that unaccounted cash has been received back by the directors of the group against payment made for such purchases."... one of the assessees was maintaining a parallel set of books of accounts and there was a huge difference between the sales and purchases recorded in both the sets of books of accounts," PTI further quoted the statement as saying.The policy-making body for the tax department, in the statement, also alleged that one of the groups indulged in unaccounted purchases and sales of dry fruits."Excess stock to the tune of ₹40 crore has been found. The analysis of seized material and evidence collected reveals that one of the groups is also running a benami proprietary concern," it claimed.In both the groups, the claim of deduction under section 80IB (deduction in respect of profits and gains from certain industrial undertakings) of the Income Tax Act has been found to be "not genuine" and is estimated to be around ₹30 crore, it claimed."The search action has resulted in the seizure of unaccounted cash of ₹63 lakh and jewellery of ₹2 crore and detection of unaccounted income exceeding ₹200 crore," it said.Fourteen bank lockers were put "under restraint", it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-63-lakh-cash-jewellery-found-after-raids-on-dry-fruits-traders-in-punjab-jk-101636109940250.html
05-11-2021||India||Chhath Puja 2021: 2 pairs of special Delhi-Bihar trains announced; check here||The Indian Railways on Friday announced operating two special trains on the occasion of Chhath Puja next week, an official notification stated. Both the trains will connect Delhi with Katihar city in Bihar. The decision to run the special Puja trains was made to tackle the passenger rush during the Chhath Puja, which is a massive festival in Bihar.Chhath Puja is on November 11 this year. These trains are part of more than 20 special trains that the Indian Railways will run for the Chhath Puja, which is celebrated in a big manner in several northern states of the country, among other regions, as well.Here is the list of special Puja trains that will run between Delhi and Katihar for Chhath Puja:1.     Train number 09638This train will leave from New Delhi on November 6 at 7.25pm and reach Bihar’s Katihar at 10pm the next day (November 7). It will pass through Hajipur, Shahpur and Patori regions.2.     Train number 09637This train will depart from Katihar on November 8 at 1.15am and reach the national capital at 2.30am the next day. It will pass Shahpur, Hajipur and Patori regions.3.     Train number 04746This train will depart from Delhi on November 8 at 3.05pm and reach Katihar at 7.30pm the next day. This train will also pass through Patori, Shahpur and Hajipur areas.4.     Train number 04745This train will leave from Katihar on November 9 at 10.30pm and reach Delhi at 2.45am the next day. Similar to all the above-mentioned trains, this train too will pass through Patori, Hajipur and Shahpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhath-puja-2021-2-pairs-of-special-delhi-bihar-trains-announced-check-here-101636109206565.html
05-11-2021||India||BJP behind people bursting firecrackers in Delhi: Gopal Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday blamed large-scale fireworks on Diwali night and increased stubble fires in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana for the Capital’s ‘severe’ air quality. Rai also alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had encouraged people to defy the ban on bursting crackers in the city. “Some people in Delhi burst firecrackers on purpose. The BJP is behind this,” Rai said on Friday. The copy will be updated with BJP’s response to these allegations. The minister also said that an increase in the number of stubble burning instances in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana also worsened the city’s air. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) satellite imagery shows that on Thursday, over 3500 farm fires were reported from Punjab and Haryana. “Impact of 3,500 farm fires around Delhi was visible in the national capital today,” Rai said. Also Read | Delhi PM 2.5 levels highest in three years after Diwali 2021: SAFAR analysisHT had reported that environmentalists and weather forecasters had warned that a late withdrawal of monsoon may cause Diwali pollution to coincide with the peak stubble burning instances in Delhi, pushing the city’s air quality to dangerous levels. Delhi’s AQI on Thursday night slipped into the ‘severe’ zone, crossing the 400 mark on Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality scale. The average AQI at 2pm was 463.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gopal-rai-says-bjp-behind-bursting-of-crackers-in-delhi-on-diwali-101636106654006.html
05-11-2021||India||Air quality deteriorates to ‘severe category’ across Haryana after Diwali||The Air Quality Index (AQI) across Haryana deteriorated to the “ severe category” on Friday even as the government banned the sale and use of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region ahead of Diwali. But violations of the ban were reported across the state as firecracker bursting peaked on Thursday evening.According to the Central Pollution Control Board, Jind recorded the worst AQI (490) in the state followed by Gurugram 474, Rohtak 448, Panipat 447, Bhiwani 433, Faridabad 428, Hisar 421, and Sonipat 406. Panchkula recorded the lowest AQI of 155 in the moderate category.Also Read | Delhi pollution worsens post Diwali; Ayurvedic herbs to help you deal with itThe air quality in Haryana started deteriorating after September 25 with a rise in stubble burning cases.Low temperatures and stubble burning for quickly clearing fields for the next cropping season in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana are among the causes of deterioration in pollution levels around this time of the year in Delhi and surrounding areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-deteriorates-across-haryana-101636104553477.html
05-11-2021||India||Delhi PM 2.5 levels highest in three years after Diwali 2021: SAFAR analysis||The levels of PM 2.5, a common air pollutant and a major respiratory health risk, in the national capital over the last 24 hours was the highest in three years as farm fires peaked amid firecracker bursting during the Diwali festivities despite a ban on them, said an analysis of Union earth science ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Friday.PM 2.5 is fine, inhalable particulate matter with diameters of 2.5 microns. It is about 30 times smaller than a strand of human hair. PM 2.5 pollutants are made up of hundreds of chemicals. Construction sites, unpaved roads, fields, and smokestacks or fires, power plants, factories, and automobiles emit these pollutants into the air. The pollutants can enter the bloodstream via the respiratory system and cause asthma, lung cancer, and heart disease.The analysis said the PM 2.5 levels were the highest in the three years but “much less” compared to those recorded in 2018. It added while the levels peaked much faster this Diwali, the dispersion was also fast. “...local winds have picked up since morning (on Friday) and now fast dispersion is expected,” the analysis said. “Without any more firecracker emissions, AQI (Air Quality Index) will improve to ‘very poor’ category by tonight (Friday) although the stubble contribution is expected to remain almost the same as today (Friday)...”The analysis said relief was expected only from Sunday evening even as AQI will fluctuate within “very poor” range.” It added while firecracker emissions were the primary contributors to Delhi’s pollution on Thursday and Friday, rising stubble burning instances in Punjab and Haryana also added to Delhi’s woes.“As per SAFAR framework model, the share of stubble emissions has peaked today (Friday) to ~36% and additional firecracker-related contribution is almost of the same magnitude.”Air quality forecasts in the run-up to Diwali suggested Delhi was headed towards an air emergency as stubble fires were also expected to peak coinciding with the festival when pollution levels usually spike with the bursting of crackers.Delhi’s air quality dropped to the “severe” category on Thursday around 9 pm for the first time this season.Low temperatures and stubble burning for quickly clearing fields for the next cropping season in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana are among the causes of deterioration in pollution levels around this time of the year in Delhi and surrounding areas. 
05-11-2021||India||WATCH: Bhupesh Baghel gets whipped as part of ritual for Govardhan Puja||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was spotted getting whipped as part of a ritual on the occasion of Govardhan Puja in the city of Durg, a video tweeted by news agency ANI showed on Friday.In the video, Bhupesh Baghel, clad in a turban and traditional attire, is seen standing with one of his arms stretched as a man whips him. A crowd of people is seen surrounding them and clicking pictures of the chief minister as he gets whipped. Loud music, combined with the beating of drums, is also heard playing in the background.After eight rounds of whipping, the man doing the whipping finally stops and hugs the chief minister.#WATCH | Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel getting whipped as part of a ritual on the occasion of Govardhan Puja in Durg pic.twitter.com/38hMpYECmh"Like every year, CM Baghel on Friday took part in Govardhan puja in Janjgiri village and bore the pain of sonta (whip) to uphold the custom that has been going on in the state for years for the well-being and prosperity of the people," news agency PTI quoted a state public relations officer as saying.Govardhan Puja is observed a day after Diwali festivities, to mark the lifting of Govardhan hill by Lord Krishna to protect the residents of Braj from the wrath of Lord Indra. The puja is being celebrated on Friday, primarily across Northern India.Union home minister Amit Shah wished people on the occasion of Govardhan Puja. "Best wishes for 'Govardhan Puja' to all. Jai Shri Krishna!" tweeted Shah.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya also wished people and prayed for the welfare of all. "Best wishes to all the countrymen on Govardhan Pooja, a symbol of nature, environment and promotion of livestock. I pray to Lord Krishna to remove the sufferings of all and for the welfare of all," he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-bhupesh-baghel-gets-whipped-as-part-of-ritual-for-govardhan-puja-101636099212258.html
05-11-2021||India||Bihar twin spurious liquor cases: Death toll reaches 23||The death toll in two suspected spurious liquor consumption cases from Bihar has climbed to 23 on Friday with eight fresh casualties-- six from West Champaran and two from Gopalganj districts . At least 24 arrests and five detentions have been affected in both cases combined apart from suspension of four cops-- two from each district, police officers said.Separately, West Champaran and Gopalganj have recorded 12 and 11 deaths respectively in the twin hooch tragedies around Dipawali, an official said. West Champaran’s superintendent of police (SP) Upendra Nath Verma confirmed six more deaths in the district took place over the last 24 hours. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to reach any conclusion. Prima facie, these deaths appear to have occurred due to the consumption of poisonous substances,” the SP said. Verma added that 10 others who had taken ill after consumption of alleged toxic hooch in the district were undergoing treatment. Similarly in Gopalganj, four people were under treatment for severe illness due to consumption of suspected illicit hooch. A local station house officer (SHO) and one chowkidar have been suspended in West Champaran following the incident, the SP said. Talking of arrests in the Champaran hooch tragedy case, Mukul Parimal Pandey, sub divisional police officer (SDPO), Bettiah (sadar) said four persons including two women have been arrested and five others were detained for questioning. lso Read: PMC starts prep for opening of Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College“Raids are on to arrest more accused in this connection,” Pandey added. Sale and consumption of liquor is banned in Bihar since April 2016.However, this is the second such incident in West Champaran since July this year. At least 16 people were killed and four others lost their eye sight due to alleged consumption of spurious liquor in villages of Lauriya and Ramnagar block in July this year.In Gopalganj, officials said over a dozen villagers complained of nausea, headache, vomiting and vision issues in Kushar village of the district after allegedly consuming spurious liquor, and were rushed by their kin to private hospitals in Gopalganj and Motihari districts. “The SHO (Shashi Ranjan Kumar) of Mohammadpur and a chowkidar have been suspended,” said Anand Kumar, superintendent of police (SP), Gopalganj. In all, 20 people have been arrested in the Gopalganj case, he said. In a related development, a joint team of Gopalganj police and excise department conducted raids on 63 locations and seized 572 liters of liquors including country made and Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-spurious-liquor-case-death-toll-reaches-12-two-held-2-cops-suspended-101636098732771.html
05-11-2021||India||‘India now aims high’: PM Modi after inaugurating 12-foot Shankaracharya statue at Kedarnath||While inaugurating the 12-foot statue of Guru Shankaracharya at the Kedarnath Temple in Uttarakhand on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that India now “aims high” and also “sets a time limit to achieve these aims.”“A grand Ram Temple is being constructed in Ayodhya. Recently, deepotsav was celebrated there. Work on the Kashi Vishwanath Corridor project in Varanasi is also progressing rapidly… Now, the country aims high and also sets a time limit to achieve these aims,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He added that there was a time in the country when religion and spirituality were believed to be connected “only with stereotypes,” but Indian philosophy mentions human welfare and views life in a “holistic manner.” “Adi Shankaracharya worked to make the society aware of this truth,” he added while speaking at the inauguration event.
05-11-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: 8 dead in separate road accidents in Andhra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Six people were killed and nine others injured when a vehicle rammed into an autorickshaw in which they were travelling on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru highway in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district on Friday. Read morePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday unveiled a 12-feet statue of Adi Shankaracharya at the premises of the Kedarnath Temple in Uttarakhand during his visit to the temple town to inaugurate key projects. The statue has been unveiled following its reconstruction after the original statue was washed away in the 2013 Uttarakhand floods. Read moreAfter picking a resurgent win over Afghanistan, Team India will gear up to face Scotland, who put up a big fight against New Zealand two days ago in the T20 World Cup Super 12, Group 2.. Virat Kohli & co. will not make the mistake of taking the opposition lightly, and will look for yet another big win. Kohli, though, would hope he can turn around his fortunes on the toss. Read moreAnushka Sharma shared a picture with Virat Kohli to wish him on his birthday, along with a romantic note. The photo, taken in Dubai, featured the couple with their arms wrapped around each other and seemed to be from their Diwali celebrations. While Virat wore a white chikankari kurta, Anushka was dressed in a yellow salwar suit. Read moreAnil Kapoor hosted a star-studded Diwali bash at his home in Mumbai last night. The It-couple of Bollywood Malaika Arora and Arjun Kapoor also arrived hand-in-hand at the occasion and looked incredible in their ethnic attires. The couple's pictures are doing rounds on the internet, delighting their fans. As for us, we are in love with Malaika's saree. Read more Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a 12-foot statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya in Kedarnath on Friday. The prime minister inaugurated the rebuilt samadhi sthal of the eighth century seer. The statue has been reconstructed after its destruction in the 2013 Uttarakhand floods. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-8-dead-in-separate-road-accidents-in-andhra-and-all-the-latest-news-101636095405951.html
05-11-2021||India||5 killed in car accident in Haryana’s Kurukshetra district||Five people were killed on the spot when a car they were travelling in rammed into a tree on the Ismailabad-Shahbad road near Nalvi village in Haryana’s Kurukshetra district on Friday.Officials said the deadly accident took place around 1.30am on Friday when the driver of the Maruti 800 car lost control and struck a tree.Later, after police rushed to the spot, the bodies were taken out with the help of a crane.Shahbad police station’s in-charge Prem Singh said the deceased were aged between 20 to 25 years. They were identified as Gurmeet Singh of Jainpur village, Goldy of Gauripur village, Ankit and Brijpal of Basantpura village, and Vishal Kumar of Nalvi village. All of them hailed from Kurukshetra district.The bodies were sent to a civil hospital for post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-killed-in-car-accident-in-haryana-s-kurukshetra-district-101636096392952.html
05-11-2021||India||8 killed in separate road accidents in Andhra Pradesh||Six people were killed and nine others injured when a vehicle rammed into an autorickshaw in which they were travelling on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru highway in Andhra Pradesh’s Anantapur district on Friday.K Eranna, a police officer, said the vehicle, believed to be a truck, rammed into the autorickshaw carrying agricultural labourers around 5.30am. He added five of the labourers, Sankaramma, 48, Nagaveni, 35, Chowdamma, 35, Savithri, 40, and Subbamma, 45, were crushed to death on the spot. Another unidentified woman died while being shifted to a government hospital. Nine others were undergoing treatment while the autorickshaw driver managed to escape with minor injuries.Also Read: Implement road safety measures, become responsible drivers“All the victims were agriculture labourers from Koppalakonda village of Garladinne block. They were going to Kottalapalli village of Peddavaduguru block to work in cotton fields,” said Eranna. He added police were going through the video footage obtained from CCTV cameras at the nearby toll plazas to identify the vehicle.A speeding car separately hit and killed two pedestrians at Midthur, about 10km from Pamidi where the first accident took place. Ramesh Kumar, a local police officer, said the car with Karnataka registration was travelling from Anantapur to Kurnool when it hit the two, Yakob, 60, and Chakali Narayana Swamy, 62, while they were crossing the highway around 6.30am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-andhra-pradesh-101636095492524.html
05-11-2021||India||Modi in Kedarnath: All about redevelopment projects inaugurated by PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday inaugurated several redevelopment projects worth ₹130 crore in the Kedarnath shrine in Uttarakhand’s Rudraprayag district. During his visit, PM Modi also unveiled an idol of Adi Shankaracharya at the place of his ‘samadhi’ which was damaged during the 2013 flash floods in the hill state.While he inaugurated redevelopment projects that have been completed at the aforesaid cost, he is also scheduled to lay the foundation stone for an array of various other projects worth ₹180 crore, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on October 28.Redevelopment projectsModi unveiled the idol of Adi Shankaracharya at the Kedarnath Temple in the Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand. The place where the ‘samadhi’ of Shankaracharya is located was damaged after the flash floods in 2013 in the state, following which it has now been reconstructed. “The entire reconstruction work has been undertaken under the guidance of the Prime Minister, who has constantly reviewed and monitored the progress of the project,” the PMO had said earlier.Several other key redevelopment projects, including Saraswati Retaining Wall Aasthapath and Ghats, Mandakini Retaining Wall Aasthapath, Tirth Purohit Houses and Garud Chatti bridge on river Mandakini were also inaugurated.Also read | ‘All maths and jyotirlingas are connected with us today': PM Modi at KedarnathFoundation stone for multiple projectsFurther, the Prime Minister is also scheduled to lay the foundation stone for several inauguration projects worth ₹180 crore, the PMO said.These projects include the redevelopment of the Sangam Ghat, first aid and tourist facilitation centre, administration office and hospital, two guest houses, police station, command and control centre, Mandakini Aasthapath queue management and rain-shelter and Saraswati civic amenity building.Watch | PM Modi unveils 12-ft Shankaracharya Statue, offers prayers at Kedarnath‘Decade belongs to Uttarakhand’During the visit, the PM said while addressing a gathering at the Kedarnath Temple that more tourists would visit the shrines in the state in the next 10 years than in the last 100 years. “With the kind of infrastructure development going on in Uttarakhand, more pilgrims will visit the Char Dham shrines in the next 10 years than in the last 100 years. Char Dham Yatra will become easier with the facilities being developed by the government for devotees,” he said. “The third decade of 21st century will be of Uttarakhand. It will attain more heights in the coming years,” he added.Earlier in the day, he offered prayers at the temple and also performed some rituals that lasted for over 30 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-in-kedarnath-all-about-redevelopment-projects-inaugurated-by-pm-101636093753987.html
05-11-2021||India||'9 artisans, 18 models': What went behind construction of Adi Shankaracharya's statue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday unveiled a 12-feet statue of Adi Shankaracharya at the premises of the Kedarnath Temple in Uttarakhand during his visit to the temple town to inaugurate key projects.The statue has been unveiled following its reconstruction after the original statue was washed away in the 2013 Uttarakhand floods. The statue has been built with the effort of nine artisans, including Mysore-based artist Arun Yogiraj, in a span of one year.According to Hindustan Times's sister publication Live Hindustan, the statue, situated behind the Kedarnath Temple, has been reconstructed in the middle of the samadhi area. As per the report, about 18 models of the Adi Guru Shankaracharya statue were prepared, but only one was selected based on the consent of PM Modi.Also read | As PM Modi visits Kedarnath Temple, here’s all you need to know about the shrineThe reconstructed statue of Shankaracharya weighs 35 tonnes and it has been made by Mysore-based sculptors from chlorite schist, a rock that is known to withstand rain, sunshine and harsh climate."It's a moment of joy for us. After nine months of toil for at least 14 hours a day, we completed the statue of Shankaracharya," news agency PTI quoted the scultor, Yogiraj, as saying.  Meanwhile, PM Modi on Friday said that he has been regularly reviewing redevelopment works at Kedarnath. While addressing people at Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand, the Prime Minister said, "I reviewed the progress of different works being carried out here through drone footage. I want to thank all 'Rawals' here for their guidance for these works."This is Prime Ministers' second visit to the temple during his term; the last time he visited the Kedarnath temple was in 2019.Apart from unveiling the statue of Adi Shankaracharya, PM Modi also inaugurated various re-development projects worth ₹130 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-artisans-18-models-what-went-behind-construction-of-adi-shankaracharya-s-statue-101636093079712.html
05-11-2021||India||From Nowshera LoC, PM Modi red-flags PLA hybrid warfare||From 80 brigade headquarters in Nowshera, south of Pir Panjal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi sensitised the troops on the revolution in warfare with a focus on what in American parlance is called non-kinetic battles in the future. He talked about hybrid warfare, which goes beyond the spectrum of land, air, sea battles, into cyber and information warfare.PM Modi’s speech came at a time when a Pentagon report on China confirmed Indian intelligence reports that PLA had laid optical fibre cables all along the contested 1597 km Ladakh Line of Actual Control (LAC) for faster war deployment and decision making. A 2009 Chinese report on “Lectures on Joint Campaign Information Operations”, which was translated and published by the US air force’s China Aerospace Studies recently, laid bare PLA plans and capability to conduct extensive non-kinetic warfare operations in any future conflict against the United States.According to this 438-page Chinese report, the US military’s “strike chain” of the time it takes from the discovery of enemy target, to aim, then attack and lastly evaluation was 100 minutes in the 1993 Persian Gulf war. This was reduced to 10 minutes in the 2003 Iraq war.By linking the forward defence localities to command headquarters in hinterland Tibet with optical fibre, the Chinese have speeded up the decision-making process on the Ladakh front and with it its capacity to respond to Indian airpower in case of an attack. One must remember that the PLA has stationed one regiment of Russian S-400 air defence system in Gar Gunsa airbase close to Ladakh LAC and another system at Nyingchi, close to Arunachal Pradesh LAC. In simple terms, faster decision making will lead to a rapid response from the PLA in a worst-case scenario.From Nowshera, PM Modi was making the troops and their division and brigade commander aware that future wars will not be slugged out artillery battles of the bygone World War II era. Future wars will be stand-off battles with a strategy seeking information dominance over enemies as a major weapon that will be a key factor in determining victory or defeat in battle.The Chinese report states: “The manifested forms of joint campaign information warfare operations mainly are electronic warfare, network warfare, intelligence warfare, psychological warfare, physical destruct warfare. Among these, electronic warfare and network warfare are the main forms of information operations.”With the objective of information warfare to seize and control information power by damaging the enemy’s information systems, the PLA plans to launch electronic attacks, wage computer network warfare, conduct psychological operations and employ military deception. The attacks, the report states, will seek to influence, damage, interrupt and deprive the enemy of its human and automated military decision making. Information warfare will require protecting PLA systems from foreign electronic and networks attacks. Targets in conflict will be radar and communication nodes on land, sea, air, cyberspace and space.“Electronic attacks mainly include electronic jamming, counter-radiation weapon attack, and special information warfare weapon attack. Network attack includes information stoppage, network infiltration and virus attack to either damage or destroy enemy’s information management through loopholes or backdoor of the existing network,” the report states.Psychological attacks, which the PLA is quite proficient in, mainly includes psychological propaganda, deception, and threat.Simply put, the front-line troops will be used only for preventing the enemy from making unilateral changes in borders while the main hybrid battle will be fought from remote cyber command centres. In this context, India needs a dedicated cyber warfare centre under the Indian military with experts from not only the services but also from the private sector. It needs synergised theatre commands for rapid decision making. The existing silos within the army, navy and air force must be broken down or else Indian forces will be up for a surprise from PLA like in May 2020. Indian intelligence needs off the air interceptors to pick up information from across the LoC and LAC as well as use firewalls in sensitive areas so that enemy propaganda does not enter the public narrative through social or propaganda media. This is what is done presently by the Communist Party of China or even Pakistan on the LoC albeit it will be very difficult in democratic India. But then the enemy is not obliged to fight on Indian terms and conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-nowshera-loc-pm-modi-red-flags-pla-hybrid-warfare-101636092167834.html
05-11-2021||India||As PM Modi visits Kedarnath Temple, here’s all you need to know about the shrine||The Kedarnath Temple, located in the Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand, is one of the four ancient pilgrimage sites referred to as Char Dham Yatra, which also include Yamunotri, Gangotri and Badrinath. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting the Hindu shrine dedicated to Lord Shiva to inaugurate a number of key infrastructure projects.Built in the 8th century by Jagad Guru Adi Shankaracharya, Kedarnath Temple is located on the Garhwal Himalayan range on the banks of the Mandakini river. According to a legend, the temple was originally built by the Pandavas—Yudhishthira, Bhima, Arjuna, Nakula and Sahadeva—the sons of Pandu, the king of Kuru kingdom, as acknowledged in the epic Mahabharata.Also read | ‘All maths and jyotirlingas are connected with us today': PM Modi at KedarnathThe temple, also known as the holiest shrine of Shiva, is one of the twelve Jyotirlingas. It is open to devotees only between the months of April and November due to extreme weather conditions.During the 2013 flash floods in Uttarakhand, the temple managed to stand erect and suffered little to no damage even as the surrounding areas bore the brunt leading to major damages. The flood, considered one of the worst natural disasters to have hit the country, was caused by a cloudburst leading to floods and landslides in the state.The Prime Minister, during his visit on Friday, unveiled the statue of Adi Shankaracharya at the premises of the Kedarnath Temple. The samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya has been reconstructed after its destruction in the 2013 Uttarakhand floods.Before the inauguration, the Prime Minister offered prayers and performed 'aarti' at the ancient temple. He paid obeisance to Lord Shiva and undertook circumambulation of the Kedarnath shrine after offering prayers.Modi arrived at the Dehradun airport in the morning and was received by Uttarakhand Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retd), chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and his cabinet colleagues Subodh Uniyal and Ganesh Joshi, besides Uttarakhand Assembly Speaker Premchand Aggarwal.PM Modi will also lay the foundation stone of reconstruction projects worth over ₹130 crore at the Himalayan temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-pm-modi-visits-kedarnath-temple-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-shrine-101636090090217.html
05-11-2021||India||India logs 12,729 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload rises to 148,922||India reported 12,729 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 221 related fatalities, as the cumulative caseload reached 34,333,754 and the death toll climbed to 459,873, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Friday.#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive𝗖𝗢𝗩𝗜𝗗 𝗙𝗟𝗔𝗦𝗛https://t.co/475eqcLzPp pic.twitter.com/stA2vkiVwXMeanwhile, the active caseload stood at 148,922, an increase of 343 cases from the 148,579 reported on the previous day.On Thursday, the health ministry said the active caseload was the lowest in 253 days. “Active cases account for less than 1% of total cases, currently at 0.43%; Lowest since March 2020,” the ministry said in a statement.Further, the daily recoveries stayed below the new infections on the day with 12,165 people getting discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours. With this, the total recoveries reached 33,724,959 and the recovery rate stood at 98.23%, the data also showed.Also read | CFR still a concern in Maharashtra despite steady drop in Covid casesAs many as 670,847 samples were tested for the disease on November 4 and so far 613,017,614 samples have been tested in the country, the Indian Council of Medical Research said, earlier on the day.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/3kGQs2jRcuOn the vaccination front, 1,077,046,116 doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the country, the ministry’s Covid-19 dashboard showed at 8am. It was an increase of 565,276 doses since Thursday.Earlier on Thursday, the ministry said that more than 152 million Covid-19 vaccine doses remained unutilised with the states and Union territories in the ongoing inoculation drive. “More than 116crore(1,16,21,77,965) vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far through Govt of India (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category. More than 15.2Cr (15,20,94,556)balance and unutilized COVID Vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs to be administered,” the ministry said.On November 3, the Centre launched the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door vaccination campaign against the disease with special focus on second dose inoculations. The program was launched after a meeting by PM Modi with district magistrates of 40 districts, with low vaccination coverage, and the respective state chief ministers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-12-729-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-rises-to-148922-101636085312071.html
05-11-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi reaches Kedarnath temple, to unveil Adi Shankaracharya statue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached the Kedarnath temple in Uttarakhand on Friday morning, where he will unveil a 12-foot statue of Adi Shankaracharya and flag off reconstruction work worth over ₹200 crore at the temple premises.PM Narendra Modi landed at the Dehradun airport at around 7.30am where he was welcomed by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retired) and other state dignitaries before flying to the popular shrine on an Indian Air Force chopper.After reaching the Kedarnath shrine with Dhami and Gen Singh, the Prime Minister reviewed the reconstruction work at the temple site in a video that was played for him by the authorities. He later entered the temple to offer a “rudrabhishek puja”.Also Read: PM Modi extends greetings on Gujarati New YearDhami said, “During his first visit to the shrine during his second term as PM, he will be unveiling the 12-foot statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya, whose ‘samadhi sthal’ was washed away in the 2013 Kedarnath [flashflood] tragedy.”“The statue has been made by a Mysore-based sculptor using chlorite schist, a rock known to withstand rain, sunshine and harsh climate,” he said.During his fifth visit to the shrine after becoming PM, Narendra Modi will inaugurate the first phase of reconstruction work and lay the foundation for the second phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-reaches-kedarnath-temple-to-unveil-adi-shankaracharya-statue-101636085711607.html
05-11-2021||India||BMC allows Chhath Puja celebrations with restrictions||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has allowed Chhath Puja celebrations this year on November 10 but asked devotees to avoid beaches and seashores even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has opposed the restrictions.It has appealed to devotees to perform the puja at artificial ponds to avoid crowding at public places in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. BMC has asked police to ensure that there is no crowding while issuing guidelines for low-key celebrations.“Keeping in mind the crowding witnessed at sea shores during Chhath Puja, following the Covid-19 protocol including maintenance of social distancing would not be possible, hence, mass celebration of Chhath Puja at sea shores should be avoided and the police must ensure that there is no crowding. Organisations that are asking for permissions at the ward level should construct artificial ponds at their own cost and even fill up the ponds after Chhath Puja is over.”Also Read: Country’s first rooftop drive-in theatre to open in Mumbai todayBJP corporator Vinod Mishra said they have taken up the issue with the BMC and demanded that they allow the puja at beaches. “The BMC must facilitate the celebrations.” He said the BMC directive on artificial ponds is unfair as the celebration at the beaches was allowed in a limited manner for other festivals.People from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh mostly celebrate Chhath Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bmcrestricts-chhath-puja-celebrations-101636085651471.html
05-11-2021||India||'Priyanka Gandhi’s women-centric promises only meant for UP polls'||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s women-centric promises ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are unlikely to be fully replicated nationally, for now, two leaders of the party said. “As of now the poll promises have been made only keeping the Uttar Pradesh election in mind,” said a Congress leader, requesting anonymity.Congress has promised women 40% of tickets and a similar quota in jobs if the party comes to power in the state. Priyanka Gandhi has been at the forefront of the attempts to revive the party there. She has pledged three free cooking gas cylinders annually to women, free travel on state government buses as well as scooties and smartphones for girl students. Priyanka Gandhi also promised monthly ₹10,000 for Asha and Anganwadi workers, who form a critical workforce for health and social welfare in the hinterland, widow pension of ₹1,000 per month, and 75 vocational schools.Party insiders said the promises are aimed at creating a class-based vote bank for the Congress that lost its base to Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, and Bharatiya Janata Party in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in the 1990s.The Congress has not made such promises so far in another key poll-bound state of Punjab, where it seeks to retain power.Also Read: ‘Out of fear’: Priyanka Gandhi on Centre’s move to slash petrol, diesel prices“There would definitely be some sops from the Congress for women in every state and national polls. But Uttar Pradesh promises were crafted to make them a trademark Priyanka Gandhi move. She is the face of the Congress in this (Uttar Pradesh) state polls. She had to make a big announcement,” said a second leader, requesting anonymity. “In other states, the Congress might need to craft manifestoes differently looking at other political considerations.”A third insider said the women-centric announcements were part of a strategy in which both Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were involved.The Congress has been out of power in Uttar Pradesh for over three decades. In the last assembly polls, the Congress bagged just 6.25% of the votes and seven seats in a 403-member House. In the 2019 national election, Congress got just one out of 80 seats and 6.36% votes. Rahul Gandhi lost his pocket borough of Amethi in Uttar Pradesh in 2019 but was elected to Lok Sabha from Kerala’s Wayanad. He had come up with the Nyuntam Aay Yojana scheme for financial aid to the poor ahead of the 2019 elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-s-women-centric-promises-only-meant-for-up-polls-say-insiders-101636084691424.html
05-11-2021||India||Expert says petrol, diesel prices will increase again in coming months: Report||The prices of petrol and diesel will increase again in the coming months, said energy expert Narendra Taneja on Thursday.Speaking to ANI, Taneja said, "It is to understand that we import oil. It is an imported commodity. Today, we have to import 86 per cent of our total oil use. The prices of oils are not in the hands of any government. Both petrol and diesel are de control commodities. In July 2010, Manmohan Singh's government implemented the deregulation on petrol. In 2014, the Modi government decontrol diesel."He said the Covid pandemic is the major reason for the rise of oil prices in the international market."Whenever there is an imbalance in demand and supply, prices are bound to increase. The second reason is the lack of investment in the oil sector as governments are promoting renewable/green energy sectors like solar power. Crude oil will be more expensive in the coming months. In 2023, the price of crude oil can rise by ₹100," he stated.Asked about the reason for Centre's move to decrease excise duty on petrol and diesel, Taneja said, "When oil prices are low, the government increases the excise duty, when oil is too expensive, the government reduces the excise duty. The consumption and sale of oil had come down to 40 per cent during the time of Covid. Later, it had come down to 35 per cent. When the sales have reduced, the income of the government will automatically decrease. But now that sale is back like the pre-Covid era.""Secondly, the GST collection is indicating positive sign for the economic recovery. The government is relatively in comfortable position than earlier. Plus, our economy is based on diesel. If the price of diesel goes up that increases the price of everything. The inflation is high. Considering these things, the government has taken this step," he emphasised.Taneja believes that petrol and diesel should be included in GST so that more relief can be obtained and there will be more transparency.In a relief to consumers, the Finance Ministry on Wednesday announced a ₹5 per litre cut in excise duty on petrol and a ₹10 per litre cut in excise duty on diesel. Amid record-high fuel prices, this is the first cut in central excise duties in over three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-says-petrol-diesel-prices-will-increase-again-in-coming-months-report-101636084240624.html
05-11-2021||India||‘All maths and jyotirlingas are connected with us today': PM Modi at Kedarnath||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday unveiled a rebuilt statue of Adi Shankaracharya in the Kedarnath Temple situated in the Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand and inaugurated re-development projects worth ₹130 crore at Kedarnath. The 12-foot statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya was reconstructed after it was washed away in the devastating flood of Uttarakhand in 2013.Speaking during the event, the Prime Minister said, “All maths and 'jyotirlingas' in the country are connected with us today," as he inaugurated the redevloped samadhi sthal. “You all are witness to the inauguration of Adi Shankaracharya Samadhi here today. His devotees are present here in spirit. All maths and 'jyotirlingas' in the country are connected with us today," he said.He also recalled the destruction caused by the floods in 2013 and said, “people used to think if Kedarnath could be redeveloped. But a voice within me always told me that it will be redeveloped again and it will be more majestic than before."
05-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: ED summons Anil Deshmukh's son for questioning in money laundering case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Father in custody, ED summons Anil Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh on FridayThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday summoned former state home minister Anil Deshmukh’s son, Hrishikesh Deshmukh, to show up at the ED office for questioning on Friday in connection with the money laundering case in which his father has been arrested and is in the agency’s custody till November 6. Read moreOn Virat Kohli's 33rd birthday, a look at 5 knocks that prove the India captain is one of the greatest batters everVirat Kohli may not have scored a century in two years but the India captain still continues to be one of the best batters in world cricket not only in among current cricketers but also across era. Read morePriyanka Chopra-Nick Jonas perform Lakshmi puja at LA home, fans are proud of her ‘for spreading our culture worldwide’Priyanka Chopra shared pictures of herself and her husband Nick Jonas performing Lakshmi puja at their home in Los Angeles, on the occasion of Diwali. While she wore a yellow saree, he was dressed in a kurta-pyjama. Read moreAlia Bhatt's Sabyasachi lehenga for Diwali celebrations with Ranbir Kapoor deserves to be seenDiwali may be over, but that hasn't stopped our favourite celebrities from sharing their festive looks with us on social media. Actor Alia Bhatt, who celebrated with boyfriend Ranbir Kapoor, is among these stars who enjoyed Diwali with their loved ones and took to the gram to share their ethnic looks late in the evening. Read moreDelhi’s air quality ‘hazardous’ as firecrackers rattle NCR on DiwaliThe air quality in the national capital took a hit after the cracker ban went for a toss. The air quality in Delhi was recorded in the ‘hazardous’ category at some places. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ed-summons-anil-deshmukh-s-son-for-questioning-in-money-laundering-case-and-all-the-latest-news-101636082226245.html
05-11-2021||India||Kerala man orders pouch on Amazon, gets a passport along with it||A man from Kerala’s Wayanad district placed an order on Amazon for a passport pouch and received a passport inside it, according to a report.The News Minute reported that Mithun Babu, a resident of Kaniyambetta village in Wayanad, placed the order for the passport pouch on October 30 and received it two days later. Babu found a passport inside one of the pockets of the passport pouch when he opened it. “At first, I mistook it for a dummy passport. However, upon closer inspection, I realised I had received an original passport, belonging to a Thrissur native,” Babu was quoted as saying by the website.He said he immediately contacted Amazon customer care but they responded saying they will be careful in the future. So he contacted the owner of the passport, Muhammed Salih, based on the address on the travel document.Also read | Kerala man orders iPhone worth ₹70,900 from Amazon, gets soap bar, ₹5 coinAccording to Babu, Salih ordered the same pouch from Amazon and but later decided to return it. However, he forgot to take out his passport before returning the order.“This was a mistake from the seller on Amazon. They did not check the returned product, and sent it again by repackaging it," Babu said.He added that he was surprised by the reaction of the customer care service, which he said neither took responsibility for the oversight nor guided him on what to do next.Last month, a man from Aluva in Ernakulam district ordered an iPhone from Amazon and received a soap bar and a ₹5 coin instead. The police launched an investigation and found that the iPhone was being used by someone in Jharkhand since September 25. Noorul Ameen later told Mathrubhumi.com that his account has been credited with the amount he paid to buy the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-man-orders-pouch-on-amazon-gets-a-passport-along-with-it-101636080554838.html
05-11-2021||India||India delivers 100 tonnes of nano fertilizer to Sri Lanka||Two Indian Air Force planes carrying 100 tons of Nano Nitrogen liquid fertilizers landed in Colombo on Thursday.Taking to Twitter, Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka said that the delivery was in response to a call by the Sri Lankan government for urgent support in airlifting nano fertilizers."On the day of #Deepawali, the Festival of Lights,#indianairforce once again brought ray of hope to #SriLanka. Responding to GoSL's call for urgent support in airlifting nanofertilizers from #India,2 @IAF_MCC planes arrived in #Colombo carrying 100 tons of the product today," Indian High Commission here tweeted.The import of Nano nitrogen liquid fertiliser came months after Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa's decision in May to stop chemical fertilizer imports.Sri Lanka is facing a severe shortage of fertilizers after the ban. India has stepped in to speed up the supply of nano fertilizer to Sri Lanka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-delivers-100-tonnes-of-nano-fertilizer-to-sri-lanka-101636079703643.html
05-11-2021||India||PM Modi extends greetings on Gujarati New Year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday extended his greetings to the people of Gujarat on the occasion of Gujarati New Year. "Happy New Year to all Gujaratis... !!," the Prime Minister’s tweet, roughly translated from Gujarati, read. "The new year starting from today will bring happiness and prosperity in your life, keep you healthy and lead you to a new step of progress,” PM Modi added.
05-11-2021||India||PM Modi in Kedarnath today, to unveil 12-feet tall statue of Guru Shankaracharya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit the Kedarnath in Uttarakhand on Friday, where he is scheduled to inaugurate the rebuilt samadhi sthal of Shri Adi Shankaracharya and also lay the foundation stone of reconstruction projects. PM Modi will also unveil a magnificent 12-feet statue of Guru Shankaracharya, the 8th-century seer who attained Moksha at Kedarnath.The statue weighs 35 tonnes and it has been made by Mysore-based sculptors from chlorite schist, a rock that is known to withstand rain, sunshine and harsh climate, according to officials. The original statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya samadhi was washed away in the 2013 floods. It has been built by excavating land just behind the Kedarnath temple and in the middle of the samadhi area.The unveiling of the statue will be streamed live at the 12 jyotirlingas, four Shankaracharya mutts (monasteries), his birthplace and several prominent temples across the country."We will all welcome Prime Minister Narendra Modi. PM Modi will reach here in the morning. He will do the Maha Rudra Abhishek and pray for the welfare of the nation. He will also unveil the statue of Adi Shankaracharya,” Bagish Ling, a priest of Kedarnath Temple, told news agency ANI.After the unveiling of the statue, the Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of Kedarpuri reconstruction projects worth over ₹400 crore. He will also inaugurate other key infrastructure projects including Saraswati Retaining Wall Aasthapath and Ghats, Mandakini Retaining Wall Aasthapath, Tirth Purohit Houses and Garud Chatti bridge on the Mandakini river.The Kedarpuri construction project is reportedly PM Modi's one of dream projects. Over time, he has been personally reviewing the construction work at regular intervals.Earlier, Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said reconstruction works in Kedarnath would not have been possible without the vision of PM Modi. "We welcome his presence here soon. He will also be inaugurating the second phase works at Kedarnath," he said.Tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar has also thanked the Prime Minister for his generous efforts towards rebuilding the samadhi of Shankaracharya. “The samadhi of Shankaracharya was destroyed in the 2013 flash flood that hit the Kedarnath area. I would like to thank PM Narendra Modi and Jindal Steel Works for their generous efforts towards rebuilding the monument," Jawalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-kedarnath-today-to-unveil-12-feet-tall-statue-of-adi-guru-shankarach-101636072822080.html
