06-11-2021||India||Gujarat: 5 workers killed while cleaning effluent tank||Five workers died after inhaling toxic gas while cleaning an underground tank at a pharmaceutical unit in Gujarat’s Gandhinagar district on Saturday, an official from the fire department said.The incident occurred at an effluent treatment plant of the pharmaceutical unit in Kalol taluka in the afternoon, chief fire officer of Gandhinagar Mahesh Mod said.“As the plant was shut today, the management had decided to clean the tank, which stores the factory’s liquid waste before it is sent for treatment. Although there was hardly any liquid waste in the tank, the workers were unaware about the presence of toxic gas inside it,” Mod said.One of the workers fainted inside the tank, following which four others entered one after another to rescue him and eventually died because of the toxic fumes, he said.The factory owners had not provided any safety equipment or masks to the workers, the official said.“One after another, all the five workers went in and fainted after inhaling the toxic gas, which is usually found in tanks that have effluents. On learning about the incident, the Gandhinagar fire brigade rushed to the spot and pulled out the men, who were already dead,” Mod added. The deceased are identified as Vinay, Shahi, Devendra Kumar, Ashish Kumar and Ranjan Kumar, all in the age group of 30 to 35, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-5-workers-killed-while-cleaning-effluent-tank-101636223067503.html
06-11-2021||India||UP man lodges FIR against wife, in-laws for celebrating Pakistan's win in T20 World Cup||An FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint by a man in Rampur against his wife and in-laws for allegedly celebrating Pakistan's victory over India in the T20 World Cup match held on October 24, police said."An FIR has been registered after a case of making fun of the Indian cricket team came to our notice on the basis of a complaint made by a man," said Ankit Mittal, Superintendent of Police.Complainant Ishan Miya, resident of Azim Nagar of Rampur has alleged that his wife Rabia Shamsi and her family burst crackers and put up WhatsApp status celebrating Pakistan's victory in the T20 World Cup match.The FIR has been filed in Ganj Police Station of Rampur district under Section 153-A of Indian Penal Code and Section 67 of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008."The husband and wife started living separately soon after the marriage. The wife lives with her family and has filed a dowry case against the husband," reads the FIR.Investigation into the matter is going on. More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-lodges-fir-against-wife-in-laws-for-celebrating-pakistan-s-win-in-t20-world-cup-101636221424197.html
06-11-2021||India||Haryana private sector quota law to take effect from Jan 15||CHANDIGARH One year after the state assembly passed it, the BJP-JJP government in Haryana on Saturday ordered that the law providing for 75% reservation for locals in private sector jobs come into force from January 15 next year.The Haryana assembly passed the legislation titled the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill on November 5 last year, and the governor gave his assent to the bill on March 2 this year.“In exercise of the powers conferred under section 3 of the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020 (3 of 2021), the Governor of Haryana hereby specifies the 15th day of January 2022 for the purpose of said sub-sections,” said the state labour department in a notification.The delay in implementation of the law was on account of framing of the rules, an official said on condition of anonymity. The law provides for 75% reservation in private sector jobs to those having a resident certificate (domicile).The law will be applicable for a period of 10 years. The state government also relaxed the residency (domicile) requirement from 15 to five years for a person to get a bona fide resident certificate in the state to provide some flexibility to the private companies in hiring.The state government on Saturday also reduced the upper limit of gross monthly salary for jobs which will come under the ambit of the private sector job quota law. As per the official notification, jobs with a gross monthly salary of not more than ₹30,000 will be up for hiring from among local candidates. The bill passed by the assembly last year capped the gross monthly wages for jobs available for hiring at ₹50,000.However, following feedback from industrial houses and entrepreneurs, the state government decided to reduce the salary cap, people aware of the matter said.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the need of the hour is to create a harmonious environment for industry as well as the youth along with creating the right balance between the progress of industries and the economy.With the Haryana government notifying the law, India Inc on Saturday called for a re-look at the legislation, saying it could lead to multinational firms moving out of the state. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) said: “At a time when it is important to attract investments at the state level, governments should not impose restrictions on the industry. Reservation affects productivity and industry competitiveness.” “We hope the government re-looks the legislation or at least ensures the rules are fair. As one country, there should be no imposition or restriction,” it added.The private sector job quota move was piloted by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), coalition partner of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-private-sector-quota-law-to-take-effect-from-jan-15-101636222408709.html
06-11-2021||India||IMD alerts: These 7 states, UTs to get heavy rainfall till Nov 11; 5 in south India||Despite winter arriving in most states and Union territories (UTs) in north India, and several other regions of the country feeling the chill as well, a yellow alert has been issued in two districts of Maharashtra for tomorrow by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The forecast may not come as a surprise since the state capital Mumbai along with other suburbs received light rain on Friday, as predicted by the Met department earlier this week. However, no rain was recorded in Mumbai’s Santacruz observatory on Saturday.The unseasonal rainfall was caused by a low-pressure area over the eastern Arabian Sea which, according to the latest IMD bulletin, will move north-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over the same region in the next 24 hours. Thereafter, the depression will move away from the west coast of India.Also Read | As Delhi chokes post-Diwali, here are the 10 cities with poorest air qualityBesides the low-pressure area over the Arabian Sea, a cyclonic circulation lies over the southeast Bay of Bengal off Sumatra Coast. This is expected to take the shape of another low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal around November 9 and become “more marked and…move…towards north Tamil Nadu coast during the subsequent 48 hours,” according to the IMD bulletin.Also Read | Who all are most vulnerable to Delhi’s pollution? Doctors answerThese conditions will cause heavy rainfall along with thunderstorms and squally weather in five southern states and UT, and two western states for the next five days.Here are the IMD alerts for all 7 states and UTs till November 11:1.     Squally weather with speed reaching 50-60 kmph and gusting to 70 kmph is very likely over the eastern Arabian Sea, while the regions along and off the Maharashtra coast will be hit by a speed reaching 40-50 kmph and gusting to 60kmph on November 7. The IMD has advised fishermen not to venture into these areas.2.     According to the IMD bulletin, there will be an increase in rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy fall at few places and extremely heavy fall at isolated places over north coastal Tamil Nadu between November 11 and 12.3.     South coastal Andhra Pradesh is expected to have heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places between November 11 and 12.4.     Fishermen have been advised not to head to the sea into the southeast Bay of Bengal between November 9 and 10. They have also been cautioned against any such venture over the southwest Bay of Bengal, off Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh coasts between November 10 and 11. Those fishermen who are already out in the sea have been asked to return to the coast by November 9.5.     Owing to the low pressure over the Arabian Sea, the IMD bulletin has forecasted heavy rainfall over Tamil Nadu. Puducherry and Karaikal (a district in Puducherry) during the next five days.6.     The IMD has also forecasted heavy rainfall over Kerala and Mahe (in Puducherry) on November 8; over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam (in Andhra Pradesh) on November 8 and 9; and over south interior Karnataka between November 7 and 9.7.     A primarily dry weather is very likely to stay over most parts of northwest, central, east and northeast India, and over some places of west India till November 11, the IMD bulletin forecasted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-states-uts-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-with-thunderstorm-till-nov-11-imd-101636221180330.html
06-11-2021||India||Didn’t speak up on protest: Farmers stop screening of Akshay Kumar’s Sooryavanshi in Punjab||A group of farmers, protesting against the three farm laws, on Saturday stopped the live screening of Rohit Shetty’s film Sooryavanshi starring Akshay Kumar in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district. They said that Kuamar did not support their protest, which has gained nationwide attention since beginning last year.Activists of the Bharti Kisan Union (Kadian), led by the group’s district president Swaram Dhugga, staged a demonstration and a protest march from a local Shaheed Udham Singh Park to Swaran cinema against Sooryavanshi’s live screening, news agency PTI reported.Some among these farmers tore posters of the movie put up outside the hall, and even condemned Kumar for not speaking up backing the farmers’ protest. Moreover, the protesting farmers added that they will not permit the screening of any of Kumar’s films until the three farm laws, passed by the central government, are repealed.Notably, farmers have been protesting against the farm laws that they claim will take away their liberty at selling harvests and will give more control to corporates. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre has consistently maintained its stand of the laws being pro-farmer.The impasse continues despite both parties having as many as 11 rounds of talks.Also Read | Will occupy govt offices if evicted from protest sites: Rakesh TikaitThe protesting farmers have been camped at Delhi borders for over 11 months now, and the Delhi Police recently removed barricades from the capital’s Tikri and Ghazipur borders.In the latest update to the matter, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait has given an ultimatum to the Centre, saying that the latter has time till November 26 following which farmers will drive their tractors from their villages to the capital’s borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stop-live-screening-of-akshay-kumar-starrer-sooryavanshi-in-punjab-101636220434364.html
06-11-2021||India||Bengali actor trolled for complaining to PM Modi, Mamata against food app||Bengali actor and superstar Prosenjit Chatterjee was trolled on Twitter on Saturday after the actor tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in a complaint letter against a food delivery app.  The complaint was that he was not delivered the food, which he deemed fit for PM Modi and chief minister's ‘attention’. "I placed an order on food delivery app...After some time the status of the order changed to delivered but I never received the food... they refunded me the money since the order was prepaid." Respected PM @narendramodi and Respected CM @MamataOfficial, your kind attention please. pic.twitter.com/fry7F6wYl7"However, I wanted to draw your attention because I feel anybody can face this issue. What if someone relies on a food app to get their food delivered for their guest and the food never arrives? What if someone is depending on these food app for their dinner? Will they stay hungry?" read the letter.Soon after the letter caught Twiteratti's attention, wherein many social media users started reacting to the actor's post. "So it is now PM and CM's duty to keep an eye on food delivery services! Wow!," asked a user.Some users reminded him that he"forgot to mention Indian and American Presidents in the letter", while another user said that the issue needs NIA intervention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengali-actor-trolled-for-complaining-to-pm-modi-mamata-against-food-app-101636215461640.html
06-11-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi is asked what would be his 1st order if he becomes PM. He replies||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi spent their Diwali with visitors from Kanyakumari's St Joseph's Matric Higher Secondary School, the school Rahul Gandhi visited when he was in Tamil Nadu earlier this year. Sharing a video of that interaction on Twitter, Rahul Gandhi wrote that his Diwali was made more special by that visit.During the interaction, Rahul Gandhi was asked what would be the first government order that he would pass if he becomes the prime minister of India. His instant reply was women's reservation. “If somebody asks me what is the one thing that you will teach your child, I would say humility. Because with humility comes understanding,” Rahul Gandhi said. Interaction and dinner with friends from St. Joseph’s Matric Hr. Sec. School, Mulagumoodu, Kanyakumari (TN). Their visit made Diwali even more special. This confluence of cultures is our country’s biggest strength and we must preserve it. pic.twitter.com/eNNJfvkYEHA member of the delegation that visited Rahul appreciated Rahul and Priyanka's participation in the struggle of farmers. "It shows your oneness with people," Rahul Gandhi was told.As the time came for dinner, Rahul wanted to arrange some typical Delhi food for "his friends from Tamil Nadu" and asked for chhole bhature and kulfi."Interaction and dinner with friends from St. Joseph’s Matric Hr. Sec. School, Mulagumoodu, Kanyakumari (TN). Their visit made Diwali even more special. This confluence of cultures is our country’s biggest strength and we must preserve it," Rahul tweeted.It was the same school that he visited in March this year before the Tamil Nadu assembly election and took up a push-up challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-was-asked-what-will-be-his-1st-order-if-he-becomes-pm-he-replies-101636213580195.html
06-11-2021||India||'Eyes will be gouged out, hands chopped’: BJP MP issues warning||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arvind Sharma in an apparent warning to Congress said that ‘eyes will be gouged out’ and ‘hands chopped off’ if former Haryana minister Manish Grover is targeted.#WATCH | Congress&Deepender Hooda should listen that if anyone dares to look towards Manish Grover (BJP leader) then we'll take their eyes out. If they put hands on him then their hands will be chopped off: BJP MP Dr Arvind Sharma in Haryana's Rohtak on yday's incident at Kiloi pic.twitter.com/RhhZuq0PGLHis remarks come after Grover and other BJP leaders were held up for hours inside a temple in Rohtak’s Kiloi after several villagers and farmers staged a protest outside on Friday. The BJP held a protest in Rohtak against the Congress, alleging that it was responsible for the incident on Friday.“If any eye is raised against Manish Grover then that eye will be gouged out and if any hand is raised then that hand will be chopped off. Will not spare,” Sharma said, warning Congress and its leader Deepender Hooda. “There is no doubt that the Rohtak Lok Sabha seat was won because of Manish Grover,” Sharma further added.Sharma, while addressing a gathering, also said Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his son Deepender Hooda were the reason behind Grover being targeted on Friday as Deepender Hooda lost the Lok Sabha polls because of Grover.The police and the district administration on Friday took hours to calm down the protesters and end the standoff following which the leaders left the premises. A report from PTI said that the protesters, who were mostly farmers, demanded Grover’s apology over an unspecified issue but the deputy superintendent of police said the demonstrators were opposed to the presence of the BJP leaders in Kiloi.Grover and other BJP leaders went to a temple in Kiloi from where they planned to watch Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiling a statue of Adi Shankaracharya at the seer's samadhi in Kedarnath live.Protesting farmers in Haryana over the past year have opposed programmes which are supposed to be attended by BJP leaders and in most cases, they also held protests to raise their opposition to the three farm laws. The groups also opposed programmes organised by BJP coalition partner in Haryana Jannayak Janta Party as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eyes-will-be-gouged-out-hands-chopped-bjp-mp-issues-warning-101636212267755.html
06-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sachin Vaze extorted money from bookies, court told and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sachin Vaze extorted money from cricket bookies: Crime branch to Mumbai courtA metropolitan magistrate court on Saturday extended the police custody of dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze by seven days after special prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap informed the court that the 52-year-old controversial ex-cop has extorted large amounts of money from cricket bookies by threatening to frame them in false cases. Read more…Bengal doctors' body urges Centre to start Covid booster vaccine programmeThe West Bengal Doctors Forum on Saturday wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya urging him to roll out a Covid-19 booster vaccination program for all healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) “as early as possible.” The body said that a booster shot would be an “effective measure” to prevent Covid infection “by maintaining the vaccine efficacy.” Read more…PM level six times the safe limit; AQI drops to ‘poor’ day after Diwali in MumbaiOn November 5, a day after Diwali, the city’s air quality index (AQI) slipped into the ‘poor’ category after two years. Mumbai’s AQI stood at 215 based on 10 monitoring stations under the Union ministry of earth sciences’ system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR) as compared to 107 (moderate) in 2020 and 75 (moderate) in 2019. Read more…Pakistan Taliban demand prisoner release as ground for talks with Islamabad: ReportThe Tehrik-i Taliban Pakistan (TTP) have demanded the release of a number of prisoners as a ground for talks with Islamabad aimed at achieving a full ceasefire negotiation, according to news agency Reuters. Read more…Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli are adorable goofballs in unseen pic shared by KL Rahul, see hereIndian cricketer KL Rahul treated Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli's fans to a new, unseen picture of the couple. The sportsman shared a picture featuring him and the couple to wish Virat on his birthday. Read more…'We all know your cricketers' reputation': Harbhajan hits out at Pakistan trolls over fixing claimsVeteran Indian cricketer Harbhajan Singh on Saturday lashed out at Pakistan fans accusing the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) of fixing the T20 World Cup game against Afghanistan. The trend started after India's resounding eight-wicket win against Afghanistan in their third game of the campaign and took off again on Friday night after the Men in Blue registered a win of similar margin against Scotland in Dubai. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sachin-vaze-extorted-money-from-bookies-court-told-and-all-the-latest-news-101636210088286.html
06-11-2021||India||Smuggling accused Swapna Suresh out on bail after 16-month jail||After spending 16 months in jail, the main accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, a former employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in the state capital, walked out on Saturday. Suresh mother said her daughter was not keeping well and will meet the newsmen on another day. “She is not keeping well. She will meet you all on another day,” her mother Prabha S Suresh said. Many journalists were outside the jail and later her house expecting her to speak up. Earlier her mother said she was innocent and some influential people made her a pawn in their scheme. The Kerala High Court granted bail to Suresh on November 2 after it held that the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) can’t be applied in the smuggling case filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Her release was delayed due to strict bail provisions. Earlier, she was granted bail in cases filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the customs department. The High Court also quashed Cofeposa (Conservation of foreign exchange and prevention of smuggling activities act 1974) slapped on her on October 10. She is facing six cases, including one for allegedly forging her educational qualifications. The gold smuggling case surfaced in July 2020 after the seizure of 30 kg gold worth ₹15 crore hidden in bathroom fittings in one of the consignments camouflaged as diplomatic baggage in the UAE consulate in the state capital. The case was later handed over to the NIA and it arrested Suresh and her accomplice Sandeep Nair from their hideout in Bengaluru. Five central agencies are probing the case now - NIA, ED, DRI, Customs and Income Tax. When the case surfaced, Suresh was employed at the Space Park of the government-controlled Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited in a plum position. Before this, she was employed at the consulate as the secretary of the consulate in-charge and came close to many political leaders during this tenure. After smuggling cases came up, her B Com degree was also found fake and police registered a separate case against her for forgery. The smuggling case invited enough embarrassment to the left front government after the CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, was arrested by the ED after his alleged liaison with Suresh and dollar smuggling case surfaced. Later, he secured bail from the High Court. The Union and state governments locked horns on several occasions over the case and the latter even constituted a judicial commission against the ED, a first of its sort, alleging a bid to implicate many including CM Pinarayi Vijayan but later the HC quashed the commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smuggling-accused-swapna-suresh-out-on-bail-after-16-month-jail-101636211427640.html
06-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 7, 1974 — Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi is skipper for India in all 5 cricket Tests||Bombay- Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi has been re-called to lead India in all the five cricket Tests against the visiting West Indies team. This was announced here this evening by Prof M V Chandgadkar, honorary secretary of the Board of Control for Cricket in India. The selection committee, which met here today (November 6) under the chairmanship of Mr. C.D Gopinath, was unanimous in its choice, he said.Answering questions after the announcement, Prof Chandgadkar said several names came up for consideration but the ultimate choice was unanimous. Prof Chandgadkar said India’s team for the first Test will be announced on the second day of the match between South Zone and the West Indies in Hyderabad beginning on Nov. 16. “That is the programme at present.” he added He said that Mansur Ali Khan had already been told about his selection as captain. The captain will be in Poona tomorrow when the West Indies start their tour with a match against West Zone.Pataudi regains captaincy of India after he was dropped from that position late in 1970. Because of business and other commitments he had written to the Board that he was not available for tours abroad so he was not considered for India’s tours of the West Indies and England in 1971 and also earlier this year for a repeat tour of England, all under the leadership of Ajit Wadekar who has since retired from first-class cricket. Pataudi, however played under Wadekar in three Tests in the home series against England in 1972-73.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-7-1974-mansur-ali-khan-pataudi-is-skipper-for-india-in-all-5-cricket-tests-101636208366463.html
06-11-2021||India||Bengal doctors' body urges Centre to start Covid booster vaccine programme for healthcare, frontline workers||The West Bengal Doctors Forum on Saturday wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya urging him to roll out a Covid-19 booster vaccination program for all healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) “as early as possible.” The body said that a booster shot would be an “effective measure” to prevent Covid infection “by maintaining the vaccine efficacy.”In its letter, the forum expressed concerns about the possibility of medical workers being exposed to the disease while on duty because of the efficacy of the vaccines over time.“We are all aware that efficacy of vaccines goes no further over time and due to that numerous healthcare workers may contract the disease in their duty line. There are studies which say that the administration of booster dose will be an effective measure to prevent Covid infection by maintaining the vaccine efficacy,” news agency PTI reported citing an excerpt from the letter.Also read | Lakshadweep may achieve full Covid-19 vaccination ahead of other states, UTs“At present, the number of active Covid cases in our country is low and under this circumstance on behalf of the medical fraternity, we appeal to you and your good office to issue an early advisory to commence the booster dose vaccination programme for Covid-19 for all healthcare workers and frontline warriors as early as possible,” the body further said.Several other countries such as the US, the UK and other European nations have either rolled out or announced a booster programme against the pandemic. Notably, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (US CDC) said that the efficiency of vaccine doses decreased over time among healthcare and frontline workers.However, the World Health Organization (WHO) has objected to countries opting for boosters saying several low- and middle-income nations are yet to vaccinate their populations with a first dose. It has also expressed its concerns about global equitable vaccine distribution amid more advanced economies opting for boosters.Meanwhile, concerns about vaccine efficacy among healthcare workers have been around for a while now, given that healthcare workers in the country were the first group to be prioritised for the national inoculation drive against Covid-19 that began back in January this year. However, earlier in September director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargava had said that the immunisation programme should rather focus on administering two doses to all eligible populations than booster doses.“I think, currently I would say that the talk of booster (doses) is not pertinent and I said this last time also. The call of the hour is to give the two-dose vaccination, which we call as full vaccination, covering the entire adult population,” the ICMR chief said on September 30 when asked about booster doses for HCWs.The Union ministry of health and family welfare on the day said that the cumulative number of doses administered under the country's Covid vaccination drive crossed the 108-crore mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-doctors-body-urges-centre-to-start-covid-booster-vaccine-programme-for-healthcare-frontline-workers-101636207633736.html
06-11-2021||India||Congress demands further reduction in excise duty on petrol, diesel||While the government informed that Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection has gone back to pre-pandemic levels, Congress on Saturday demanded a further reduction in the excise duty imposed on petrol and diesel during the pandemic.“The government has been patting its back, boasting that the GST collection has gone back to the pre-pandemic level. You (government) used Covid as an excuse to increase the excise duty on petrol and diesel. Please reduce the excise duty of ₹13 and ₹19 imposed on petrol and diesel respectively during the pandemic,” said Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a press conference on SaturdayThis comes days after the government reduced ₹5 and ₹10 on the excise duty on petrol and diesel amid spiralling fuel prices, and urged states to further bring down the rates by reducing Value Added Tax (VAT).Data available from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) in the Union Ministry of Finance showed excise duty collections during April-September 2021 surging beyond ₹1.71 lakh crore, from ₹1.28 lakh crore mop-up in the same period of the previous fiscal.Data available from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) in the Union Ministry of Finance showed excise duty collections during April-September 2021 surging to over ₹1.71 lakh crore, from ₹1.28 lakh crore mop-up in the same period of the previous fiscal.The collection is 79% more than ₹95,930 crore mop-up in April-September 2019 due to the steep hike in excise duty.In light of the new Pentagon report which confirmed China’s incursion into Indian territory, Congress also accused the government of misleading the world in June last year when it gave China a clean chit and demanded an immediate withdrawal of the clean chit.“It has been 17 months since the Prime Minister gave a clean chit to China. The clean chit is a dark chapter in history because it is being used by China across the world because it came from the Prime Minister of the country whose territories are being transgressed by China,” said Khera.Citing the new Pentagon report titled ‘Military and Security Development involving the Peoples’ Republic of China’, Khera said that China has “intruded” 4.5 km within Arunachal Pradesh territory and has constructed dual-purpose villages. He explained “dual-purpose villages” as ones that accommodate not only the civilian population but also act as a cantonment area for the Chinese army.In June 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that the Chinese neither entered the Indian territory nor took any post.Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson, Gopal Krishna Agarwal, alleged that Congress always wants to believe in other countries and has no faith in the domestic institutions. “If the Prime Minister has made a statement then they should understand the sanctity of the institution. They are running after international institutions which are contrary to the domestic institution’s reports, this shows that their commitment lies outside India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-demands-further-reduction-in-excise-duty-on-petrol-diesel-101636207706386.html
06-11-2021||India||Studies show pandemic-induced inflation hit urban poor hardest||Inflation, often described as the cruellest tax because it erodes income, has been falling in recent months, but average price rise during and following the peak pandemic has been higher and more broad-based than in previous years, hitting the urban poor harder, two recent studies have shown.Three components of inflation — food, fuel and core inflation i.e. price in all items minus food and fuel — have moved divergently. Food inflation fell significantly from above 5% at the start of the current financial year to 0.7% in September. During the same period, fuel inflation rose from 8% to 13.6%. Core inflation, which leaves out volatile items such as food and fuel, remained sticky near 6%.“Not only did they (inflation in various components) diverge, but their burden also varied by income group, primarily because the share of spending on each of these commodity groups differs across income classes,” said Dharmakirti Joshi chief economist, Crisil Ltd.The bottom line of this is that although broadly everyone experienced the same inflation numbers, some groups – especially the urban poor – felt inflation’s heat more because they spend a larger share of their budgets on items that got costlier, such as fuel.According to the Reserve Bank’s bi-annual Monetary Policy Report for October, mean or average inflation this year has been higher and more broad-based. It has also been very volatile.“These indicate high dispersion of inflation rates in the consumer price index basket, along with a larger number of items experiencing higher inflation rates than in the pre-pandemic period,” the RBI report said.Crisil’s researchers engaged in an interesting study to disaggregate the impact of inflation on different income groups.They segregated the population into three broad groups by expenditure — the bottom 20%, the middle 60% and the top 20% for urban and rural — using data from the National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO).Then, the expenditure share of each commodity group was mapped with the relevant inflation during the last and this fiscal up to September 2021. They then used these weights to calculate the overall inflation for each class.“We find that the urban poor felt the heat of inflation the most,” Joshi said.While the overall inflation declined for all income classes in FY2021-22 compared with the last fiscal year, the urban poor (bottom 20%) bore the heaviest brunt in both periods.The key culprits were fuel and food costs, which have the highest weights for the bottom 20% of the urban poor. Urban inflation in these two commodity components was higher than that in rural areas.The researchers used the NSSO’s Consumer Expenditure Survey of 2011-12, which offers the latest available data on monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) across income classes. This data has also been used to calculate weights for the latest consumer price index 2011-12 series.“The relatively higher food and fuel inflation in urban areas have meant the poor in that geography are facing more heat than their rural counterparts,” according to the Crisil study.The rural poor did face considerable inflationary pressures too, the study shows. Cereals, fuel and vegetables are the top three spending categories within food for both rural and urban dwellers. The pressure from high fuel inflation may have been offset by lower price rise in food.However, six out of the 10 commodities have seen inflation above 6% in rural areas this fiscal, Crisil Ltd observed. In urban areas, there are five such commodities. “This implies inflationary pressures are still significant for the poor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/studies-show-pandemic-induced-inflation-hit-urban-poor-hardest-101636205966481.html
06-11-2021||India||Lakshadweep may achieve full Covid-19 vaccination ahead of other states, UTs||Lakshadweep is the first among states and Union Territories to likely achieve 100% vaccination coverage as it vaccinated 99.2 % of its eligible population with both doses, news agency PTI reported.People familiar with the development said the vaccination coverage is more than 70% in Sikkim, Goa and Andaman and the Nicobar Islands. India’s cumulative vaccination doses administered reached 108 crore on Saturday.“Lakshadweep (99.2 %) is close to achieving full COVID-19 vaccination of its eligible population, while Sikkim has achieved 87.8%, Goa 79.7% and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands 72.2%,” the officials said.The health ministry said that 78.7% of India's adult population received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Among all the states and Union Territories, nine of them have administered the first dose to all its 18-plus age group population.The eligible population in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have received at least one dose of vaccine. The officials pointed out that more than 36% of the country's around 94 crore adult population have now been administered both doses.The highest number of doses were administered by Uttar Pradesh followed by Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.The ministry wrote to several states and union territories asking them to prioritise administering the second dose to people who have not gotten themselves vaccinated with the second dose even after the prescribed interval between the two doses expired, the officials mentioned above further added.The government has also launched a month-long “Har Ghar Dastak” campaign for house-to-house Covid-19 vaccination of those who are yet to be vaccinated with the first dose and those whose second dose is overdue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakshadweep-may-achieve-full-covid-19-vaccination-ahead-of-other-states-uts-101636204587334.html
06-11-2021||India||Smoke, cries, panic at Maharashtra hospital as fire engulfed Covid ward ICU||Fire brigade personnel had hard time dousing the fire at the ICU of the Ahmednagar civil hospital in Maharashtra on Saturday morning as they could not enter through the main entrance due to smoke, and the windows had grills over them. A fire audit had been carried out at the hospital, but all necessary systems were not in place for want of funds, an official claimed. The blaze claimed 11 lives. Most of the patients were senior citizens, and many of them were on ventilator or oxygen, which made the rescue operation more tricky. Amid panic, cries and chaotic scenes, fire brigade personnel broke the window panes and began dousing the flames using water canons, said a civic fire official whose team was the first to reach the spot after the blaze started around 11 am. About 20 coronavirus patients were undergoing treatment in the ICU, he said. There were 15 patients on ventilator or oxygen. "Saving them was the priority. But due to their critical condition, to remove the oxygen support and bring them out was a tough decision," he said. "After discussion, we decided to bring them out anyhow and later put them back on oxygen or other support systems," he added. Also Read | Death toll rises to 11 in Maharashtra hospital fire, ₹5 lakh ex-gratia announcedThere was smoke everywhere, and a senior fire brigade official said that rather than flames, the smoke might have proven more lethal. Most of those who died were aged between 65 to 83, according to hospital officials. After a devastating blaze at a Covid-19 hospital in Nashik earlier this year, a fire audit had been carried out at this hospital. Shankar Misal, Chief Fire officer of Ahmednagar municipal corporation, said they rushed two fire tankers immediately when the call came. "The fire was not that big, but there was smoke all over the place. The patients who died in the incident possibly suffocated due to the smoke and heat inside the ICU," he said. After the recent fire audit, the hospital had been asked to install an effective fire-fighting system including a pipeline and sprinkler system, he said. But the work was incomplete due to "want of funds", though the hospital had fire extinguishers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smoke-cries-panic-at-maharashtra-hospital-as-fire-engulfed-covid-ward-icu-101636204555678.html
06-11-2021||India||Tripura violence: 102 Twitter accounts booked under UAPA for spreading fake news||Tripura police have invoked the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) against 102 Twitter accounts for allegedly spreading misinformation about the recent violence that took place at Panisagar in North Tripura last month."Tripura Police have taken up a case against a total of 102 Twitter accounts under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for spreading fake and distorted information related to the recent violence that took place at Panisagar North Tripura," said Jyotishman Das Choudhary, Public Relation Officer of Tripura Police.He added, "The case which was earlier investigated by police is now transferred to the Crime Branch division of Tripura police. The police have been trying to trace the handlers of the accounts."Earlier this month, six persons were arrested by the state police in connection with various incidents of communal violence in the state and several persons were booked for spreading rumours to create hatred between two religious groups in the state.Tripura Inspector General (IG) Law and Order In-Charge Saurabh Tripathi had last month had said that fake photos and videos were being widely circulated on social media depicting the violence at Panisagar in Tripura, adding that these were being spread by some "anti-national" and "disturbing" elements.He said, "No fire incident took place at any mosque in Tripura. The police have registered specific complaints and started probing on whatever had happened. And, regarding the malicious campaign in social media, cases were also registered".Earlier, DIG Northern Range Lalhimnga Darlong had also said, "Exaggerated and perverted rumours were being spread in social media that could spread high tensions between two religious communities."He, however, said that some miscreants indulged in violence as the Vishwa Hindu Parishad carried out a protest procession against the attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-violence-102-twitter-accounts-booked-under-uapa-for-spreading-fake-news-101636199374827.html
06-11-2021||India||France to help India in advanced military technologies||France reiterated its commitment to fully support Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat and defence industrialisation, joint research and technology development in India across a wide range of advanced capabilities, the Indian embassy in Paris said on Saturday after the dialogue between national security advisor Ajit Doval and Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor to French President Emmanuel Macron. What has been left unsaid in the statement is France is willing to be a technology partner with India for the development of the latest military technologies in air, sea, land and cyber domains.On the sidelines of the annual India-France Strategic Dialogue, Doval also met French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and defence minister Florence Parly. He reiterated that France is one of India’s premier global and Indo Pacific partners.According to the Indian embassy, France stressed continuing its commitment to the Indo Pacific region and termed its partnership with India as a “major pillar of its Indo Pacific strategy.” During the annual strategic dialogue and meetings, two sides reaffirmed that their strategic partnership has a vital role to play in advancing peace, stability and security in the Indo Pacific region, a vision spelt out during the recent meeting between PM Modi and the French President on the sidelines of G20 Summit.Also Read | India-France to deepen maritime security, talk AfghanistanThe Indian and French delegation discussed the global security environment, including current developments and long term challenges in the Indo Pacific region, the Afghanistan situation and the continuing challenge of terrorism. Emerging threats in maritime, cyber and space domains were also discussed as they agreed that the emerging trends in global affairs reinforce the need for a closer partnership between India and France, especially on world forums.The democratic values and a common belief in strategic autonomy, rule of law, multipolarity and multilateralism have been the basis of the mutual trust and partnership between the two nations, the embassy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-to-help-india-in-advanced-military-technologies-101636198597760.html
06-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: UP minister calls for narco test for Akhilesh Yadav over Jinnah remark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP minister suggests narco test for Akhilesh Yadav over Jinnah remarkUttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla on Saturday suggested a narco test for Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for glorifying Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Read more.'Wankhede's private army': Minister reacts to BJP's 'twist' given to Aryan caseThe drugs-on-cruise case involving Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan took a new turn on Saturday as BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya addressed a press conference and linked Maharashtra former home minister Anil Deshmukh with the case. Read more.Sameer Wankhede not completely out of picture, will assist in Aryan Khan caseA day after a special investigation team of Delhi took over six cases, including Aryan Khan case, from the Mumbai zone unit, new investigating officer Sanjay Kumar Singh said Sameer Wankhede's assistance will be taken in all the six cases as he is the director of the Mumbai unit. Read more.Priyanka Gandhi shares Rahul Gandhi's old photo for Bhai Dooj wish, Rahul reactsCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi shared a throwback photo of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on the occasion of Bhai Dooj and said Rahul Gandhi's fight for the truth makes her proud and happy. Read more.Virat Kohli on having Anushka Sharma, daughter Vamika by his side on birthday: 'That's celebration enough for me'Anushka Sharma's cricketer husband Virat Kohli celebrated his 33rd birthday on Friday. Read more.Watch what Scotland did in India dressing room after T20 WC matchIndia registered a thumping 8-wicket win against Scotland in the T20 World Cup Super 12. Watch here.‘Want India to reach final so that Pakistan can beat them again but if New Zealand lose, questions will rise’: AkhtarFormer Pakistan fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar wants India to reach the final so that the Babar Azam-led side can once again get the better of them and win the T20 World Cup 2021 title. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-up-minister-calls-for-narco-test-for-akhilesh-yadav-101636196030160.html
06-11-2021||India||Bihar: Suspected consumption of spurious liquor kills 4||In another case of death due to suspected consumption of spurious liquor, four people lost their lives on Saturday in Bihar’s Samastipur. Police officials said that the incident took place in Bihar’s Rudauli village.“A total of 4 deaths were reported in Rudauli village of Samastipur allegedly after drinking alcohol. Postmortems are being done. People involved in the matter will be traced. We appealed to villagers to inform police if anyone is sick,” Samastipur SP Manavjit Dhillon was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Total four persons have died and the other two are undergoing treatment and are out of danger. On inquiry with the surviving victims, they informed they ate a meal on the occasion of shradh of one of the deceased. Though they said that they did not consume alcohol, we found a bottle of alcohol and its chemical investigation will be done. The possibility is that the deaths happened due to the consumption of spurious liquor at the home of the officer,” he further added.Bihar recently reported a large number of deaths in due to the consumption of spurious liquor. At least 21 people, including 10 people in Bettiah and 11 people in Gopalganj after consuming spurious alcohol earlier this week. Bihar police arrested 19 people in connection to the tragedy and conducted raids in 60 locations.Chief minister Nitish Kumar held a review meeting regarding the prohibition of liquor in the state on Saturday. Several meetings were held in Gopalganj and Bettiah as well as with the local administration as well to ensure that the Prohibition Act is followed. “After the liquor incident in Gopalganj, a meeting was held with all the security guards, SHO, SDM, SDPO, ADM and DDC of the district to strictly implement the Prohibition Act. Elaborate preparations have been made to ensure that an incident does not happen again. The effect of which will be seen on a wider scale in four to five days,” Nawal Kishore Choudhary, Gopalganj’s district magistrate said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-suspected-consumption-of-spurious-liquor-kills-4-101636195063228.html
06-11-2021||India||'Sameer Dawood Wankhede's private army': Nawab Malik reacts to BJP's 'twist' given to Aryan Khan case||The drugs-on-cruise case involving Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan took a new turn on Saturday as BJP leader Mohit Bharatiya addressed a press conference and linked Maharashtra former home minister Anil Deshmukh with the case. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said he will reply to these allegations what the BJP leader claimed as ‘revelations’ in his press meet scheduled on Sunday when Malik is supposed to expose some secrets hidden in the hotel 'The Lalit'.Sameer Wankhede not completely out of picture, will assist in Aryan Khan case A member of Sameer Dawood Wankhede's private army just held a Press Conference to misguide and divert the attention from the truth albeit unsuccessfully. I will reveal the truth tomorrowHere's what the BJP claimed
06-11-2021||India||UP minister suggests narco test for Akhilesh Yadav over Jinnah remark||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla on Saturday suggested a narco test for Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav for glorifying Pakistan’s founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah. The former UP chief minister has been under fire for using Jinnah’s name along with Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters during a public meeting in Hardoi last week."Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle," Yadav had said.Shukla said that Jinnah was responsible for India’s partition, claiming that no Indian would like to see or listen to him. The UP minister said that Yadav’s remark on Jinnah is not a “common incident” and the Samajwadi leader “must clarify as to under which pressure, greed, is he glorifying” Pakistan's first governor-general."I want that Akhilesh Yadav to himself come forward, and get his narco test done," Shukla said, adding that those heaping praises on Jinnah should go to Pakistan.Also Read | Row over SP chief’s ‘Jinnah’ comment, BJP accuses Akhilesh of having ‘Talibani mindset’Shukla’s narco test suggestion comes days after he alleged that the former UP chief minister is getting economic support from Pakistan’s spy agency ISI."Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has become a challenge for the Islamic world. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav is getting all support from them. Akhilesh is getting 'sanrakshan aur sujhav' (patronage and advice) from the ISI. It is possible that he might also be getting economic support from it," Shukla said on Tuesday.The sensational claim by Shukla triggered outrage among SP workers as they staged a protest at the District Collectorate building, demanding the registration of a case against the minister. SP district unit chief Raj Mangal Yadav said that the minister will not be allowed to enter Ballia if the administration doesn’t take action against him.The BJP is yet to react to the statement made by the UP minister.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-minister-suggests-narco-test-for-akhilesh-yadav-over-jinnah-remark-101636193528766.html
06-11-2021||India||10 dead, 7 injured as fire breaks out in Maharashtra hospital||At least 10 elderly patients who were being treated for Covid-19 infection in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of a civil hospital in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district died in a fire on Saturday morning. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked the district collector to probe the incident.Fire brigade officials said everyone in the ICU was badly burnt. They added that the injured were shifted to another room immediately.District collector Rajendra Bhosale claimed that short circuit could have started the fire inside the ICU ward set up around 18 months ago. However, the exact cause of the fire can only be determined following a detailed investigation.“There were 17 Covid patients admitted [to the ICU] when the fire broke out at around 11 am. 10 out of the 17 have lost their lives. Short circuit seems to be the possible cause of the incident,” said Bhosale. The fire brigade personnel claimed they managed to put out the fire within half an hour.A statement released from CM Thackeray’s office offered condolences to the kin of the dead while ordering a detailed probe and action against those found guilty of any negligence.“As soon as he came to know about the incident, the chief minister spoke to the district guardian minister Hasan Mushrif and chief secretary (Sitaram Kunte) and asked [them] to ensure [that] those needing medical attention don’t face any difficulties,” the statement added.The district administration announced financial help to the next of kin of the deceased. State minister Hasan Mushrif said the “guilty” will not be spared.Also Read: I-T detects irregularities in Maharashtra bank, freezes ₹53.72 croreThe deceased including four women and six males have been identified as Sitaram Dagdu Jadhav ( 83), Ramkisan Vithhal Harpude ( 70), Satyabhama Shivaji Ghodchoure (65) , Kadubal Gangadhar Khatik ( 65), Shivaji Sadashiv Pawar ( 82), Deepak Vishwanath Jedgule (57) , Kondiba Madhukar Madam( 70), Asrabai Nangre ( 58), Chabibi Ahmed Sayyed ( 65) apart from an unidentified person. Of the seven injured, one was reported to be critical, authorities said.Health department officials said that there were two wings of ICU in Ahmednagar civil hospital, one on the first floor and the second on the ground floor, where the fire broke out.State minorities minister Nawab Malik said the state government had ordered a fire audit of each hospital following similar incidents in the past. “This was a newly set up ICU inside the hospital. Whether fire audit was conducted there or not will be revealed during the investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-dead-7-injured-as-fire-breaks-out-in-maharashtra-hospital-101636193004382.html
06-11-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi shares Rahul Gandhi's old photo for Bhai Dooj wish, Rahul reacts||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi shared a throwback photo of Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on the occasion of Bhai Dooj and said Rahul Gandhi's fight for the truth makes her proud and happy. As she extended Bhai Dooj wishes to all brothers, Priyanka Gandhi also mentioned that the photo of Rahul Gandhi she shared with the wish is from the time when Rahul Gandhi won a lot of medals in the shooting competition. A bespectacled Rahul Gandhi can be seen in the photo wearing many medals with his hand on sister Priyanka Gandhi's shoulder.  मुझे गर्व और खुशी है कि मेरे भाई करुणा, प्रेम और साहस के साथ सच्चाई की लड़ाई लड़ रहे हैं। आप सभी को भाईदूज की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं।P.S. ये तस्वीर उस समय की है जब मेरे भाई ने निशानेबाजी की प्रतियोगिता में ढेर सारे मेडल जीते थे। pic.twitter.com/lLPvAOjZJ9Rahul Gandhi reacted to the photo with a smiley. 🙂Rahul Gandhi has several sports achievements as he is a black belt in Aikido, the Japanese martial arts and also a national shooting champion. A few years ago, the Congress on its Instagram profile had shared this trivia with photos of Rahul Gandhi doing Aikido and the participation certificate from the National Rifle Association of India. According to the certificate, Rahul Gandhi had participated in the 32nd National Shooting Championship Competitions in 1988-89. With a score of 271 out of 300, he ranked fourth.Here is the old post A post shared by Congress (@incindia)Now, Priyanka Gandhi's throwback photo with Rahul Gandhi reveals that at that time, Rahul Gandhi won many medals for his shooting skills.
06-11-2021||India||Zika outbreak in Kanpur: 13 more cases detected, tally reaches 79||With 13 new cases of Zika virus reported in Kanpur on Saturday, the total tally of cases of the mosquito-borne disease in the Uttar Pradesh district stands at 79 as it stepped up surveillance to check its spread, health officials said.Dr Anil Nigam Chief Medical Superintendent, Ursala Hospital while speaking to ANI said, "Regularly our team is inspecting and Municipal corporation teams have also been deployed for the fogging to destroy mosquito breeding points.""Zika virus infection is spreading rapidly in Kanpur. In this case, special caution is required. Arrangements have been made in all hospitals for the treatment of virus-infected people. The health of each patient is being monitored. Surveillance has been improved," health officials said.In view of rising cases of the Zika virus in Kanpur, the CM Yogi instructed officials to speed up sanitisation work."Infection with the Zika virus is spreading rapidly in Kanpur. Considering the seriousness, special caution is required. Dengue testing should also be intensified. Arrangements should have been made in all hospitals. The health of each patient should be continuously monitored," the chief minister added.The chief minister asked officials to ensure full cooperation of monitoring committees.Government Hospitals across Kanpur have sounded an alert and intensified surveillance under its infectious disease control campaign to identify cases of infection, including Zika virus disease, in the early stages, health officials said.He further added, "Till now no Zika infected patient has been admitted in our hospital but the ward has been kept tight."Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of an infected Aedes species of mosquito, which bites during the day, symptoms of this disease are mild fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or a headache.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-outbreak-in-kanpur-13-more-cases-detected-tally-reaches-79-101636191866017.html
06-11-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh sent to judicial custody till Nov 19 in money laundering case||Anil Deshmukh, the former home minister of Maharashtra, was sent to judicial custody for 14 days in a money laundering case. Deshmukh was presented before a holiday court on Saturday, which sent him to judicial remand till November 19.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) last Monday after 12 hours of questioning. The agency is probing the ₹100 crore extortion case against Deshmukh based on an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The CBI registered the FIR after allegations made by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, who said that Deshmukh had directed dismissed policeman Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore every month from hotels and bars in Mumbai.Waze, meanwhile, was on Saturday sent to police custody till November 13 in the money laundering case. A case of extortion was registered against Waze on July 23. He was dismissed from service in May 2021.Deshmukh has denied all the allegations against him, but had to resign in April after the CBI registered the case.The ED called the 71-year-old politician's son Hrishikesh for questioning on Thursday. The agency had asked Hrishikesh to appear before it on Friday but he did not, said ED officials.On Saturday, Hrishikesh Deshmukh moved the sessions court and filed a petition for anticipatory bail.According to ED, Waze allegedly collected ₹4.7 crore from orchestra bar owners in Mumbai for “smooth functioning of the bars” and gave this money to Deshmukh’s personal assistant Sanjeev Palande who later handed over the money to someone in Nagpur.ED officials said its investigation revealed that through hawala channels, this money was sent to the Delhi-based Surendra Kumar Jain and Virendra Jain who operated bogus companies. The Jain brothers are alleged to have diverted this money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by the Deshmukh family.ED officials suspect that the Jain brothers were acting on instructions of Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh Deshmukh and want to record his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-sent-to-judicial-custody-till-nov-19-in-money-laundering-case-101636191397930.html
06-11-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede not completely out of picture, will assist in Aryan Khan case||A day after a special investigation team of Delhi took over six cases, including Aryan Khan case, from the Mumbai zone unit, new investigating officer Sanjay Kumar Singh said Sameer Wankhede's assistance will be taken in all the six cases as he is the director of the Mumbai unit. The team, headed by Sanjay Kumar Singh, the deputy director-general of the Narcotics Control Bureau, comprising officials from NCB headquarters in Delhi has already reached Mumbai on Saturday. The decision to shift six cases to this special team was an administrative decision, taken at a time when Sameer Wankhede is facing an internal vigilance probe on extortion charges and other irregularities, levelled against him Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik."We've taken over a group of six cases. He (Sameer Wankhede) is the zonal director of Mumbai, we'll definitely take his assistance in the investigation," Sanjay Kumar Singh said in Mumbai.  "We've taken over a group of 6 cases. He (Sameer Wankhede) is the zonal director of Mumbai, we'll definitely take his assistance in the investigation," said Narcotics Control Bureau's DDG Sanjay Kumar Singh in Mumbai pic.twitter.com/egkhfHQFhfThe central agency on Friday issued a statement and clarified that the transfer of the case has been precipitated because of the "national and international ramifications" the cases have. "No officer or officers have been removed from their present roles and they will continue to assist the operations branch investigation as required until any specific orders are issued to the contrary," it said.Is it a message to Sameer Wankhede?The timing of the transfer of these crucial cases raises the question as to whether the central agency is conveying any message to embattled Sameer Wankhede. As the decision was announced on Friday, Wankhede said, "I've not been removed from the investigation. It was my writ petition in court that the matter should be probed by a central agency. So Aryan case and Sameer Khan case are being probed by Delhi NCB's SIT. It's coordination between NCB teams of Delhi and Mumbai."An NCB official explained to ANI that Sameer Wankhede is a deputy inspector general-rank officer of the central agency and is too senior to become an investigating officer of any case. "He/She just supervises any investigation of the zone. So it's baseless to say that Sameer Wankhede will cease to investigate these six cases. Actually, he was never investigating these cases," the official said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-not-completely-out-of-picture-will-assist-in-aryan-khan-case-101636189030464.html
06-11-2021||India||I-T detects irregularities in Maharashtra bank, freezes ₹53.72 crore||The Income Tax department has frozen ₹53.72 crore in various accounts of an urban co-operative bank in Maharashtra after unearthing glaring irregularities in opening of about 1,200 bank accounts, allegedly at the behest of one of the directors of the bank, officials said. The I-T department had on October 27, carried out searches at the bank and the residence of its chairman and a director. Analysis of data available on the Core Banking Solutions (CBS) system of the bank and the statements of key persons recorded during the search has revealed glaring irregularities in opening of several bank accounts, the department said in a release on Saturday. More than 1200 new bank accounts were found to have been opened in the said branch without PAN (Permanent Account Number) and mandatory KYC (Know Your Customer) details, said the department. It has, however, not revealed the name of the bank or its chairman or the director concerned. “The investigations have revealed that these bank accounts were opened without following KYC norms and all account opening forms were filled in by the bank staff who also put their signatures or thumb impressions (on the account opening forms),” said the I-T release. “In these accounts, multiple cash deposits, each of exact denomination of ₹1.9 lakh, were made totalling ₹53.72 crore. Out of these, more than 700 identified bank accounts were opened in a series, where cash deposits of more than ₹34.10 crore were made within seven days of opening of accounts, mainly between August 2020 and May 2021,” said the release. “These deposits have been structured to avoid mandatory PAN requirement for cash deposits of over ₹2 lakh. The money was subsequently converted into fixed deposits in the same branch,” it added. Also Read: ₹63 lakh cash, jewellery found after raids on dry fruits traders The tax department said it made enquiries in a few cases of such account holders and found that these persons were not aware of the cash deposits made in accounts opened in their names and categorically denied any knowledge about the accounts. “The chairman, CMD and the manager of the bank could not explain the source of cash deposits and accepted that these were done at the behest of one of the directors of the bank, a prominent local businessman engaged in trading of grains. On the basis of the evidence gathered and statements recorded, the entire amount of ₹53.72 crore has been restrained,” stated Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of I-T (media and technical policy) and official spokesperson, Central Board of Direct Taxation (CBDT).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-detects-irregularities-in-maharashtra-bank-freezes-rs-53-72-crore-101636189223972.html
06-11-2021||India||Assembly elections in 5 states on BJP NEC meet agenda||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday will be deliberating on upcoming assembly elections in the five states of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand in its national executive committee meet in the backdrop of recent by-polls that resulted in losses for the party in West Bengal, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, a party leader said.Apart from elections, the government’s response to the Covid pandemic, the speed at which the vaccination drive has been carried out and the policy interventions to revive the economy too are likely to figure during the day-long meeting that will have some attendees join in virtually. The national executive committee is the apex decision making body of the BJP and it is meeting physically after two years because of the restrictions imposed during the Covid pandemic. A single political resolution will be passed at the meeting, the party’s national general secretary, Arun Singh, said. The party will pass resolutions on pressing national and economic issues in the meet. Also Read | Cover 90% with first dose by Nov 30: GovtGiving details of the meeting that will be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Singh said that apart from the upcoming assembly elections, an exhibition to showcase the government’s ambitious programmes such as Aatmanirbhar Bharat and the gareeb kalyan yojana will be among the highlights. “The work done by the party workers during the Covid pandemic will also be showcased. A few days ago, we achieved the target of carrying out 100 crore vaccinations, that too will be on display,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elections-in-5-states-on-agenda-in-bjp-nec-meet-on-sunday-101636187783985.html
06-11-2021||India||BJP national executive meeting tomorrow; upcoming state polls likely to top agenda||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold its national executive meeting on Sunday in Delhi, with senior party leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, scheduled to be in attendance. The meeting will take place in ‘hybrid’ form, with some attendees to be present physically, while others will attend virtually.The meeting assumes significance as it comes just a few months before five states, including four ruled by the BJP, are likely to go to polls, in February-March next year. Of these, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur have BJP governments, while Punjab is the only Congress-ruled state. In late 2022, assembly elections will take place in two more states with BJP governments, including PM Modi and home minister Shah's home state, Gujarat, and Himachal Pradesh.The meeting assumes significance also because of the party's mixed performance in the recently held bypolls for three Lok Sabha and 29 assembly seats across 13 states. The BJP won only one Lok Sabha seat, and lost the other two, including the Mandi parliamentary constituency in poll-bound Himachal. In fact, the opposition Congress completed a clean sweep in the hill state, winning the Mandi seat and three assembly constituencies for which by-elections were held.Also Read | Bypolls an endorsement of incumbent governments : BJPMeanwhile, in West Bengal, the BJP's slide continued as the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) registered ‘unprecedented’ victory in all four assembly seats, while in Karnataka, another BJP-ruled state, the JP Nadda-led party suffered defeat in chief minister Basavaraj Bommai's home district. However, in Assam, it bagged all five assembly constituencies.Also Read | Karnataka bypolls: BJP wins Sindgi; Bommai says taking Hangal defeat ‘seriously’Besides discussing all ‘important’ issues, party leaders, during the national executive, are also likely to laud the central government over its handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, including the nationwide vaccination drive, which has seen more than 1 billion doses administered since it commenced on January 16 this year.JP Nadda will deliver the opening remarks, while PM Modi is likely to deliver the valedictory address.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-national-executive-meeting-tomorrow-upcoming-assembly-polls-in-5-states-likely-to-top-agenda-101636182586661.html
06-11-2021||India||India-France to deepen maritime security, talk Afghanistan||India and France held their second strategic dialogue on Friday with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval discussing Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific and strengthening maritime security with Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor to President Emmanuel Macron in Paris.It is understood that NSA Doval met French defence minister Florence Parly and foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian during his short trip to the French capital. The French foreign minister discussed the priorities in the fight against climate change, according to a statement issued by the French embassy."At his meeting with NSA Ajit Doval on the occasion of the 35th Strategic Dialogue in Paris, French FM @JY_LeDrian stressed France's commitment to deepening the Indo-French strategic partnership in all its dimensions," ambassador of France to India Emmanuel Lenain said on Twitter.At his meeting with NSA Ajit Doval on the occasion of the 35th 🇫🇷🇮🇳 Strategic Dialogue in Paris, French FM @JY_LeDrian stressed France's commitment to deepening the Indo-French strategic partnership in all its dimensions.Statement⤵ https://t.co/19s4RiO68d“He underscored the importance of the mutual trust between France and India, as well as that of the Indo-French partnership in working to strengthen multilateralism and defend a free and open Indo-Pacific based on the rule of law,” the statement further said.Both the countries exchanged notes on critical situation in Afghanistan with France as part of European Union holding a divergent view from Britain, which played a key part in the failed Doha political process with the Talban leadership. Today, Afghanistan under Taliban and in the mentorship of Pakistani ISI is headed for a disaster of humongous proportions due to drought like conditions and no governance. Nearly three months after seizing Kabul, no country has recognised the Taliban regime despite being promoted by Pakistan, China, Qatar and Turkey.The French minister called for continued Indo-French coordination, including at the UN Security Council, on Afghanistan, the statement from the embassy said.The two advisors had a detailed discussion on both countries strengthening maritime security with France willing to supply the latest technology in the sub-surface dimensions including underwater drones and state-of-the-art submarines.It is understood that France shared its disappointment over Australia abrogating multi-billion-dollar diesel attack submarine project in favor of nuclear powered and conventionally armed submarines from US under the new AUKUS pact. However, both sides decided that maritime security should be bilaterally cemented with AUKUS running parallel to achieve the larger Indo-Pacific objective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiafrance-to-deepen-maritime-security-talk-afghanistan-101636183975789.html
06-11-2021||India||Swapna Suresh, key accused in Kerala gold smuggling case, released from jail||After spending 16 months behind bars, the prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, was released from jail on Saturday after spending 16 months behind bars.Earlier on November 2, Kerala high court granted bail to Suresh in the case registered by National Investigation Agency (NIA) under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).The bail was granted to her on a ₹25 lakhs bail bond and two solvent sureties.Swapna Suresh, who was arrested by the NIA on July 11, 2020, had been in judicial custody since then.The Kerala gold smuggling case pertains to the smuggling of gold in the state through diplomatic channels. It had come to light after 30 kg gold worth ₹14.82 crore smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage was busted by the customs department in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5, 2019.It is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate, National Investigative Agency (NIA), and the customs department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swapna-suresh-key-accused-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-released-from-jail-101636182917872.html
06-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: UP CM Yogi Adityanath says Gorakhpur now Covid-free and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Gorakhpur becomes free of Covid-19, announces Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi AdityanathUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced that Gorakhpur in eastern part of the state now has zero coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. He also congratulated the healthcare officials and people of Gorakhpur for the feat. Read moreScotland players request to visit Indian dressing room after match, Kohli, Rohit, Bumrah responds in styleAfter the comprehensive victory in Dubai on Friday, which kept them in semi-final contention, the Indian players led by captain Virat Kohli agreed to host the Scotland players and spend time with them when they requested to visit the Indian dressing room. Read moreSooryavanshi box office day 1 estimates: Akshay Kumar-Katrina Kaif bring back the fireworks, film opens to ₹26 crSooryavanshi, starring Akshay Kumar and Katrina Kaif, has brought a ray of hope with a decent opening at the box office. The Rohit Shetty film opened in theatres with estimated collections of ₹26 crore on Friday. Read more2021 Bajaj Pulsar N250 and F250 road test review: Best Pulsar yet?Bajaj Auto recently made one of the biggest announcements for the year with the introduction of the new Pulsar 250. The new quarter-litre Pulsar carries the torch forward and leads the charge for the range. Read moreKatrina Kaif's blush pink saree is the quintessential festive look, fan calls her Queen of million heartsEven though Diwali has ended, celebrities still seem to be enjoying the festive spirit by sharing pictures and videos from their celebrations. Actor Katrina Kaif, whose film Sooryavanshi with Akshay Kumar hit the theatres today, is one of them. The actor shared pictures of her Diwali look wearing a blush pink saree on Instagram recently, and it is the quintessential festive look. Read moreGreta Thunberg's verdict after COP26 Glasgow summit to address climate changeSwedish campaigner Greta Thunberg branded the UN climate summit in Glasgow a 'failure’. Greta's remark came during a mass protest in Glasgow demanding quicker action from leaders. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-says-gorakhpur-now-covid-free-and-all-the-latest-news-101636182367311.html
06-11-2021||India||Gorakhpur becomes free of Covid-19, announces Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced that Gorakhpur in eastern part of the state now has zero coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. He also congratulated the healthcare officials and people of Gorakhpur for the feat."In Gorakhpur, the holy land of Mahayogi Guru Gorakhnath ji, the number of corona infected has become zero today. This achievement is due to the active participation of the district administration, the tireless work of the committed health workers and disciplined cooperation from honourable and dedicated public representatives and the people of Gorakhpur," Adityanath said on Koo, an Indian microblogging and social networking service.Adityanath is the mahant or head priest of the Gorakhnath Math. He represented Gorakhpur in Parliament for 19 years for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), but vacated the seat after taking over as Uttar Pradesh chief minister in 2017.Adityanath was born Ajay Mohan Bisht in Uttarakhand's Pauri Garhwal, but later changed his name after indoctrination into the Nath sect.The number of Covid-19 cases has been steadily falling in Uttar Pradesh and the state government last month lifted the night curfew, in place from 11pm to 6am.The number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh have stayed below 100 since October. On Saturday, the active cases went down by four and stands at 91. The state recorded just five new Covid-19 cases and one related fatality in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry.Meanwhile, India recorded 10,929 fresh coronavirus cases that took its infection tally to 3,43,44,683, while 392 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,60,265, according to health ministry.The number of active cases came down to 1,46,950 from 1,48,922 on Friday, the data updated at 8 am showed.The daily rise in Covid-19 cases has been below 20,000 for 29 straight days. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 132 consecutive days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gorakhpur-becomes-free-of-covid-19-announces-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-101636179184625.html
06-11-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh's ED custody ends today, will be produced before PMLA court||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh will be presented before the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court today. The 71-year-old was sent to custoy of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) till November 6.He was arrested by the ED on Monday night after 12 hours of questioning. The agency is investigating ₹100 crore extortion and money laundering case against the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader.Before being produced in court, Deshmukh was taken for a medical check-up.Deshmukh's son Hrishikesh was summoned by the ED on Friday for questioning in connection with the money laundering case.ED officials said its investigation revealed that through hawala channels, they money extorted from Mumbai was sent to the Delhi-based Surendra Kumar Jain and Virendra Jain who operated bogus companies. The Jain brothers are alleged to have diverted this money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, a trust controlled by the Deshmukh family.The ED case is based on an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). It was registered after former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh of asking dismissed policeman Sachin Waze to extort ₹100 crore every month from hotels and bars in Mumbai.The NCP leader had to resign as Maharashtra home minister after a case was registered against him.Deshmukh was arrested under the provisions of the PMLA as ED officials claimed that the politician was evasive during questioning. He appeared before ED for the first time on Monday after skipping multiple summons for the last four months.Deshmukh denied any wrongdoing and said that Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai Police chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-s-ed-custody-ends-today-will-be-produced-before-pmla-court-today-101636177012277.html
06-11-2021||India||At 10,929, India sees less than 11,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for 2nd time this week||For a second time this week, India saw less than 11,000 daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with 10,929 people testing positive for the viral illness, taking the cumulative case count to 34,344,683, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Saturday. The latest daily cases are also 14 per cent less than 12,729 infections reported on November 5.
06-11-2021||India||NCERT drops transgender inclusion manual from website after NCPCR rap||The National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has removed a teachers’ training manual on integration of transgender or gender non-conforming students in schools from its website days after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) sought rectification of “anomalies” in the document.The manual, Inclusion of Transgender Children in School Education: Concerns and Roadmap, was recently put up by NCERT on its website to educate and sensitise teachers towards the practices and strategies to make schools sensitive and inclusive for transgender and gender non-conforming students.It recommended the provision of gender-neutral toilets and uniforms, discontinuing practices that segregate children for various school activities based on their gender, inviting members of transgender community to speak on campus, among others.However, on November 2, NCPCR wrote to NCERT saying it had received complaints against the content of the teaching manual and took suo moto cognisance in the matter in relation to deprivation and violation of child rights. “The text of the manual suggests gender-neutral infrastructure for children that does not commensurate with their gender realities and basic needs. Also, the idea of creating and removing binaries shall deny them equal rights of children of diverse biological needs. Second, this approach will expose children to unnecessary psychological trauma due to contradictory environments at home and in school,” NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said in the letter to NCERT.Also Read | CBSE Term 1 Exam 2021: Notice on exam duration and important instructions issued“It is also highlighted in the manual (chapter 3) that teachers are suggested to discuss with students about puberty blockers and its availability for adolescents. Further, the background and qualifications of the members of the drafting committee was not verified,” the NCPCR letter added while commenting on the manual.NCPCR asked NCERT to “take appropriate action to rectifying the anomalies in the document”, and added that “antecedents of the members of the drafting committee may be verified”.On Friday, the manual was not available on the NCERT’s website and no immediate comment was provided by the commission. However, a senior official at the ministry of education, requesting anonymity, said, “The NCERT has informed the ministry that the document was still under process and it was inadvertently uploaded on the website. The council will provide the required response to the NCPCR. The manual has been drafted by the department of gender studies at the NCERT with all due considerations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncert-drops-transgender-inclusion-manual-from-website-after-ncpcr-rap-101636169182949.html
06-11-2021||India||'Party decides who fights from where': Adityanath on contesting UP polls||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that he will contest the next year's assembly elections if his party decides so. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader is currently a member of the UP Legislative Council."I have always contested elections and I will contest from wherever the party will say," Adityanath said on Friday."The party has a parliamentary board and it decides who will contest from where," he added.Adityanath said the BJP government has done whatever the party promised in the run-up to the last assembly polls in 2017.On the law and order situation, he said that the state has set an example and during the past over four years there was no riot and all festivals, including Diwali, were celebrated peacefully.The remarks were made a day after BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh said the party wil fight the 2022 assembly polls under the leadership of Adityanath.The assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh is among the crucial state polls for the BJP, which recently suffered a drubbing in party-ruled Himachal Pradesh, even losing the Mandi Lok Sabha seat, which is chief minister Jairam Thakur's home turf.The BJP is know to take tough decisions, and in case of other states like Gujarat and Uttarakhand - which will also go to polls in 2022 - it changed the chief ministers. While Bhupendra Patel replaced Vijay Rupani in Gujarat in September, Tirath Sigh Rawat was switched with Pushkar Singh Dhami in Uttarakhand in July.The BJP has started preparations for UP months in advance. In October, the party's central leadership held a crucial meeting with the Uttar Pradesh unit on next year's assembly polls. The BJP leadership discussed the party's election agenda for the coming 100 days and asked the state unit to reach out to the people with positive message.The BJP has prepared a presentation listing out the welfare schemes that the government has initiated and needed to be conveyed to the voters.The meeting - attended by BJP general secretary BL Santhosh, Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, state chief Swantantra Dev Singh and Uttar Pradesh election in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan - also discussed the allies who they will take along for the polls.The schedule of Uttar Pradesh assembly elections is expected to be announced in January. The BJP came back to power in the state in the 2017 assembly polls bagging 312 seats. The party secured a 39.67 per cent vote share in the elections. The Samajwadi Party got 47 seats, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) 19, and Congress managed 7 seats in the last assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/party-decides-who-fights-from-where-adityanath-on-contesting-up-polls-101636168797314.html
06-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Hydro project at Cochin airport to be launched today and all the latest news||Cochin airport, first to run fully on solar power, to launch hydro project todayThe hydroelectric plant, which is estimated to generate 14 million units of power each year, will be inaugurated at 11am today by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Read moreHighest, biggest, fastest: Full list of records India shattered with huge win against Scotland in T20 World CupAfter India's rampaging win against Scotland which took their net run rate above New Zealand and Afghanistan, here's a look at the records Virat Kohli and Co. shattered during the clash. Read morePriyanka Chopra glows like patakha in white lehenga with kurta-clad Nick Jonas: Pics and videoPriyanka Chopra, in a white embroidered lehenga set, glowed like a patakha with Nick Jonas for Diwali celebrations. The actor chose a Falguni Shane Peacock lehenga set for the festivities. Read moreAir Purifiers under 10000 with low maintenance: Check from Xiaomi, AmazonWith the onset of terrible air pollution across several states in North and Northeastern India, getting an air purifier is of absolute importance. Read moreBJP MP’s car attacked, windshield smashed as farmers show black flag in protestBJP MP Ram Chander Jangra faced farmer’s ire in Hisar on Friday. The MP reportedly called protesters 'jobless alcoholics from villages'. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-hydro-project-at-cochin-airport-to-be-launched-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101636165767423.html
06-11-2021||NA||Breaking news LIVE: 2 injured in fire at Mumbai's Hansa Heritage building||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Pednekar reaches Heritage Hansa building“What I have come to know till now is that fire was probably due to diya kept in the balcony at one of the house on 14th floor. Due to high wind speed, the fire later spread to 15th floor. The fire brigade also rescued around five people from the building. Fortunately, the fire station was very nearby to the building and hence the call was attended at a very early stage of the fire,” Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said after reaching the spot. Stampede at rapper Travis Scott's concert kills 10At least 10 people died in a stampede at Travis Scott's Astroworld concert in Houston music festival in US. An estimated 50,000 people were attending the concert. Fire in building in  Kandivali West; 2 injuredA fire was reported at a 15-stroreyed Heritage Hansa building in Kandivali West at 8.33 pm. Fire engines were rushed to the spot. State Bank of India (SBI) chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara at Dubai Expo“Actually, it [the vaccination drive] has enhanced the confidence level of the common man as well as the economy,” State Bank of India (SBI) chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said at the India Pavilion of EXPO2020 Dubai.BBMP ropes in INSACOG for understanding spread of CovidBBMP's Gaurav Gupta said that they will sample sewage in order to better understand viral load in a particular area. Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg issued yellow alertThe regional weather body kept both Maharashtra districts under Yellow Alert. US passes Infrastructure billUS president Joe Biden terms the bill a ‘once in a generation investment’ that ‘will create millions of jobs’, news agency Reuters reported. Non-essential diplomats from US asked to evacuate from EthiopiaThe US ordered  its non-essential diplomats in Ethiopia to leave nation. Sudan’s protest movement rejects power-sharing pactActivists in Sudan rejected power-sharing arrangement with the military after last month’s coup, AP reported. 32 people died after consuming spurious liquor in BiharThe death toll due to Bihar hooch tragedy reached 32Famous ice-cream company founder passes away Shibaroor Prabhakar Kamath of the Ideal Ice Cream brand passed away on Saturday. Sierra Leone fuel tank blast: Death toll cross 90The death toll due to a fuel tanker blast reached 92, news agency AFP reported citing the Western African nation's vice president. It also said that most people were there to collect leaking fuel from the tanker. Ahmednagar District Hospital fire: Death toll surges past 10Another casualty was reported from Saturday's fire at the Ahmednagar District Hospital. The death toll due to the incident reached 11. BJP NEC to begin with PM Modi's speechParty's national executive meeting tomorrow will commence in the morning with a speech addressed by PM Modi & conclude at around 3 pm. Every member, across the country, will be getting guidelines by PM Modi on how to make the party better," says BJP senior leader Arun SinghSeveral wounded in knife attack on train in GermanyAt least three people were wounded in knife attack on train in Germany, reported AFP citing German policePM meets SC JamirPM Modi meets former Nagaland CM, veteran Congress leader SC Jamir and lauds him as ‘respected statesman’Anil Deshmukh sent to judicial custody for fourteen daysFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh send to judicial custody for fourteen days by a holiday sessions court till November 19. ED arrested him for money laundering after the allegations of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir SinghDelhi govt extends free ration schemeDelhi govt is extends its free ration scheme for six months,  says CM Arvind KejriwalED seeks custody of Anil DeshmukhEnforcement Directorate (ED) asks for nine days ED custody of former Home minister, Anil Deshmukh. Maharashtra CM orders inquiry into Ahmednagar district hospital fireChief minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered for a detained inquiry in the fire incident at Ahmednagar district hospital claimed lives of around ten patients. He has also sought a detailed report into the matter.“CM Thackeray has expressed condolences and ordered a detailed probe and action against those responsible for negligence,” stated a statement issued by the chief minister's office.“As soon as he came to know about the incident, the chief minister spoke to the district guardian minister Hasan Mushrif and chief secretary (Sitaram Kunte) and asked to ensure those needing medical attention won’t have to face any difficulties. He also ordered the district collector (Rajendra Bhosale) to conduct a detailed probe of the incident and submit a report,” it adds furtherSierra Leone fuel depot explosion: At least 80 dead#BREAKING At least 80 dead in Sierra Leone fuel depot blast: Red Cross pic.twitter.com/U5PgiS8MTTMore than 80 died at a blast in a fuel depot in Sierra LeoneEx-Mumbai cop Sachin Waze's police custody extended Mumbai's Esplanade court extends former police officer Sachin Waze's police custody till November 13.Maharashtra: 10 killed as fire breaks out in hospital10 people died in a fire incident at Ahmednagar District Hospital: Rajendra Bhosale, district collector‘Using anti-smog water tanks to reduce air pollution’As an emergency measure, we've started spraying water on roads with the help of anti-smog water tanks to reduce the air pollution. We've also banned 92 construction sites for violating norms: Gopal Rai, Delhi environment ministerSAD protests outside Punjab CM Channi's residenceShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, including former Punjab deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal, protest outside CM Charanjit Singh Channi's residence in Chandigarh demanding compensation to farmers for reducing the high prices of petrol-diesel.At 793, Ukraine sees record daily Covid-19 deathsUkraine sees record 793 new Covid-19 related deaths, surpassing previous single-day record of 734 from October 26. Total toll at 71,635 while cases rise to more than 3.06 million after 25,063 fresh infections detected.Kerala gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh releasedSwapna Suresh, prime accused in Kerala gold smuggling case, released from jail. Kerala HC granted her bail on November 2.Delhi CM urges Centre to extend PMGKY by 6 monthdमहंगाई बहुत ज़्यादा हो गई है। आम आदमी को दो वक्त की रोटी भी मुश्किल हो रही है। कोरोना की वजह से कई बेरोज़गार हो गएप्रधानमंत्री जी, ग़रीबों को मुफ़्त राशन देने की इस योजना को कृपया छः महीने और बढ़ाया जाएदिल्ली सरकार अपनी फ़्री राशन योजना छः महीने के लिए बढ़ा रही है। https://t.co/rF3TC7bRaMDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal urges PM Modi to extend central free ration scheme for six more months after November 30.Indian Coast Guard rescues fishermen in KarnatakaSeven fishermen after a fishing boat caught fire at a distance of 10 nautical miles from Karwar lighthouse on Friday: Indian Coast GuardFormer Maharashtra HM taken for medical examFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was arrested in a money laundering case, being taken for medical examination from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office.Nearly 614 million samples tested for Covid-19: ICMR613,965,751 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 5th November 2021. Of these, 810,783 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)India records 10,929 new Covid-19 cases and 392 deathsIndia reports 10,929 new Covid-19 cases, 14.14% less than yesterday, as tally mounts to 34,344,683. Toll rises to 460,265 with 392 new fatalities.US Congress passes Biden's infrastructure planUS Congress passes President Joe Biden's ‘ambitious’ $1.2 trillion infrastructure package, reports AFP.Kedarnath temple closes portal for winter seasonUttarakhand's Kedarnath temple closed its portal for the winter season at 8am today.AQI: PM10 at 654 in Delhi's Connaught PlaceAQI from Delhi - PM10 in Connaught Place at 654, PM 2.5 at 628; PM10 at 382 and PM2.5 at 341 near Janta Mantar and PM2.5 at 374 near ITO.Not planning to step down, says New Zealand PM ArdernAhead of her Labour Party's annual conference, New Zealand PM Jacinda Ardern says she does not plan to step down 'anytime soon." Ardern said during an interview, “I’m not stopping, I need to carry us through, it’s my job. I still consider this to be the greatest privilege of my life. I’ve only just been re-elected.”US continues to add jobs at ‘record’ pace: White HouseThe United States continues to add jobs at a record pace. An average of 620,000 jobs per month and more than 5.6 million jobs were created since President Joe Biden took office. Unemployment rate fell to 4.6%, lowest since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic: Karine Jean-Pierre, White House deputy press secretaryBrazil logs 13,321 new Covid-19 cases, 389 deathsBrazil records 13,321 new Covid-19 cases and 389 deaths. Total cases rise to 21,862,458 including 609,060 related deaths.Delhi's overall air quality remains ‘severe’Delhi's overall air quality continues to be 'severe', with overall air quality index (AQI) standing at 533: System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-6-2021-101636155845927.html
06-11-2021||India||Cochin airport, first to run fully on solar power, to launch hydro project today||The Cochin International Airport Ltd (CIAL), which is the world's first fully solar-powered airport, will on Saturday commission its own hydroelectric project, now taking pioneering strides in the production of sustainable energy. With the hydro plant commissioned, CIAL aims to provide power to the KSEB grid from its plant at Arippara near Kozhikode.The hydroelectric plant, which is estimated to generate 14 million units of power each year, will be inaugurated at 11am today by Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.Also Read | CIAL to commission its 1st hydropower projectAccording to CIAL, the hydroelectric plant is a “run-of-river” project, which uses the natural downward flow of rivers and microturbine generators to capture the kinetic energy carried by water. CIAL constructed a weir dam across the Iruvazhinji River and hydro-mechanical and electro-mechanical systems at Arippara, near Kodencheri in Kozhikode district.Being a run-of-river project, the CIAL small hydro project (SHP) works on limited storage of water causing no adverse effect on the environment, an official statement said. The scheme envisages the construction of an overflow type weir across the river, which diverts the water to an intake pool from where the intake structure and connected water conductor system (WCS) start.Also Read | Cochin airport gets global award for quality of service“A surge tank was constructed to moderate the water flow during load acceptance and load rejection time,” a statement said. “A penstock feeds two machines each of 2.25 MW capacity. A powerhouse, with horizontal turbines, is installed at the right bank of the river with an installed capacity of 4.5MW.” The site lies in Nellipoyil Village near Kodencheri in Kozhikode district at a distance of 45 km from Kozhikode City. The airport also purchased five acres of land from 32 residents in the area, the total project costing about ₹52 crore.The powerhouse is expected to generate around 1.08 lakh units of power a day during peak flow day and it is estimated that the plant could be operational in full capacity for 130 days in a year.“When the country is deliberating on power crisis, it is the leadership and guidance of the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, as the Chairman of CIAL, which turned out to be decisive to speed up the project implementation,” S Suhas, the Managing Director of CIAL, said in a statement. “We are sure that, this will impart further momentum to set up such hydro projects across the state which has 44 rivers and numerous streams.” (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cochin-airport-first-to-run-fully-on-solar-power-to-launch-hydro-project-today-101636156037205.html
06-11-2021||India||Srinagar: Terrorists flee after gunfight near hospital||A brief encounter took place between terrorists and security forces near a hospital in Srinagar’s SKIMS hospital on Friday, but the terrorists managed to flee the spot, police said.The incident took place near SKIMS Hospital in the Bemina area of the city on the Srinagar-Baramulla highway.“There was a brief firefight between terrorists and security forces at SKIMS Hospital, Bemina. Terrorists managed to escape taking advantage of civilian presence,” Srinagar Police said in a tweet.A joint search and cordon operation was launched by the police, the CRPF and the Army’s Rashtriya Rifles inside and outside the hospital, but the terrorists managed to flee due to the heavy rush. The operation also halted the traffic on the national highway briefly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-terrorists-flee-after-gunfight-near-hospital-101636151554058.html
06-11-2021||India||2 killed, 1 hurt in shootout in Jammu’s Arnia, cops on suspect list||Two men were murdered and their third accomplice critically injured after they were fired upon with AK 47 assault rifles by two policemen in Arnia area on the outskirts of Jammu district early Friday. Around 12 empty cartridges were found on the crime scene. The deceased have been identified as Arif Khan of Chohala and Mohammad Sabar of Chak Mohammad Yar of RS Pura. Sabar’s brother Babar sustained critical injuries and was shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Jammu. “Initial investigations suggest that two policemen--Harvinder Singh of IRP (Indian Reserve Police) and Sadiq, a suspended cop, are involved in the attack. They are on the run,” said a senior police officer. “The attackers, who had come in a Mahindra Thar vehicle, intercepted the trio in their Scorpio at Kothe Chak Harnia village near the international border. The cops opened fire from their AK-47 rifles. They fired 12 rounds and as a result Arif Khan and Mohammad Sabar died on the spot. Babar was critically injured in the attack,” he added. The attackers left their Thar at the crime scene and fled in Scorpio car of the victims. An AK-47 rifle, four sharp edged weapons, a hockey stick, and police uniform were also recovered from the Thar. “Harvinder Singh of IRP had been suspended from his job but was reinstated recently,” said the officer. He informed that prima facie dispute over drug money seemed to be the reason behind the attack. The victims were also carrying sharp-edged weapons with them. The officer informed that 19 FIRs stand registered against Babar for various crimes in different police stations of Jammu. “Similarly, one FIR was registered against Arif Khan and four FIRs were registered against Mohammad Sabar,” he said. When contacted, Jammu district police chief SSP Chandan Kohli said, “An FIR has been lodged and a special investigation team (SIT) headed by SP Headquarters Ramnish Gupta has been constituted by me. The investigation has been set into motion.” Soon after the crime senior officers, including the SSP, visited the crime scene and took stock of the shootout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-killed-1-hurt-in-shootout-in-jammu-s-arnia-cops-on-suspect-list-101636145659036.html
06-11-2021||India||Centre, insurance firms willing to settle claims via mediation, SC told||The Union government and insurance companies have agreed to settle payment of compensation to victims of road accidents through mediation that may at best take over three months, the Supreme Court was told last week.A report on the proposed mechanism of mediation suggested that “trained mediators” engage both the claimant and the insurance company to arrive at a “just and reasonable” compensation and ensure an amicable settlement.The report, prepared by additional solicitor general (ASG) Jayant Sud, was presented before a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh on October 26. The court will consider the suggestions during the next hearing on November 16.The court was informed about the proposed mechanism at a time it was considering passing directions for speedy resolution of cases pending under the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal (MACT). As per the National Judicial Data Grid, nearly 25% of over 7.36 lakh MACT cases remained in the trial stage for more than three years. Of the total, at least 650 have been delayed for over two decades.In his report, Sud highlighted how the alarming situation of pendency of motor accident claims has choked the entire justice delivery system.“...further directions may be passed for not only speedy disposal of motor accident claims but also to ensure that the award amount reaches the victims expeditiously and without any deductions,” the report said.“Settling dispute through mediation is an excellent thing but you need trained mediators who can provide ‘fair and just compensation’. It should not be an attempt to coerce people into accepting whatever the insurance company has to offer,” Supreme Court advocate Gaurav Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-insurance-firms-willing-to-settle-claims-via-mediation-sc-told-101636143364367.html
06-11-2021||India||BJP questions Opposition ruled states for not cutting excise on fuel prices||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday attacked opposition parties, including the Congress, for not announcing cuts in fuel prices in states ruled by them even as those governed by it had emulated the Centre to effect substantial reductions in petrol and diesel rates by up to ₹13.43 and ₹19.61 a litre, respectively.The Union government on Wednesday announced a reduction in central levies on petrol by ₹5 a litre and diesel by ₹10 a litre from Thursday amid spiralling fuel prices, and urged states to further bring down the rates by reducing VAT (value added tax).BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia lashed out at the Congress, Trinamool Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for not announcing tax cuts. “In Uttar Pradesh, chief minister, Yogi Adityanath has lowered the prices of petrol and diesel by ₹12, similarly in Gujarat and Assam prices have been reduced by ₹7. This is in addition to the cuts that were announced by the Union government,” Bhatia said, addressing the media on Friday.According to data compiled by state-run oil companies as of Friday evening, VAT remained unchanged in 14 states and Union territories -- Maharashtra, Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Meghalaya, Andaman & Nicobar, Jharkhand, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, and Rajasthan. However, at night, Odisha announced a ₹3 per litre reduction in VAT on both petrol and diesel from midnight.A bunch of BJP rules states announced cuts ranging between ₹5 and ₹10. The announcement made on the eve of Diwali is perceived to have been done in view of the bypoll results announced on Tuesday that were a mixed bag for the BJP.“In Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Delhi and Rajasthan people want to know why such steps have not been taken by the state governments…The steps that were taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and emulated by BJP-ruled states are not being implemented by other governments,” Bhatia said.While Uttarakhand, a BJP-ruled state, reduced VAT on petrol by 81 paise per litre, it did not cut VAT on diesel, according to the data. VAT reduction on diesel was a symbolic 31 paise per litre in Haryana, where the state took a ₹5.78 a litre revenue hit on petrol.Earlier in the day, the Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala posted a scathing tweet in Hindi, alleging that the Haryana government was conning the public by reducing VAT on petrol while increasing it on diesel. “Have a look at what the ‘loot jeevi’ Khattar-Dushyant government is up to. In Haryana, the VAT on petrol has been reduced by ₹1.12 and it has been raised on diesel by ₹1.78. The people of the state know these lies and understand them. Shame on such an anti-people government,” Surjewala tweeted, also sharing the notification issued by the excise department.Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien took a jibe at government’s latest move. He posted a wordplay of a famous quote from former US president Abraham Lincoln, switching “fool” with “fuel”. “You can fuel all the people some of the time and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fuel all the people all the time,” the senior TMC leader said in a tweet, while sharing a graph comparing the prices of crude oil, petrol and diesel in January 2014 and November 2021.Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena, which shares power with the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress in Maharashtra, criticised the reduction in petrol price by ₹5 as too little. Party spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Thursday said that the Centre should have reduced it by “at least ₹25 per litre to provide relief to people… They (Centre) realised that prices need to be slashed after they lost the bypolls”.Bhatia made a reference to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot’s tweet and said opposition-ruled states need to accept that they have the responsibility towards people, just as they have a share in the collections from tax.On Thursday, Gehlot, in a tweet, said, “With the reduction of excise duty by the Centre, the VAT levied by the states is automatically reduced in the same proportion. We demand that the Centre should further reduce excise duty to reduce inflation.”While central excise is specific at ₹27.9 per litre on petrol and ₹21.8 on diesel, VAT rates imposed by states are ad valorem, giving them windfall gains when international oil prices surge.There are two main reasons for high petrol and diesel rates in India – international oil price surge (India imports about 85% oil it processes) and high central and state levies. Through 2020, as global crude prices plunged (below $20 a barrel in April last year), the central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States, too, followed suit as their revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the central excise and state VAT (which is ad valorem) on petrol and diesel went up to 53% and 46.9% of their respective retail prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-opposition-exchange-barbs-over-reduction-of-petrol-diesel-rates-101636143071177.html
06-11-2021||India||Petrol bomb hurled at car of Hindu outfit functionary||A petrol bomb was hurled at a car belonging to a Hindu Mahasabha functionary near here and a search is on for two persons involved in the attack, police said on Friday.The outfit’s youth wing secretary Subhash, who was in his house, heard a noise of something falling on his car at around 11 PM on Thursday and came out to find the car in front of his house burning. He informed the police.The fire was doused with the help of neighbours, the police said.Police said they examined the footage of CCTV cameras fitted in the house showing the two with full-face helmets throwing the molotov cocktail at the vehicle, police said.In another incident, BJP area secretary Jagadeesh found one of the windows of his house damaged by air gun-shots when he returned home here on Thursday night, the police said.Police said they found 10 cartridges in the compound of the house.Further investigations were on they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-bomb-hurled-at-car-of-hindu-outfit-functionary-101636140857660.html
06-11-2021||India||No plan to cut fuel tax, says Kerala FM||Two days after the central government slashed excise duty on petrol and diesel, the Kerala government on Friday reiterated that it has no plan to cut sales tax on fuel considering the state’s poor financial situation.The state government had introduced many welfare programmes during peak of the Covid-19 pandemic and they will be affected if tax on fuel was cut, Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal told reporters here. He said the Centre was forced to take such a decision in the wake of setbacks the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party suffered in recent by-elections.“There is no need to reduce tax in Kerala. When the Centre reduced ₹10 and ₹5 for diesel and petrol, it has actually been reduced by ₹12.30 and ₹6.56 in Kerala due to the tax structure. The value-based structure is formulated in the state like this,” he said. He also criticised the Congress and BJP for demanding further tax cut.“Both behave as if the Centre did a big thing, but it is not. After hiking the price for almost every day, it made a small reduction. In last seven years, it increased tax by over ₹31 but reduction was only slight,” Balagopal said, adding that states were not given the share of revenue collected through additional tax.The minister said his government’s sales tax collection was not in tune with the soaring government expenditure so it can’t take any risk now.After the Pinarayi Vijayan government came to power in the state in 2016, he said the state has not increased the fuel tax.The Kerala assembly on Tuesday witnessed a war of words between the CPI(M)-led ruling front and the Congress-headed opposition over frequent fuel price hike in the country and the latter walked out of the House terming it as “state-sponsored tax terrorism.” Though the LDF government maintained that it was the Centre and not the state government which was responsible for the fuel price hike, the UDF members wanted it to forego the additional tax revenue generated on its sales for the sake of struggling commoners. (With PTI input)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-to-cut-fuel-tax-says-kerala-fm-101636140318715.html
06-11-2021||India||Stalin reaches out to indigenous communities after tribal woman barred from having food at temple||As the country celebrated Diwali on Thursday, chief minister MK Stalin reached out to indigenous communities with festival gifts such as land deeds and welfare measures in Tamil Nadu’s Poonjeri village.This came following a series of events where Ashwini (goes by a single name) -- a woman who belongs to the Narikurava community -- had raised the issue of discrimination via a video after her community was prevented from having Annadhanam (concept of temples offering free food for the poor) along with others at a temple (Sthalasayana Perumal) in Mamallapuram, 50 km from Chennai, about two weeks ago.Following the discriminatory incident, the minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, PK Sekar Babu, had a feast for lunch with Ashwini and others at the same temple. Stalin visited her home on Thursday to in his words “return the dignity”.“I had expressed a wish to meet the chief minister but I never thought it would happen. There are a lot of struggles our community faces and now that he intervened we believe things will change for us,” Ashwini said, speaking over the phone.She sells beads for a living much like the rest of the Narikurava tribes. “We earn between ₹200-300 a day and some days we earn nothing.” In her video, Ashwini aired her grievances and criticised temple authorities and the society at large for treating them without dignity which circulated widely on the social media. She also spoke of the lack of opportunities such as tribal children not being able to access education.Stalin, in a tweet, recalled the discriminating incident. “What was denied for Ashwini is dignity and respect not food and it is an opportunity for the government to restore it,” Stalin said drawing in the tenets of the DMK party’s Dravidian ideology. “The role of the Dravidian Movement is to protect every single person from the downtrodden with self-respect and social justice.”On Thursday, Stalin distributed land pattas, community certificates and launched welfare and development schemes such as drinking water supply, electricity and road facilities all worth ₹4.53 crore. At the event, Ashwini was given the stage to speak of the problems faced by the community.As many as 282 people, who belong to the Narikuravar and Irular tribal communities, received their land deeds under the Chief Minister’s Special Regularising Scheme worth ₹3.52 crore. Stalin also distributed ration cards, voter ID cards to them.According to a statement from the state government, orders were issued for six people to receive old-age pensions, 88 people from the Irular community received their Scheduled Caste certificate and 34 Narikuravar people got their Most Backwards Class (MBC) certificates. For livelihood support, 12 people received a loan amount of ₹1 lakh each under the MUDRA scheme, and a bank loan amount of ₹10,000 each to 33 people under the small business scheme, among other benefits.Stalin also announced that such welfare measures will be extended to members of the community across the state over the next two weeks.Tribal activists say for generations these tribal communities have faced several problems but at the top of it are three basic amenities that they are still struggling to receive - land deeds, ration cards and community certificates. “Basically, the data with the Tamil Nadu government of the population of the state’s 36 tribes is incorrect,” says Villupuram-based tribal activist Thenarasu Sudaroli, who works with the Integrated Centre for Research, Resource and Rehabilitation.“For instance, according to the government there are 1.89 lakh of Irular tribes in the state. But every year we have a festival along the sea shore of Mamallapuram for which 3 lakh people from the Irular tribe gather. So when there is no correct Census of their population how will the social welfare benefits meant for them reach them?”However, he says Stalin’s visit and handing over of these documents was making a change on the ground. “Our organisation has received at least three calls since Friday morning from the Taluk office about pending petitions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-reaches-out-to-indigenous-communities-after-tribal-woman-barred-from-having-food-at-temple-101636139957631.html
06-11-2021||India||214 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deaths in Karnataka||Bengaluru Karnataka on Friday recorded 214 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven deaths, pushing the caseload and death toll to 29,89,489 and 38,102.It also said that 286 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,43,170. Active cases stood at 8,188, a health department bulletin said.Bengaluru Urban remained the major contributor of COVID cases with 118 fresh infections and one death.Other districts too reported fresh cases including 25 in Mysuru, 11 in Uttara Kannada and 10 in Dakshina Kannada.While 12 districts reported zero infections, 15 districts had cases in single digits.Besides Bengaluru urban, one death each occurred in Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Mysuru and Raichur.The bulletin further said 11 districts reported zero infections and zero fatalities.The positivity rate for the day was 0.26 per cent and the case fatality rate was 3.27 per cent.A total of 80,145 samples were tested including 63,295 RT-PCR tests, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined to 5.12 crore.The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 6.58 crore, with 24,075 people being inoculated on Friday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/214-new-covid-19-cases-7-deaths-in-karnataka-101636139297880.html
06-11-2021||India||AP not inclined to cut VAT on fuels||Amaravati The Andhra Pradesh government is not inclined to cut Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel due to its precarious financial condition, a top official said here on Friday.Two days ago, the Centre reduced the Excise Duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 a litre, respectively and asked the states to cut VAT to give more relief to consumers.Consequently, petrol price fell to about ₹110 a litre and that of diesel to about ₹97.Many states have followed the Centre’s advise and reduced VAT.“We have not taken any decision on the issue yet, but it is highly unlikely that we will affect any reduction in VAT. Our precarious financial condition does not permit it,” said the official.On July 20 last year, the state government revised the tax structure on petrol and diesel, thereby increasing their price by ₹1.24 and ₹0.93 per litre, respectively, to mop up an additional revenue of about ₹600 crore per annum.Subsequently, a road development cess of ₹1 per litre each on petrol and diesel was levied for an additional revenue generation of ₹600 crore.The government is now seeking to escrow the road development cess revenue to secure over ₹2,000 crore loan from banks, while money has reportedly not been spent on road development works so far.“Forget about development, not a km length of road has been repaired in the state in the last two years,” Jana Sena Party Political Affairs Committee Chairman Nadendla Manohar alleged.He wondered what happened to the hundreds of crores of Rupees collected by the government in the name of road development cess, besides additional taxes on fuel.He regretted that people were forced to bear the additional financial burden in the name of cess and VAT, “despite there being no development.” “The Jagan Mohan Reddy government should tell the people to what extent it will reduce VAT on petrol and diesel, like the other states. Otherwise, we will expose the government,” Manohar warned in a statement.AP Congress Committee president S Sailajanath too demanded that the state government immediately reduce VAT on petrol and diesel and mitigate the burden on people.“We will take up an agitation if the government fails to follow other states and reduce VAT,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ap-not-inclined-to-cut-vat-on-fuels-101636139177305.html
06-11-2021||India||Karnataka withdraws night curfew, eases curbs at airports as Covid cases drop||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government on Friday withdrew the night curfew that has been in effect in the state since April 2021. The decision was taken considering the reduction in Covid-19 cases and case positivity rate in the state. The order issued by P Ravi Kumar, chief secretary and chairman of the state executive committee, read that the decision to withdraw night curfew in the state will come into force with immediate effect. “Night curfew, which is being imposed from 10 pm to 5 am, is herewith withdrawn,” the order read. In addition to this, the government has also allowed the resumption of horse racing in compliance with all Covid-19 safety protocols. “Number of racing patrons attending horse racing shall be strictly as per the seating capacity of the venue and only fully vaccinated people will be allowed entry into such premises,” the government said. The government has also eased restrictions at the international airports in the state. The travellers no longer need to go through SPO2 routine checks (except in cases of fever, cough, cold, difficulty in breathing, etc) at airports. In addition to this, the RT-PCR test report checking on arrival has also been discontinued, except for those from selected countries, notified by the government of India, to be conducted at the airport. The decision comes as a surprise as the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 had recommended increasing testing across the state as more than two million people turned out to pay their homage to Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar and large crowds were seen during the campaign for the two bypolls. The Committee earlier had recommended conducting 110,000 tests in the state every day. It had been advised that among these 50,000 tests to be conducted in Bengaluru and 60,000 in districts with special attention to border areas. The decision has been taken to increase the Covid tests in the capital city by 20%. The government is also contemplating issuing guidelines on collecting contact numbers of people who get medicines for cold, cough, and breathing problems. Further awareness will be created to get the Covid tests done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-withdraws-night-curfew-eases-curbs-at-airports-as-covid-cases-drop-101636139118434.html
06-11-2021||India||Chennai’s air quality worsens to ‘very poor’ after Diwali night||The air quality of Chennai fell to “very poor” category on Thursday, the Tamil Nadu pollution control board said on Friday. The Air Quality Index (AQI) in the state capital ranged between 342 to 385 on Thursday evening and Friday morning.Based on the directions of the Supreme Court to carry out short-term monitoring for 14 days (commencing from 7 days prior to Diwali and ending 7 days after) for the parameters namely aluminium, barium and others, the board has conducted manual monitoring in five different locations in Chennai that is in Besant Nagar, T Nagar, Nungambakkam, Triplicane and Sowcarpet to monitor the impact of Diwali celebrations by bursting of firecrackers for the Ambient Air Quality and also Noise pollution levels.There has been an increase in PM10 & PM2.5 parameters which is above the National Ambient Air standards, the board said in a statement. Similarly, they found that the noise pollution had also increased compared to 2020 on Diwali day. The PM10 values ranged from 187 to 283 ug/m3 on Diwali day against the standard of 100 ug/m. PM 2.5 results ranged from 175 to 257 microgram/m3 against the prescribed 60 ug/m3. “The PM10 and PM2.5 values are above National Ambient Air standards prescribed in all the stations during Deepavali day,” the statement said.The ambient noise level ranged from 55 to 66 dB (A) on a non-festive day which increased to 69 to 79 dB (A) on Diwali day. These values were also found to be higher this year compared to Diwali in 2020.The considerable increase in Air pollution level and AQI values are mainly due to high relative humidity (above 90%) and low wind speed and heavy bursting of crackers during the permitted timing, the department said.Gaseous pollutants were found to be well within prescribed limits.Meanwhile, the Greater Chennai Corporation collected 138.2 metric tonnes of waste that came out of burning firecrackers. In previous years, the civic body had collected 85 tonnes of cracker waste in 2017 and 95 tonnes in 2018. In 2019, 103 tonnes of cracker waste was collected. In 2020, around 98 tonnes were collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennais-air-quality-worsens-to-very-poor-after-diwali-night-101636138941761.html
06-11-2021||India||Bommai targets Congress-ruled states over no reduction in fuel taxes||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday criticised the Congress over its stand to neither appreciate the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s decision to reduce taxes on fuel nor do its own ruled states follow suit.“The Congress ruled states and those by their allies have refused to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel. This shows their anti-people approach. The Congress here (Karnataka) should clarify if this is the party’s stand. Their governments never reduced it by ₹7. Since Congress ruled states have not done this, they have no right to talk about it,” Bommai said.The statement comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led union government and all other BJP ruled states announced tax cuts on fuel.Excise duty on petrol and diesel was reduced by ₹10 and petrol by ₹5.The Bommai government, in a statement on Thursday, said diesel was cheaper by ₹19 in Karnataka.“Karnataka is the first state to reduce sales tax on petrol and diesel. Diesel prices reduced from ₹104.50 on 3.11.21 to ₹85.03. Reduction of ₹19.47. Petrol prices reduced from ₹113.93 on 3.11.21 to ₹100.63. Reduction of ₹13.30,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement.“Karnataka’s share of KST on petrol is reduced from 35% to 25.9% and that on diesel has been reduced from 24% to 14.34% by virtue of today’s (Thursday’s) notification,” it added.The Congress Karnataka unit had said the BJP was forced to reduce prices after it suffered setbacks in the October 30 bypolls across the country and the state.In Karnataka, the BJP lost to the Congress in Hanagal, stealing a victory in Bommai’s home district of Haveri.“Elections will be conducted for Taluk & Zilla Panchayats and BBMP in the coming days.People should remember the lesson taught by @narendramodi & cast their vote against@BJP4India,” Congress leader Siddaramaiah said in a post on Thursday.Bommai said the Congress was criticising for the sake of it. “They (Congress) say that we lost Hanagal and we (BJP) reduced prices. If I (government) did it before the elections, they would say that it was done only for the sake of elections. Those who criticise will do it no matter what we do,” Bommai said.He even said there has been no government or chief minister who has reduced fuel prices by ₹7 in the state.Bommai also said it was left to the Centre to decide any reduction in cooking gas prices.“Cooking gas cylinder has reached 1,000, food & cooking oil prices are constantly increasing.Voters have to continue to vote against @BJP4India for the above prices also to be reduced,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-targets-congress-ruled-states-over-no-reduction-in-fuel-taxes-101636138457740.html
06-11-2021||India||To curb flooding, CM Bommai plans overhaul of Bengaluru drainage||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said the state government will take short and long term steps to ensure more drain-related works are taken up during summer months to avoid a repeat of flooding each time it rains in Bengaluru.The chief minister held a meeting with senior officials after entire Bengaluru had flood-like conditions after Thursday night’s downpour, which stands testimony to the city’s poor quality of infrastructure and planning.“Whenever there is monsoons, low lying areas, wherever there is water logging, identify it and find the reasons for it. We have to take immediate steps for short and long-term plans and ensure water does not enter such homes,” Bommai said in Bengaluru.His statement comes at a time when Bengaluru’s crumbling infrastructure was once again put to the test during the heavy downpour in October.Despite being one of India’s largest cities and a global reputation in technological prowess, the public infrastructure in Bengaluru remains one of the poorest in the country.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), at least 18 people lost their lives in Bengaluru due to civic apathy that is more than all other major cities combined.Most streets in Bengaluru were inundated on Thursday night which authorities conveniently blamed on the sudden downpour.“When it rains, we can only do rescue operations. But we can do so much more during summer,” Bommai said.There are no elected representatives in the city corporation for over a year and may not be for at least the first half of next year. With no elected representatives and the chief minister continuing to hold onto Bengaluru city in charge portfolio, there are few alternatives to hold officials accountable for these repeated lapses.In a recent interaction with Hindustan Times, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) chief commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the instances of water logging had become almost negligible in the city. On the very day, almost the entire neighbourhood of HSR Layout was underwater after the drain and nearby lake water started to overflow, destroying cars, property and leaving behind a trail of destruction.Bommai said nearly 75 km of retaining walls on stormwater drains had collapsed or were damaged.He said out of the total 842 km of retaining walls that were supposed to be built, only 389 km were completed so far.The BBMP has no dearth in expenditure as it spends hundreds and thousands of crores each year on various civic works.In the last five years, the Karnataka government has spent over ₹20,000 crore on fixing roads in Bengaluru, Bommai said during the monsoon session of the state legislature between September 13 and 24.But the condition of the roads in what is proudly called India’s IT capital, remains among the poorest in terms of quality.Bommai said he would increase the number of disaster response teams to four within the next one year from just the one currently.He added that the government would utilise the services of home guards and civil defence personnel for rescue during heavy rains in Bengaluru.The chief minister said he would double the number of rescue teams from 15 members in each of the 64 teams to 30.Bengaluru is expected to receive more rains over the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-curb-flooding-cm-bommai-plans-overhaul-of-bengaluru-drainage-101636138338472.html
06-11-2021||India||Odisha plans to enact Goonda Act to curb organised crimes||Bhubaneswar The Odisha government is considering enactment of a special law to deal with a crimes ranging from land grabbing by force, drug trafficking, immoral trafficking, child and human trafficking, cybercrimes, eve-teasing, extortion, kidnapping or abduction for ransom to illegal extraction of minerals and transportation.The Bill tentatively titled ‘Odisha Goonda and anti-social activities(prevention) Bill’ has been drafted on the lines of similar Acts passed by Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra governments that seeks curb the menace of organised crimes. HT has perused a draft copy of the Bill that is now waiting for Cabinet nod before being tabled in the assembly.Odisha director general of police Abhay Kumar refused to speak on the proposed law as it was still being vetted by law department. However, a senior police official, on condition of anonymity, said the proposed Act would take quite some time as the approval of central government was necessary.Widening the definition of anti-social activities, the new Act proposes to include the offences under Indian Penal Code, Odisha Excise Act(2005), Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act(1985), Immoral Trafficking (Prevention) Act(1956), the Protection of Children from Sexual offences Act (2012), Protection of Cow Slaughter Act(1960) and Odisha Money Lenders Act(1939).All offences under the new Act would be cognisable and will have to be probed by an officer not below the rank of a sub-inspector, according to the draft copy of the Bill. The omnibus Act would include offences regarding transportation of minerals that have been illegally extracted. The new Act proposes at least seven years of jail term which may be extended to 10 years and fines upto ₹50000. There would be special courts for trial of the offences booked under the proposed Act. However, the special courts can’t start trial of the cases without the sanction of state government.Under the Act, a district magistrate can attach the accused person’s movable and immovable properties if he believes that the same has been acquired by commission of offences under it even before the courts take cognisance of the cases.As per the proposed Act, a “goonda” is a person who with the intention of disturbing public order or of gaining any undue financial or other advantage for himself, either individually or in a group, by violence, or threat or show of violence or intimidation or coercion.The Act also seeks to take action against police or any public official who renders help or support in any manner to anti-socials before or after the commission offence or abstains from taking measures or intentionally avoids to carry out the direction of any court or his superior officers. Such officials would be punished with a jail term of at least 3 years which may extend upto 10 years.Similarly, any person on behalf of the anti-social person is found in possession of movable or immovable properties which can’t be accounted for would face punishment of at least 3 years which may extend upto 7 years. The property would also be liable for attachment.The offences under this Act would be held in camera and trial by special courts would have precedence over the trial of any other case against the accused in any other court. To protect the witnesses in such cases, their identity and address would be kept secret. Even their names would not be shown in case records or judgements.As per National Crime Records Bureau figures, total crimes in Odisha have gone up from 81, 460 in 2016 to 1.34 lakh in 2020. The state has a poor record when it comes to crimes against women. With 292 cases for publishing sexually explicit material, the state stood at second place in the country in 2020. It topped all the states with regard to cybercrime cases dealing with blackmailing, defamation and uploading morphed photographs of women. It also figured among top-10 states in kidnapping and abduction of women.Bharatiya Janata Party leader and Bargarh MP, a lawyer himself, said simply adding one more special law would not lead to any solution and would rather add to the burden of prosecuting agencies. “Odisha police don’t have enough people to manage regular day-to-day law and order activities as well probe crimes. Secondly, the investigating skills of the existing officials is not up-to-the-mark. How would the new law solve these basic issues,” asked Pujari.Legal experts said a special law to deal with organised crimes was a good step, but said the problem in dealing with such crimes lay with the state police. “Odisha police have a poor record when it comes to charge sheeting accused and following up on the case during trial. The existing Indian Penal Code is enough to deal with the rising crime cases. In the past, the state has enacted special Acts such as Odisha Protection of Interest of Depositors Act, but have they been able to give justice to common men?,” said senior lawyer of Orissa High Court, Pitambar Acharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-plans-to-enact-goonda-act-to-curb-organised-crimes-101636137679244.html
06-11-2021||India||Sidhu takes back resignation as Punjab Cong chief, sets terms to resume duties||Chandigarh: Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Friday that he has withdrawn his resignation as Punjab Congress chief, but will return to his office “when a new Advocate General is appointed”. Sidhu had resigned from the post on September 28, triggering a fresh crisis in the Congress’s Punjab unit ahead of state assembly elections. The next day, however, Sidhu said his concerns have been resolved and the party asserted that he will continue as the head of the state unit. “At the start, I want to say that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi’s soldier has taken back his resignation... I have taken back my resignation. And I categorically state that the day a new Advocate General is appointed, I will assume charge,” Sidhu told a press conference on Friday.Sidhu has been opposing the appointment of state Advocate General A P S Deol and Director General of Police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, considered as new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s choices. He had earlier indicated that these two appointments were part of the reason he quit. Sahota had headed the SIT formed by the previous SAD-BJP government to probe incidents of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015. And as a lawyer, Deol had represented former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who headed the state police six years ago during the incidents of sacrilege and police firing on protesters.“It was never personal or a matter of ego. It is the question of conscience of Punjab. Without moral, you cannot speak the truth,” Sidhu said, arguing that the offices of the AG and the DGP are crucial to take the Bargari sacrilege and drug trafficking cases to their logical conclusions.Firing a salvo against his own government, Sidhu questioned the delay in action against sacrilege cases.“What is this happening…when we go to villages, how are we going to answer people? What are we going to say? The party is demanding answers. After three special investigation teams (SITs), seven first information reports (FIRs), two commissions and six years of the sacrilege cases are these the only officers you could find,” he asked. “Don’t you want the report to be made public in the state assembly? Which court order is restraining you? Who is stopping?... I say if you don’t have the guts to make the STF report public, give it to the party and I will make it public. I have the guts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-takes-back-resignation-as-punjab-congress-chief-sets-terms-to-resume-duties-101636137499825.html
06-11-2021||India||BJP’s apex body to discuss 2022 poll strategy on November 7||On Sunday, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) key decision-making body, the national executive committee (NEC), will congregate to discuss the upcoming assembly elections in five states, including the politically crucial Uttar Pradesh, the party’s performance in the recent by-elections in 14 states, and the overall sentiment in the country over the Union government’s handling of the economy and Covid-19.According to people aware of the details, the meeting will take stock of the party’s electoral strategy for the upcoming elections in the wake of the bypoll results that have sounded an alarm for the BJP in states such as Himachal Pradesh.While the BJP won all five assembly seats in Assam, bagged two from the Congress in Madhya Pradesh and lost one; its performance in Himachal Pradesh, where the party drew a blank in three assembly and one Lok Sabha seat, was a big setback. There was more embarrassment in store for the party in Rajasthan where its candidates were relegated to the third and the fourth spot.“To read the overall results and HP in particular, as a bellwether for the upcoming elections will be wrong. However, the NEC will take stock of each and every defeat and the reasons for the voting percentages dropping in some seats,” said a national office bearer on condition of anonymity.In Himachal Pradesh the BJP’s vote share decline by 20% in the Lok Sabha bypoll in the Mandi constituency that was won by the Congress. In Dadra and Nagar Haveli too, the BJP’s vote share fell by 7%. While it retained the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh, the party again saw a dip in vote share of 7%.Himachal Pradesh is slated to go to the polls in late 2022.The party announced a reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel a day after Tuesday’s poll results. BJP ruled states such as Assam, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal, Gujarat and Goa, among others, announced cuts between Rs.5 and Rs.10 in diesel and petrol pricesWhile the slashing of fuel prices was perceived as a quick move to mitigate public anger ahead of elections in early 2022, the BJP delinked the cut from Tuesday’s electoral outcome. A second functionary said fuel prices and inflation were a pan-India concern, and if these were the determining factors, the party would not have done well in Assam. “There is a lot of support for the Modi government for its handling of the Covid crisis. The government has not dropped the ball, whether it’s been undertaking a massive vaccination drive or coming up with economic packages to revive economy,” the second functionary said, requesting anonymity.The issue of inflation and price rise is expected to be taken up at the meeting, where traditionally resolutions on pressing economic and political issues are passed.“As per the agenda that has been circulated the NEC will take up and pass a resolution on current issues but so far there is no decision of whether there will be a single resolution or not. The issue is likely to be taken up at the meeting of the national general secretaries on Saturday,” said a third functionary.The national executive committee meeting is being held after a gap of two years, owing to the restrictions imposed by the pandemic. The meeting will be a hybrid congregation as only Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party president JP Nadda, national office bearers and Union ministers who are part of the NEC will attend the meeting in person in the Capital’s NDMC convention centre, while state presidents, state general secretaries and other invitees to the NEC will join virtually. As per an office bearer, the decision of holding a hybrid meeting was mooted by the PM.The BJP announced the 80-member national executive committee, last month, dropping Chaudhary Birendra Singh and Varun Gandhi who were critical of the government’s handling of the farm agitation; and Subramanian Swamy who has also criticised the government on numerous occasions on issues related to economic policy.The national executive committee, which is the central decision-making body of the party, also includes 50 special invitees and 179 permanent invitees, including chief ministers, deputy chief ministers of BJP-ruled states, leaders of the legislative assemblies, state presidents among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-apex-body-to-discuss-2022-poll-strategy-on-sunday-101636137438127.html
06-11-2021||India||Congress seeks 8-point analysis from party leaders to draw by-election lessons||NEW DELHI: The Congress on Friday started the process to dissect the recent results of the bypolls in 14 states and union territories to assess its performance and factors that led to its defeat in Assam, where it drew a blank. According to senior Congress members, the party will review factors such as alliances with other parties and candidate selection etc.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal has written to all the general secretaries and in-charges of state units where bypolls were held to send a detailed report on the recent results. In the letter sent on Friday, Venugopal asked the state in-charges to give detailed response, at the earliest, on the outcome of the bypolls with special focus on eight important issues such as candidate selection and impact of result in the political context of the state. HT has reviewed the letter. The party has sought response on the factors leading to bypolls. For instance, in Assam, bypolls on two of the five seats were necessitated as Congress MLAs (Mariani and Thawra) switched to BJP. The Congress has asked the state in-charges to give their analysis on factors such as candidate selection, election campaign and management, the impact of alliance with other parties on the results and role of other political parties on party’s performance.The Congress delivered a surprise win in BJP-ruled states such as Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka; it held its own seat in Rajasthan in the recent bypolls which were held in 30 assembly and three Lok Sabha constituencies in 14 states and union territories. In Himachal Pradesh, the opposition Congress won the three assembly seats that were up for grabs in the by-elections. It wrested the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment from the ruling BJP and retained the Arki and Fatehpur assembly seats. The party’s victory in Himachal Pradesh is a huge setback for chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, for whom the election was crucial as the state heads into an election year and also the fact that Mandi is considered his home turf.Even in Karnataka, the Congress won the assembly seat in chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s home district. But the party’s defeat in Assam has become a major cause of concern. Of the five assembly seats in Assam, the ruling BJP won three and its partner United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL) bagged the other two. The Congress state unit is now planning to reorganise itself and review the reasons for its loss in the recent bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-8-point-analysis-from-party-leaders-to-draw-by-election-lessons-101636137317599.html
06-11-2021||India||Air quality dips in northern plains as temperature drops, farm fires rise||Chandigarh/Rohtak/Jaipur: Air quality deteriorated from very poor to severe in several parts of the northern plains on Diwali night (Thursday night) due to poor dispersal of local pollutants and more instances of stubble burning in paddy growing areas of Punjab and Haryana, according to pollution control board officials in the northern states.Air pollution, mainly particulate matter 2.5 microns, increases during this period of the year as temperature dip, wind speeds fall, and instances of farm fires increase. Fireworks exacerbate the problem and despite a ban on their use in the National Capital Region spanning Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, people set them off till early on Friday, the officials added.According to Central Pollution Control Board, the higher pollution load caused the first major blanket of smog across the northern plains with places such as Jind (Air Quality Index of AQI of 471) in Haryana and Baghpat (440) in Uttar Pradesh recording high toxicity in air, described as severe on the national Air Quality Index (AQI). The air quality in most of the big towns in the three states neighbouring Delhi, UP, Rajasthan and Haryana, was in very poor to severe category.A Haryana government official, who monitors air quality in the state, said the fireworks ban was not strictly enforced in any of the 14 districts in the state and no case was registered for defying the ban till Friday morning. Gurugram reported an AQI of 474, Jind 471, Rohtak 448, Panipat 447, Bhiwani 433, Faridabad 428, Hisar 421 and Sonepat 406. The official said the situation may improve in the next few days with wind speeds expected to increase. An analysis by Union earth science ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Friday said that contribution of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana to the region’s total pollution load increased from 25% on Thursday to 36% on Friday. Last year, the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution peaked at 42% on November 5. In 2019, crop residue burning accounted for 44% of Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution on November 1.The Punjab government’s satellite based farm fire monitoring centre in Ludhiana said stubble burning incidents reported on Wednesday and Thursday were highest thus far this season. The highest number of farm fires on Diwali was reported from Ludhiana, followed by Sangrur, Barnala and Ferozpur.Of about 23,465 farm fires reported this season from Punjab, 55% were reported in the last five days with 3,032 reported on Diwali day, the highest for a single day so far this year. However, the number is still half of 44086 cases reported for the corresponding period (till November 4, 2020). On November 4 last year, 4,908 farm fire incidents were reported and in 2019, 5,953 cases were reported, showing a clear decline in stubble burning incidents from the paddy bowl state of India. To be sure, the lower cases this year are a result of a delayed monsoon and it’s very likely that the numbers are yet to peak.Officials said that while farmers in some districts are exploring possibilities of ex-situ and in-situ handling of straw , many farmers with small and mid-sized holdings are burning stubble. Jugraj Singh, farmer leader, said that if the government wants to end the practice of stubble burning it should implement the Supreme Court order that provided for Rs. 100 per quintal incentive to farmers to scientifically treat stubble. “This will help in long way, as small and marginal farmers can’t spend money to clear fields using machines.”Emissions from stubble burning from farms in Punjab and Haryana in India and from Pakistan travel with air to the northern plains of the country, increasing the air pollution levels and creating smog weather conditions. “This is what has exactly happened in the last two days,” said Gufrain Beg, who heads SAFAR’s air pollution monitoring unit. “Local pollution coupled with stubble emissions and bursting of crackers has created smog conditions in the NCR region.”Normally, stubble burning incidents decline in first week of November as farmers start sowing the winter crop. However, this year due to delay in paddy harvesting in Punjab and Haryana, the stubble burning started late and its peak coincided with Diwali.Member secretary of Rajasthan Pollution Control Board, , Anand Mohan said that in 2020 there was a restriction on movement of people due to Covid-19 during Diwali “This year there were no restrictions and therefore, the air quality in Jaipur and Jodhpur was in very poor category,” he said. He added the situation will worsen if the smog from NCR disperses to other regions.The bad air even affected the hills of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.Dehradun in Uttarakhand saw an AQI of s 227, 10 points higher than on Diwali day in 2020. Shimla in Himachal Pradesh reported AQI of 320, five points more than in 2020. Bihar’s capital city of Patna and Muzaffarpur recorded very poor quality with index value of 302 whereas air quality in Kolkata dipped to 174. Air quality in Bhopal, Gwalior and Jabalpur was in poor category. Air quality in Mumbai entered the ‘poor’ category, recording 215 on the air quality index (AQI), SAFAR said. This is up from a ‘moderate’ reading of 164 the day prior. Chennai’s air quality was satisfactory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-quality-dips-in-northern-plains-as-temperature-drops-farm-fires-rise-101636137201691.html
06-11-2021||India||Farmers hold BJP leaders hostage, damage MP’s car in Haryana||The ongoing protest over the Centre’s contentious agricultural laws in Haryana escalated on Friday after a group of protesting farmers allegedly held a few Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders hostage in Rohtak, while another reportedly smashed the windshield of the vehicle of party legislator in Hisar district, police said.Providing further details, police said former state minister and state BJP vice-president Manish Grover, party general secretary (organisation) Ravindra Raju, Rohtak mayor Man Mohan Goyal and at least 40 others confined for at least five hours at a temple complex as farmers staged a protest outside against the agricultural laws, in Rohtak’s Kaloi villageThe BJP leaders had gone to the complex to watch the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech at Kedarnath temple when the incident occurred at around noon.The protesting farmers, who were demanding an apology for using a temple to fulfill their political agenda, locked the entrance gate of Shiva temple at Kiloi village, police said. A contingent of police was deployed at the spot to maintain law and order and additional forces from Jhajjar, Sonepat and Jind were summoned after the situation turned tense when more farmers arrived in tractors outside the temple and outnumbered the BJP leaders.The farmers claimed that the standoff ended after BJP leaders went to the terrace and apologised to them for using a temple for a political programme.“How can a party live telecast Prime Minister’s speech at a temple?” Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Inderjit Singh said.Also Read| Five killed in Kurukshetra road mishapHowever, state BJP vice-president Grover claimed that they did not apologise to anyone.“We did not apologise to anyone. We will continue to visit the shrine,” he said.Rohtak police spokesman Sunny Loura said the BJP leaders were locked inside a temple at Kiloi village and the protest ended in the evening.“The police controlled the tense situation bravely. No untoward incident was reported. There is peace in the village. Khap leaders played a vital role in helping to end the deadlock between locals, farmers and BJP leaders,” he added.In Hisar, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Ram Chander Jangra faced the ire of farmers over his alleged remark that those protesting were “jobless alcoholics from villages”.The legislator made the comment on Thursday after attending a Diwali programme in Rohtak. “There’s no opposition to the farm laws. Those protesting are jobless alcoholics from villages. The bad elements have been protesting against the government and the recent killing of an innocent Nihang at Singhu border has exposed them. The farmers are not protesting... but only bad elements. I have been frequently visiting Delhi and most of the tents at the protest sites are empty... this issue will be resolved soon,” the MP said, according to an audio circulated on social media and heard by this reporter.On Friday, Chander was greeted with black flags and slogans when he arrived to inaugurate a community centre at Narnaund town in Hisar, officials aware of the matter said.The windshield of his vehicle was also broken in a scuffle between farmers and police, they added. While the legislator held the farmers responsible for the damage, the cultivators blamed the police.Two farmers were detained in this regard but released later, police said.Few policemen were also injured in the incident. While a large contingent of force was deployed in the area, they failed to contain the crowd, they added.The MP said that he was on his way to a public event when some farmers threw lathis (sticks) on his vehicle, damaging the vehicle’s windshield.“I have spoken to Hansi superintendent of police and Haryana director general of police in this regard. This was a clear murder attempt and police told me that two persons have been detained. I have demanded strict action against the detainees. I had gone to attend social functions when the incident took place. Will they (farmers) attack functions too?. After my car was vandalised, I had to cancel two other social programmes,” he said.Farm leader Vikas Sisar from Hisar said one farmer, identified as Kuldeep Singh of Satrod Khurd village in Hisar district, sustained injuries and was taken to a private hospital where his condition is believed to be critical.Following the incident, police detained two protesters and later released them after a probe, Hansi superintendent of police Nitika Gehlout said.Narnaund Police said they have booked at least 23 people under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for vandalising Jangra’s car.Demanding the withdrawal of cases, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni rushed to Narnaund police station to stage an indefinite dharna with the farmers and also called for a mahapanchayat on Saturday outside the premises.“We will go back after the police cancel the FIR registered against the farmers. Jangra has been trying to divide the people along caste lines and he has been using indecent language against the protesters. We have started an indefinite dharna at Narnaund police station,” he said.Also Read| Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Police give security to 60 witnessesFarmers also blocked the Hisar-Rohtak national highway, near Ramayana toll plaza, seeking release of their aides.Taking note of the escalating tension, police released the two detainees and said senior officials were holding meetings with Charuni and other farm leaders to urge them to end the dharna.“We are hoping that the dharna will be lifted after the meeting,” he said.Reacting to the incidents, former Haryana Congress legislature leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry accused the state government of provoking the farmers by using “indecent language” against them.“One farmer got injured in the Narnaund incident and he is battling for life. The government has been making all attempts to weaken the farmers’ protest,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-hold-bjp-leaders-hostage-damage-mp-s-car-in-haryana-101636136957841.html
06-11-2021||India||Toxic haze engulfs New Delhi||Delhi recorded its worst day-after-Diwali air quality since 2016, with the air quality index, or AQI, soaring to 462 on the back of a sharp increase in stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, and a blatant violation of the fireworks ban in the national capital.Lower temperatures and non-existent winds did not help.Delhi police control room data showed that on November 4, till midnight, at least 1,100 complaints of people using firecrackers was reported from across the city – averaging 47 an hour.According to CPCB, which started tracking AQI in 2015, the day after Diwali saw a reading of 445 in 2016. That was also the year when Delhi witnessed one of its worst pollution spells, recording its most polluted day ever on November 6 when the AQI rose to 497.On Thursday (Diwali day), the overall AQI in Delhi was 382, in the “very poor” zone.CPCB data showed the 24-hour average AQI entered the “severe” zone at 9pm, gradually rising each hour as a haze enveloped the Capital. It was 404 at 9pm, 422 by midnight, 428 by 2am, 444 by 6am, 446 by 7am, and 451 by 8am on Friday.Other cities and towns in the national capital region (NCR) fared no better, with Faridabad (AQI 469), Ghaziabad (470), Gurugram (472), Greater Noida (464) and Noida (475) — all in the severe zone, according to CPCB’s 24-hour average AQI at 4pm.An AQI of 51-100 is categorised as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor”, and above 401 as “severe”.Nasa’s satellite imagery recorded over 3,500 farm fire events across the northern plains on Thursday, with northwesterly winds carrying pollutants from these to the National Capital Region. According to the Union earth science ministry’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), stubble burning accounted for 25% of PM2.5 (particulate matter with a diameter less than 2.5 micrometers) on Diwali day and 36%, the day after. Prior to this, the highest contribution from stubble burning in Delhi’s air was 20%, on October 29. Interestingly, SAFAR said emissions from fireworks were “almost of the same magnitude”.Farm fires ragingWhile the contribution of fireworks to pollution will decline, that of farm fires is expected to increase. The paddy harvest is 70% complete, and instances of stubble burning are peaking; 55% of total cases of stubble burning this year have been reported in the last five days.The number of farm fires thus far this year, at 23,465, is still almost half of 44,086 cases reported for the corresponding period (till November 4) last year, but most officials expect it to increase over the coming week.On November 4, 3,032 farm fire events were captured by satellite in Punjab. In 2019, there were 5,953 active fires on the same date, and in 2020 there were 4,908 -- indications of how high the number could go.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Friday blamed large-scale setting of fireworks and the peaking of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana for the steep fall in the Capital’s air quality. He also blamed the Bharatiya Janata Pary for “deliberately encouraging” people to flout the fireworks ban on Diwali.This October, residents in NCR experienced the cleanest air ever on record, according to government figures. The reasons: unseasonal October rains and a delayed harvest (and therefore delayed stubble burning) season in Punjab and Haryana. HT reported on October 27 that Delhi was headed towards an air emergency with stubble fires expected to peak around Diwali.“Delhi did not record a single bad air day in October. Impact of 3,500 farm fires around Delhi was visible in national capital today…There was also deliberate violation of the cracker ban in the city, encouraged by the BJP,” Rai said.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta slammed the Delhi government for not taking any concrete measures to curb pollution. Referring to Rai’s statement, Gupta said, “The Kejriwal government is trying to hide its failure to curb pollution in the city. In the past six years, the government has taken no concrete steps such as improving last mile connectivity, expanding the bus fleets, encouraging the use of battery-operated vehicles, etc, to curb pollution. They just want to tackle the issue by temporary arrangements. Ban on fire cracker is not the solution, as it hurts the religious sentiments of people. The government has now seen the result. They should have allowed the use of fire crackers for a limited time period.”The level of PM 2.5, a common air pollutant and a major respiratory health risk, in the national capital over the last 24 hours was the highest in three years, SAFAR pointed out.PM2.5 is fine, inhalable particulate matter. It is about 30 times smaller than a strand of human hair. PM 2.5 pollutants are made up of hundreds of chemicals. Construction sites, unpaved roads, fields, and smokestacks or fires, power plants, factories, and automobiles emit these pollutants into the air. The pollutants can enter the bloodstream via the respiratory system and cause asthma, lung cancer, and heart disease.The SAFAR analysis said that while PM2.5 levels were the highest in the three years they were still “much less” compared to 2018. It added while the levels have peaked much faster this Diwali, the dispersion is also expected to be fast. “...local winds have picked up since morning (on Friday) and now fast dispersion is expected,” the analysis said. “Without any more firecracker emissions, AQI (Air Quality Index) will improve to ‘very poor’ category by tonight (Friday) although the stubble contribution is expected to remain almost the same as today (Friday)...”The analysis showed between 10am on Thursday and 10am on Friday, Delhi’s PM 2.5 levels climbed to 457ug/m3. This was higher than 298ug/m3 in 2020 and 377ug/m3 recorded a day after Diwali in 2019. In 2018, the PM 2.5 levels spiked to 624ug/m3.SAFAR’s analysis said relief was expected only from Sunday evening.Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), says such an episodic smog event had been forecast by agencies, owing to unfavourable weather conditions and a northwesterly wind, which is bound to heighten the impact of stubble burning. “The share of farm fires is increasing and wind speed is low which is not allowing dispersal of pollutants and firecrackers added additional emissions in Delhi’s air. All of this got trapped, leading to this season’s first ‘severe’ pollution event.”In addition to these two major sources of pollution, Delhi had to fight high moisture content in the air, resulting in the season’s first shallow fog on Thursday morning, with visibility dropping to 500 metres at both Safdarjung and Palam. On Friday, it dropped even further, to just 200 metres. While IMD only classifies fog based on visibility, the high contribution of pollutants and toxic chemicals in the air is likely to be a major factor in reduced visibility, making this more smog than fog. Fog is generally rare at this time of the year, with the winter’s first moderate to dense fog spell usually seen in late December.RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD, said, “Fog conditions this morning (November 5) have intensified in Delhi NCR, with moderate fog with visibility levels of 200 to 500 metres reported at its two airports – Safdarjung and Palam -- till 5.30am. IGI Palam airport recorded a drop in visibility towards the city side to 200 metres,” said Jenamani.Okhla-Phase 2 in south-east Delhi saw the biggest hourly spike in PM 2.5 concentration on Diwali day as the PM2.5 concentration touched 1,984 micrograms per cubic metre – over 33 times the acceptable level of 60 micrograms per cubic metre and nearly 397 times the new WHO standards of 5 micrograms per cubic metre. This was followed by Ashok Vihar in north Delhi, where the hourly PM 2.5 concentration touched 1,957 micrograms.The number of people arrested in the last one and a half months until midnight on Diwali is much lesser that the police action taken on Diwali last year. In the last one and a half months, police arrested around 300 persons for stocking and bursting crackers. On Diwali last year, police arrested 850 for the two offences. On Thursday, Diwali day, the police registered 1,206 .Despite repeated calls and messages, Delhi Police refused to comment.IMD says wind speeds are expected to pick up only from Saturday onwards but may reach 25-35km/hr.A visible improvement in air quality might be seen from Sunday, forecasters said.“There will still be some mist on Saturday morning but wind speeds will increase to 30-40 km/hr during the day and this will help disperse pollutants,” said a met department official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toxic-haze-engulfs-capital-101636133295891.html
06-11-2021||India||55% of total stubble burning cases in Punjab this year reported in last 5 days||With the paddy harvest almost 70% complete, the spike in the farm fires is visible in the hinterland of the agrarian state of Punjab, with 3,032 farm fires were reported on the Diwali Day; 55% of total cases of stubble burning this year have been reported in the last five days.The number of farm fires thus far this year, at 23465, is still almost half of 44086 cases reported for the corresponding period (till November 4) last year, but most officials expect it to increase over the coming week. .On November 4, 3,032 farm fire events were captured by satellite in Punjab. In 2019, there were 5,953 active fires on the same date and in 2020, 4,908 -- an indication of how high the number could go.Many farmers with smaller holdings are burning straw instead of exploring ex-situ (away) and in-situ (onsite) handling and there is a need to offer incentives for farmers who don’t burn straw said a Punjab agriculture department official.“If the government wants to end this practice, it should implements the Supreme Court judgment and give Rs. 100 per quintal as incentive for handing of straw. This will help, as farmers can’t spend extra due to the high cost of clearing fields using machinery”, said Jugraj Singh, farmer leader from Samana.The highest number of farm fires on Diwali were reported from Ludhiana, which saw 292 cases. Sangrur recorded 283, while neghbouring Barnala recorded 237. Ferozpur recorded 278 cases.The Punjab Pollution Control Board is sending teams to penalise erring farmers.Meanwhile, the number of farm fires has also gone up in Haryana with the state reporting 228 such incidents on November 4, taking the number of fires so far to 3,666. State government officials claimed there has been a 45% decline in farm fires this year, as against 6,581 incidents of stubble burning reported from September 15 to November 4 last year. A delayed season is at least partially responsible for this too.System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, said that on Friday, the share of stubble fire smoke in Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels peaked to 36% - the highest in this season so far. On Friday, Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) peaked to 462, in the severe category. Experts said that large scale cracker bursting in Delhi-NCR along with peak stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana were responsible for this deterioration.Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) Pune’s Decision Support System has also forecasted that from November 5 to November 9, stubble burning share in Delhi’s pollution is likely to be around 45-47%.“Today (Friday) over 3,500 stubble fires were reported in Punjab and Haryana. In the next three days, air quality is expected to be poor in north and central India,” said Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/55-of-total-stubble-burning-cases-in-punjab-this-year-reported-in-last-5-days-101636132035581.html
06-11-2021||India||An hour-by-hour account of how Delhi’s air quality tanked on Diwali||Delhi woke up to one of its most polluted mornings this year after Diwali, according to Air Quality Index (AQI) data, with farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, and the use of fireworks on Diwali night (Thursday) contributing to the spike.To be sure, AQI is not the best metric for comparison if data for all pollutants is not available. This is because AQI is simply the highest among the sub-indices for different pollutants. If the data for one or more significant pollutants is not available, we might just be looking at the highest sub-index among available data. Still, on the basis of available data, two things are clear: this was among the most polluted Diwalis in Delhi and fireworks are not the only cause for the spike in pollution.HT analysed hourly PM 2.5 concentration levels and wind speed and the number of farm fires per day from three days before Diwali for 2019 (October 27), 2020 (November 14) and 2021 (November 4) to reach this conclusion. The analysis is based on data from five monitoring stations – Aya Nagar station of the India Meteorological Department, and the Najafgarh, Narela, Punjabi Bagh, and Sri Aurobindo Marg stations of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee – which have hourly data for all three years.Delhi air was cleaner on Diwali eve in 2021 than it was in 2019 and 2020. Things went downhill rapidly. At midnight on Diwali, the average PM 2.5 level in Delhi was 613.2 micrograms per cubic meter, higher than what it was at Diwali midnight in 2019 and 2020. However, what is more remarkable is the fact that pollution levels kept rising even after midnight. One would assume that cracker bursting reduced if not completely ended by this time. Average PM 2.5 level reached 729.6 micrograms per cubic meter between 3 am and 4 am hour on November 5, much higher than what it was during Diwali in 2019 and 2020.Low wind speed did not helpSo, is it just crackers that are to blame? Data does not support such a claim. Take wind speed for instance. Pollution levels fall with a rise in wind speed. This year there was hardly any wind to carry the pollutants away. This was especially true during the evening when crackers would have had the maximum impact on pollution.More farm fires this yearPollution levels started rising even before Diwali in Delhi. The biggest reason for this has been an increase in number of farm fires in neighbouring states. Not only has the number of farm fires increased significantly during the past few days, this number is significantly higher for this Diwali than in 2019 and 2020. Data from System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) shows that farm fires contributed 25% of PM2.5 in Delhi’s air on Diwali (November 4). This is the biggest contribution on any day this year since October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/an-hour-by-hour-account-of-how-delhi-s-air-quality-tanked-on-diwali-101636131135665.html
06-11-2021||India||PM Modi visits Kedarnath, says decade belongs to Uttarakhand||More pilgrims will visit Uttarakhand over the next decade than in the past century and the rapid development in the hill state will reverse the outward migration of young people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday while on a visit to the Kedarnath shrine. Modi also inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of projects worth ₹409 croreat Kedarnath, months before Uttarakhand goes to the polls. It was his fifth visit to Kedarnath after becoming Prime Minister and the first of his second term.“The third decade of the century belongs to Uttarakhand. Take it from me. I am saying this from a holy land,” Modi told a gathering at the temple, where he performed Rudrabhishek puja before unveiling a 12-feet and 35-tonne statue of Adi Guru Shankaracharya, an 8th-century spiritual leader and philosopher. A live telecast was carried from the sanctum sanctorum of the temple where he performed the puja.He cited the under-construction Char Dham all-weather road and the Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail link projects and hailed the development agenda of the state government, which is run by his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),He said new facilities at Kedarnath will make the Char Dham Yatra, a pilgrimage to the four holy Hindu shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, easier for the pilgrims. “The protection wall constructed near the Mandakini river will prevent a 2013 like tragedy (floods) and will make the yatra secure. Also, the lodging facilities developed for the pilgrims will also provide more comfort to the pilgrims. Not only this, the permanent accommodation constructed for the priests of the temple will solve their problems in the bone-chilling cold.”Modi referred to the damage caused to the temple by the 2013 floods, which killed over 4,000 people,  and added that he always believed Kedarnath would rise once again. The floods were triggered by a cloudburst, few kilometres above the temple.“The damage caused during the tragedy was unimaginable. I was then the chief minister of Gujarat...came here after the tragedy and witnessed the pain of people.” Modi said people were then asking whether Kedarnath will be able to rise again. He added he had a firm belief in Lord Shiva that his temple will once again rise. “I am fortunate that the land which raised me when I was nothing has now given me the opportunity to serve it with the reconstruction works which are being done with the blessings of Lord Kedarnath.” Modi asked people to visit sacred places and those related to the freedom struggle. “We are celebrating Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav (marking 75 years of independence) in which people are encouraged to visit historical places related to the country’s independence. But I want to urge them to visit sacred places like Kedarnath to make the new generation aware of the centuries-old ancient and glorious spiritual and cultural heritage of India,” he said. Modi spoke about Shankaracharya’s contribution to spiritual enlightenment. “When the country was losing its unity, Adi Guru Shankracharya, at a young age, visited various parts of the country along with his pupils to spread spiritual enlightenment and unify the country religiously. His principles are relevant in today’s age.”The PM said India was getting back its lost spiritual glory with the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and development work in Varanasi, including the Kashi Vishwanath corridor.“Not only this, significant works are being done at Kushinagar, Bodh Gaya, Sarnath and other sacred Buddhist places to create a Buddhist pilgrimage circuit. Once completed, it will help in attracting thousands of Buddhist pilgrims and spiritual leaders.”Modi commended the Uttarakhand government for completing 100% first dose vaccination against Covid-19.Dhami thanked Modi for the reconstruction and development work. “Under his leadership, reconstruction and development work worth ₹225 crore has been completed under the first phase in Kedarnath while those worth ₹185 crore would soon be completed under the second phase.” He added ₹245 crore has been approved for development work in Badrinath temple and hundreds of crores more for the Gangotri and Yamunotri shines. Dhami thanked Modi for his “special love for Uttarakhand.”The opposition Congress, meanwhile, launched a scathing attack on the Prime Minister for “crossing boundaries by allowing live telecast from the sanctum sanctorum of Kedarnath temple”.“We welcome PM Modi to visit the highly sacred and revered Kedarnath temple. But the way he breached its sanctity with a live telecast of him performing puja at its sanctum sanctorum is highly condemnable. He broke the age old customs of the temple and crossed the boundaries of our faith with his act,” Congress leader Harish Rawat said. “We expected him to announce some relief package for the Kumaon region which was affected by the recent floods in October in which at least 77 people were killed. But we were utterly disappointed when he did not make any such announcement,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-pilgrims-to-visit-char-dham-shrines-in-10-yrs-than-over-last-century-modi-101636114454610.html
06-11-2021||India||Those evicted from Darrang were encroachers, not victims: Assam govt to HC||The Assam government has told the Gauhati high court that those evicted from Dhalpur Char in state’s Darrang district and their ancestors had not migrated there from native lands lost to floods and land erosion, as was being claimed. The government said that not only was there no official record to substantiate such claims, but that in reality, those portrayed as victims were “encroachers” who were legally evicted by the government as per existing provisions of Assam Land and Revenue Regulation, 1886. Two civilians including a 12-year-old died and 18 others including 8 policemen had sustained injuries during clashes between police and families at Dhalpur on September 23 during a drive to evict settlers occupying nearly 77,000 ‘bighas’ of government land for decades. Following the deaths during the eviction drive, Debabrata Saikia, the leader of opposition in state assembly, petitioned the court claiming the evicted were from marginalised sections who had migrated there years ago to escape floods and erosions in the areas where they resided earlier. In response, the HC had directed the state government to file an affidavit by November 3. “The claim that the occupants of Dhalpur Char (sandbar) and their ancestor were forced to migrate from their respective original place of residence due to devastating floods and land erosion is not true as this is not found in revenue records,” the government affidavit filed by Kamaljeet Sarma, circle officer of Sipajhar revenue circle in Darrang district, said. The government affidavit said that any victim of erosion and flooding who becomes landless in the process has to report it to local revenue authority, which certifies them as erosion affected and landless while maintaining such record. “However, the occupants of Dhalpur Char and their ancestors have never produced such certificates issued from their original place where they claim to have migrated from. Hence the claim of forced migration due to flood and erosion is not true,” Sarma’s affidavit said. “The evicted occupants of Dhalpur area have migrated to these areas from different parts of the state and since the land in this area is fertile, they gradually occupied and grabbed the large fertile areas. In the garb of being landless, some individuals have also become land grabbers,” the government affidavit added. The affidavit also told the court that a rehabilitation policy for erosion affected families was made in 2020 and it was restricted to displacement from 2014-2015 onwards and didn’t cover displacement from government land. The eviction drive at Dhalpur was carried out to make way for a composite community farming scheme called Gorukhuti Project. On the first day of the drive on September 20, 788 families and 48 shops were removed without any violence but the second day on September 23 led to violent clashes between families and authorities. The government in its affidavit also refuted allegations that eviction notices were served hours before the drive and that authorities had razed down homes while the families were busy with dismantling themselves. The affidavit reiterated the government stand that only after the eviction party was attacked with stones, sticks and machetes, that the police first used mild baton charge, tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse the mob before finally resorting to “controlled firing” in which two civilians were killed and other civilians and policemen were injured. Also Read: Sachin Tendulkar donates retinal cameras to district hospital in AssamIt added that on humanitarian grounds, basic facilities like plastic sheets to build tents, tube wells, toilets and a mobile medical team have been provided to the evicted families. An area of nearly 1000 ‘bighas’ has also been earmarked in southern part of Dhalpur to relocate them, the affidavit said. “The matter is related to encroachment and eviction only and is not at all related to acquisition of land. Therefore, the question of resettlement, rehabilitation and compensation etc. as per the Land Acquisition Act, is irrelevant,” the affidavit said ruling out any obligation to pay compensation on its part.Another affidavit filed by Rupam Phukan, additional superintendent of police, Darrang, also reiterated that the police resorted to firing on September 23 only as a last resort to control attacks by the evicted families. The Assam government has already ordered a judicial inquiry into the violent eviction drive. A photographer engaged by the district administration, seen jumping on an injured civilian in a viral video, has been arrested apart from three residents accused of instigating violence during the drive. The matter will come up for hearing in HC court again on December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/occupants-of-assam-s-evicted-land-are-encroachers-not-flood-victims-govt-tells-gauhati-hc-101636114213673.html
06-11-2021||India||Accident compensation claims to be settled via mediation, Supreme Court told||The Union government and insurance companies have agreed to settle payment of compensation to victims of road accidents through mediation that may at best take over three months, the Supreme Court was told last week.A report on the proposed mechanism of mediation suggested that “trained mediators” engage both the claimant and the insurance company to arrive at a “just and reasonable” compensation and ensure an amicable settlement. The report, prepared by additional solicitor general (ASG) Jayant Sud, was presented before a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh on October 26. The court will consider the suggestions during the next hearing on November 16.The court was informed about the proposed mechanism at a time it was considering passing directions for speedy resolution of cases pending under the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal (MACT). As per the National Judicial Data Grid, nearly 25% of over 7.36 lakh MACT cases remained in the trial stage for more than three years. Of the total, at least 650 have been delayed for over two decades.In his report, Sud highlighted how the alarming situation of pendency of motor accident claims has choked the entire justice delivery system. “...further directions may be passed for not only speedy disposal of motor accident claims but also to ensure that the award amount reaches the victims expeditiously and without any deductions,” the report said.The report suggested that the insurer files the offer for settlement before MACT within 30 days of receipt of the detailed accident report from police or MACT. “Within a week after receiving the offer, the Tribunal shall refer the claimant and insurer to the Motor Accident Mediation Cell or Online Dispute Centre to consider the insurance company’s offer,” it said. Following this, trained mediators shall engage both the claimant and the insurance company to arrive at a “just and reasonable” compensation based on the principles for computing compensation as laid down by the courts in the past, it added.The report said the Mediation Cell or Online Dispute Centre will have to submit a report to MACT within 30 days, indicating the consent of parties and the justification for arriving at the proposed compensation. The parties will also have the option to refuse the offer during mediation. If the parties arrive at an amicable settlement, the MACT will act upon the Mediation Cell’s report and pass an order, recording consent of both parties before closing the case, the report said.From the time the insurer gets details of the case to make a settlement offer till the final decision by MACT, the process is expected to take less than three months, provided the time-frame under the suggested scheme is scrupulously followed. The suggestions can be implemented after the court’s approval, it added. Sud also said that a framework must be prepared by the law ministry to appoint mediators and decide on the fees payable to them.“Till the time such framework is made, one-half of fees prescribed as per the Fourth Schedule of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, can be considered,” the ASG told the court.The report also proposed that the mediation fees shall be paid by the insurance firm if the settlement amount is below ₹25 lakh. In cases involving amounts over ₹25 lakh, the burden of fees shall be borne jointly by the claimant and insurance firm, it added. The top court had earlier allowed the General Insurance Council (GIC) to launch a mobile application where first information reports (FIRs), detailed accident reports and photographs can instantly be uploaded by police and MACTs across the country. The mechanism will allow uniform access to insurance companies for speedy processing of claims.The GIC, an umbrella body of 43 public and private insurance firms, was on October 26 included as a party to the court proceedings. “Settling dispute through mediation is an excellent thing but you need trained mediators who can provide ‘fair and just compensation’, a requirement under Section 168 of the Motor Vehicles Act. It should not be an attempt to coerce people into accepting whatever the insurance company has to offer. For this, there is need to create a pool of retired trial court judges which can inspire confidence in the mediation process,” Supreme Court advocate Gaurav Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accident-compensation-claims-to-be-settled-in-3-months-as-per-new-proposal-101636112414333.html
06-11-2021||India||Eye on Taliban: India to host regional summit on Afghanistan on November 10||India will host the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10, bringing together senior security officials of regional countries to discuss developments in Kabul following the Taliban takeover, people familiar with the matter said on Friday.India had formally invited the NSAs of Russia, Iran, China, Pakistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan for the meeting.However, Pakistan’s National Security Adviser (NSA), Moeed Yusuf, on Tuesday, said he will not attend. A formal response to an invitation to China is also awaited, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity on Friday.Islamabad’s decision is not being perceived as a dampener in New Delhi, as Russia, Iran and key Central Asian states have confirmed their participation in the meeting that will be chaired by India’s NSA Ajit Doval. This will also be the first time that all Central Asian countries – and not just Afghanistan’s immediate land neighbours, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan – are participating in discussions in this format, the people cited above said.Also Read: Bomb targets Taliban, kills two in IS-K hub“There has been an overwhelming response to India’s invitation,” one of the people said. “The enthusiastic response is a manifestation of the importance attached to India’s role in regional efforts to promote peace and security in Afghanistan,” the person said.Two earlier meetings in this format were held in Iran in September 2018 and December 2019. The third meeting in India could not be held as scheduled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The upcoming meeting is being seen as part of Indian efforts to remain relevant in addressing the fallout of the developments in Afghanistan.Though Pakistan has not formally responded to India’s invitation to the meeting, Yusuf told a news briefing in Islamabad on Tuesday that he would not attend.“I will not be going,” Yusuf said after a meeting with his Uzbek counterpart Victor Makhmudov.“A spoiler cannot try to be a peacemaker,” he added, in an apparent reference to India. Yusuf also told the briefing that Pakistan has identified India as a hurdle to regional efforts to establish peace and security.The person cited above described Pakistan’s decision as “unfortunate but not surprising”. The person added, “It reflects [Pakistan’s] mindset of viewing Afghanistan as its protectorate. Pakistan has not attended the previous meetings of this format.”Yusuf’s comments against India were an unsuccessful attempt to deflect attention from Pakistan’s “pernicious role in Afghanistan”, the person said.The high-level participation in the upcoming meeting also reflects the widespread and growing concern of regional countries about the situation in Afghanistan and their desire to consult and coordinate with each other, the people said. India has an important role to play in this process, they added.The Indian government has cautioned the global community not to rush into any formal recognition of the set-up created in Kabul by the Taliban following the group’s takeover of the country in mid-August. It has also urged the international community to ensure that the Taliban deliver on their commitments that Afghan soil will not be used by terror groups, especially Pakistan-based organisations such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.Islamabad has also not acted on New Delhi’s proposal to ship 50,000 tonnes of wheat as humanitarian aid to Afghanistan via Pakistani soil. India has insisted that all humanitarian assistance for the Afghan people should be routed through the UN and international organisations and distributed without discrimination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-taliban-india-to-host-regional-summit-on-afghanistan-on-november-10-101636112114318.html
06-11-2021||NA||Breaking: 5 firefighters, 2 civilians injured in LPG cylinder blast in Delhi||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:NDMC opens pet dog park in in Old Rajinder Nagar North Delhi Municipal Corporation opens a 'pet dog park' in Old Rajinder Nagar of Delhi.Parnika, a local says, "My dog is very active in this new environment. It couldn't play properly in lanes amid traffic. I came to know about the park y'day. More such parks should come up." pic.twitter.com/HBPAQEccXNFire breaks out in LPG cylinder shop in DelhiA fire broke out at an LPG cylinder shop in Delhi after a cylinder blast in the shop, reported ANI. Five fire brigade personnel involved in the operation and two individuals have been injured. Meghalaya announces reduction on VAT charged in fuel pricesMeghalaya cheif minister Conrad Sangma told reporters that the government will reduce the VAT charged on petrol from 20% to 13.5% & diesel from 12% to 5% per litre, reducing the price by 10 rupees for consumers, reported ANI.Body of maoist discovered after Dantewada DRG & maoists of Indrawati area exchange fire: PoliceDantewada SP Abhishek Pallav said one male maoist, identified as Ramsu, was discovered after an exchange of fire ensued between the Dantewada DRG and maoists of Indrawati area on Friday, reported ANI.Delhi declares November 10 public holiday due to Chhath PujaDelhi government has declared November 10 a public holiday on account of Chhath Puja, ANI reported.Delhi NCB team to probe Aryan Khan's Mumbai drugs-on-cruise caseNCB deputy director general Mutha Ashok Jain said that an operation team in Delhi will probe the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case. He added that Sameer Wankhede will not be supervising the case anymore but will remain the NCB Mumbai zonal director and will supervise other cases. Wankhede said the move is a “coordination” between NCB teams of Mumbai and Delhi. Notably, the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case created buzz due to the arrest and over 20-day custody of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan. 233 cases filed against those  who burst firecrackers in Tamil NaduAs many as 233 cases have been lodged against individuals, who burst firecrackers on Diwali and 246 people have been arrested so far, TS Anbu, IG of south zone, told news agency ANI. In addition, 809 cases have been registered against persons for driving under the influence of alcohol, Anbu added to ANI.BSF nabs 5 Bangladeshi nationals from West BengalBorder Security Force (BSF) on Friday nabbed five Bangladeshi nationals, including a broker, from North 24 Parganas district in West Bengal while they were crossing International Border in three separate operations, ANI reported quoting a statement from the central agency.No proposal to extend PMGKY beyond Nov 30: FDA secySudhanshu Pandey, secretary of the Department of Food and Public Distribution told news agency ANI on Friday that as the economy of the country is “reviving”, as of now, there is no proposal to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) beyond November 30.Day after Diwali, Delhi records highest average AQI in 5 yearsDelhi recorded the highest average AQI at 462 on Friday in five years, one day after Diwali. Last year, the AQI of the day after Diwali was 435.Brief fire fight between terrorists and security forces: J&K PoliceThe Jammu and Kaskhmir Police on Friday said in a statement that there was a “brief fire fight” between terrorists and security forces at the SKIMS Hospital in Bemina. “Terrorists managed to escape taking advantage of civilian presence,” they added.Kiran Gosavi, witness in Aryan Khan case, sent to police custody till Nov 8 on charges of cheatingKiran Gosavi, who was held by Pune City Police on charges of cheating, has been sent to police custody till November 8 by a city court, news agency ANI reported. Gosavi is a witness in drugs-on-cruise case involving actor Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's eldest son Aryan.I-T dept seizes unaccounted cash, jewellery from J&K and PunjabThe Union finance ministry said that the Income Tax Department has seized unaccounted cash of ₹63 lakh and jewellery of ₹2 crore in search operations conducted on October 28 in Jammu and Kashmir, and Punjab in connection with cases of persons engaged in the business of processing and trading of dry fruits. As many as 14 bank lockers have been placed under restraint, the finance ministry added.Karnataka withdraws Covid-related night curfewThe Karnataka government on Friday withdrew night curfew that was enforced due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Watch: Scenes of stubble burning from Attari village in AmritsarEven as the air quality index (AQI) of Delhi continue to deteriorate, a visual clip shared by news agency ANI showed stubble burning continuing in Amritsar's Attari village.Mizoram reports 508 new Covid cases, 3 more deaths; active caseload at 6,141With 508 new Covid-19 cases and three more deaths, Mizoram's tally reached 124,026 and the death toll climbed to 440, reports PTI. The active caseload stood at 6,141.21 people in Bihar died due to consumption of illegal liquor, says state ministerBihar | 21 people including 10 people in Bettiah and 11 people in Gopalganj have died due to consumption of illegal liquor: State minister Sunil KumarBihar minister Sunil Kumar said that 21 people, 10 from Bettiah and 11 from Gopalganj, have died in the state due to consumption of illegal liquor, reports ANI. Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus services disrupted as employee unions go on strikeKerala State Road Transport Corporation bus services were disrupted across the state due to a strike by the employee unions over various demands including pay revision, reports ANI.Aryan Khan appears before NCB to mark his weekly presence Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan on Friday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau, to mark his weekly presence before it, a condition set by the Bombay High Court while granting him bail in the drugs-on-cruise case last month.Over 155 million Covid vaccine doses available with states, UTs, says Centre#𝐂𝐎𝐕𝐈𝐃𝟏𝟗 𝐕𝐚𝐜𝐜𝐢𝐧𝐚𝐭𝐢𝐨𝐧 𝐔𝐏𝐃𝐀𝐓𝐄➡️ More than 116.50 Cr vaccine doses provided to States/UTs.➡️ More than 15.54 Cr doses still available with States/UTs to be administered.https://t.co/jPaQin7ZXJ pic.twitter.com/3fJ02QBvSSThe Union health ministry said that more than 155 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine remain unutilised with the states and Union territories. Overall air quality in Delhi in ‘severe’ category after Diwali, to improve once windspeed picks up: IMD#WATCH Overall air quality in 'severe' category today after bursting for firecrackers on Diwali &presence of bio-mass pollutants in Delhi. The air quality& fog condition to improve once windspeed picks up. No wind & high moisture is causing fog conditions: RK Jenamani, IMD Delhi pic.twitter.com/W1emRoWzuAIMD Delhi's RK Jenamani said that the overall air quality in Delhi in 'severe' category today after bursting of firecrackers for Diwali and the presence of bio-mass pollutants, reports ANI. “The air quality& fog condition to improve once windspeed picks up. No wind & high moisture is causing fog conditions,” he added. Uttarakhand will receive more tourists in next 10 years than last 100 years, says Modi“A number of infrastructure works are planned for Uttarakhand including road connectivity to Char Dhams and rope-way near Hemkund Sahib to facilitate devotees. This decade belongs to Uttarakhand. In next 10 years, the state will receive more tourists than it did in the last 100 years,” PM Modi said, reports ANI.‘Now, country aiming high and also sets time limit to achieve these aims’: Modi in KedarnathPM Modi said that the country now is aiming high and is also setting a time limit to achieve such aims, in reference to the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya and teh Kashi Vishwanath corridor project in Varanasi, reports ANI. “A grand Ram Temple is being constructed in Ayodhya. Recently, Deepotsav was celebrated there. Work on Kashi Vishwanath corridor project in Varanasi is also progressing rapidly....Now, the country aims high and also sets a time limit to achieve these aims,” he said.‘Always believed Kedarnath could be redeveloped after 2013’: PM ModiModi said that he always believed that the Kedarnath shrine could be redeveloped after the 2013 flash floods, reports ANI.“After 2013 destruction, people used to think if Kedarnath could be redeveloped. But a voice within me always told me that Kedarnath will be redeveloped again,” he said. ‘Adi Shankaracharya’s devotees are present here in spirit', says Modi at KedarnathAddressing the gathering at Kedarnath shrine, Modi said that all devotees of Adi Shankaracharya were present there in spirit, reports ANI. “You all are witness to the inauguration of Adi Shankaracharya Samadhi here today. His devotees are present here in spirit. All maths and 'jyotirlingas' in the country are connected with us today,” he said.Modi inaugurates redevelopment projects worth ₹130 crore at KedarnathUttarakhand | Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates re-development projects worth ₹130cr at Kedarnath These projects include Saraswati Retaining Wall Aasthapath and Ghats, Mandakini Retaining Wall Aasthapath, Tirth Purohit Houses and Garud Chatti bridge on river Mandakini pic.twitter.com/BxYcfPcyw4PM Narendra Modi inaugurated redevelopment projects worth ₹130 crore at Kedarnath shrine, reports ANI.Modi to address gathering in Kedarnath temple premisesNarendra Modi finished performing rituals in the Kedarnath shrine and will address a gathering of devotees in the temple premises. PM Modi unveils statue of Shankaracharyaप्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi ने आदिगुरु शंकराचार्य की समाधि का उद्घाटन किया। pic.twitter.com/CL6HNKKhXaModi unveiled the idol of Adi Shankaracharya at Kedarnath in Uttarakhand.Delhi received fewer fire emergency calls than previous years: Fire ServicesDelhi received the lowest number of fire calls compared to previous years. People burst fewer firecrackers this year. No major fire calls have been received. A total of 4 calls are suspected to be connected with firecrackers: Atul Garg, Director, Delhi Fire Services pic.twitter.com/NnwhmItBwLDelhi Fire Services director Atul Garg said that the services received the lowest number of fire calls compared to previous years, reports ANI.“People burst fewer firecrackers this year. No major fire calls have been received. A total of 4 calls are suspected to be connected with firecrackers,” he said.PM Modi reaches Kedarnath, to unveil idol of Shankaracharya, inaugurate works worth ₹250 crore in temple.Modi reached Kedarnath shrine along with CM Dhami and Governor Lt Gen Gurmit Singh (retd). After offering prayers at the shrine, he will be unveiling the statue of Adi Shankaracharya and also inaugurate restoration and renovation works worth ₹250 crore in the temple premises.Delhi air quality remains in ‘very poor’ categoryThick layer of smog blankets #Delhi, overall air quality remains in 'very poor' category' as per SAFAR-IndiaVisuals from near Akshardham Temple pic.twitter.com/wL9jcxhlOYAir quality in Delhi remained at the ‘very poor’ category, reports ANI citing the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research.PM Modi arrives in Uttarakhand, CM Dhami greets him on arrivalभारत के यशस्वी प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी के देवभूमि उत्तराखण्ड आगमन पर स्वागत एवं अभिनन्दन किया।आज माननीय प्रधानमंत्री जी श्री केदारनाथ धाम पहुंचकर आदि शंकराचार्य जी की पवित्र समाधि एवं भव्य प्रतिमा के साथ विभिन्न परियोजनाओं का लोकार्पण करेंगे। pic.twitter.com/qYrNMqiM2JPM Modi arrived at Uttarakhand and was welcomed by CM Pushkar Singh Dhami. “Today, Hon'ble Prime Minister will reach Shri Kedarnath Dham and inaugurate various projects along with the holy samadhi and grand statue of Adi Shankaracharya,” the CM tweeted.Preparations underway at Kedarnath, Uttarakhand as PM Modi to visit shrine todayPreparations underway at Kedarnath shrine in Uttarakhand ahead of PM Narendra Modi's visit today. PM will offer prayers at the shrine, inaugurate Adi Shankaracharya Samadhi & unveil their statue. pic.twitter.com/kYd6tz0CuXPreparations were underway at Kedarnath in Uttarakhand as Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to visit the shrine today, reports ANI.Late night fire at paper mill in Valsad, Gujarat, continues, 20 fire tenders at spot#UPDATE | Fire is still not under control, can't say how long it will take. Paper mill has been burning for about 4.5 hours and the fire is expected to continue burning till 6:30-7 am before it's completely doused. About 20 fire tenders are here: Ankit Lathe, Fire Officer, Vapi pic.twitter.com/KdDdJGGzsIA late night fire that broke out at a paper mill in Valsad in Gujarat continued to blaze early today and is expected to prevail until 6.30 or 7am before it is completely doused, reports ANI citing an official. Also, 20 fire tenders were at the spot of the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-5-2021-101636069982197.html
