08-11-2021||India||NDRF to deploy over 20 more teams in Tamil Nadu, Andhra to brace for heavy rain||Amid widespread rainfall in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, more than 20 additional teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) will be deployed in both the states by tomorrow, director general SN Pradhan told news agency ANI on Monday.He specifically mentioned that the NDRF teams are focused at avoiding another “urban flooding” that had taken place in 2015-2016 in Chennai. Pradhan further noted that despite the first spell of rain almost ending in Tamil Nadu, the worrisome situation is the forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) pertaining to extremely heavy rainfall between November 9 and 11, which could cause flooding and waterlogging in the state.“The rainfall will mainly affect Tamil Nadu and southern Andhra Pradesh. It is not expected to affect Kerala. As per the prediction, we have deployed NDRD teams,” Pradhan was quoted as saying by ANI.Also Read | Chennai rains: IMD issues red alert for city, 4 NDRF teams deployed, several areas flooded as rainfall continuesHe pointed out that of the more than 20 additional NDRF teams that will be deployed in both the southern states, a maximum of 10 to15 will reach Tamil Nadu. “A few teams will be kept in reserve positions for additional support,” Pradhan told ANI.The NDRF director general said that at the moment the force is deciding the exact number of personnel required to be deployed in each area of Tamil Nadu but the focus “will be on Chennai city.”The NDRF has already pre-deployed four of its teams in Tamil Nadu on the request of the MK Stalin-led government. Of these, one team each has been assigned for Thiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts, while two others have been deployed in Madurai.Starting Saturday night through Sunday, Chennai and adjoining regions of Tamil Nadu received record rainfall in a single day with 210mm since 2015 owing to the continued impact of La Nina. This led to massive waterlogging in Chennai with vehicles getting stranded and people needing to wade through knee-deep rainwater.Moreover, the Tamil Nadu government has declared closure of schools in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram till November 9.According to the latest IMD bulletin, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over Tamil Nadu on November 9. Heavy to very rain at few places with isolated extremely heavy falls are expected on November 10 and 11. In coastal Andhra Pradesh, heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy downpours at isolated places are very likely on November 10 and 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ndrf-to-deploy-over-20-more-teams-in-tamil-nadu-andhra-to-brace-for-heavy-rain-101636394149402.html
08-11-2021||India||‘Attempt to silence media’, IWPC slams Tripura cops action against journalists||Delhi-based journalists' association Indian Women's Press Corps (IWPC) criticised the Tripura police on Monday for reportedly booking a journalist, along with others, under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) to "intimidate and silence" media and demanded that the case be withdrawn immediately.The Tripura police on Saturday booked 102 social media account holders under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), criminal conspiracy and forgery charges and served notices to the authorities of Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to freeze their accounts and inform all particulars of those persons to it, news agency PTI reported.This came after the state police registered a case against four Supreme Court lawyers under the stringent act and various sections of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly promoting communal disharmony with their social media posts on the recent violence in the state targeting Muslims.On Sunday, the Editors Guild of India also condemned the Tripura police's action and said the government cannot use such stringent laws to suppress reporting on communal violence incidents.ALSO READ | Tripura violence: Cong, CPI(M) condemn police action against lawyers, othersThe IWPC said it is "shocked and dismayed" by the act of Tripura Police of booking Shyam Meera Singh, a journalist, along with others under the UAPA."Singh has alleged that he has been booked for tweeting, 'Tripura is burning'. It is a journalist's job to inform, to highlight and present the true picture of events. It is not the journalist's job to please people in power," the journalist body said.The IWPC slammed the Tripura Police action against Singh, alleging that the slapping of UAPA charge is "a clear attempt" to silence journalists by misusing laws to intimidate them."The IWPC demands that all such charges be withdrawn immediately and the media be allowed to do its work freely," the journalist body said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attempt-to-silence-media-iwpc-slams-tripura-cops-action-against-journalists-101636390807041.html
08-11-2021||India||India to host top security officials of seven countries for dialogue on Afghanistan||India will bring together top security officials of seven countries, including Iran and Russia, for a dialogue on Afghanistan aimed at forging a cooperative approach for tackling threats such as terrorism and radicalisation in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover.The Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on November 10, to be chaired by National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, will be attended by Iran’s Supreme National Security Council secretary Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s Security Council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and NSAs or security council secretaries of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.Though this is the first such meeting on Afghanistan to be chaired by India, the dialogue is a continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meets in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were also invited to this week’s meeting but will not be present.Pakistan NSA Moeed Yusuf said earlier this month that he would not attend, and people familiar with the matter said on Monday that the Chinese side had informed India it would be unable to participate because of “scheduling difficulties”. The Chinese side also said it was open to maintaining contacts with India on the situation in Afghanistan through bilateral or multilateral channels, they said on condition of anonymity.The dialogue on November 10 will focus on forging consensus on the challenges currently emanating from Afghanistan and finding common ground on a way forward, the people said.According to an Indian assessment, the five main threats and challenges following the Taliban takeover of Kabul on August 15 are - terrorism within Afghanistan and across its borders, radicalisation and extremism, cross-border movements which are a key concern for Central Asian states, drug production and trafficking, and the threat emanating from vast amounts of weapons and military gear left behind in Afghanistan by US troops.The people said the regional countries attending the dialogue had similar concerns, especially about the uncertainty in Afghanistan, and India is confident about achieving unanimity on the problems being faced by the Afghan people.“The most important deliverable [from the meeting] will be that the key countries of the region agree on the threats that we all face, and also agree on what should be done in the future. Sometimes, the difficulty is that you do not have a consensus on the threats you face,” one of the people cited above said.The people noted that none of the countries participating in the meeting had recognised or legitimised the Taliban set up in Kabul. They also pointed out the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue is different from other mechanisms on Afghanistan because it involves senior security officials.While some regional countries such as Russia and Iran are more engaged with the Taliban, they still have a high degree of convergence with India on points of concern and objectives in Afghanistan, such as respecting diversity and rights of minorities and inculcating a culture of moderation, the people added.The Central Asian states also have concerns about the implications of the Taliban takeover on their societies, such as emboldening of “hotheads”, the person cited above said. “They are not ready for any export of ideology from Afghanistan into their societies,” he added.The people also said it was unfortunate that Pakistan had opted not to participate in the meeting, and noted that there is a “credibility gap” between Pakistan’s actions and intentions for Afghanistan. If Pakistan was truly sincere about helping Afghanistan, it should have allowed the routing of India’s humanitarian aid through its soil, they said. Pointing to Pakistan’s support for the Taliban over the years, including providing resources and bases, the people said most regional countries recognise Pakistan as a source of the problem though some are not inclined to say this publicly. The external affairs ministry said in a statement that the dialogue will review the security situation in the region arising from developments in Afghanistan. It will deliberate on measures to address security challenges and support the Afghan people in promoting peace, security and stability.“India has traditionally enjoyed close and friendly ties with the people of Afghanistan and has called for a unified international response to address the security and humanitarian challenges facing Afghanistan. The forthcoming meeting is a step in that direction,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-host-top-security-officials-of-seven-countries-for-dialogue-on-afghanistan-101636390861413.html
08-11-2021||India||Chennai, adjoining districts continue to receive heavy rainfall||Chennai and northern districts of Tamil Nadu on Monday continued to receive rainfall. Certain parts of the city remained disconnected from power supply owing to the rain. Chengalpet, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Vellore along with capital Chennai received mild to moderate and intermittent rainfall since early Monday.The IMD in its bulletin said that a cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining South Andaman sea, extending up to 5.8 kms above the mean sea level, persists. It said that due to the cyclonic circulation’s influence a low pressure is likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours and is likely to move west–northwestwards, concentrate into a depression and reach near north Tamil Nadu coast by November 11 leading to heavy rainfall in several parts of the state.Chennai saw most of its roads and bylanes and a section of subways remain waterlogged on Monday. Traffic in the city was also diverted creating issues for travellers. More than 23,000 personnel were deployed by the Greater Chennai Corporation amid showers to restore normalcy. Even a police station in Adambakkam was shifted to temporary premises due to flooding.“377 locations were waterlogged. Now only 177 places are stagnated. 169 shelters have been readied and 58 of them are currently occupied,” Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner Gagandeep Bedi said, according to a HT report.People affected by the floods were given food prepared in community kitchens.While transportation was affected due to the rain, the Southern Railway said that all suburban services are running and will run normally. Bus routes were affected due to the rain and northbound trains to Howrah, Delhi and Hyderabad and other stations north of Chennai were affected due to the rains.Chief minister MK Stalin asked the officials to extend support to the people who faced issues due to the rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-adjoining-districts-continue-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-101636390149973.html
08-11-2021||India||Salesman for Kashmiri pandit trader shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar||Terrorists shot dead a salesman at Srinagar in Jammu & Kashmir on Monday. This was the second such attack on a civilian in the city this week after constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani, 29, was killed in Srinagar’s Batamaloo region on Sunday.The deceased has been identified as Ibrahim Khan of Bandipore district. He was working as a salesman for Kashmiri pandit businessman Roshan Lal Mawa, who had established his business in 2018 in the old city of the Valley.Initially, Khan was shifted to the SMHS hospital in Srinagar but police later confirmed from the hospital that he succumbed to his injuries.The situation has been pretty tense in Jammu and Kashmir since the spate of civilian killings last month wherein as many as 11 migrants were gunned down by terrorists, who mostly belonged to Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).On Sunday, Wani — whose family was paid a visit by Union home minister Amit Shah last month — was gunned down outside his residence, police told Hindustan Times.A police spokesperson said that at around 8pm, terrorists opened fire upon Wani, leaving him with serious bullet injuries. Although he was rushed to a nearby hospital, he later succumbed to his injuries. A case has been filed against the suspects and the J&K Police have formed a team to probe the matter as well. Notably, Wani had joined the police force two years before.Also Read | J&K Police form team to probe constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani’s deathIn the brutal killings that plagued Kashmir last month, a majority of the migrants who were targeted were from Bihar and from minority communities. In multiple counter-attacks carried out in the Valley by security forces, at least 13 terrorists have been shot dead, including a top LeT commander.Also Read | Security tightened, searches intensified after J&K civilian killingsBesides LeT, the United Liberations Front (ULF) had claimed responsibility for the attacks on three of the 11 civilians on October 17. In this incident that happened in Wanpoh area of Kulgam district, two people from Bihar were gunned down while one was left injured. The ULF later released a statement warning all non-locals to leave the Valley or “get ready for what they deserve.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salesman-for-kashmiri-pandit-trader-shot-by-terrorists-in-srinagar-101636388795867.html
08-11-2021||India||UNESCO’s network of creative cities: Srinagar is now newest member||Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, was among 49 cities worldwide to join the UNESCO creative cities network (UCCN) on Monday.The 49 cities were added to the network of 246 cities following their designation by UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay, in recognition of "their commitment to placing culture and creativity at the heart of their development and to sharing knowledge and good practices".According to a release posted on the UNESCO site, the network now numbers 295 cities reaching 90 countries that invest in culture and creativity – crafts and folk art, design, film, gastronomy, literature, media arts, and music – to advance sustainable urban development.“A new urban model needs to be developed in every city, with its architects, town planners, landscapers and citizens,” said UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay.“We are urging everyone to work with States to reinforce the international cooperation between cities which UNESCO wishes to promote,” he added.While Indian National Commission for Cooperation with UNESCO (INCCU) had recommended Srinagar and Gwalior for inclusion in the coveted list, only Jammu and Kashmir's summer capital made it.Meanwhile, Mayor of Srinagar Junaid Azim Mattu took to Twitter to announce Srinagar's inclusion in the list. "GREAT NEWS FOR SRINAGAR! #Srinagar has been inscribed as @UNESCO 'Creative City of Art and Craft'.The the only city from India to make it to the list!" Mattu claimed.However, Mumbai and Hyderabad are already in the network, having made it to the list in October 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unescos-network-of-creative-cities-srinagar-is-now-newest-member-101636388822092.html
08-11-2021||India||‘List reasons for not including petrol, diesel under GST’: Kerala HC tells GST council||The Kerala High Court on Monday asked the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council why petroleum products can’t come under the GST and directed it to file a reply in ten days. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL), a division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly directed the GST Council to explain reasons for not including petrol and diesel within the ambit of GST. The PIL was filed by Kerala Pradesh Gandhi Darshanvadi, a voluntary organisation, though its counsel Arun B Varghese contended that prices of petrol and diesel vary in different states as tax levied by them was different and sought a uniform tax regime for petroleum products. It also cited that though the union and state governments plead helplessness in this citing petroleum marketing companies, both enthusiastically participated in the reduction of fuel price prior to elections. “Now different rates are being charged in different states and same is due to a different rate of tax levied by the state governments under their fragmented taxing policies. This is an impediment to harmonised national market as contemplated under Article 279(A) 6 of the constitution,” the PIL said. It also said the state and central taxes will account for at least 60 per cent of the price of one litre of fuel. If petrol and diesel are brought under the GST, there will be a harmonious market throughout the nation and the maximum taxable rate will be 28%, it said, adding that even people who are not direct consumers of fuel are affected by the unprecedented price hike. “A welfare state must be the one where everyone is in a position to bear expenses of basic amenities. The unprecedented hike in fuel prices push the public to immense hardships by which their right to life guaranteed under Article 21 is violated,” it said.Respondents in the PIL are the Union of India, Kerala Government, Petroleum Secretary, Goods and Service Tax Council and three major oil companies. The Centre and the GST Council can’t argue that if the fuel was included in the GST, it would have serious implications on revenue collection. A constitutional duty was cast upon the GST Council to make a serious recommendation to include both (petrol and diesel) under the GST, the PIL said. “To declare the non-inclusion of petrol and diesel under the GST regime are violative of the Article 14 and 21 of the constitution,” it said. The PIL was first filed in July but it was withdrawn later after the court pointed out some glitches and they were corrected in the new one which was readily admitted by the court, said the counsel. Earlier, the counsel for both union and state governments opposed the PIL saying the fuel price regime was part of a policy decision and the judiciary can’t intervene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-reasons-for-not-including-petrol-diesel-under-gst-kerala-hc-tells-gst-council-101636388822681.html
08-11-2021||India||2 Manipur legislators join BJP, praise PM Modi’s initiatives in the North-east||IMPHAL: Two Manipur legislators elected on a Congress ticket in the 2017 assembly elections, RK Imo Singh and Yamthong Haokip, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday, raising the party’s strength in the 60-member assembly to 25. Manipur is due for elections early next year.RK Imo Singh, who represents the Sagolband constituency in Imphal West district, was expelled from the Congress in August last year for anti-party activities. His father Rajkumar Jaichandra Singh was a former Manipur chief minister and the first Union minister from the state. He’s the son-in-law of chief minister N Biren Singh.Yamthong Haokip was elected from the Saikul assembly segment in Kangpokpi district, and was still with Congress before he turned up at the BJP office in the national capital and switched sides.RK Imo Singh credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for doing a lot of work for the country’s prosperity, peace and stability. In 2017 when the BJP came to power in Manipur, the state was known for law and order problems, regular blockades and the divide between its hilly and valley regions but this is no longer so, he said at an event to announce the induction of the two Manipur politicians.Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal highlighted PM Modi’s initiatives in the Northeast besides addressing the issues.Sharing group photographs of the two former Congress MLAs with the BJP national leaders in a tweet, chief minister N Biren Singh wrote, “Leaders from various parties continue to join the@BJP4India. Shri Yamthong Haokip Ji, MLA of Saikul AC joined BJP today and took blessings from National Party President Sh @JPNadda Ji & Natl. Gen Sec (Org) Sh @blsantosh Ji.”BJP Manipur also tweeted its welcome note: “We wholeheartedly welcome and congratulate Shri Rajkumar Imo Singh and Shri Yamthong Haokip for Joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).”With Yamthong Haokip’s exit, the Congress is down to 15 legislators in the assembly.The Congress won 28 seats in the 2017 elections to emerge as the single largest party but could not come to power since the BJP, which won only 21 seats, was able to cross the majority mark of 31 seats with the support of four lawmakers each from the National People’s Party (NPP) and Naga Peoples Front and one legislator each from the Trinamool Congress, Lok Janshakti Party and an independent MLA.The BJP’s strength in the assembly has gone up since then, mostly at the expense of the Congress.In August last year, five Congress MLAs Henry Okram, nephew of former chief minister and senior Congress leader Ibobi Singh, Paonam Brojen, Oinam Lukhoi Singh, Ngamthang Haokip, Ginsuanhau Zou quit the party and joined the BJP. Former Congress MLA Govindas Konthoujam who was the former Congress unit chief, also joined the ruling BJP on August 1 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-manipur-legislators-join-bjp-praise-pm-modi-s-initiatives-in-the-northeast-101636387979728.html
08-11-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to Centre for staus check on domestic violence law||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to respond to a petition seeking information about designating protection officers and shelter homes under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act 2005 for victims.The petition, filed by a non-profit “We the Women of India”, said there were several provisions in the law enacted in 2005 to protect women from violence and abuse at home but hadn’t been completely implemented by many states. For one, the petition filed advocate Shobha Gupta said, “The victims are clueless as to which authority they can approach for counselling or protection due to lack of proper enforcement and dissemination of information to the public at large”.A bench of justices UU Lalit and S Ravindra Bhat issued notice to three departments under the Union Government, Ministry of Women and Child Development, Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Information, and sought their response within four weeks.The bench said it was avoiding issuing notice to states and UTs at this stage to first get a clear picture from the Centre.“We will issue notice to the central government or else it becomes a jamboree and, on each occasion, some state will seek time and the matter will unnecessarily keep getting pushed. Let the Centre file its response. We will get a clear picture of the implementation of the law,” the judges said, posting the matter for hearing on December 6.According to data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau, over 30% of a total 4.05 lakh crimes registered for crimes against women were registered under the domestic violence law. Between March and September 2020 when a lockdown was in place due to the Covid pandemic, the NCW reported a spike in the number of domestic violence complaints, the petition stated.Shobha said the 2005 Act was enacted to provide succour to women who face domestic violence and the victims could directly approach protection officers with their complaints. The law also provided for shelter homes for the protection of victims of such violence. “For the successful implementation of the Act, contact details of protection officers, shelter homes and service providers should be easily available and should be readily accessible for providing necessary and timely assistance to victims,” she said.The petition said the NCW website contains a list of protection officers of 14 states but no information is provided about service providers or shelter homes. Only Delhi and Manipur have provided details under the three separate heads.According to the petition, each district in every state and union territory should maintain a list of protection officers, service providers and shelter homes and share this information centrally on the website Women and Child Development (WCD) ministry, or the official portals of the National Commission for Women (NCW), State Commissions for Women, or at the local police stations.But this hasn’t been done, the petition said. It also complained that states and union territories were required to publicise various provisions of the law and set up a ‘Network of Assistance’ to assist victims of domestic violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-for-staus-check-on-domestic-violence-law-101636386179635.html
08-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: KCR says Centre ‘ignoring’ state while giving Padma Awards and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Telangana CM KCR says Centre ‘ignoring’ state while giving Padma AwardsTwo-time Olympic medalist and India’s star badminton player PV Sindhu is among 29 women, who were honoured with Padma Awards 2020 by President Ram Nath Kovind. Read more here. T20 World Cup: Virat Kohli drops big hint on Team India's next T20I captain in his last match as skipperTeam India captain Virat Kohli gave a strong hint over the next T20I captain during the toss in side's final game of the 2021 T20 World Cup game against Namibia. Read more here. Padma Awards 2020: Karan Johar and Ekta Kapoor honoured with Padma Shri awards, watch videosKaran Johar and Ekta Kapoor were honoured with the Padma Shri award on Monday evening. Earlier in the day, Kangana Ranaut was also honoured. Read more here. Man uses dart to pop multiple huge balloons at one go. WatchThe balloon popping video also received tons of excited reactions. Read more here. Priyanka Chopra dances to this Shah Rukh Khan song at her Diwali bash, watch unseen videoPriyanka Chopra dances to this Shah Rukh Khan song at her Diwali bash, watch unseen video. Read more here. Watch what happened when Ola electric scooter tried bike-like stuntsOla CEO Bhavish Aggarwal posted a video on Twitter of stuntmen trying various feats with the company's new electric scooter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kcr-says-centre-ignoring-state-while-giving-padma-awards-and-all-the-latest-news-101636384572506.html
08-11-2021||India||Telangana CM KCR says Centre ‘ignoring’ state while giving Padma Awards||Following the announcement of Padma Awards earlier in the day, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao (KCR) said that the Union government is not honouring people of the state with the prestigious awards and that it is “ignoring” them, news agency ANI reported.“Centre is not giving Padma awards to people of our state, they are ignoring us,” he was quoted as saying.As many as 119 people have been conferred with Padma Awards 2020 by President Ram Nath Kovind. Of this, a total of seven people received the Padma Vibhushan, 10 got Padma Bhushan and 102 were honoured with Padma Shri. As many as 29 of them were women, 16 Padma awardees were posthumous and one was a transgender.According to the list of Padma awardees 2020 released by the Union ministry of home affairs, two-time Olympic medalist and India’s badminton star PV Sindhu is among the 29 women who won the award. Sindhu, who has been honoured with Padma Bhushan 2020, is from Telangana's capital Hyderabad.Many prominent personalities such as Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) veteran late Arun Jaitley, former external affairs minister late Sushma Swaraj and singer Adnan Sami, among others were conferred with the awards.Watch | Padma awards for Kangana, Adnan, Sindhu; Sushma, Jaitley honoured posthumouslyChief minister KCR, who is also the chief of the ruling party in the southern state – Telangana Rashtriya Samithi (TRS), has been at a war of words with the saffron party lately over VAT in petrol and diesel prices.Also Read | 'We'll cut your tongues': KCR issues warning to Telangana BJP leaders; attacks govt over crude oil pricesNotably, the Union government on Diwali eve announced a reduction in the excise duty by ₹5 and ₹10, respectively, per litre, to curtail the fuel prices from their record rates. Following this, several BJP-led state governments or their allies also followed in the footsteps of the Centre. These states include Assam, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Uttarakhand, among others.However, KCR on Sunday blamed the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre for misleading people and not withdrawing collection of cess imposed on petrol and diesel prices.Earlier in the day, the Telangana chief minister said that the BJP brands him “anti-national” whenever he doesn’t show support to the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-kcr-says-centre-ignoring-state-while-giving-padma-awards-101636383197030.html
08-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Himachal Pradesh to reopen schools for classes 1-7||The Himachal Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools, which were closed in view of the Covid pandemic, for classes 1 to 7, an official spokesperson said on Monday.The decision to reopen schools was taken in the state cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday. The schools from class 8 and above have already reopened in the state.It was decided in the meeting to reopen schools for students of classes 3 to 7 from November 10 and for students of classes 1 and 2 from November 15, the spokesperson said.The cabinet also decided to resume transport buses with full capacity instead of the earlier 50 per cent norms, he added.The state cabinet also decided to recommend the governor to convene the Winter session of the state Vidhan Sabha from December 10 to 15 at Dharamshala. It wil22l have five sittings. The cabinet also decided to hold 'Janmanch' programme on November 21 in different parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-himachal-pradesh-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-17-101636382105203.html
08-11-2021||India||PMC to tar Katraj-Kondhwa road due to financial crunch||PUNE: Due to lack of funds to acquire land for the Katraj-Kondhwa road-widening project, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to complete tarring of the existing road instead of cement concretisation (CC) to avoid inconveniencing citizens.The PMC’s project to widen the Katraj-Kondhwa road by 4km will not be completed within the deadline owing to land acquisition problems. Over a period of three years, the contractor has completed only 25% of the work and the project cost has also increased due to the delay. So, the corporation has decided to complete tarring of the existing road from Kakade vasti to Kondhwa and Shatrunjay mandir to Rajas society instead of cement concretisation. The PMC has also decided to construct a grade separator between Yewalewadi and Kondhwa. The standing committee has approved a proposal of ₹9.76 crore tabled by the road department of the corporation. The PMC has allocated ₹35 crore for the Katraj-Kondhwa road-widening project out of which, ₹9.76 crore will be used to complete tarring of the existing road instead of CC work.Dhananjay Gaikwad, deputy engineer of the road department, said, “At present, the existing road is not in good condition. Local residents were demanding repair and maintenance of the existing road to avoid inconvenience to traffic. Actually, the Katraj-Kondhwa road-widening project includes cement concretisation of the road along with road-widening. However, the project affected people are demanding cash compensation and the cost works out more than the actual project cost. Therefore, the contractor will not be able to complete the project within the December 2021 deadline. Hence, the department has decided to complete tarring of the existing road.”The Katraj-Kondhwa road is one of the major roads that links the Satara road to Solapur road. Heavy traffic passes out of the city via this route from the westerly bypass to Solapur road. However, the road is too narrow (15m to 20m wide) and is always facing logjams along the 4km stretch between Kondhwa and Katraj junction that passes through Khadi machine chowk.Fahim Mulla, a resident of Kondhwa said, “It is a practical decision of the administration to complete tarring of the road instead of CC as PMC does not know when they will get the land for road-widening. The decision is late but I welcome it. At least, we will get some kind of relief and a motorable road.”Only 25% work completeIn December 2018, a PMC-appointed contractor began the work of widening the existing 3.5km Katraj-Kondhwa road (15 to 20m) to 84m. The project cost was ₹215 crore including GST. The deadline was fixed as December 2021.However, nearly three years since, the contractor has completed only 25% of the work as the PMC is not able to hand over the land required for road-widening. The contractor has completed road-widening work in patches wherever land was made available for the purpose of widening.PMC needs ₹700 crore for land acquisitionAccording to PMC road department officials, land acquisition will cost the administration ₹700 crore. Due to the financial crunch, it is not possible for the PMC to pay such a big amount as compensation.Earlier, the PMC decided to implement the road-widening project with the deferred payment option - temporary postponement of the payment of an outstanding bill or debt, usually involving repayment by instalments. But, the PMC realised that they would have to pay an additional ₹100 crore to the contractor if they opted for the deferred payment mode. Hence, the option was discarded by the standing committee of the PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmc-to-tar-katraj-kondhwa-road-due-to-financial-crunch-101636381139683.html
08-11-2021||India||Deplorable: India protests killing of fisherman by Pak Maritime Security Agency||India on Monday summoned a senior Pakistani diplomat to protest the killing of a fisherman in an incident of unprovoked firing by Pakistan’s Maritime Security Agency.One fisherman was killed and another seriously injured when personnel from the MSA fired at the fishing boat Jalpari in waters off the coast of Gujarat on Saturday.The political counsellor at the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi was summoned to the external affairs ministry and a strong protest was lodged over the incident of unprovoked firing at Indian fishermen, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.“The Indian side condemned this deplorable action by the Pakistani agency of firing at an Indian fishing boat and causing loss of life, which was in contravention of all established international practices and bilateral understandings,” one of the people cited above said.The Indian side made it clear that Pakistani authorities should consider the issue of fishermen as a humanitarian and livelihood matter, the people said.The Pakistan government was asked to conduct an inquiry into the incident and to instruct its security forces to refrain from acts of unprovoked firing, the people added.The injured fisherman was rushed to a hospital at Okha in Gujarat soon after the incident of firing. India had taken serious note of the incident.India and Pakistan detain hundreds of fishermen each year on charges of violating the maritime boundary. Their vessels are also often seized. The fishermen detained by Pakistan are sometimes held for months even after completing their prison terms.There have also been instances in the past of the MSA attacking Indian fishing vessels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deplorable-action-india-protests-killing-of-fisherman-by-pakistan-s-maritime-security-agency-101636381080221.html
08-11-2021||India||Air India Boeing pilots warn of mass protest on non-payment of arrears||The Indian Pilots’ Guild (IPG)- a Boeing pilots’ union of Air India - has warned the airline management of mass protest and industrial unrest if their arrears are not settled and if their total pending amount is manipulated with a smaller amount.In a letter written to the Air India management on Sunday evening, the pilots mentioned that despite having no communication from the airline on arrears, they are flying at maximum capacity in this festive season, however, the consequences of cheating at this stage will lead to handing over an unstable workforce to the new owner.The letter read, “At this critical juncture where the international skies have opened up and the domestic demand is steadily rising due to the festive season, the pilots are once again being stretched beyond capacity to cover additional flights. We trust you will ensure that the process of settling arrears is righteously carried out so as to not leave the employees feeling cheated. We are truly optimistic about making a fresh start with our new owners. We urge you not to exploit us employees whilst settling our arrears as that would probably lead to mass protest and industrial unrest just as the company changes hands”. The letter by the IPG, read, “..the government is committed to settling all outstanding dues with employees pre hand-over.” Asking the airline to not miss certain points whilst implementing the said process, the pilots mentioned the 2006 wage agreement which allocated a monthly Layover Subsistence Allowance (LSA) for pilots and co-pilots.LSA was an allowance provided to sustain international layovers where the cost of living is higher. But, pilots would spend from their own pockets on international layovers because these sums of money were not rightfully paid on time.“Over the years, 25% of these amounts were held back and are still due,” the pilots said. The reimbursement of these foreign currency expenses that have been incurred for many years is overdue,” they stated. Pilots mentioned that the arrears arising out of the 25% cut on LSA are due, when these arrears are settled, there should be no question of any tax burden on the pilots. Additionally, a unilateral 25% pay cut had been implemented on Air India employees in 2012. “It has been over nine years since the first deduction and it would be highly unjust if the company were to have enjoyed interest-free finance at the expense of the employees,” the letter read. The IPG also sought an immediate detailed statement with a working calculation of dues pending for each pilot. In October, Tata Sons emerged as the highest bidder for the purchase of the debt-ridden state-run airline Air India, with a proposal of ₹18,000 crore and became the new owner of Air India after beating Ajay Singh, chairman, SpiceJet.Commenting on the letter, a senior pilot said that despite the official announcement on sorting all the issues relating to arrears, the airline has not had a word on it. “It will be shameful if the airline cuts taxes on our arrears. We hope the airline does justice to the employees and pays back our arrears in full before the new owner takes over, else we will be forced to take drastic steps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-boeing-pilots-warn-of-mass-protest-on-non-payment-of-arrears-101636377899715.html
08-11-2021||India||Experts find unprecedented density of Aedes mosquitoes in Kanpur’s Chakeri||The Centre’s health experts have found an unprecedented density of Aedes mosquitoes in Kanpur’s Chakeri area, which has of late seen a spate of Zika virus cases. The density could be as high as 1.06 per 10 man-hours, which also means the Aedes mosquito or its larvae could be found in 2-3% of houses, said health officials aware of the findings. During the monsoon soon, the health department had found that the density has been 0.93 per 10 man-hours. Last year, the density was 0.660 per 10 man-hours or one in 200 houses, said the officials, adding that this shows that the breeding of Aedes mosquitoes has substantially increased in one year. Three years ago, the mosquito was responsible for the worst outbreak of dengue in Kanpur, which had recorded around 900 deaths. Also Read: Indonesian researchers breed ‘good’ mosquitoes to combat dengueAccording to the malaria control department’s report, which was seen by HT, two species - Aedes Aegypti and Albopictus – have the highest concentration in Kanpur. The malaria-causing Anopheles mosquito has a density of 0.025 per 10 man-hours, which means it has been found in one in 400 houses, the report said. While the Culex mosquito that causes Filaria has zero-density in urban pockets, it has a density of 0.012 per 10 man-hours in rural pockets of Kanpur, such as in Ghatampur and Sarsaul. Kanpur division’s additional director for health, Dr GK Mishra, said the Aedes mosquito has become dominant and its density in Chakeri was a cause for concern, particularly after genome sequencing confirmed the presence of the Zika virus’s RNA in one of the mosquito samples sent to NMRI in New Delhi. “It is acknowledgment that mosquitoes are carrying the Zika virus in Chakeri,” said chief medical officer, Dr Nepal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-find-unprecedented-density-of-aedes-mosquitoes-in-kanpur-s-chakeri-101636375318885.html
08-11-2021||India||'Speed of expansion of certain maritime presence triggering new arms race'||Defence secretary Ajay Kumar on Monday hit out, without directly naming China, for what he said was an ‘expansion at an unprecedented rate’ of conventional navies in the Pacific region which he said was prompting “new genre of arms race” whose effects were being felt far beyond the region. Speaking at the inaugural event of the Goa Maritime Conclave, hosted by the Indian Navy, currently underway in Goa and being attended by the naval heads of 12 Indian Ocean countries, Kumar also made a special reference to “illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing, being undertaken in International waters off the coast of India, calling for action against the practice -- something that Chinese boats have been accused of. The theme for this year’s edition of GMC is “Maritime Security and Emerging Non-Traditional Threats: A Case for Proactive Role for IOR Navies” and included threats like terrorism, narcotics, piracy, human and drug trafficking besides also IUU fishing. “While we talk of non-traditional threats, we cannot ignore the impact of expansion at an unprecedented speed of conventional navies in the Pacific. We are also witnessing the enhancement of certain maritime presence in passages in our region that do not always seem innocent. The negative effects of such expansion are felt beyond the pacific. Though it is early to conclude, such expansion has triggered others to acquire traditional capabilities and thus to start a new genre of arms race,” Kumar told the gathering that also included foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, the Chief of Naval Staff Vice Admiral Karambir Singh and a host of delegates from the thirteen countries of the region. “India will work with all marine nations for peace in the region, standing for a rules-based world, India will continue to oppose the tenets of aggression on land and on the sea. Maritime domain is so vast and strategies are so diverse that going alone is not an option. India remains engaged in most of the important exercises and activities in the Indo-Pacific and the Western IOR for a long time,” he added. “I would like to make special reference to the illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing which undermines national and regional efforts to achieve the goals of long term sustainability and responsibility. Moreover, IUU fishing greatly discriminates against those who act responsibly, honestly and in accordance with rules. IUU fishing, mostly from outside our region, is threatening marine biodiversity, food security for communities and the livelihoods of those involved in fishing,” Kumar said.“In order for our nations to achieve high growth, it is imperative we secure a free open and inclusive maritime region where legitimate interests of all nationals must be protected. For a secure and prosperous region, it is not only important to adhere to international rules and laws but also it is a necessity to understand each other’s interests and sensitivity and act accordingly. India hopes that its maritime neighbours would understand and are sensitive to India’s legitimate maritime security concerns,” he added. Fishermen from India’s west coast, including fishermen from Goa and Maharashtra, have complained of predatory and environmentally damaging practises undertaken by Chinese fishing boats deep into the Arabian Sea which they say is spelling ruin for their livelihoods. The 3rd edition of Goa Maritime Conclave (GMC) – 2021 is being held from November 7 to 9 under the aegis of Naval War College, Goa. The GMC is Indian Navy’s Outreach Initiative providing a multinational platform to harness the collective wisdom of practitioners of maritime security and the academia towards garnering outcome-oriented maritime thought.Chiefs of Navies/heads of maritime forces from 12 Indian Ocean littorals, including Bangladesh, Comoros, Indonesia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Thailand are in attendance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speed-of-expansion-of-certain-maritime-presence-triggering-new-arms-race-defence-secretary-101636374299417.html
08-11-2021||India||India to purchase 10 mn doses of Zydus Cadila's vaccine at about ₹265 each||India has placed an order for 10 million doses of Zydus Cadila's DNA Covid-19 vaccine at a price of 265 rupees ($3.57) per dose, the drugmaker said on Monday.The three-dose vaccine, ZyCoV-D, was approved by the country's drug regulator in August for emergency use in adults and children aged 12 years and above.As opposed to traditional syringes, it is administered using a needle-free "PharmaJet" applicator, which will be sold at 93 rupees per dose."The needle-free application of the vaccination, we hope, will motivate many more to vaccinate and safeguard themselves from COVID-19," Sharvil Patel, managing director of Zydus, said in a filing https://bit.ly/3BVRY1h to the stock exchanges.The total cost to the government to inoculate a person with the vaccine and the applicator would come up to 1,074 rupees ($14.48).India has so far administered nearly 1.09 billion vaccine doses to its adult population, of which 88% have received a version of AstraZeneca's shot by the Serum Institute of India, which sells it to the state governments at 400 rupees a dose and to private hospitals for 600 rupees.The two other shots used are a home-grown one by vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and Russia's Sputnik V. Bharat Biotech supplies its vaccine at 150 rupees a dose, while Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, the supplier of Sputnik V, has priced the shot at 995 rupees.The 265 rupee price had been decided in consultation with the government, Zydus said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-purchase-10-mn-doses-of-zydus-cadila-s-vaccine-at-about-rs-265-each-101636372361530.html
08-11-2021||India||When I don't support BJP, I'm branded anti-national: Telangana CM KCR||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Monday said whenever he did not extend his support to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he was branded as an anti-national. Rao, also known as KCR, further said the BJP branded anyone who spoke against the ruling camp at the Centre as anti-nationals.Rao, who heads the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), further wanted to know about the Narendra Modi-led government’s promise of two crore jobs at a time when his administration provided employment to 1.35 lakh people and another 70,000 would be employed soon.The CM also alleged that people of Telangana were being ignored for the Padma awards. “The Centre is not giving Padma awards to people of our state, they’re are ignoring us,” he said.“When I don’t support them (BJP) they brand me as anti-national. BJP also brands people as urban Naxals if they speak against them. I'm asking a simple question will Centre buy the state's parboiled rice or not?,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.We've provided jobs to 1.35 lakh people in the state and 70,000 more jobs will be given. According to the studies, the unemployment rate in Telangana is low. What about the Centre's promise of providing 2 Cr jobs?: Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao in Hyderabad“We've provided jobs to 1.35 lakh people in the state and 70,000 more jobs will be given. According to the studies, the unemployment rate in Telangana is low. What about the Centre's promise of providing 2 Cr jobs?” he added.Rao’s statements came amid a severe attack from the state BJP unit over Rao’s decision to not reduce VAT on fuel in the state. On Sunday, the chief minister said the BJP had no moral right to ask states to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel and demanded that the NDA government at the Centre remove cess on the petroleum products.He further said the TRS will organise dharnas in all assembly constituencies on November 12, with lakhs of farmers demanding the Central government to procure entire Kharif (summer or monsoon crop) paddy produced in Telangana.On Sunday, he hit out at the state BJP leadership who announced agitational programmes against the TRS government for discouraging farmers not to go for paddy cultivation this Rabi season. He said it was the Centre which is not willing to procure paddy from the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-i-don-t-support-bjp-i-m-branded-anti-national-telangana-cm-kcr-101636371412163.html
08-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bihar CM calls high-level meet on Nov 16 over liquor ban and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.­Nitish Kumar calls high-level meet on Nov 16 over liquor ban in stateBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has called a high-level meeting to deliberate further on the liquor ban that exists in the state since 2016, news agency ANI reported on Monday. Read more'Will force Mamata to reduce VAT on fuel': BJP hits out at West Bengal govtThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday targeted the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in West Bengal for not slashing the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. The BJP threatened that it would force chief minister Mamata Banerjee to reduce VAT on fuel prices. Read moreMadras high court quashes defamation case against DMK leader KanimozhiThe Madras high court on Monday quashed a criminal defamation case filed against DMK leader Kanimozhi Karunanidhi for having criticised the previous AIADMK regime’s chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami. Read more6 Palestinian rights activists hacked by NSO spyware: ReportSecurity researchers disclosed Monday that spyware from the notorious Israeli hacker-for-hire company NSO Group was detected on the cellphones of six Palestinian human rights activists, half affiliated with groups that Israel’s defense minister controversially claimed were involved in terrorism. Read moreAnand Mahindra shares motivational video that makes his ‘fears vanish instantly’A video shared by business tycoon Anand Mahindra on Twitter has left people impressed. While sharing the video, he wrote that it is a clip that makes his ‘fears vanish instantly’. There is a possibility that the motivating video will leave you inspired too. Read moreKangana Ranaut says her Padma Shri will ‘shut mouths of a lot of people’, got it for being 'adarsh naagrik'Actor Kangana Ranaut was honoured with the Padma Shri Award in New Delhi on Monday. After receiving the award, Kangana took to Instagram to share a message for her followers. Read more'We know he has been struggling with fitness': Laxman suggests two changes India need to make for 2022 T20 World CupWith India's hope all but over at the ongoing T20 World Cup in the UAE, it is time for a quiet introspection for the management, while accepting their fate as their wait for a global title continues since the 2013 Champions Trophy win under team mentor MS Dhoni. Read moreRenault delivers over 3,000 cars during Dhanteras, Diwali despite chip crisisFrench carmaker Renault on Monday announced that it delivered more than 3,000 cars during the occasions of Dhanteras and Diwali in the country. The company managed to complete record deliveries thanks to its robust product-offensive strategy despite the ongoing global shortage of semiconductor crisis. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bihar-cm-calls-high-level-meet-on-nov-16-over-liquor-ban-101636370170793.html
08-11-2021||India||Assam relaxes Covid-19 testing for children below 10 entering state||Children below the age of 10 who enter Assam will no longer be required to undergo the mandatory testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to a state government notification issued on Monday.“Children below 10 years of age along with double vaccinated parent(s)/ guardian(s) coming to Assam are hereby exempted from the mandatory Covid-9 testing,” the notification issued by the principal secretary, health and family welfare department read.The notification also said that such children can undergo voluntary testing RT-PCR for Covid-19 if their parents or guardians are willing.Previously, the Assam government had exempted fully vaccinated adults from mandatory testing upon entering the state.#Revised SOP 📢📢👉🏻All incoming passengers with double dose of COVID-19 vaccine,continue to be exempted from mandatory testing on arrival.👉🏻Children below 10 years along with double vaccinated parents/guardians are hereby exempted from mandatory #Covid Testing on arrival. pic.twitter.com/tx5GGjNCcYHowever, people who have only been vaccinated with a single dose, or have not received the jab at all or are symptomatic even after being fully vaccinated have to get themselves tested for the viral disease, Monday's notification said.The above orders are for people entering Assam through border points, airports and railway stations. The exemptions have been provided amid an improvement in the overall pandemic situation and the surge in the number of people getting vaccinated.Till now, authorities in Assam have administered 28,934,877 vaccine doses. Of these, 20,291,421 people have received the first dose and the remaining 8,643,456 are fully vaccinated.The state on Sunday saw a fall in its Covid tally with 137 new cases, taking the caseload to 612,271. Two more patients died and 265 recovered from the viral disease on Sunday. With this, the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries has climbed to 6,028 and 602,994 respectively. The active cases in Assam stand at 1,902.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-relaxes-covid-19-testing-for-children-below-10-entering-state-101636367076459.html
08-11-2021||India||BJP MPs visit Yamuna river ghats to assess Chhath Puja arrangements||Opposing the ban on Chhath Puja celebrations on the banks of the Yamuna river, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs Parvesh Verma and Manoj Tiwari visited various ghats on Monday to assess the situation and plan arrangements for the festival. They said that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal does not want people to celebrate the festival and slammed the Delhi government for the high level of pollution in the river.Verma performed puja at the ITO ghat on Monday and said that all necessary arrangements will be made for November 10 festival. Tiwari visited Kalindi Kunj and planned a meeting of Chhath Puja committee members at Yamuna ghat in Sonia Vihar to discuss the arrangements.Verma said, “Members of the Purvanchal community voted for Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi elections and made him the chief minister, but today he (Kejriwal) is stopping them from celebrating their festival. He should have got the entire Delhi administration to make elaborate arrangements for the festival. He does not want people to celebrate this festival. But now we will make the ghat for people and do puja on November 10.”Also Read: No cap on gatherings at Chhath Puja begins in ChandigarhThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has prohibited Chhath Puja on the banks of the Yamuna this year. Earlier, on September 30, DDMA banned the celebrations, but later allowed it with restrictions following protests by the BJP and the appeals to the Centre by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, and to the lieutenant governor Anil Baijal by Kejriwal.Tiwari has been vocal against the ban. Durga puja and Dussehra celebrations were allowed but Chhath Puja was banned by DDMA in September. He mobilised the purvanchali community and held yatras in various parts of the city to galvanise support.In a tweet, he criticised the government while citing images of the river near Kalindi Kunj covered in a thick layer of toxic foam. “The permission for Chhath puja was denied at the banks of Yamuna as this would have exposed the government.”Tiwari said, “Had the government allowed it, we would have cleaned the ghats and made arrangements for people. The river is polluted and the government has done nothing to clean it.”The BJP’s Delhi unit tweeted, “Devotees performing Chhat Puja forced to take dip in toxic Yamuna. This is what Arvind Kejriwal has reduced Delhi to. This is his commitment towards providing facilities to those who celebrate the festival. Shame.”HT has reached out to the Delhi government for a comment and the copy will be updated accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mps-visit-yamuna-river-ghats-to-assess-chhath-puja-arrangements-101636370459545.html
08-11-2021||India||Former Assam chief minister’s son gets bail in bank fraud case||A special court on Monday granted bail to late former Assam chief minister Hiteswar Saikia’s son, Ashok Saikia, who was arrested a day earlier in connection with an alleged bank fraud case.“The bail was granted by the court of a special magistrate (Central Bureau of Investigation) following our plea that my brother should not have been arrested. The exact details and conditions are not available yet,” said Ashok Saikia’s brother, Debabrata Saikia, the leader of opposition in the Assam assembly.Ashok Saikia was arrested from his residence in Guwahati. His family said the case pertains to a ₹9.37 lakh loan that Ashok Saikia had taken from the Assam State Cooperative And Rural Development Bank in 1996.The bank registered a case against Saikia in 1998 for non-repayment. The case was later transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation’s Kolkata office the same year.In his bail plea, Ashok Sakia said in 2015, the dues were settled.The Congress blamed the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led government for foisting fake and fabricated cases. “Despite Saikia clearing all pending dues with the bank in 2015, he was arrested on Sunday. This is a clear indication of the government using the country’s top investigating agency to further its political ends. They are doing this because of Debabrata Saikia’s refusal to switch over to BJP despite inducements and threats,” said state Congress chief Bhupen Kumar Borah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-chief-minister-s-son-gets-bail-in-bank-fraud-case-101636369677753.html
08-11-2021||India||SIT arrests prime accused over fake Covid-19 testing scam at Mahakumbh||The Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the Mahakumbh fake Covid-19 testing scam, on Monday arrested two accused in the case from Uttar Pradesh’s Noida, a police officer said.Deputy inspector general Yogendra Singh Rawat called Sharat Pant and Mallika Pant’s arrest a major breakthrough and called them the prime accused in the case.The SIT planned to hold a media briefing on Monday evening about the developments in the case.The seven-member SIT was formed in June to probe allegations that 100,000 fake Covid-19 tests were conducted during the Mahakumbh in April and to speed up the ongoing probe into Max Corporate Services, a Noida-based private firm unrelated to Max Healthcare Group, and two private labs, Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa labs. Two other probes, one by the Kumbh Mela administration and another by the district administration, were already on.Also Read: India logs 11,451 new Covid cases, 266 deaths; active cases lowest in 262 daysThe Pants are partners in the Max Corporate Services, which got the contract for Covid-19 testing of pilgrims, tourists, and local residents during Mahakumbh this year. SIT carried out searches and raids at possible hiding places of the Pants in Noida and Delhi before their arrest.The Kumbh Mela was curtailed this year but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts saying the crowds and rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this — at least six million people — congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic.Allegations of fake testing surfaced after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message for collecting his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe that unearthed roughly 100,000 fake rapid antigen tests.Real-time data checking exposed fake entries on basis of mobile numbers and addresses of people who were never tested. On contacting such people, many said they had not even visited Haridwar in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-arrests-prime-accused-over-fake-covid-19-testing-scam-at-mahakumbh-101636369197526.html
08-11-2021||India||Winter Session of Parliament from Nov 29 to Dec 23 with Covid protocol in place||The Cabinet Committee on Parliament Affairs (CCPA) on Monday recommended that the Winter Session of Parliament be held from November 29 to December 23.Like previous parliamentary sessions held over the past one-and-a-half year, the upcoming session will be held in adherence to Covid-19 protocols, a PTI report said. Last year, the winter session could not be held due to the onslaught of the pandemic, which had witnessed the curtailment of the Budget and the Monsoon sessions. This time, the session will have about 20 sittings. The session is likely to be stormy with the Opposition all set to corner the Narendra Modi-led government on issues like inflation, militant attacks on civilians in Kashmir, the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and the farmers' protests against three centrally passed agri laws.Both Houses of Parliament -- Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha - will hold proceedings simultaneously and members would have to follow social distancing norms.Those attending the proceedings, including members of Parliament, would be required to wear masks and may also be asked to undergo a Covid-19 test before the commencement of the session.This year's Monsoon Session was marked by protests by the Opposition that sought answers from the government over the Pegasus spyware issue and repeal of the three farm laws. The session was curtailed and adjourned sine die two days ahead of its scheduled adjournment due to the protests."The CCPA chaired by defence minister Rajnath Singh has recommended the dates for the Winter Session of Parliament from November 29 to December 23," PTI had earlier quoted a source as saying.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-of-parliament-from-nov-29-to-dec-23-with-covid-protocol-in-place-101636368750707.html
08-11-2021||India||PM Modi visits LK Advani on his 94th birthday, praises his scholarly pursuits||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, along with other senior leaders, visited veteran BJP leader LK Advani’s residence on his 94th birthday and took part in the cake-cutting ceremony.PM Modi shared images of the celebration from his personal Twitter handle. In a consecutive post, he wrote, “Birthday greetings to respected Advani Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life. The nation remains indebted to him for his numerous efforts towards empowering people and enhancing our cultural pride. He is also widely respected for his scholarly pursuits and rich intellect.” <blockquote class=”twitter-tweet”><p lang=”en” dir=”ltr”>Called on Advani Ji and wished him on his birthday. <a href=”https://t.co/LBKY9tdyOx”>pic.twitter.com/LBKY9tdyOx</a></p>&mdash; Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) <a href=”https://twitter.com/narendramodi/status/1457630878121738243?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>November 8, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src=”https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js” charset=”utf-8”></script>A short video of the event was also shared on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Twitter page where the Prime Minister was seen handing a bouquet to the former deputy prime minister following which national president of the BJP, JP Nadda, cut the cake with him. Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, defence minister Rajnath Singh, and Union home minister Amit Shah were also present at the celebration.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also extended his birthday wishes to the leader on the Koo app. “Birthday greetings from the bottom of my heart to Shri Lal Krishna Advani ji, the guardian of the BJP family, a strong sign of value-based politics, an excellent administrator and a guide to all of us. Praying to Lord Shri Ram to grant you good health and a long and happy life,” he said.Advani was instrumental in BJP’s rise as a major national political party. He tied its fortunes with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in the late 80s and spearheaded the party and its forerunner Jana Sangh for decades along with former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Born in Karachi in undivided India, Advani joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevan Sangh (RSS) and then the Jana Sangh since the latter’s foundation.On Mon, Nov 8, 2021 at 3:30 PM Sarah Kadan (English Content Management- Delhi NCR) <sarah.kadan@hindustantimes.com> wrote:From: Sarah Kadan (English Content Management- Delhi NCR) <sarah.kadan@hindustantimes.com>Sent: Monday, November 8, 2021 3:29 PMTo: realtime <realtime@hindustantimes.com>Subject: Fw: PM Modi on LK Advani’s bdayTakingFrom: Sunetra Choudhury (Editorial- Delhi NCR) <sunetra.choudhury@hindustantimes.com>Sent: Monday, November 8, 2021 3:24 PMTo: realtime <realtime@hindustantimes.com>; Page1Team <Page1Team@hindustantimes.com>Subject: Fw: PM Modi on LK Advani’s bdayFrom: Isha Sahai Bhatnagar <isha.bhatnagar12@gmail.com>Sent: Monday, November 8, 2021 3:04 PMTo: Sunetra Choudhury (Editorial- Delhi NCR) <sunetra.choudhury@hindustantimes.com>Subject: PM Modi on LK Advani’s bdayCAUTION: This email originated from outside of the organization. Do not click links or open attachments unless you recognize the sender and know the content is safe.PM Modi visits LK Advani’s on his 94th birthday and praises him for his scholarly pursuitsIsha Sahai BhatnagarNew Delhi, Nov 8: Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with other senior leaders visited veteran BJP leader LK Advani’s residence on his 94th birthday and took part in a cake-cutting ceremony.PM Modi shared images of the celebration from his personal Twitter handle. In a consecutive post, he wrote, “Birthday greetings to respected Advani Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life. The nation remains indebted to him for his numerous efforts towards empowering people and enhancing our cultural pride. He is also widely respected for his scholarly pursuits and rich intellect.”https://twitter.com/narendramodi/status/1457630878121738243A short video of the event was also shared on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Twitter page where the Prime Minister was seen handing a bouquet of flowers to the former Deputy Prime Minister following which National President of BJP, JP Nadda, cut the cake with him. Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were also present at the celebration.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath also extended his birthday wishes to the leader on Koo app. “Birthday greetings from the bottom of my heart to Shri Lal Krishna Advani ji, the guardian of the BJP family, a strong sign of value based politics, an excellent administrator and guide to all of us. Praying to Lord Shri Ram to grant you good health and a long and happy life,” he said.Advani was instrumental in BJP’s rise as a major national political party. He tied its fortunes with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in the late 80s, and spearheaded the party and its forerunner Jana Sangh for decades along with former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Born in Karachi in undivided India, Advani joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevan Sangh (RSS) and then the Jana Sangh since the latter’s foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-visits-lk-advani-on-his-94th-birthday-praises-his-scholarly-pursuits-101636368899459.html
08-11-2021||India||Mamita Meher murder case: BJP holds protests in Odisha against Naveen Patnaik’s visit to Kalahandi||The Odisha unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday protested against state chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s visit to Kalahandi district, where Mamita Meher, a private school teacher, was murdered last month. The party’s state unit carried out rallies against the chief minister’s visit and also burnt his effigies, according to a report by news agency PTI.The rally started from Rajmahal Square to Naveen Nivas, the residence of Patnaik. The party held rallies in several districts of the state against the chief minister’s scheduled visit, alleging that he has been “silent” over the incident of murder. The party has been protesting against the murder and has also demanded the resignation of Odisha’s minister of state for home DS Mishra over the incident.The protests were held by BJP members in districts including Cuttack, Bhadrak, Subarnapur, Dhenkanal and Kalahandi.Also read | Congress, BJP push for Odisha minister’s sacking, say new evidence indicts himMeanwhile, Odisha BJP spokesperson Dilip Mohanty said that Patnaik was visiting the district a month after the incident and has also not said anything. “A minister from CM Naveen Patnaik's government has murdered a woman. The entire media is covering this issue. We are demanding that justice be given. But the CM hasn't said anything on this case. It has been a month since the murder and now he is coming to Kalahandi,” news agency ANI quoted Mohanty as saying.“What message is he trying to give? Why so much arrogance? Family members of the victim, people in the district and women in Odisha are worried. He has not arrested the minister either,” he added.Kasturi Mishra, the women wing president of the party’s state unit claimed that Mishra had destroyed all evidence relating to the case. "The chief minister says that the law will take its course. But how will it take its course when the evidence relating to the case has been destroyed?” she asked.“Today, a month has been completed since the murder and the Chief Minister has not said anything on the matter. After destroying the evidence, Mishra went to Kalahandi to show the people that he is innocent. We are protesting so that the truth is exposed. Till Mamita does not get justice, we will continue with our protests and chakka jams," she further said.Earlier on October 8, Odisha police discovered the partially burnt body of 24-year old Mamita Meher near a sports stadium in Kalahandi. Previously, the teacher, who was teaching in a school in Mahalinga in the district, had gone missing.Amid the protest, the BJP’s national president JP Nadda in late October formed a three-member panel - Lok Sabha MP Sunita Duggal, BJP women wing president Vanathi Srinivasan and MLA Rupra Mitra. - regarding the case.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamita-meher-murder-case-bjp-holds-protests-in-odisha-against-naveen-patnaik-s-visit-to-kalahandi-101636367481571.html
08-11-2021||India||Madras high court quashes defamation case against DMK leader Kanimozhi||The Madras high court on Monday quashed a criminal defamation case filed against DMK leader Kanimozhi Karunanidhi for having criticised the previous AIADMK regime’s chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami. In 2018, Kanimozhi participated in a DMK-led protest in Villupuram where she had criticised the then CM Palaniswami. The DMK, which formed the government in May, was in the Opposition at that time. A defamation case was filed against Kanimozhi in the Villupuram district court for hurling corruption charges at Palaniswami in connection with waste disposal.Kanimozhi later approached the high court and filed a quash petition in 2019. In her petition, she argued that she was misquoted and a complaint was filed against her based on hearsay from two witnesses who had attended her speech. Also Read: Stalin reaches out to indigenous communities after tribal woman is barred from having food at templeShe had listed the “gross failures of the government, its corruption and non-adherence to poll promises,” in her speech, she said in her affidavit. In her petition, she argued that no public servant had absolute immunity from criticism from the Opposition and public.“Palaniswami filed a criminal complaint through the public prosecutor,” said the DMK’s Rajya Sabha MP and senior advocate P Wilson, who appeared for Kanimozhi. He claimed that the public prosecutor’s office was being misused to file cases against rivals for political gains. Justice Nirmal Kumar of Madras high court quashed the case on Monday. After the DMK came to power, chief minister M K Stalin ordered the withdrawal of all defamation cases filed by the earlier government. “Pursuant to the same, the high court recorded the withdrawal order of the government and quashed the complaint against Kanimozhi,” said Wilson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-quashes-defamation-case-against-dmk-leader-kanimozhi-101636367637795.html
08-11-2021||India||'Among worst policy blunders': Jairam Ramesh on 5th anniversary of demonetisation||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Monday took a swipe at the Narendra Modi-led Union government, remarking that demonetisation will be marked in the world's economic history as among the "worst policy blunders". The remark by Ramesh came on the fifth anniversary of demonetisation, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on this day in 2016.The veteran Congress leader also claimed that demonetisation, along with a “rushed” goods and services tax, "destroyed the backbone of the Indian economy"."With every passing year, it is becoming even more clear that 8.11.2016 will be marked in the world's economic history among the worst policy blunders anywhere. Demonetisation along with rushed GST destroyed the backbone of the Indian economy -- the MSME and informal sectors especially," Ramesh said in a tweet.Also read | On 5 years of demonetisation, TMC MP says only Mamata got it spot onJairam Ramesh also shared a graph by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian which was titled "Despite digital boom, cash is back with a vengeance"."First, we were told that demonetisation meant a cashless economy. Soon the 'sarvagyani' changed track and said not cashless but less cash. Now, cash in circulation is above pre-demonetisation levels," Ramesh said as he continued his tirade against the Prime Minister.Modi in a televised address to the nation on November 8, 2016, declared ₹500 and ₹1,000 banknotes invalid as part of the government's efforts to "crack down on black money."Earlier in the day, several parties questioned the demonetisation move by the Centre. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury alleged that it "decimated the informal sector"."Economy into a tailspin, the poorest hurt. Informal sector decimated. No black money recovered, but rich got richer. Cash in the economy is the highest ever now! This govt must bear responsibility for pushing India downhill, just for one man’s whim," he said in a tweet.Maharashtra cabinet minister Nawab Malik also slammed the Centre over demonetisation, saying neither black money came nor corruption has been controlled in five years while the rate of unemployment increased."Today, 5 years of demonetisation have been completed. Neither black money came back, nor corruption and terrorism were controlled. Modi had asked for 3 months, now he can tell us which crossroads we have to come," Malik tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/among-worst-policy-blunders-jairam-ramesh-on-5th-anniversary-of-demonetisation-101636363783106.html
08-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: IMD predicts extremely heavy rainfall on November 10, 11||Extremely heavy rainfall is expected to occur over parts of Tamil Nadu on November 10 and 11 as a low pressure area is set to be formed in southeast Bay of Bengal, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday, while issuing an advisory to fishermen to return from the sea by November 9.Also, widespread light to moderate rainfall is very likely over Kerala, south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu during the next five days, IMD said.A PTI report said the very heavy rainfall may inundate roads and low-lying areas, and cause riverine flooding in some catchment areas. There is also a possibility of localised landslides, minor damage to 'kutcha' roads, vulnerable structures and to horticulture and standing crops in some areas.Also read | Chennai flooding: Don’t just blame the rainsThe IMD’s director general, Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, said the intensity of the downpour is likely to be slightly less during the day after Chennai recorded heavy to very heavy rains in the last 24 hours.So on 10th & 11th, Tamil Nadu & adjoining south Andhra Pradesh will experience heavy to very heavy rainfall. It'll decrease on the 12th when this low-pressure area travels towards the west. The fishermen are advised to return by 9th: Dr. Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, DG IMDSpeaking about the coming days, Mohapatra said, “A low-pressure area will be formed on November 9 in southeast Bay of Bengal. It will form into a depression towards the northwest and centralise at the north coast of Tamil Nadu on the morning of November 11.”Also read | Chennai rain: NDRF teams deployed, schools shut in 4 districts | 10 pointsHence, on November 10 and 11, Tamil Nadu and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh will experience heavy to very heavy rainfall, he said. “It will decrease on November 12 when this low-pressure area travels towards the west. The fishermen are advised to return by 9,” the senior IMD official said.Meanwhile, chief minister MK Stalin distribute relief material and food to rain-hit citizens in Royapuram and harbour areas of Chennai earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-imd-predicts-extremely-heavy-rainfall-on-november-10-11-101636362773598.html
08-11-2021||India||Two arrested for allegedly raping woman, trying to kill her in Assam’s Cachar||Two men were arrested on Sunday in Assam’s Cachar district 10 days after they were booked for allegedly attempting to kill a woman after raping her.In her statement, the woman alleged the two barged into her house on October 25 and threatened to kill her son if she resisted. “They raped me... I... tried to escape when they attacked me with a sharp object. They tried to chop my head off but I escaped. I lost four fingers of my left hand. They ran away when I started screaming,” she said. She alleged police initially did not want to register a case and later ignored it. “I went to the Dholai police station and registered the case on October 25 after a long argument with the police. But the police did not even ask the accused to come to the police station... The accused later threatened again to kill me. I had to run away... I am moving on the streets of Silchar town like a beggar because I have to feed my son.”Sahabuddin, the officer in-charge of the police station, said they have arrested the two. He cited their initial probe and added the complainant’s husband remarried recently. “One of the two accused is the father of her husband’s second wife... the accused are saying that they are being framed, we are investigating the matter thoroughly because someone tried to kill the complainant with a sharp object.”Sahabuddin said the accused will be produced before a court on Monday and added they will provide security to the complainant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-arrested-for-allegedly-raping-woman-trying-to-kill-her-in-assam-s-cachar-101636361936945.html
08-11-2021||India||Fire breaks out at Thane’s NKT College, no injuries reported||A fire broke out at NKT College in Thane, Maharashtra, on Monday. It was doused half an hour after it started and no injuries were reported. According to officials, the fire department received a call at around 10.30am, after which officials and a fire brigade unit rushed to the spot with a tanker and a fire engine. The fire broke out in the college’s staff room on first floor. In a separate fire-related incident in the morning, personnel doused a blaze sparked by a cylinder leakage. Fire incidents in Thane have doubled this year, according to the Regional Disaster Management Cell, with the fire department receiving a total of 33 calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-thane-s-nkt-college-no-injuries-reported-101636361337187.html
08-11-2021||India||Indian Ocean region: Shringla calls for greater cooperation for security, trade||Countries in the Indian Ocean region need a new cooperative architecture for their common maritime space to ensure both security and free trade, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday.The Covid-19 pandemic and new threats have highlighted the need to work together and come up with common solutions, and India stands ready to do its share to tackle these issues, he said while speaking at the Goa Maritime Conclave on the theme “Maritime security and emerging non-traditional threats: A case for proactive role for IOR navies”.Harsh Shringla noted that the prosperity and well-being of people of countries in the region are built on a foundation of law-and-order and security, and said, “A new cooperative architecture for our common maritime space that ensures security for its inhabitants, driven by our realities, and our aspirations to lead better lives, is necessary to grasp this opportunity.”Also Read: Theaterisation of forces expedited, deadline advancedWhile security in the context of foreign policy was traditionally associated with countering external security threats, countries in the region are now having to contend with non-traditional and sub-conventional threats that require new solutions, he said. “We now operate on the basis of an expanded concept of human security that takes a broader view,” he said.Navies, coast guard forces and maritime security agencies of the region need to do more together since all problems that will arise cannot be anticipated, he added. “India stands ready and willing to do its share – and more – in tackling these problems,” Shringla said.The Indian Ocean region’s countries can work on strengthening structures, understandings, procedures and resources so that they better manage problems. “It will also enable us to create a surge capacity to deal with the unknown,” he said.The pandemic has led to a rebalancing that has resulted in a dispersal of capacities, including for Indian Ocean nations. “Every one of us present here have a growing ability to come up with common solutions to common problems. That means we are able to do more together,” he added. Referring to the changes brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic, Harsh Shringla said countries were in the process of devising new solutions. “We are in the process of devising a new set of measures and arrangements that reflect this understanding of security. They are based less on the traditional concept of a military alliance and more on a cooperative approach, on prevention, on sharing of information, and, on promoting inter-operability across state borders,” he said.Many of these cooperative activities are in the areas of policing and law enforcement, and more appropriate to the “newer and rapidly evolving threat matrix”, he noted.Among the non-traditional and sub-conventional security threats and problems listed by Shringla were transnational crime syndicates engaged in human trafficking, smuggling and narcotics, irresponsible fishing that damages food security, maritime accidents that lead to pollution, and natural disasters that affect coastal economic and population centres. Coastal population centres, Shringla noted, are also “targets for terrorists, supported and encouraged by the resources of governments”. He added, “Using the oceans to move and infiltrate, they threaten offshore and coastal assets. Such terrorists tend to combine with transnational criminals. These alliances escalate instability and violence levels exponentially.”In an apparent reference to China’s aggressive maritime activities especially in the South China Sea, Shringla said, “Another set of challenges arises from geopolitical volatilities. A lack of commitment to settled international law has led to an increased militarisation of the region. Militarisation always adds to complexities.”The Indian Ocean region, he said, will face an “increasingly complicated, rapidly evolving, and more demanding security situation, with an ever increasing battery of threats and uncertainties”. Noting that the time for forging a cooperative approach to threats and problems is limited, he said countries in the region must work swiftly “as fellow travellers in a voyage... to ride these momentarily favourable tides and currents”. Shringla added, “If we are able to do so, we in the Indian Ocean Region, through common effort, may be able to set ourselves on a trajectory to improved futures.”The countries of the Indian Ocean region are also part of the greater Indo-Pacific, “a contemporary geopolitical and geoeconomic reality” that is at the centre of the ongoing rebalancing. “The rapid growth of Asia’s share in global output, the business prowess of Asian companies and the growing Asian technological abilities are driving the global economic center of gravity to the East,” Shringla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-ocean-region-shringla-calls-for-greater-cooperation-for-security-trade-101636360376595.html
08-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Pre-primary classes resume in-person in Karnataka||Physical pre-primary classes resumed on Monday across Karnataka after almost two years. The classes will be held alternately for five days a week, according to a government order.Karnataka began reopening educational institutes in a phased manner from August. The government has been encouraging parents and guardians of students to send them back to schools after the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown forced the closure of educational institutes over 18 months ago.“...teachers aged above 50 years should compulsorily wear a face shield,” according to the guidelines issued by the government for the reopening of schools.The schools have reopened as the new infections in Karnataka appear to have reduced. But there has been a spike in infections in neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra.Private schools had been asking the government to reopen schools. A section of parents and guardians are still unsure about sending their children to school. They fear closed spaces will become breeding grounds for the virus and heighten the threat, especially since school students fall under the age group that is yet to be eligible for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pre-primary-classes-resume-in-person-in-karnataka-101636359356484.html
08-11-2021||India||2 Manipur leaders join BJP from Congress months before assembly polls||In a jolt to Congress months before assembly elections, two of its lawmakers in Manipur joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday. Both Rajkumar Imo Singh and Yamthong Haokip expressed confidence that the BJP will win the upcoming assembly polls in the state.Both the politicians joined the BJP in the presence of Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal and the party's in-charge for Manipur Sambit Patra.Singh comes from a notable political family in the state, which is associated with the Congress. He was elected on a Congress ticket but was expelled from the party for his alleged anti-party activities.He told reporters that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has done a lot of work for the country's prosperity, peace and stability.His father Rajkumar Jaichandra Singh was Manipur's chief minister and the first Union minister from the state.Sonowal welcomed them into the party and asserted that the northeast regions have established their identity under the Modi government which has ensured that Union ministers and bureaucrats regularly visit the area to address issues facing it.The BJP had come to power in the state for the first time in 2017.At the national executive committee meeting on Sunday, the leaders of the BJP passd a resolution which predicted a big win for the party in upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur on the planks of development and the party's organisational strength.The resolution praised the leadership and policies of PM Modi and the central government for delivering corruption-free governance with emphasis on digital payments and transparency.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the resolution appreciated the "methodical way" in which India's image was shaped abroad and also condemned how the Opposition indulged in politics of opportunism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-manipur-leaders-join-bjp-from-congress-months-before-assembly-polls-101636357720438.html
08-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Sushma Swaraj, Arun Jaitley conferred Padma Vibhushan posthumously and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Padma Awards: Sushma Swaraj, Arun Jaitley given Padma Vibhushan posthumouslyFormer external affairs minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stalwart Sushma Swaraj, former finance minister Arun Jaitley and 117 other eminent personalities were conferred the Padma Vibhushan awards at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Monday. Read more'Whenever India is up against a good team, they can't score': Gavaskar lists 2 reasons behind team's flop show at T20 WCWith India's hopes of qualifying for the semi-finals of the T20 World Cup dashed following New Zealand's win over Afghanistan on Sunday, former captain Sunil Gavaskar has listed out a couple of reasons which he feels led to India's lacklustre performance at the ICC tournament. Read morePadma Awards 2020: Kangana Ranaut, Adnan Sami honoured with Padma Shri awards. See picsActor Kangana Ranaut and singer Adnan Sami were honoured with Padma Shri at Monday's ceremony in Delhi at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. They will be presented with the awards by President Ram Nath Kovind. Read moreWatch: Ola Electric scooters perform wheelies, donuts, other stuntsIn a latest video shared by Ola CEO Bhavish Aggarwal, two of the company's electric scooters can be seen performing various stunts with experts in command. Read moreSharvari Wagh brings back 60s glamour with ruffle mini dress, leaves fans awestruck: See picsActor Sharvari Wagh is pumped up this Monday as the title song from her upcoming film Bunty Aur Babli 2 was released online. The Bunty Aur Babli 2 title number features her co-star Siddhant Chaturvedi, Rani Mukerji, and Saif Ali Khan. Read moreRunner falls down at New York City Marathon, strangers help his cross finish line. WatchA video of a heartwarming moment captured at the New York City Marathon has left people emotional. The clip showcases how some strangers came together to help a runner who fell down just a few meters away from the finish line. There is a chance that the video will leave you smiling too. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sushma-swaraj-arun-jaitley-conferred-padma-vibhushan-posthumously-and-all-the-latest-news-101636355595434.html
08-11-2021||India||Won’t entertain political leaders during UP election season: Darul Uloom Deoband||A top spokesperson of Darul Uloom Deoband has said that the Islamic seminary in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district has decided not to entertain any political leaders during the election season in the poll-bound state.Leaders of contesting political parties are expected to showcase their affinity for the seminary ahead of next year’s assembly elections in a bid to seek the support of the Muslim community.Darul Uloom Deoband spokesperson Ashraf Usmani conveyed the decision, arguing the need to avoid what he called “manipulations” and “misleading” claims about seeking support of the seminary. “We are apolitical and confined to the purpose of education,” said Usmani, recalling that political leaders in the past showed up at the site during election season and publicised such visits for electoral mileage.Also Read: Yogi Adityanath in western UP today, will address rally in Azam Khan’s home turfAsaduddin Owaisi, leader of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM), wanted to visit the Darul Uloom Deoband and meet with officials after a rally in Saharanpur last week. But Darul officials, including Maulana Abul Qasim Nomani, vice chancellor of the Deoband centre, refused to meet him.Ashraf Usmani said that Owaisi and all other leaders of political parties could freely visit the Deoband seminary during the election season, but Darul officials will neither welcome them nor meet them.“They can come [to the seminary in Deoband], have a look around Darul, but can’t meet office bearers during election season,” said Usmani.The seminary’s stance brings back memories of Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Mulayam Singh Yadav having once famously visited the Darul Uloom Deoband during the time of rector Maulana Magrubur Rahman. A photo of the rector showing his hand placed on Yadav’s head had sparked talk of the seminary’s support for the SP. Darul later denied such an association, calling it merely a welcome gesture during Yadav’s visit. Usmani said that none of the political leaders in UP have so far proposed to visit the seminary as they were aware of its stand on politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-entertain-political-leaders-during-up-election-season-darul-uloom-deoband-101636355636151.html
08-11-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: SC unhappy with UP govt report, will appoint ex-HC judge to monitor probe||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed its disappointment over a status report filed by the Uttar Pradesh government on the October 3 violence that erupted in Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, were killed.The court said there was nothing in the status report other than the government stating that more witnesses had been examined in the case. “This is not going the way we expected,” the court said. Further, unhappy over mixing of witnesses in different FIRs in the case, the apex court said it will appoint a former judge of a high court from outside UP to monitor the investigation. The matter will be heard next on Friday.Also read | Lakhimpur Kheri: 'Hundreds of farmers, why only 23 witnesses?' SC asks UP govt“To ensure there is no mix up of evidence in the case, we are inclined to appoint a former judge of a different high court to monitor the probe in the case,” the court said and suggested the names of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain (retired) or justice Ranjit Singh (retired) from Punjab and Haryana High Court to oversee the ongoing investigation.Lakhimpur Kheri case | Supreme Court suggests that Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain (Retd) or Justice Ranjit Singh (Retd) from Punjab and Haryana High Court can oversee the Lakhimpur Kheri investigationThe government, meanwhile, informed the court that the local journalist, Raman Kashyap, was not killed by the farmers , but died after he was crushed by the offending vehicle involved in the incident.Also read | Lakhimpur Kheri: Hearing on bail pleas of Ashish Mishra deferred till Nov 15The court also wanted to know the government had seized only Ashish Mishra's phone, and not others accused in the case. The police have so far arrested some of the accused, including Ashish, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra, in connection with the case.A bench comprising, Chief Justice NV Ramana and justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, was hearing the matter in which the apex court had on October 26 directed the Yogi Adityanath government to provide protection to witnesses under the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lakhimpur-kheri-unhappy-with-up-govt-report-sc-to-appoint-ex-hc-judge-101636352603973.html
08-11-2021||India||How Lenin’s bust ended up at CPI(M)’s headquarters in Delhi||For the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPI (M), commemorating the October Revolution, the Bolshevik seizure of power in 1917, remains a must. Its leaders do so by paying homage in front of a bust of Vladimir Lenin, the former Soviet leader who once headed the Bolshevik Party, at the CPI(M)’s headquarters in New Delhi. That bust ironically also remains a reminder of the fall of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and Lenin’s shattered dreams.The bust ended up at the CPI(M)’s headquarters ahead of the disintegration of the USSR in 1991 from its embassy in New Delhi. As it became clear that the USSR’s days were numbered, the embassy officials panicked. “Then CPI(M) Politburo leader Sitaram Yechury was at a get-together at the embassy when the diplomats expressed concern on what to do with the statute if the republic (USSR) disintegrates. Yechury wasted no time and offered to keep it in the party office,” said a CPI(M) leader, who did not want to be named.See photos: Leftover monuments question Lenin’s waning legacyThe bust, carved out of white marble, was packed off a few days later to AK Gopalan Bhawan, the party’s headquarters.“A few days later, Yechury got another call saying that a portrait, too, needs to be disposed of,” said the leader.The life-size portrait of Lenin arrived soon. The bust remains at the gate of the CPI(M)’s central office while the portrait adorns Yechury’s office between former Argentine revolutionary Che Guevara and late CPI(M) leader Harkishan Singh Surjeet’s photos.Lenin’s bust has become integral to the CPI (M) commemoration of the October Revolution, which is observed on November 7 as the first military parade took place on that day to mark its second anniversary.On Sunday, November 7, CPI(M) leaders including Hannan Mollah and Nilotpal Basu paid tributes in front of the bust.The CPI(M)’s base has shrunk drastically in India except for Kerala, which it rules. In the Bengal assembly polls this year, the party, which had ruled the state for 34 years, failed to win even a single seat. From 61 Lok Sabha seats in 2004, the Left parties now have just six members in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-lenin-s-bust-ended-up-at-cpi-m-s-headquarters-in-delhi-101636351855676.html
08-11-2021||India||On 5 years of demonetisation, TMC MP says only Mamata got it spot on||Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien on Monday said it was only Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee who had accurately called out the decision of the Narendra Modi government on demonetisation.Sharing a series of tweets that Banerjee had written five years ago hours on this day after Modi announced the government’s decision to ban all high-denomination currency notes, O’Brien said “only the TMC supremo” got it spot on” in calling out “the draconian decision”.In the tweets, Banerjee had hit out at the PM who she said could not bring back the promised black money from abroad from the rich, and hence, “a drama to divert his failure”.Calling it a “financial chaos and disaster let loose on the common people of India”, the TMC supremo said she wanted to know from the PM how daily wagers, who may have received their week’s hard-earned pay in one ₹500 note, would buy not essentials like rice and flour from the next day.She further stated that while she was strongly against black money and corruption, she was deeply concerned about common people, small traders.On 16 Nov 2016,a week after #Demonetisation @MamataOfficial along with @JKNC_'s @OmarAbdullah @ShivSena MPs @AITCofficial MPs marched to Rashtrapati Bhavan to petition the President & strongly oppose the decision.Later other Oppn parties also joined the anti-Demo protests. VIDEO pic.twitter.com/zbHOrUGoMIThe TMC MP also shared a clipping of Banerjee visiting the Rashtrapati Bhavan along with National Conference leader Omar Abdullah and parliamentarians from the Shiv Sena and her own party on November 16, 2016, to register her protest against the Modi government’s move.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also termed the demonetisation move a "disaster" and asked if the step had been successful, why had not corruption ended and black money returned to the country.Using the hashtag 'DemonetisationDisaster', Vadra wrote on Twitter in Hindi, “If 'notebandi (demonetisation) was successful, why hasn't corruption ended? Why hasn't black money come back? Why hasn't the economy gone cashless? Why hasn't terrorism been hit? Why hasn't price rise been reined in?"CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said demonetisation "decimated the informal sector". "Economy into a tailspin, the poorest hurt. Informal sector decimated. No black money recovered, but rich got richer. Cash in the economy is the highest ever now! This govt must bear responsibility for pushing India downhill, just for one man’s whim," he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-5-years-of-demonetisation-tmc-mp-says-only-mamata-got-it-spot-on-101636351092962.html
08-11-2021||India||Campaign plans to Covid-19: Five takeaways from BJP’s national executive summit||As the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) national executive on Sunday held its first meeting after the 2019 general elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the key session and took a swipe at family-run parties.Saying that the BJP does not revolve around a family-centric set-up, PM Narendra Modi spelt out that “sewa (service), sankalp (resolution) and samarpan (commitment)” continue to be the core values of his party.Sunday’s event was also the BJP national executive’s first meeting after the Covid-19 pandemic was declared in early 2020.A total of 342 members of the national executive committee, the apex policy-making body of the BJP, attended the summit.Here is a list of five most important takeaways from the meeting of the BJP top brass:1.Political resolution passedUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath proposed the need for a “political resolution” to ensure victory in the upcoming assembly elections in seven states. “There is a specific mention that we shall ensure victory in the upcoming elections,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said regarding the 18-point resolution that was passed in the meeting.The resolution praised PM Narendra Modi’s leadership and accused the Opposition of “opportunism” and a mindset of “extreme hate”.Also Read: PM Modi, senior leaders wish LK Advani; visit his home to celebrate birthdayThe resolution also slammed Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) for having allegedly “sponsored violence” against BJP workers in the state and vowed to ensure justice through legal means.The political resolution was seconded by Tamil Nadu’s BJP president K Annamalai.Six BJP leaders - tourism ministers G Kishan Reddy, Manipur CM N Biren Singh, sports minister Anurag Thakur, Goa CM Pramod Sawant, railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, and Uttarakhand CM Pushkar Singh Dhami - also spoke on the political resolution.2.Campaign plans for state pollsThe chief ministers and state BJP presidents of four poll-bound states – Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, and Manipur – gave a presentation on the coming assembly elections.A similar presentation was given by the BJP’s Punjab president Ashwani Sharma, who announced that the party will contest in all 117 seats in the state’s 2022 polls. BJP president JP Nadda urged party members to set up a “party committee” for every polling booth. He also asked for more arrangements for the broadcast of PM Narendra Modi’s outreach programme Mann Ki Baat at every booth, according to an ANI report.Home minister Amit Shah also addressed the matter, urging party workers to set up committees in all the 1.04 million polling booths in the country by December 25, with special attention to states where polls are due next year. The party has also been asked to appoint “panna pramukhs” at all these booths by April 6, 2022.The seven states slated to go to polls are Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat.3.Tackling Covid-19 pandemicThe party lauded the Centre’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, calling the mobilisation of medical support “commendable”. “While lauding the commendable work of vaccination done in India, we also remember how the Opposition parties had raised many questions on vaccination carried by the government from the very beginning,” said Sitharaman after the summit. The party hailed the government for achieving the target of 100 crore vaccinations and its scheme that gave free food grains to 80 crore people.4.Article 370, CAA and NRCWhile briefing the media after the executive meeting, Nirmala Sitharaman said, “We discussed how after the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, the DDC (district development council) and BDC (block development council) elections showed how people were willing to participate in democratic processes.”5.Protest against farm lawsThe BJP is said to have discussed the work done by the Central government in the field of agriculture despite an ongoing protests by farmers over three farm laws passed last year.Referring to the ongoing farmers’ protest at and around New Delhi, Sitharaman said, “We are open for talks. Please tell us what you are opposed to in the laws. We have not been told what the objection is and their (the farmers) story is incomplete. We are still willing to listen to the farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/campaign-plans-to-covid-19-five-takeaways-from-bjp-s-national-executive-summit-101636350655645.html
08-11-2021||India||Afghan conference is against radicalisation and terror, not Taliban||Even though Pakistan and China, by not attending the Afghanistan conference here on Wednesday are trying to portray India as anti-Taliban, the actual purpose is to stabilise strife-torn Kabul so that rising Islamic radicalisation does not mutate into global jihad and threaten the region and beyond. The Afghanistan conference is hosted by Indian National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS) headed by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.Pakistan National Security Advisor Moeed Yusuf has publicly called India a spoiler in Afghanistan and decided against attending the conference. There is no word from China, which has backed Pakistan’s overt and covert role in Afghanistan, on attending the conference. The conference is being attended by Russia with Nikolai Patrushev, Secretary, Security Council of Russia, and right-hand man of President Putin, leading the delegation along with representatives from Iran, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, and Tajikistan.According to officials handling the conference, its purpose is not to resurrect any opposition to the Taliban regime but to stabilise Afghanistan with so-called Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP) wreaking violence against Shias and other non-Sunni minorities in the country and Al Qaeda showing signs of revival. The biggest fear posed by unstable Afghanistan under the influence of Pakistani deep state is that the drought prone lawless country may descend into total chaos and turn into a hub of global jihad. While Russia is worried about the security threat to Central Asian Republics, Iran is concerned about rising Pakistani interference and persecution of Shias on both sides of the Durand Line. New Delhi is disturbed about the rising radicalisation in the Indian sub-continent.Nearly three months after capture of Kabul by the Taliban, no country has recognised the Sunni Pashtun force whose sword arm is Pakistani ISI backed Haqqani network (HQN). There is hardly any governance in Kabul with Mullah Yaqoob faction at odds with Sirajuddin Haqqani, who heads the HQN, and all the commitments promised by the Taliban as part of Doha deal have been thrown into Kabul River. The minorities specially women are under vicious attack by the ultra-conservative radicals roaming around the country with state-of-the-art US weaponry.The situation is so dire in Afghanistan that even Pakistan Army Chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa is worried about the jihadist ideology spillover from across the Durand Line and threaten Islamabad itself. It is quite evident that the Pakistan Army has difference of views with the civilian leadership under Prime Minister Imran Khan, who feels that the jihadist forces in Afghanistan will serve the political purpose of Islamabad against India and buy much required economic leverage from the west. The tussle between two power centers in Pakistan may manifest either before the appointment of new DG ISI Lt Gen Nadeem Anjum on November 20 or in the coming three months.Pakistan’s principal backer China is engaging the Taliban regime directly and through Islamabad so that terrorist groups in Afghanistan do not ally with Uighur terrorist groups to threaten Xi Jinping regime in bordering Xinjiang province through Wakhan corridor. The other reason for supporting the Taliban is to promote the Belt Road Initiative in Afghanistan and more importantly ensure that CPEC projects are not targeted by affiliated Sunni Deobandi groups like Tehreek-e-Taliban, Pakistan. In this context, China is guided by the Pakistani line on Afghanistan given the influence ISI exerts on a section of the Taliban regime in Kabul.India may be upset with the ISI influence on Kabul but its over-riding concern is stability of Afghanistan even with Taliban heading the government. An unstable Kabul will not only spell disaster for the Indian sub-continent but also the world at large as the Af-Pak region will yet again produce terrorists on an industrial scale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-conference-is-against-radicalisation-and-terror-not-taliban-101636348552852.html
08-11-2021||India||India logs 11,451 new Covid cases, 266 daily deaths; active caseload lowest in 262 days||With 11,451 new Covid-19 infections, India witnessed a slight spike in its daily new cases on Monday as the total caseload in the country reached 34,366,987. Also, 266 more people succumbed to the disease on the day as the death toll mounted to 461,057.While the fresh cases on the day increased from the 10,853 cases reported on Sunday, the daily deaths fell significantly. On Sunday, the country had reported 526 fatalities.#Unite2FightCorona➡️ 11,451 New Cases reported in last 24 hours.➡️ Less than 50,000 Daily New Cases reported for 134 continuous days. pic.twitter.com/ryvxlCSjmYThe active caseload continued to reduce and was recorded at 142,826, a decrease of 2019 cases from the 144,845 cases previously. The Union ministry of health and family welfare said that the current active caseload was the lowest in 262 days. “The Active Caseload is presently at 1,42,826 is lowest in 262 days.Active cases presently constitute 0.42% of the country's total Positive Cases, which is lowest since March 2020,” the ministry said in a statement.Also read | Covid-19: Foreign travellers welcome again in the US from todayMeanwhile, the daily new recoveries continued to remain higher than the fresh cases on the day after 13,204 more people were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours.With this the total recoveries reached 33,763,104 and the recovery rate stood at 98.24%. The ministry said that this rate was the highest since March 2020.Medical workers in the country have tested 870,058 samples for the disease in the last 24 hours, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. So far 616,071,949 tests have been conducted in the country.“Weekly Positivity Rate at 1.26% remains less than 2% for the last 45 days now. The Daily Positivity rate reported to be1.32%. The daily Positivity rate has remained below2% for last 35 days and below 3% for 70 consecutive days now,” the ministry further noted.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered under the country’s vaccination drive exceeded the 108.47-crore mark on the day, the ministry said. “With the administration of 23,84,096 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has exceeded 108.47 Cr (1,08,47,23,042) as per provisional reports till 7 am today (Monday),” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-11-451-new-covid-cases-266-daily-deaths-active-caseload-lowest-in-262-days-101636347582170.html
08-11-2021||India||PM Modi, senior leaders wish LK Advani; visit his home to celebrate birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and many senior leaders greeted Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Lal Krishna Advani on his birthday on Monday. The longest-serving president turned 94 today.PM Modi lauded Advani's contributions to the country and the party."Birthday greetings to respected Advani Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life. The nation remains indebted to him for his numerous efforts towards empowering people and enhancing our cultural pride. He is also widely respected for his scholarly pursuits and rich intellect," he said on Twitter.Birthday greetings to respected Advani Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life. The nation remains indebted to him for his numerous efforts towards empowering people and enhancing our cultural pride. He is also widely respected for his scholarly pursuits and rich intellect.The Prime Minister, along with defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda, even met the veteran BJP leader at his home.#WATCH | Delhi: PM Narendra Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda meet veteran BJP leader LK Advani at his residence to wish him on his birthday. (Source: DD) pic.twitter.com/PZrDwuhMpjRajnath Singh hailed Advani as an inspiration and guide, and said he is counted among those most respected leaders whose scholarship, foresight and intellect are acknowledged by everyone.Union highways minister Nitin Gadkari also called Advani an inspiration."Happy Birthday to the senior leader of Bharatiya Janata Party, our inspirational revered Shri LK Advani ji. I pray to God that you stay healthy and live a long life," Gadkari said on social media platform Koo.Advani was instrumental in BJP's rise as a major national political party. He tied its fortunes with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in the late 80s, and spearheaded the party and its forerunner Jana Sangh for decades along with former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.BJP president J P Nadda praised the veteran leader for taking the party to the masses and playing a key role in the country's development. Wishing him a long and healthy life, he said Advani was an inspiration to crores of party workers."Birthday greetings from the bottom of my heart to Shri Lal Krishna Advani ji, the guardian of the BJP family, a strong sign of value based politics, an excellent administrator and guide to all of us. Praying to Lord Shri Ram to grant you good health and a long and happy life," Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Koo.Born in Karachi in the undivided India, Advani joined the Rashtriya Swayamsevan Sangh (RSS) and then the Jana Sangh since the latter's foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-senior-leaders-wish-lk-advani-on-94th-birthday-101636347139301.html
08-11-2021||India||French journal Mediapart claims new evidence of kickbacks in Rafale deal||Mediapart, a French online journal, on Sunday published alleged fake invoices that it claimed enabled French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation to pay at least €7.5 million in kickbacks to a middleman to help it secure the ₹59,000 crore deal with India for 36 Rafale fighter jets. It added that despite the existence of documents, Indian agencies decided not to pursue the case.“It involves offshore companies, dubious contracts and ‘false’ invoices. Mediapart can reveal that detectives from India’s federal police force, the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI), and colleagues from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which fights money laundering, have had proof since October 2018 that Dassault paid at least €7.5 million in secret commissions to middleman Sushen Gupta,” Mediapart said in a report.Five months ago, Mediapart reported that a French judge was appointed to head a probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the deal. In a report in April 2021, the online journal claimed that it was in possession of documents that showed Dassault and its industrial partner Thales, a defence electronics firm, paid “middleman” Gupta several million euros in “secret commissions” in connection with the deal.Watch: Wing Commander Abhinandan, who shot down Pak F-16, promoted as Group CaptainAccording to the April report, the bulk of the payments were made before 2013. “According to an accounts spreadsheet belonging to Sushen Gupta, an entity called simply ‘D’, which is a code he regularly used to designate Dassault, paid €14.6 million to Interdev in Singapore over the period 2004-2013,” the report said. It said Interdev was a shell company with no real activity and administered by a straw man for the Gupta family.The report said according to another accounts spreadsheet belonging to Gupta, which only covers the years 2004 to 2008, Thales paid €2.4 million to another shell company.In another report in April, Mediapart claimed that Dassault paid €1 million to Gupta for manufacturing 50 large replica models of Rafale jets, even though the planemaker provided inspectors of French anti-corruption agency Agence Française Anticorruption no proof that these models were made.India’s decision to sign an $8.7 billion government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 Rafale warplanes made by Dassault was announced in April 2015, with an agreement signed a little over a year later. This replaced the previous Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL).The deal became controversial. The Opposition, led by the Congress, claimed that the price at which India was buying Rafale aircraft now is ₹1,670 crores for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crores by the company when the UPA was trying to buy the aircraft. It also claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with HAL.HT has not reviewed any of the documents cited by Mediapart.The UPA deal, struck in 2012, was not a viable one, the then defence minister Manohar Parrikar maintained, implying that it would have never been closed and that, therefore, any comparison is moot. The UPA was not able to close the deal till 2014, largely over discussions related to the pricing of items not included in the initial bid.The government has said that it cannot disclose the details of the price because of a confidentiality agreement with France, and the strategic reason of not showing its hand to India’s enemies. It said that the current deal also includes customised weaponry.The Supreme Court heard a public interest case on the deal and in November 2019, said it saw nothing wrong in it. In a February 2019 report, the government’s auditor, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, said India had not overpaid for the jets.HT has reached out to the CBI for a response and the copy will be updated once the agency responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-journal-mediapart-claims-new-evidence-of-kickbacks-in-rafale-deal-101636346455255.html
08-11-2021||India||Air pollution particularly harmful for kids, say WHO, Unicef: All you need to know||Several cities across the country are currently battling severe deterioration in air quality. While air pollution, in general, is hazardous to health, it is particularly harmful for children, Livehindustan, Hindustan Times' sister publication, has reported citing international bodies such as World Health Organization (WHO) and Unicef. According to the two organisations, pollutants attack kids the most as their bodies are yet to fully develop.Here's all you need to know:(1.) According to WHO, the lungs of a child, who is living in a region where air pollution is quite severe, may not function properly by the time he attains adulthood. Due to weak lungs, such children, when they grow up, are likely to develop asthma. A 2018 report of the global health body said that around 93 per cent children, who are under the age of 15, years breathe toxic air. A layer of haze lingers in the sky in Delhi as the air quality in the national capital deteriorates and remains in the 'severe' category for the third consecutive day.Visuals around Barapullah flyover this morning. pic.twitter.com/HDWYGyeJXA(2.) Meanwhile, Unicef, citing one of its recent reports, has said that kids take in polluted particles two to three times more than those taken in by adults. This, as per the agency, is because the former breather faster than the latter. An adult breathes 12 to 18 times in a minute, while kids, in the same time, breathe 20 to 30 times. The pace is even faster among infants, who breathe 30 to 40 times in 60 seconds, it said. Also, according to Unicef, around 130,000 children die every year in south Asia, including India, due to toxic air.(3.) Particulate Matter (PM), of the size of 2.5 macrons, are among smaller air pollutants which can enter a child's body, and affect organs such as lungs, eyes and brain. Air quality deteriorates in Delhi-NCR; visuals from Noida & Ghaziabad pic.twitter.com/0Qh6DeovTe(4.) Statistics from Greenpeace, an environmental organisation, show that in 2020, there were around 57,000 untimely deaths in Delhi which can be attributed to pollution in the air. Separately, a WHO report shows that the concentration of PM2.5 in India's air is five times more than what is acceptable.(5.) India (168) fared worse than its neighbours Sri Lanka (109), Pakistan (142), Nepal (145) and Bangladesh (162), all of whom have a better air quality, the 12th biennial Environmental Performance Index (EPI) showed. A total of 180 countries featured on the list.(6.) The United States (24), Israel (29), Russia (58), Saudi Arabia (90) and China (120) also performed better than India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-particularly-harmful-for-kids-say-who-unicef-all-you-need-to-know-101636342501086.html
08-11-2021||India||Parts of Tamil Nadu likely to see heavy rainfall until November 11||Rains are likely to continue for four more days in Tamil Nadu under the influence of low pressure expected to develop over the Southeast Bay of Bengal by Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. There will be light to moderate rainfall across Tamil Nadu. Heavy to very heavy rainfall was expected in parts of Tamil Nadu and south coastal Andhra Pradesh until November 11.Heavy rains lashed Chennai and adjoining districts in Tamil Nadu from Saturday night through Sunday and forced officials to rescue and move over 500 people to temporary shelters. From 8.30am on November 6 for 24 hours, Chennai received 210mm of rain - the highest in a single day since 2015.Also Read: Delhi’s air quality improves marginally, moves up to ‘very poor’ from ‘severe’An existing depression separately over the East-Central Arabian sea, centred 820 km southwest off the coast of Mumbai, was expected to move away from the Indian coast and weaken over the next 36 hours. It is unlikely to have much impact on the coast but will result in rough conditions in the Arabian sea till Tuesday. The IMD has warned fishermen against venturing into the east-central and adjoining the west-central Arabian Sea till early Tuesday.Under the influence of the depression, the Bay of Bengal is also likely to be rough until Thursday. All the fishermen in the Bay of Bengal have been asked to return to the coast by Tuesday. They have been warned against venturing out to the southeast Bay of Bengal on November 9 and 10, and the southwest Bay of Bengal on November 10 and 11.A dip of 2 to 3 degrees Celsius in the minimum temperature was separately likely in Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, and Odisha over the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-likely-to-see-rainfall-for-four-more-days-101636345614961.html
08-11-2021||India||J&K Police form team to probe constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani’s death||The Jammu and Kashmir Police have constituted a team to probe the killing of constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani, 29, in Srinagar’s Batamaloo area on Sunday. Wani, who had joined the force two years ago, was shot dead in the second such targeted attack in the area within a month. In October, an employee of the Power Development Department was killed in the locality.Police said security forces conducted searches in the area soon after Wani’s killing two days after an exchange of fire at a hospital a few kilometres from the murder scene.Srinagar has been under tight security since the killings of 11 civilians last month.Also Read: MBBS seat sale: Jammu and Kashmir police seeks sanction to prosecute Hurriyat leader, 8 moreIn September, Bantu Sharma of Railway Protection Force was shot dead at Wanpoh in the Kulgam district.On August 3, a policeman and a civilian were injured when a police vehicle was fired upon in Srinagar’s Sheraz Chowk. Four days later, another policeman was killed in Kulgam.In June, inspector Pervaiz Ahmad of the Criminal Investigation Department was shot dead near his residence in Srinagar’s Nowgam. An off-duty policeman was shot dead near his house in Srinagar’s Saidapora area the same month.Union home minister Amit Shah visited Ahmad’s family during his visit to Kashmir last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-police-form-team-to-probe-constable-tawseef-ahmad-wani-s-death-101636343094850.html
08-11-2021||India||Google doodle celebrates Indian cell biologist Kamal Ranadive's 104th birthday||Google on Monday dedicated its popular doodle to Indian cell biologist Dr Kamal Ranadive to mark her 104th birthday. The doodle has been crafted by India-based illustrator and art director Ibrahim Rayintakath and depicts Ranadive looking through a microscope.Ranadive is best known for her groundbreaking cancer research and devotion to creating a more equitable society through science and education.Kamal Samarath, better known as Kamal Ranadive, was born on November 8, 1917, in Pune, Maharashtra. Her father’s encouragement to pursue a medical education inspired Ranadive to excel academically, but she found her calling in biology instead.In 1949, she received a doctorate in cytology, the study of cells, while working as a researcher in the Indian Cancer Research Center (ICRC). After a fellowship at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Maryland, USA, she returned to Mumbai (then Bombay) and the ICRC, where she established the country’s first tissue culture laboratory.As the director of the ICRC and a pioneer in animal modeling of cancer development, she was among the first researchers in India to propose a link between breast cancer and heredity and to identify the links among cancers and certain viruses. Continuing this trailblazing work, Ranadive studied Mycobacterium leprae, the bacterium that causes leprosy, and aided in developing a vaccine. In 1973, Dr. Ranadive and 11 colleagues founded the Indian Women Scientists’ Association (IWSA) to support women in scientific fields.“Ranadive fervently encouraged students and Indian scholars abroad to return to India and put their knowledge to work for their communities. After retiring in 1989, Dr. Ranadive worked in rural communities in Maharashtra, training women as healthcare workers and providing health and nutrition education. The IWSA now has 11 chapters in India and provides scholarships and childcare options for women in science. Dr. Ranadive’s dedication to health justice and education remains influential to her students who work as scientists today,” Google said in a post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/google-doodle-celebrates-indian-cell-biologist-kamal-ranadive-s-104th-birthday-101636342110465.html
08-11-2021||India||Maharashtra: PM Modi to lay foundation stone for widening of Pandharpur highways||In a boost for pilgrimage to the town of Pandharpur in Maharashtra, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will virtually lay the foundation stone for widening five sections of National Highway (NH) 965 and three sections of NH 965G to four lanes.NH 965 is popularly known as Shri Sant Dnyaneshawar Maharaj Palkhi Marg, while NH 965G is also called Shri Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg.The measure will help ease the movement of devotees to and from Pandharpur, thanks to “dedicated walkways”. According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office, “Dedicated walkways for ‘palkhi’ will be constructed on either side of the national highways, providing hassle-free and safe passage to devotees.”Also Read: PM Narendra Modi urges BJP workers to ‘connect’ with peopleUnion road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari will attend the event. His office tweeted, “Respected Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi will inaugurate road projects worth ₹1,186 crore and length of 223km to improve and facilitate connectivity of Pandharpur, the holy region of Maharashtra, on Monday, November 8. #PragatiKaHighway @nitin_gadkari.” Maharashtra chief minister of Uddhav Thackeray will also be present on the occasion.About 221km of the Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Palkhi Marg from Diveghat to Mohol and about 130Km of Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg from Patas to Tondale-Bondale will be widened to four lanes at estimated costs of about ₹6,690 crore and ₹4,400 crore, respectively.Also, during the event, PM Narendra Modi is expected to “dedicate to the nation” more than 223km of completed and upgraded road projects that have been constructed with an estimate cost of over ₹1,180 crore along various national highways with the aim of improving connectivity to Pandharpur.The projects include construction that is already completed on Mhaswad-Piliv-Pandharpur (NH 548E), Kurduwadi-Pandharpur (NH 965C), Pandharpur-Sangola (NH 965C), the Tembhurni-Pandharpur section of NH 561A, and the Pandharpur-Mangalwedha-Umadi section of NH 561A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-widening-of-pandharpur-highways-101636342074519.html
08-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: 3-day plenary session of China's Communist Party from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.China: Communist party meet to cement Xi Jinping’s ruleA key three-day Communist Party of China (CPC) meeting to be held in Beijing from Monday is set to cement President Xi Jinping’s authority and pave the way for him to retain power for an unprecedented third time in 2022. Read moreChhath Puja begins today with ‘Nahay Khay’, public holiday in DelhiChhath Puja is dedicated to the Sun God and is mainly observed by the people from Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh. This year, the festival will begin from Monday and conclude on November 11. Read more'If players prioritise IPL over playing for country, what can we say': Kapil Dev after India's exit from T20 World CupLegendary all-rounder and former World Cup winning Kapil Dev feels the BCCI and Indian cricket should start planning immediately for the next World Cup instead of leaving things for later. Read moreKBC 13: Amitabh Bachchan roars as show finds third millionaire of the season in housewife Geeta Singh GaurGame show Kaun Banega Crorepati season 13 has found another millionaire. Housewife Geeta Singh Gaur successfully answered the ₹1 crore question and will be shown attempting the jackpot ₹7 crore question. Read moreDeepika Padukone glams colourful athleisure with mismatched heels in Dubai, fans call her QueenDeepika Padukone added a touch of glamour to her colourful athleisure for attending an event in Dubai. She teamed the outfit with mismatched pair of pumps and looked stunning as ever. Read more'Because I am a...': Kejriwal defends his temple run ahead of assembly pollsAam Aadmi party chief & Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal responded to the charge of soft Hindutva. Kejriwal defended his temple visits, saying he is a hindu and hence visits various temples. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-3-day-plenary-session-of-china-s-communist-party-from-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101636338504708.html
08-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 4 CRPF soldiers killed, 3 injured in Sukma after a jawan opens fire||Four personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed and three others were injured on Monday after one of their colleagues opened fire at them at a camp of the paramilitary force in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district. The incident occurred at around 3:30 am in the camp of CRPF's 50th battalion in Lingampalli village of the district, located around 400 km away from capital Raipur, news agency PTI reported quoting Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P.According to the preliminary information, the soldier opened fire at his colleagues with his AK-47 rifle. The accused has been held and the police are now interrogating him to ascertain the reason for the firing.Meanwhile, the injured soldiers have been rushed to a nearby hospital and are being treated for the injuries.More details regarding the same are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-4-crpf-soldiers-killed-3-injured-in-sukma-after-a-jawan-opens-fire-101636340908920.html
08-11-2021||India||Delhi’s air quality improves marginally, moves up to ‘very poor’ from ‘severe’||New Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Monday morning, inching up to the “very poor” category after the Capital experienced three consecutive days of “severe” air quality due to the double impact of firecrackers burst during Diwali and stubble burning in Haryana and Punjab.Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) for New Delhi at 7am stood at 384. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 428, which was in the “severe” category. On Friday, the day after Diwali, blatant violation of a ban on firecrackers had resulted in the AQI shooting up to 462 - the worst post-Diwali air quality in New Delhi since 2016.The CPCB classifies an AQI of zero to 50 as “good”, 51-100 as “satisfactory”, 101-200 as “moderate”, 201-300 as “poor”, 301-400 as “very poor” and above 401 as “severe”.Also Read: Haryana cities continue to reel under toxic airWhile the AQI marginally improved on Saturday and climbed down to 437, the share of farm fires in New Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution was at the season’s highest so far at 48% on Sunday. According to the data shared by the Delhi government on Sunday, 21,623 stubble burning incidents were recorded by Nasa’s satellite in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh between November 1 and November 6.The CPCB will hold a meeting on Monday to review the air quality situation and discuss whether it’s necessary to consider implementing Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures mandated under the “severe” category. Currently, steps under the “very poor” AQI category such as a ban on diesel generators and a three-to-four times increase in parking fees are in force across the city. Earlier on Sunday, the ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said the AQI was expected to improve by Sunday evening.On the weather front, New Delhi is likely to experience partly cloudy skies on Monday as per the Indian Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday was likely to be 14 degrees Celsius, while the mercury was later predicted to go up to a highest of 29 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the highest temperature was 29.1 degrees Celsius and the lowest was 14.2 degrees Celsius, with no deviation from the normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-air-quality-improves-marginally-moves-up-to-very-poor-from-severe-101636340154483.html
08-11-2021||India||Cruise drug bust case: NCB to record statement of witness Prabhakar Sail today||The Delhi vigilance team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the allegations of extortion charges against its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, has summoned independent witness Prabhakar Sail on Monday to record his statement in the cruise drug bust case. The team comprising seven officers will reach Mumbai on Monday morning. It will record the statement of Sail at around 2pm at the Central Reserve Police Force's (CRPF) mess in suburban Bandra, according to news agency PTI.The summon was sent to Sail, who claims to be the bodyguard of NCB witness KP Gosavi, after he claimed in an affidavit that he had heard his boss discussing a ₹25 crore pay-off deal to release Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, who was arrested by the NCB. The actor's son is currently out on bail after being held for three weeks in the central Mumbai facility.In the affidavit, Sail also claimed that Gosavi had also said that ₹8 crore of the deal money was to be given to Wankhede. However, the NCB official has denied the allegations.This is the second visit that the vigilance team, headed by the NCB's deputy director General Gyaneshwar Singh, is making to Mumbai in connection with the case. The team had first visited the city in October to probe the allegations, but could not record the statement of Sail as he failed to appear before it.Before this, the vigilance team had already recorded statements of eight persons including Wankhede. It has also collected important documents and recordings related to the drug cases, according to reports.Meanwhile, a special investigation team (SIT) of the Delhi NCB, which recently took over the investigation into the cruise drugs case, visited the Cordelia cruise ship where the party was organised on October 2. The cruise ship is docked at the Mumbai cruise terminal. The SIT is headed by the senior IPS officer and DDG Operations at NCB headquarters, Sanjay Singh.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cruise-drug-bust-case-ncb-to-record-statement-of-witness-prabhakar-sail-today-101636339505019.html
08-11-2021||India||BJP not family-run party, says PM Modi; spotlights 'unprecedented' gains in bypoll results||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers to become a “bridge of faith” between the party and the people and said they must forge ties with the people based on the party’s guiding values of “service, resolve and sacrifice”. The Prime Minister was addressing the party’s national executive committee meeting.In his 50-minute valedictory address in New Delhi, PM Modi said stressed that the BJP runs on the values of "Sewa, Sanklap aur Samparan (service, resolution and commitment)" and "does not revolve around a family", urging its members to work for people, Union minister Bhupender Yadav said.He also expressed confidence that the BJP will win the trust of people in the upcoming assembly polls in five states.Also Read | Presentation made on BJP's preparation for state pollsAnother senior leader, who attended the meeting, said that the Prime Minister also praised the BJP's performance in two bypolls that the party lost recently."All of us have ignored the transition taking place in favour of the BJP. In Ellenabad which is a stronghold of the Indian National Lok Dal, BJP got 45,000 votes last time but this time we got 59,000 votes. This increase in votes happened despite the impact of the farmers' agitation in the seat. That means common people aren't against farm laws," the leader quoted the Prime Minister as saying in the meeting.The politician, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that PM Modi also talked about the Badvel constituency in Andhra Pradesh. "Last time BJP had got 700-odd votes in this assembly whereas this time we got 21,000 votes which is unprecedented in Andhra Pradesh. The PM said we should look at the brighter side of these results and work towards a change," stated another leader.The BJP passed a political resolution at the meeting praising the leadership and policies of PM Modi. The leaders also deliberated upon the strategy for the upcoming assembly elections in five states and set new targets for the party’s pan-Indian expansion.The resolution also accused the Opposition of "opportunism" and acting with a mindset of "extreme hate". The leaders also discussed other key concerns, including the political violence in West Bengal and the strategy on the ongoing farmers' stir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-not-family-run-party-says-pm-modi-spotlights-gains-in-bypoll-loss-101636338564394.html
08-11-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath in western UP today, will address rally in Azam Khan's home turf||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will begin a week-long visit to western part of the state from Monday, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan. He will go to Meerut and nearby areas during his visit. The trip assumes significance in the wake of assembly elections next year.According to official itinerary, as reported by Livehindustan, Adityanath will reach Kairana on Monday where he will inaugurate development projects worth ₹411 crore. He will also lay the foundation stone for 83 other projects.He will address a public meeting in Rampur, the home turf of Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Azam Khan, reported Livehindustan. The chief minister will announce projects worth ₹63.58 crore for the district. These include a cow protection centre in Milak and civil work in Saifni.A fire brigade office and warehouse in Bilaspur, technical institute ITI in Shahbad and a women's hostel in police lines are other projects that Adityanath will inaugurate in the district, reported Livehindustan.On November 10, the chief minister will inaugurate the 10-day Vraj Raj Utsav in Vrindavan Kumbh area. After the inauguration, the chief minister will also visit different stalls of ‘Hunar Haat’, ‘Shilp gram’ and food stalls of different states of the country, said Shailjakant Mishra, vice president of UP Vraj Tirth Vikas Parishad.Vraj Raj Utsav is a joint venture of UP Vraj Tirth Vikas Parishad, a body under the department of tourism UP government, and the district administration.On November 11, Adityanath will go to Meerut where he will honour 17 paralympians from across the country and six from Uttar Pradesh. He will then go to Hapur on November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-in-western-up-today-will-address-rally-in-azam-khan-s-home-turf-101636337187366.html
08-11-2021||India||Chhath Puja begins today with ‘Nahay Khay’, public holiday in Delhi||The four-day-long festival of Chhath will begin from Monday. Celebrated after Diwali, mostly by people belonging to Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, Chhath involves the offering of 'Arghya' by fasting women to the Sun god in knee-deep water.The festival is now celebrated in other parts of the country as well.Though Chhath is celebrated twice in the year, the one in the month of Kartik (according to Hindu calendar) comprises of elaborate rituals.How the festival is celebratedThe festival of Chhath begins with the ritual of ‘Nahay Khay’, which will be observed today. The devotees who keep fast take a bath, wear clean clothes and prepare a prasad for the Sun god.Chana daal and Kaddoo Bhaat (pumpkin rice) is a popular prasad (offering) that devotees make on this day.On the second day, a prasad of kheer made with gud (jaggery) and arwa chawal (rice) is made. This is the toughest day as the devotees begin nirjala (without water) fast which lasts for 36 hours.On the third day, the fast continues but the devotees don't even drink a drop of water. The prasad on this day includes thekua, and the Sun god is offered arghya in a water body. The fast continues through the night and on the fourth and final day, offering is paid to the rising Sun (Usha Arghya), with devotees standing in knee-deep water. The fast concludes and prasad is distributed.Public holiday in DelhiOn November 5, the Delhi government declared November 10 as a public holiday this year on the account of Chhath Puja.The celebrations were muted last year due to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions.The festival assumes political significance in the national capital as Purvanchalis (natives of eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar) who are settled in Delhi and celebrate the festival are a major vote bank in the city.The Delhi government is organising Chhath Puja at about 1,100 places, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Saurabh Bhardwaj said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhath-puja-begins-today-with-nahay-khay-public-holiday-in-delhi-101636335518415.html
08-11-2021||India||Govt offices to resume biometric attendance from today||Biometric attendance in government offices will resume from Monday, after being discontinued due to the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The directions in this regard were issued by the Ministry of Personnel, through its Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), on November 1.Also Read | Biometric attendance in govt offices from November 8The DoPT, in its latest office memorandum, said that the responsibility to ensure compliance with Covid-19 protocols will be with the heads of departments, adding that sanitisers should be mandatorily placed near biometric machines. “Employees should sanitise their hands before and after marking their attendance, and maintain a distance of six feet while doing so. If required, additional machines should be installed to avoid overcrowding,” the order read.Staff members are also required to wear face masks at all times, including while marking their attendance. Also, designated personnel should be deployed to near the biometric system to clean or wipe the touchpad or scanner areas of the scanners frequently.The memorandum further called for natural ventilation to be maintained, also directing offices to undertake orientation of employees on various precautionary measures to be followed. “Meetings, as far as possible, will continue to take place via video conferencing. Personal meetings with visitors, unless necessary in public interest, should be avoided,” it said.This fresh DoPT order overrides a department order from June 14, which continued suspension of the biometric system. Under the previous order, it issued instructions to regulate the attendance of the central government employees with reduced staff, staggered timings and exemption to certain categories of employees from attending offices.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-offices-to-resume-biometric-attendance-from-today-101636331597852.html
08-11-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear hear Lakhimpur Kheri violence case today||The Supreme Court on Monday is scheduled to hear the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence case (in Uttar Pradesh) in which eight people were killed, including four farmers. A bench comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana and justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli will be hearing the matter.The top court had last heard the case on October 26. During the hearing, it had directed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Uttar Pradesh government to provide protection to the witnesses of the incident. It also questioned the state government as to why there are very few witnesses in the case when hundreds of farmers were present at the rally. In response, the state government's counsel had told the apex court that out of 68 witnesses, the statements of 30 have been recorded under section 164 of the CrPC and some more testimonies will be recorded.The bench had also sought a separate status report from the UP government on the death of four people and a journalist after a vehicle ran over them.The court is hearing the case suo motu after two lawyers wrote to the Chief Justice of India seeking a high-level judicial inquiry into the incident which had occurred on October 3.The farmers who are protesting against the Centre's three farm legislation were on their way back on October 3 when an SUV ran over them, resulting in the death of eight people. The incident sparked a huge uproar against the UP government as it involved the son of BJP leader and Union minister Ajay Mishra's son, Ashish. Farmers allege that Ashish was sitting in the vehicle that mowed over the farmers. However, the minister has denied any involvement in the case, though his son has been arrested.The police have so far arrested 12 other people in connection with the case.Since last November, various farmers' unions are protesting against the three farm laws - the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.In view of the protests, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of these laws in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-hear-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-today-101636332111446.html
08-11-2021||India||Chennai rain: NDRF teams deployed, schools shut in 4 districts | 10 points||Chennai is still recovering from the heavy pounding it received by the rainfall, which started on Saturday. The continuous downpour for 24 hours led to inundation of most areas on Sunday and opening up of sluice gates of three city reservoirs to let out surplus water.This is the heaviest rainfall on record since 2015 and has been caused by the northeast monsoon, which has been impacted by continued La Nina, a complex weather pattern caused by variations in ocean temperatures in the equatorial band of the Pacific Ocean. News agency PTI quoted Tamil Nadu's revenue and disaster management minister KKSSR Ramachandran as saying that four people have died in rain related incidents and one person has been injured.Also Read | Weather conditions not climate change responsible for Chennai rains, say expertsThough the rainfall stopped in Chennai late on Sunday night, mild to moderate, intermittent rainfall is continuing reported in other regions of Tamil Nadu, including Erode and Tiruvarur.Since the start of the Northeast monsoon in October, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry regions have experienced about 43 per cent excess rainfall.Here are the latest developments:• The National Disaster Management Authority (NDRF) has pre-deployed four of its teams in Tamil Nadu on state government's request. While one team each has been deployed in Thiruvallur and Chengalpattu district, two others are in Madurai district.• Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke to Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin and assured him of all possible support from the Centre in rescue and relief work. "Spoke to Tamil Nadu CM, Thiru @mkstalin and discussed the situation in the wake of heavy rainfall in parts of the state. Assured all possible support from the Centre in rescue and relief work. I pray for everyone's well-being and safety."•In 24 hours (from Saturday 8.30am to Sunday morning), Chennai received 210mm of rainfall, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rain in Chennai till Tuesday. It said a cyclonic circulation lies over north coastal Tamil Nadu, southeast of Bay of Bengal, and a low pressure area is likely to form by November 9.• Several parts of Tamil Nadu capital reported extensive waterlogging on Sunday morning after the city recorded heavy overnight rains. Many vehicles were stranded and people had to wade through knee-deep water; some of the residents even complained of water entering their houses.• Stalin inspected several inundated areas along with top officials, including chief secretary V Irai Anbu, and directed authorities to take swift action to drain the flood water.• The state government has declared holiday for schools and colleges in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpet districts on November 8 and 9.• Eleven districts - Chennai, Karur, Thiruvallur, Pudukottai, Sivagangai, Trichy, Namakkal, Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Virudhunagar and Erode - received more than 200 mm of rain in a 24-hour timespan.• Some flight operations were affected, but no major disruption was reported in services. News agency PTI reported that airport authorities allowed passengers who arrived late due to heavy rainfall to board their flights.• People were evacuated in inflatable boats by disaster response teams from some of the suburban areas. Most city and peripheral roads were inundated and several trees uprooted, leading to traffic diversions and disruption in transport services. At least six subways were closed for traffic.• On November 6, 2015, Chennai received 246.5mm of rainfall on a single day - which was the highest in the last 10 years for the month of November. In the same month in 2017 and 2020, the city recorded 182.7mm and 161.8mm of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-rain-latest-updates-ndrf-teams-deployed-schools-shut-in-4-districts-101636330778927.html
08-11-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone for expansion of 2 key highways in Maharashtra||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will, through video conferencing at 3:30pm on Monday, lay the foundation stone for four-laning of two key roads in Maharashtra: five sections of Shri Sant Dnyaneshshwar Maharaj Palkhi Marg (National Highway 965) and three sections of Shri Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg (NH-965G). The project will be undertaken to facilitate people's movement to the pilgrimage town of Pandharpur in the western state, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) noted in a press release.“Pandharpur has a special place in the hearts and minds of many. The Temple there draws people from all sections of society, from all over India. I will join a programme relating to Pandharpur's infra needs,” PM Modi said in a tweet on Sunday. Pandharpur has a special place in the hearts and minds of many. The Temple there draws people from all sections of society, from all over India. At 3:30 PM tomorrow, 8th November, I will join a programme relating to upgrading Pandharpur’s infra needs. https://t.co/IUCE0L3dZTUnder the project, 221 km and 130 km of Shri Sant Dnyaneshshwar Maharaj Palkhi Marg and Shri Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg, respectively, will be four-laned. This will be done at an estimated cost of more than ₹11,000 crore: ₹6600 crore for the former, and ₹4400 crore for the latter. Also, four-laning will be done for the Diveghat-Mohol stretch of Shri Sant Dnyaneshshwar Maharaj Palkhi Marg, and from Patas-Tondale for Shri Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg.The ceremony will also see PM Modi dedicate to the nation more than 223 km of completed and upgraded road projects, which were built at an estimated cost of ₹1180 crore at various NHs for connectivity to the temple town. These include Mhaswad-Piliv-Pandharpur (NH 548E); Kurduwadi-Pandharpur (NH 965C); Pandharpur-Sangola (NH 965C); Tembhurni-Pandharpur NH 561A); and Pandharpur-Mangalwedha -Umadi (NH 561A).Besides PM Modi, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will also be present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-four-laning-of-2-key-highways-in-maharashtra-101636328791540.html
08-11-2021||India||J&K constable shot dead by terrorists outside residence||A constable was shot dead by terrorists outside his residence, in the Batamaloo area of Srinagar district on Sunday, police said.Police have identified the constable as Tausif Ahmad.“At about 8 pm, terrorists fired upon JKP Constable Tausif Ahmad near his residence at SD Colony, Batamaloo. Senior police officers reached the terror crime spot. Preliminary investigation has revealed that terrorists fired upon one police personnel Tawseef Ahmad Wani of S.D Colony Batamaloo. He sustained grievous bullet injuries and was shifted to a nearby hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries,” a police spokesperson said on the condition of anonymity.“A case has been registered against the suspects and investigation is in progress,” he added.The area has been cordoned off, and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers, an official said.The attack triggered a sharp reaction from the National Conference (NC). “Unequivocally condemn the cowardly & dastardly attack on a 29-year-old policeman in Batmaloo, Srinagar in which he lost his life. No words of condemnation would be enough! May Allah grant him a place in Jannat. Our hearts go out to his family and friends at this time of grief,” the party tweeted.Meanwhile, in Kulgam district, terrorists hurled a grenade at security forces. No loss of life or injury has been reported so far in the incident. “At 6:25 pm, terrorists hurled a grenade upon 18 Bn CRPF party in Kulgam which exploded on the roadside,” a police official said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-constable-shot-dead-by-terrorists-outside-residence-101636324593139.html
08-11-2021||India||The Week Ahead: India eliminated in T20 World Cup, Covid wave ebbs||With India eliminated from the T20 World Cup following New Zealand’s win over Afghanistan on Sunday, India’s clash with Namibia on Monday becomes a dead rubber, of academic interest at most with players trying to improve their personal records. England will meet New Zealand in the semi-finals on Wednesday in a repeat of the 2019 ODI World Cup final that England won in rather interesting circumstances. The other semi-final will see Australia clash against Pakistan, the only undefeated team in this tournament.  The final is scheduled for Sunday, November 14. This week is also action-packed as far as football is concerned. A series of World Cup 2022 qualifying matches – 18, to be precise – are to be played this Thursday through Sunday. There are some exciting match-ups on Sunday – Croatia vs Russia, Portugal vs Serbia and Spain vs Sweden, to name just three.  Sunday will also see the Brazilian Formula 1 Grand Prix, after which there are four more races to decide the winner of this year’s championship. Dutch driver Max Verstappen, who races for Red Bull Racing, is the current frontrunner with reigning world champion Lewis Hamilton in second position.  Back in India, the Covid wave seems to be ebbing from most states, including in Maharashtra, the country’s worst-affected state. The state’s task force has been warning citizens to keep adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour and also about a possible rise in cases post-Diwali. With more than 6.6 million cases and 140,000-plus deaths, Maharashtra’s numbers are a bellwether for other states. This week, the state cabinet will discuss precisely this – whether Maharashtra is ready for a further easing of restrictions.  In Delhi and the neighbouring states, the hot button topic will continue to be bleak pollution numbers. With ‘severe’ category air quality for most days of last week, Delhi may see similar numbers this week too, as NASA images show. According to data from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), instances of stubble burning have been showing up and increasing in intensity in parts of Pakistan and India including Punjab and Haryana.  Delhi environment minister said on Sunday said that the Capital cannot get freedom from pollution till an immediate solution as well as a long-term joint action plan is put in place to handle the annual problem of stubble burning. Rai wrote to the Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav, and demanded that an emergency meeting of the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan be called to discuss the problem of farm fires. Citing data since November 1, Rai said the spike in air pollution in Delhi has coincided with the increase in the number of farm fires in the neighbouring states. Will other states take heed and meet on the one topic that is keep the national capital in distress? We could get some pointers this week, even if not a definitive answer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-india-eliminated-in-t20-world-cup-covid-wave-ebbs-101636313533545.html
08-11-2021||India||Inclusion of expelled leaders will weaken SP, says BSP chief||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati hit out at the Samajwadi Party (SP) after two expelled party leaders, Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar, joined the Akhilesh Yadav-led party at the ‘Janadesh Maharally’ in Ambedkarnagar district on Sunday. The two leaders were Both Verma and Rajbhar are MLAs from Assembly constituencies in Ambedkar Nagar. Verma is an MLA from Katehari, while Rajbhar has the Akbarpur constituency. They were expelled from the BSP for ‘anti-party activities’.In a series of tweets, Mayawati said the inclusion of expelled leaders of the BSP and other rival parties would not increase the SP’s support base but would weaken it further.“The SP should know that by taking such selfish party-hoppers, the ticket-seekers, within its fold is only going to make its workers angry, many of whom are in touch with the BSP. “These people are going to inflict severe damage to the party from inside during the polls,” she said.The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister made it clear that she was not eager to open her party’s doors to the defectors from other parties who wished to join the BSP after being denied tickets for the assembly election. Rather, the BSP will give the party ticket to its leaders instead of defectors, she said.Speaking at the Janadesh rally in Ambedkar Nagar district earlier in the day, both Verma and Rajbhar called upon the people to vote the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) out of power and make SP chief Akhilesh Yadav the next chief minister by ensuring the SP’s victory in the 2022 assembly election. Verma, who was the leader of the BSP legislature party, said the BSP has deviated from the ideals of Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram.“I was a founding member of the BSP and worked for 35 years to widen the party’s support,” he said.Rajbhar, the national general secretary of the BSP, alleged that the BSP chief had humiliated him.”Before taking action, she did not hear us. A large number of the BSP leaders and workers are deserting the party to join the SP,” he said.Meanwhile, in a separate tweet, Mayawati demanded the withdrawal of the Centre’s three new farm laws.“The BJP says ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas’. But, how can people believe this ‘jumlaa’ (rhetoric) when the country’s farmers have been so fiercely protesting against the three farm laws for such a long time and are agitated,” she tweeted in Hindi.The BSP leader noted that for the first time in three years, the Central government has given some relief to the people on Diwali by reducing the excise duty on petrol and diesel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inclusion-of-expelled-leaders-will-weaken-sp-says-bsp-chief-101636311540659.html
08-11-2021||India||Prisoner dies, 30 policemen injured in violence at UP’s Fatehgarh jail||A prisoner died and 30 policemen were injured in violence that broke out after inmates took control of the Fatehgarh jail in Uttar Pradesh’s Farrukhabad district in protest against alleged improper treatment of an under trial, officials said.Jail authorities suspect that the violence was instigated by some top criminals lodged there in an attempt to break out of the prison, said an official familiar with the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.According to officials, the prisoners were angered after the death of another inmate, Sandip Yadav, while undergoing treatment for dengue at the jail hospital on Saturday night.The prisoners allegedly hurled stones at the policemen and started a fire in the jail after hearing about the death.“Subsequently, there was stone pelting and arson in the barrack, and this was done by inmates with a criminal mindset. The police force then managed to control the situation. In this, 30 policemen were injured, and the deputy jailor, too, was attacked by the inmates,” Superintendent of Police Ashok Kumar Meena told news agency PTI.A fire brigade had to be called after the inmates resorted to arson. Heavy police force was deployed to control the situation, police said. Two deputy jailers, Ashish Kumar and Shailesh Sonkar, were beaten up, the officials said, adding that the prisoners set the jail hospital on fire.The police, however, claimed that another prisoner, Shivam, who died later, was also suffering from an ailment and lost his life while being taken to the hospital on Sunday.But in a purported video, which surfaced on social media, Shivam claimed before his death that he suffered a bullet injury. The video purportedly showing Shivam claiming that he was hit by a bullet fired by the jailor while he was trying to close the gates of the barrack surfaced later in the afternoon.HT could not independently verify the video.The police are identifying troublemakers and stern action would be initiated, Meena said, denying police firing inside the jail. “It is not clear yet how the inmate died (during protests), it will be investigated,” he said.Additional director general of police (Kanpur zone) Bhanu Bhaskar said the violence would be probed by DIG (headquarters) VP Tripathi.Security has been stepped up in the prison after the violence, Bhaskar said.Director general jail, Anand Kumar, told PTI, “The DIG Jail is conducting an administrative inquiry. Judicial inquiry as per CrPC will also take place since an inmate has died in the incident in the jail.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prisoner-dies-30-policemen-injured-in-violence-at-up-s-fatehgarh-jail-101636311349549.html
08-11-2021||India||Mullaperiyar dam: Kerala govt revokes order on tree felling||A day after chief minister MK Stalin thanked his counterpart in Kerala, the state government on Sunday revoked an order permitting Tamil Nadu to cut 15 trees to strengthen the Baby dam in Mullaperiyar, forest minister AK Saseendran said.The Kerala minister said the permission was granted by mistake and action will be taken against the officials concerned.“I have no idea who gave the order. It was not come up for discussion. Officials who were behind such a move will have to be answerable,” said the minister. Water resources minister Roshy Augustine, hailing from Idukki, where the dam is situated, also said he was unaware of the permission granted to Tamil Nadu. A junior partner in the ruling Left Democratic Front, the Communist Party of India, also expressed serious reservations over this. The issue came to light after Stalin sent a letter to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday thanking him for permission to cut trees near the baby dam in Mullaperiyar reservoir. The letter stirred controversy in the state and opposition Congress, and BJP alleged that the CM’s office permitted officials to bypass concerned ministries. They further said the decision would weaken the state’s long-pending demand for a new dam. “The CM should clarify his position on TN’s decision to raise the water level to 152 feet. He said in the assembly recently that TN has shown a favourable approach to Kerala’s growing concern. But this is not a favourable move,” said former water resources minister N K Premachandran. The opposition said officials cannot decide without considering the concerned ministries, and the government is now searching for scapegoats. Vijayan is yet to react to the issue. CM Stalin’s letter came after Tamil Nadu minister Dorai Murugan said that the state would raise the water level to 152 feet after strengthening the Baby dam triggered a big protest in downstream areas of the dam. There are reports that chief wildlife warden Bennichan Thomas prepared the order after a meeting of concerned secretaries. But once the order snowballed into a big controversy, officials disowned the controversial decision and blamed the political leadership. The two states have been fighting over the water level at the 126 -year-old Mullaperiyar dam for more than two decades. While Kerala wants the water level to be reduced to 138 feet and build a new dam, Tamil Nadu favours water level be raised to 152 feet, saying the dam was strong enough to withstand any pressure. Idukki district has 20 small and big dams, including four major ones Mullaperiyar, Idukki, Gavi and Kaki. Dam experts fear in case of a disaster, there will be a chain reaction that will affect 3.5 million people living downstream. But Tamil Nadu dismisses it, saying it carries out regular maintenance every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mullaperiyar-dam-kerala-govt-revokes-order-on-tree-felling-101636310574699.html
08-11-2021||India||KCR urges Centre to withdraw cess on fuel||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre of misleading the people on fuel prices, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday demanded that the Centre withdraw collection of cess imposed on petrol and diesel.“For the last seven years, the Centre has been collecting cess on auto fuel in the form of agriculture development and road infrastructure, as part of the central excise duty. The entire proceeds of this cess will go to the Centre and not into the pool of tax revenues so that it is not shared with state governments,” he said, addressing a press conference at his camp office Pragati Bhavan.He said the prices the Centre had reduced on petrol and diesel on Diwali were a pittance, compared to lakhs of crores it had made in the form of cess. “It is ridiculous that Telangana BJP leaders are demanding reduction of value added tax on petrol and diesel in the state. In the last seven years, we have not increased VAT on fuel and so, there is no question of reducing it,” he said.Reacting to the state BJP leaders’ proposed agitation demanding reduction of state tax on fuel prices, the chief minister said the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi would launch a counter agitation against the Centre demanding withdrawal of cess on fuel.“I will take up a dharna, along with my ministers, MLAs and MPs, in New Delhi against the Central government on various issues, including removal of cess on fuel, withdrawal of draconian farm laws and implementation of provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014,” KCR, as the chief minister is popularly known, announced.He reacted strongly to the statement of Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay asking the people to go ahead with paddy cultivation this Rabi season and that the BJP would bring the chief minister on his knees to see to it that the state government purchases the entire paddy.“It is an irresponsible and mindless statement. It is the responsibility of the Centre to purchase rice from the states to ensure food security to the people. The procurement and storage of rice are under the purview of the Centre. The states have no power to market rice to other countries,” he said.He pointed out that this year the Telangana had produced record quantity of paddy due to copious rainfall and full reservoirs. “There is no clarity from the Centre as to how much quantity of boiled and raw rice it would procure from the state. It gave it in writing that it won’t be able to buy even a single kg of boiled variety rice from the state in the coming Rabi season,” he said.“That is why, we have been requesting the farmers not to go in for paddy cultivation this Rabi season. If the state BJP president has any concern for them, he should prevail upon the Centre to buy entire paddy. In that case, we don’t mind encouraging cultivation of paddy,” he said.KCR said he had been maintaining restraint towards the BJP all these years, only because he did not want to get into confrontation with the Centre in the interest of the state. “But we have lost our patience and we won’t tolerate anymore. Our party leaders and cadre will hit the streets and fight against the anti-people policies of the Centre. If Bandi Sanjay exceeds his limits, I shall slit his tongue and break his neck,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-urges-centre-to-withdraw-cess-on-fuel-101636310573227.html
08-11-2021||India||Weather conditions, not climate change responsible for Chennai rain: Experts||The average rainfall received in Tamil Nadu and Chennai is more than normal during the northeast monsoon season, which started in October, weather experts said. They added that little has been learnt from 2015 devastating floods that killed more than 400 people across the state.The average rainfall received from the northeast monsoon season is 449 mm and 784 in Tamil Nadu and Chennai, respectively, according to Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) data. In 2020, this was in excess as the city and state received 477mm and 1,040mm respectively.“This year the chances of receiving above-normal rainfall in November is very high,” says independent weather blogger Pradeep John. “We have received 330 mm of rain from the northeast monsoon already, which is almost 75% of average, and we still have 50 days to go.”The rainfall in Chennai and neighbouring districts on Saturday night and Sunday left most of the city underwater, forcing the authorities to rescue over 500 people and keep them in shelters. The rainfall has been the highest Chennai has got since December 2015. IMD on Sunday said that a cyclonic circulation lies over north coastal Tamil Nadu, southeast of the Bay of Bengal and a low-pressure area is likely to form by November 9, which would then move towards the Tamil Nadu coast, bringing more rainfall for at least the next three days.Under its influence, rainfall is likely in northern regions like Chennai, Villupuram, Cuddalore and in delta areas of Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam districts besides neighbouring Puducherry and Kariakkal on Monday. “Showers in such regions may be heavy and at isolated places, very heavy and there could be thunderstorm activity as well. Other regions, including southern Madurai, are also expected to receive rainfall,” an official bulletin said.John further said that La Nina is considered unfavourable for the northeast monsoon and brings less rain to Tamil Nadu, but the presence of other favourable conditions such as a phenomenon called Madden-Julian Oscillation (MJO) and the inter-tropical convergence over the state could be the reason behind Sunday’s downpour.“Even in a La Nina year, if there is a favourable Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD), it will give low-pressure systems and monsoons may not end in a deficit,” John said. “But the key is the MJO. We are seeing that it has had a longer presence, so more low pressures will come to Tamil Nadu, and its influence is seen now,” said John. “This year is similar to the pattern of 2005 where one after another low pressure kept coming.” John and weather department officials ruled out the effects of climate change. “These extreme rains have happened several times in the past too. It is not due to any climatic change. The record for the highest rainfall in Chennai on a single day in November is still 1976,” said YEA Raj, meteorological expert and retired deputy director of the RMC. “For the last three years, we have not had such high rainfall in Chennai. But since the northeast monsoon began this year, several parts of Tamil Nadu have received more than 17cm of rainfall, but more flooding happens in Chennai due to more built-up area.” Activists say that no lessons have been learned after the city flooded in 2015 concerning land planning and removal of encroachments such as the infrastructure around rivers, lakes and watercourses.“Unless we fix these systemic problems, Chennai will flood again,” says Pooja Kumar, coordinator, Coastal Resource Centre. “Infrastructure projects that come up on flood plains and wetlands are approved by regulatory authorities. These encroachments drastically alter the water spread, carrying capacity of the river.”Chennai’s wide network of integrated stormwater drains has also not helped in draining water. “These projects are also planned to bring water to the tail end of the river basins which are already encroached. The carrying capacity of a river is also impacted because of dumping of fly ash, not desilting and untreated sewage flowing into the river.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weather-conditions-not-climate-change-responsible-for-chennai-rainexperts-101636310570590.html
08-11-2021||India||Kerala man’s tryst with exotic fruits||Latin American, Australian to Amazon rainforest fruits, microbiologist Hari Narayanan has them in his small garden in Kottarakara, a town in south Kerala’s Kollam district. He has grown about 880 varieties of fruit-bearing plants from different parts of the world in his orchard, called ‘Green Grama’. Film stars to politicians to common man visit the orchard to taste exotic fruits and get their saplings. But, of course, his first customers are winged guests. “It is their world. They are rightful heir, not me. I take ripened fruits only after my guests have them enough,” said the 42-year-old who was a senior scientist with the Murugappa group. Whether it is Amazon rainforest’s red plum, sweet dark baccaurea, yoruba soft cane and giant araza boi, he has grown them all. And he has also developed on his own a plum cherry that he has named “Green Gama Sweet 17”. How he got a passion for exotic fruits? “I was forced to leave my scientist’s job ten years ago after my mother fell ill. When I came back, I was totally blank and found my small plot of land (60 cents) full of wild grass and also arid due to neglect. One day I came across a fruit chart of my daughter and realised that I have no idea about half of them,” he explained how such a taste blossomed in him. Next two years he started communicating with exotic fruit growers and stockists across the world including Anestor Mezzomo, a Brazilian authority on exotic fruits who died two years ago. Initially nobody noticed him but later some came around after realising his quest and inquisitive nature. It was a challenge he took unmindful of risks and ridicule involved. First he started studying about fruits that can be grown in a climatic condition similar to Kerala. Taking a cue from the input and response he received, Narayanan started a Facebook collective called “Mannum Manasum” (earth and mind) which has now around 100,000 members, he said. He also runs a YouTube channel “Green Grama” which introduces new fruits, their cultivation methods and health benefits that help draw many newcomers into the world of fruits. “Initially it was tough. I travelled to many parts of the country in search of seeds, plants and right information. Slowly people started coming to me,” he said, adding many VIPs call him regularly and what moved him most was a call from his favourite singer K J Yesudas. “That was one of my brightest moments in life. He was my idol since childhood. And both of us are ardent devotees of Lord Ayyappa, presiding deity of Sabarimala hill temple,” he said. Earlier Narayanan used to give everything free of cost, but now he slightly charges for saplings, but fruits remain free. Now he also works as a consultant to set up fruit farms selectively. Adani Group has invited him to set up one at the upcoming Vizinjam Port in Thiruvananthapuram. “I want people to imbibe the spirit of planting and we can inculcate this in students and others. Buds, fresh leaves, fruits and chirping birds around, they instill a lot of positivity and energy. We all can help nature to flourish and we have to realise the earth belongs to all,” he said. His wife K S Vrinda, a gynaecologist, and three children give him accompaniment in his pursuit. “We talk big about carbon neutral these days. The first lesson is to plant enough trees and saplings. Nature is not dependent on man, but the latter is heavily dependent on nature. We have to realise this,” Narayanan said, adding he is happy that many schools and colleges in the state have seed and forest clubs these days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-man-s-tryst-with-exotic-fruits-101636310513144.html
08-11-2021||India||Five years since demonetisation: What has changed?||November 8, 2021 marks five years of demonetisation in India. On this day in 2016, in a televised address at 8 pm, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that currency notes of ₹500 and ₹1000 -- these two denominations were 86% of the currency in circulation at the time in terms of value -- would cease to be legal tender. What has changed in the Indian economy in these five years? How many of these changes are linked to demonetisation?The surgical strike on illegal cash that wasn’tWhile demonetisation was subsequently described as a policy boost to promoting digital payments, the original policy had very different stated targets. The biggest promise of demonetisation was that it would purge unaccounted cash in the system, with those hoarding forced to deposit it in the banks.The Prime Minister’s speech announcing the policy said: “Which honest citizen would not be pained by reports of crores worth of currency notes stashed under the beds of government officers? Or by reports of cash found in gunny bags”. The implicit idea was that those who had unaccounted cash with them would be forced to either declare it to the tax authorities or just get rid of it. Many described demonetisation as a sort of surgical strike against corruption.This idea was also supported by some economists, such as Soumya Kanti Ghosh, the chief economic advisor of India’s largest bank, the State Bank of India. In an article published in the Business Standard newspaper on November 14, 2016 Ghosh estimated that “roughly around ₹4.5 lakh crore of (demonetised) money could disappear from the system”. “On the lighter side, we hope too big an amount of such notes are not burnt adding to the Delhi smog”, Ghosh added in that article.Such hopes (and potential fires) were extinguished very soon. In his budget speech after demonetisation on February 2, 2017, then finance minister Arun Jaitley gave the first hints that demonetisation had not led to large scale purge of unaccounted cash deposits. “After the demonetisation, the preliminary analysis of data received in respect of deposits made by people in old currency presents a revealing picture. During the period 8th November to 30th December 2016, deposits between Rs2 lakh and Rs80 lakh were made in about 1.09 crore accounts with an average deposit size of Rs5.03 lakh. Deposits of more than 80 lakh were made in 1.48 lakh accounts with average deposit size of Rs3.31 crores”, the Budget speech said.This author had put these numbers into context in a Mint article published on February 2, 2017. “The total amount which has been deposited under these two categories can be calculated by multiplying the number of accounts with the average deposit figures mentioned by Jaitley. This gives a figure of Rs5.48 lakh crores for deposits worth less than Rs80 lakh and Rs4.89 lakh crore for more than Rs80 lakh. The aggregate deposits under the two categories amount to Rs10.38 lakh crore. This works out to around two-third of the total value of demonetised currency, which was valued at around 15.44 lakh crore. These figures also tell us that around 31% of the total value of demonetised currency has come back in individual deposits of Rs80 lakh or more. These figures show that a large chunk of the demonetised currency which has come back into banks is from the super-rich”, that article said.By the time the Reserve Bank of India came up with final figures about the amount of demonetised currency returned to banks, the figure was more than 99%.Has demonetisation pushed India towards a cashless trajectory?Describing demonetisation as a nudge towards digital payments, which is how the policy is justified by many people today, was an after-thought although the original policy announcement did talk about reducing the amount of cash in circulation in the Indian economy.“The magnitude of cash in circulation is directly linked to the level of corruption. Inflation becomes worse through the deployment of cash earned in corrupt ways. The poor have to bear the brunt of this. It has a direct effect on the purchasing power of the poor and the middle class. You may yourself have experienced when buying land or a house, that apart from the amount paid by cheque, a large amount is demanded in cash. This creates problems for an honest person in buying property. The misuse of cash has led to artificial increase in the cost of goods and services like houses, land, higher education, health care and so on”, the Prime Minister’s speech of November 8, 2016 said.While digital payments have increased significantly since demonetisation (more on this later), whether or not India has become a cashless economy post demonetisation is a different question. The best metric to answer this question is to look at the ratio of currency in circulation (at the end of a fiscal year) and the nominal GDP (in that fiscal year). Currency in circulation was 12.1% of India’s nominal GDP in 2015-16, the year before demonetisation. It plummeted to 8.7% in 2016-17 as the banking system was struggling to put cash back into the system after demonetisation. Since then, this ratio has climbed steadily and it reached 12% in 2019-20. A restoration of currency in circulation to nominal GDP ratio shows that there was no significant impact of demonetisation until 2019-20.This number reached an all-time high of 14.5% in 2020-21. The latest number is more a result of the pandemic’s economic disruption; 2020-21 saw an annual contraction of 3% in India’s nominal GDP, which pushed up the cash-GDP ratio, than a sudden increase in preference of cash in the Indian economy.Did demonetisation lead to a tax-windfall for the state?This is a more difficult question to answer than the cashless economy question. The reason is, demonetisation was not the only policy change which has affected tax collections in India. It was followed by the roll-out of Goods and Services Tax in July 2017. In September 2019, the government announced a significant reduction in Corporation Tax rates, which led to a sharp fall in direct tax collections. Even as economic observers were waiting for the long-term effects of corporation tax cuts, the economy was hit by the pandemic, which led to a sharp fall in GDP and hence tax collections across the board. With these caveats in place, a look at the central government’s gross tax collection vis-a-vis its budgeted targets — they are the best measure of whether the government’s own expectations about tax collection have been fulfilled — does not show much of an improvement after demonetisation.An even bigger question about the long-term gains of demonetisation for the economy comes from the fact that GDP growth rate started declining sharply in the post-demonetisation years. India’s GDP growth rate increased consistently from 5.2% in 2011-12 to 8.3% in 2016-17. This trend reserved itself and the economy started losing growth momentum with the GDP growth reaching just 4% in 2019-20. With the pandemic year witnessing the highest ever GDP contraction of 7.3% in 2020-21 and a strong base effect in GDP numbers for 2021-22 and perhaps even 2022-23, the waters are now far too muddied to make any scientific assessment about demonetisation’s impact.Demonetisation’s impact on digital payments and formalisation of the economyTwo recent developments have rekindled the debate on the long-term gains of demonetisation. The value of transactions through the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) crossed $100 billion in October 2021. UPIs were only introduced in the post demonetisation period in the country and their rapid growth is truly stellar. This is an innovation of global scale and quality.A research note issued by Soumya Kanti Ghosh on November 1 said that the Indian economy had undergone a large-scale formalisation in the post-demonetisation years. The note cites a National Statistical Commission estimate of informal sector share of 52% in 2017-18 and claims that this has come down to at most 20% of the country’s GDP.The note lauds this development. “Formalisation of an economy is always better from a policy perspective”, it says. To be sure, the note also calls for providing relief to the poorer sections of the society. “Hence it is important and ethical that even as we formalise, we must support honest tax paying households, through a better designed tax structure, particularly indirect taxes on items like fuel”, it said.Is a surge in digital payment channels such as UPI and supposedly rapid formalisation of the economy the beginning of realisation of the long-term benefits of the government’s pro-formalisation approach; demonetisation, being the first of these? The answer is more nuanced than what some people might want us to believe.Let us look at the rapid growth of UPIs first. This would not have been possible without the widespread expansion in mobile internet and smartphones in the country, which has allowed consumers and businesses to conduct even small ticket digital transactions without the infrastructure of point of sale (POS) machines. It is also a fact that some of the transactions happening through UPI used to happen through credit or debit cards previously. The value of transactions via credit and debit cards today is significantly lower than it was a couple of years ago. While UPI transactions have grown at the cost of other forms of digital transactions, overall too, there has been a sharp growth in them. The digital transactions space today is far more robust than it was five years ago. Even small-ticket transactions are now carried out digitally, and are far more commonplace than in the period before demonetisation.Let us take the question of policy-driven formalisation now. There is some merit in Ghosh’s argument that a more formal economy is better even from a pro-poor perspective. For example, the current government has brought millions of people under the formal banking sector by opening Jan Dhan Accounts. This infrastructure allowed it to make cash transfers (even if there have been quibbles about the amounts) to such families during the nation-wide lockdown last year. Similarly, the ongoing efforts to build a database of migrant workers will give a better handle for future policy intervention.While these developments are definitely laudable, they are far from sufficient to meet the central challenge of generating quality employment for millions of Indian workers. In some cases, formalisation of the economy can perpetuate, even worsen working conditions in the short-term. Anecdotally, the Goods and Services Tax, introduced in 2017, has also been responsible for formalizing the economy — by forcing more businesses to come into the tax net. But in the process, it has made some small businesses uncompetitive.A research note dated July 15, 2021 by Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist at HSBC Securities and Capital Markets Research has a useful perspective on the issue of policy-driven formalisation.“But “formalisation” can be a double-edged sword. If it happens at the cost of putting small informal firms out of business, then the disruption in the informal sector can weigh on demand in subsequent periods...It is also possible that formalisation wears off over time. If the ecosystem that promotes formality does not change very much, the informal sector makes a comeback. And in that case, the efficiency gains associated with formalisation wears off...The constructive way to think about this is perhaps to differentiate between ‘forced’ and ‘organic’ formalisation. The formalisation that comes only on the back of external pressure or leads to deep distress in the informal sector, may not be sustainable. In contrast, the formalisation that happens on the back of policy changes which help small and informal firms grow over time into medium or larger formal sector firms, is more sustainable.”Vineet Sachdev contributed to this story||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-years-since-demonetisation-what-has-changed-101636310390379.html
08-11-2021||India||Demand for ‘Padma’ award for Puneeth Rajkumar grows||Chorus demanding ‘Padma Shri’ award posthumously to Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar, who died recently, seems to be growing, as two Ministers of the Karnataka government on Sunday urged the Chief Minister to make a recommendation to the Centre in this connection.Considered the Kannada cinema’s reigning star, Puneeth, youngest of five children of thespian and matinee idol Dr Rajkumar, had died of a cardiac arrest on October 29 at the age of 46.Agriculture Minister B C Patil said, Puneeth Rajkumar should have been given Padma Shri when he was alive for his achievements, but unfortunately as he is no longer with us physically, it has to be given to him posthumously .“As a fan, I too join other fans (in their demand). Being part of the government, I urge the Chief Minister to recommend the same to the Centre. Puneeth is qualified for it not only as an actor, but also for his service to the society,” the actor-turned- politician said, adding that if the matter comes before the cabinet it will get unanimous consent.Minister for Tourism Anand Singh too in Haveri said, “Puneeth Rajkumar is a person who had a mentality to serve mankind, he had joined us in several campaigns of public good like pulse polio campaign, when I was into social service... I extend my support to the demand seeking Padma Shri to him.” Kannada Actor Prem, too wished that Puneeth Rajkumar be given the Padma Shri award at the earliest.Senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in the state, Siddaramaiah had recently urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to award Padma Shri posthumously to Puneeth.“The love and affection Power Star Puneeth Rajkumar has gained is bigger than any title or award. I urge the Prime Minister of India to award Padma Shri posthumously to Puneeth Rajkumar. His acting and contribution to society deserves even more accolades,” he had tweeted.Recently Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, responding to a question by the media on such a demand, said, “There are rules on when and people from which sectors should be recommended for Padma awards, it will be in a way unanimous recommendation for Puneeth Rajkumar. As a government considering everything, we will take a decision.” He said the entire state and the government has love and respect for Puneeth Rajkumar.Padma Shri is one of the highest civilian honours of India announced annually on the eve of Republic Day, for distinguished service.Puneeth, popularly known as ‘Appu’ and ‘Powerstar’, by his fans, made debut on screen when he was just six-months-old and went on to win a national award as a child artist for the film Bettada Hoovu. He then re-emerge as a lead actor in 2002 and went on to star in 29 films, delivering some big hits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-padma-award-for-puneeth-rajkumar-grows-101636310334069.html
08-11-2021||India||‘Alpine girl’ from Bengaluru treks to 50 high-altitude lakes in Kashmir||Braving arthritis, a Bengaluru woman created a record of sorts by trekking to 50 high-altitude lakes, located about 10,000 feet above sea level, in Kashmir within a span of four months, earning the sobriquet of ‘Alpine Girl’.Probably the first female to trek to these high-altitude lakes, Namratha Nandish, who stays in the Bengaluru’s Bellandur area, started with Tulian Lake, which is sandwiched between the Pir Panjal and the Zanskar mountain ranges in South Kashmir’s Pahalgam area, and concluded with Shilsar Lake in the higher reaches of the Anantnag-Kishtwar area.Alpine lakes are located above 10,000 feet from sea level.“Nothing was predetermined. It all started with an idea of my husband, Abhishek, adding a visit to Srinagar in the previous winters. He wanted to see the frozen Dal Lake,” says Nandish.The couple embarked on their journey to the Kashmir Valley on January 26 and checked into a local hotel.“I had done my homework and had decided to trek 33 lakes during the season as a birthday gift to myself,” Nandish, who turned 33 this year, said here.An HR manager in an information technology company, the work from home facility, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, came in handy for her to reach her goal during the trekking season, which started in mid-June.“Work hard and play hard. On my weekends, I packed my bags and joined a trekking group to achieve my goal which started with Tulian Lake,” she said.Her local trek leader Syed Tahir, who accompanied her to most of the lakes, recalled his meeting with the Bengaluru women.Tourists come here and want to do a long trek of three to four days but here was a woman, who had set a goal for herself, even before the start of the season, Tahir, an expert trekker, said.“When I interacted with her and she told me her dream, I normally asked whether she had any medical condition. Moment she told me about some kind of arthritis problem in her knee, my eyes virtually popped out in surprise but all my apprehensions faded on seeing her determination,” he told PTI. Tahir has been working in the trekking industry for nearly a decade.“Undoubtedly, she will be the first female who has completed 50 lakes in one season as no one has been able to achieve this kind of feat to the best of my memory of covering 50 Alpine Lakes in one season spread across the Kashmir valley,” he said.Mantasha Rashid, a Kashmir Administrative Service officer who runs a trust ‘Women’s Collective said, “Namratha is an inspiration to women. Despite living in a place with mountains and lakes, most Kashmiri women are not much into sports like trekking, mountaineering or swimming.” “At our voluntary women’s initiative, we have been promoting outdoor activities for women and coming across Namratha was such a motivating moment,” Rashid said.Nandish feels nostalgic as she packs her bags for her return journey to her hometown but is happy that she is being referred to by the trekking community as ‘Alpine Girl’.“I have trekked around 460 kms over 31 days during this year’s season and that too when I had a full-time job at hand,” she said.She said she wanted to do only 33 lakes as a birthday gift to herself but then “yeh dil mange more (the heart desires for more), I decided to reach the feat of 50 lakes.” Nandish, who was a hesitant traveller to Kashmir initially, is now reluctant to leave. “The people are so hospitable and warm here that I want to spend more and more time with them. I don’t feel like going as the people here made me feel one among them,” she said.Today Nandish, after performing several solo trips to Alpine lakes, feels that she is a much more confident woman.“During my last visit I suffered Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS) as the height was around 13,000 feet at Murgan top. But then my inner strength and support of Tahir and my family made me achieve it.She, however, carries a regret that not many women are involved inthe trekking business in the Kashmir valley and also agreed with the thoughts shared by Mantasha that more and more participation should be encouraged.“Kashmir is a wonderful tourist destination and involving more and more women as guides to trekking groups would definitely increase the number of women visitors into the valley and this can become an alternative business for the local women in the valley,” she opined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alpine-girl-from-bengaluru-treks-to-50-high-altitude-lakes-in-kashmir-101636310332948.html
08-11-2021||India||Green fencing can prevent lake encroachments: CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said green fencing can be used around lakes in Bengaluru to avoid any encroachments on these water bodies.“By the end of January, development and rejuvenation of 25 lakes with an expenditure of around ₹128 crore will be completed. When developing lakes, encroachments should be cleared and green fencing should be used,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) quoted Bommai as saying in a statement.The directions come at a time when several of Bengaluru’s water bodies are increasingly being encroached by land sharks, development projects and other reasons that have led to water logging during heavy rains.Bommai held a meeting with senior officials with regards to Bengaluru Mission 2022, an initiative that aims to improve the crumbling infrastructure in a city known globally for its prowess in technology, startups, research and aerospace among other sectors.Bengaluru, once known as the land of a thousand lakes, now has barely 200 of them which are in pitiable conditions.Though the civic body and the state government earmark hundreds of crores towards rejuvenation of lakes each year, experts said this was mostly to beautify the surroundings of the lake than the ecology which is far more important than the aesthetics of such water bodies.Even the Vrishabhavathi river, once a source of water for Bengaluru, has now become nothing more than a flowing drain with toxic water on account of unplanned civic infrastructure which allows sewage water directly into lakes and other water bodies, contaminating soil, underground water and impacting the overall quality of life in a city which is known world over for its prowess in information technology, startups and aerospace among other sectors.At least 19 lakes out of the remaining 205 (out of earlier estimates of at least 250) under the Bengaluru civic body have been termed as disused lakes due to encroachments according to a February 2021 report by CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI).A report by CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) indicated that there are around 21 lakes out of the 205 existing on paper in which the water was fit for drinking.This claim has been contested by environmentalists, scientists, citizens among others.A report by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) in 2020 states that there is not even one lake which has water fit for drinking. Some of these encroachments are by big builders who then name these projects “lake view” to attract more interest from potential buyers, HT reported on March 21.During the recent rains, several of Bengaluru’s residential localities had witnessed floods as drains and lakes were overflowing, inundating neighbourhoods and resulting in loss of property and livelihoods.Lakes were a major source of irrigation and the city’s only source of water for centuries until authorities, over the last 20-30 years, have turned a blind eye on encroachments for building residential and commercial infrastructure to accommodate the city’s increasing population.In the recent downpour, it was also seen that heavy rains resulted in water overflowing from drains as well as sewage water entering lakes, polluting the water bodies and its fragile ecosystems.Estimates by the Indian Institute of Science states that Bengaluru receives around 700-850 mm of rains each year which is enough to accumulate around 16 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) of water which is almost 70% of its demand of around 19 tmc ft. But the lack of treatment plants and awareness has given rise to a situation where most of the water is let out into drains by most households except large apartment complexes where it is mandatory to have sewage treatment plants.Bommai said he had instructed officials to ensure sewage water does not enter lakes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-fencing-can-prevent-lake-encroachments-cm-101636310331849.html
08-11-2021||India||Congress to undertake 100 km padayatra over Mekedatu project||The Congress on Sunday said it would undertake a padayatra in the first or second week of December to pile pressure on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state and Centre to start the contentious Mekedatu project at the earliest. “The padayatra will be over 100 km from Mekedatu to Bengaluru,” DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) said on Sunday. “We can start the work here and there is no hurdle from the Supreme Court. We just need one environmental clearance from the centre,” Shivakumar said. The statements come at a time when the project has heightened tensions in the two south Indian states -- Tamil Nadu and Karnataka -- and threatening to reignite passion over the contentious project over River Cauvery. The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, soon after it came to power in 2013, announced the construction of the project which would cost ₹5,912 crore to help use the excess water to quench the thirst of surrounding districts, including Bengaluru. Then Tamil Nadu chief minister, (now late) J Jayalalitha wrote to the union government not to give the project an environment clearance as it would disrupt the natural flow of water from the upper riparian state. The Basavaraj Bommai-led government too has expressed its intent to move forward with the project but is yet to secure requisite clearances from the union government which Shivakumar said displayed “lack of political will”. Mekedatu, which literally means Goat’s crossing in English, is situated around 100 km from Bengaluru in Karnataka’s Ramanagara district. The Mekedatu issue has evoked emotions on both sides of the border as it is an extension of the century-old Cauvery river water dispute that has defined generations in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, two of India’s most industrious and progressive states. The long-winding legal battles have been used as a political currency in the past as well as an active tool to deflect attention away from other issues both sides of the border and irrespective of the party in power. The Cauvery river basin originates in Karnataka and flows through Tamil Nadu and Puducherry before it enters the Bay of Bengal. Of the total catchment area of 81,155 square kilometers, 34,273 kilometers is in Karnataka, 44,016 square km in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and about 2,866 sq kms in Kerala. Karnataka has maintained that the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project is to generate 400 MW of power and additionally utilise 4.75 tmcft of water for drinking and domestic needs in the state and particularly Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-undertake-100-km-padayatra-over-mekedatu-project-101636310278672.html
08-11-2021||India||BJP, Congress, JD(S) gear up for upcoming assembly polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday said it will hold the ‘Janaswarajya Yatra’ ahead of the election for the upper house of the state legislature under four teams who would tour around seven districts each to mobilise support in the grass roots.The decision to collectively go in for a tour potentially undercuts former chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s plans to undertake a statewide yatra to mobilise support for the party ahead of the 2023 assembly election.“On the backdrop of the Vidhana Parishad elections on November 19, there will be a Janaswaraj conclave,” Ravi Kumar, BJP state general secretary and MLC said in Bengaluru on Sunday.The statements come at a time when Yediyurappa has put off his state-wide tour missing his own deadlines as the party, people aware of the developments said, was to contain the 78-year-old from continuing to wield his influence over the party and people in the wake of the national leadership’s plan to infuse newer leadership with its core ideology.The BJP also said it was expecting more leaders from other parties into its fold with polls for various bodies around the corner.Kumar said CS Manohar of the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) has expressed his interest to join the BJP and has asked to be the candidate for the upcoming elections for the upper house of the state legislature, expected to be held in December or January.The BJP is looking to gain control over the upper house as it plans to introduce more bills, considered contentious, and be passed without too many hurdles.The BJP has 32 members in the upper house while the Congress has 29 and the JD(S) has 12.There is one Independent and one member who serves as the chairman.The Congress too is taking no chances and has announced to initiate its membership drive from Bengaluru on November 14.DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Sunday, said the party will begin its membership drive and initiate other activities to bring in more people into the fold.Shivakumar said there will be forms available both online and offline. “All our state leaders have decided to start the membership drive from Bengaluru city on November 14,” Shivakumar said.He said those who have been serving the party will also have to renew their memberships. New members have to pay a fee of ₹5 and to become active members they would have to pay ₹100, he added.He said the Congress would start its ‘Janajagruthi Abhiyaan’ to raise awareness among people about the misdeeds and hardships under the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the centre and Bommai-led administration in the state.He said all leaders would go to each and every grama panchayati and assembly constituency to raise awareness on the hardships like price rise, fuel price hikes and other problems heaped on the population by the BJP government at the centre and state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-jd-s-gear-up-for-upcoming-assembly-polls-101636310277480.html
08-11-2021||India||Kodava Samaj bans cake cutting, opening of champagne to ‘save’ culture||The Kodava Samaj in Ponnampet of Kodagu district, about 225 km from Bengaluru, has banned all cake cutting and opening of champagne among other celebrations as it is not a part of the community’s culture.Other restrictions include that bridegrooms will not be allowed to sport beards and brides will not be allowed if their hair is let loose during the ceremony.“Kodavas have their own distinct culture. We can survive only if our culture survives. Cutting of cakes and sharing of champagne by new couples during marriage ceremonies is not our culture. The decision has been taken in this regard in our annual meeting,” Chotakmada Rajiv Bopaiah, the president of Ponnampet Kodava Samaj, was quoted as saying by IANS on Saturday.The statement adds to the increasing trend of restricting activities by so-called custodians of culture across several regions in the country.The president could not be reached for comment.A message has been circulated on WhatsApp groups, detailing the restrictions.The Kodavas are a small ethnic group mostly found in the coffee growing region of Kodagu and are known for their contributions to the Indian armed forces, sports and various other fields. The community also has a distinct culture from other parts of Karnataka or southern India.Ponnampet is a small town in Kodagu district. Kodagu has several such Kodava Samajas which often represents the people living in the specific region and is restricted to members of the community even though some of these venues are let out for weddings and events of other communities as well.The directions come at a time where self-styled custodians of culture have continued to impose restrictions in the garb of protecting tradition.Considered a progressive community, the restrictions have evoked mixed responses from members of the ethnic group. In October last year, several members of the community were up in arms after photographs from a gay wedding in California.Dr Sharath Ponnappa, a native of Kodagu and practicing in California married his partner Sundeep Dosanjh in September 2020, sporting Kodava wedding attire. The bridegroom and the bride’s attire in Kodava culture is very distinct, with a knife and very specific style of jewellery that sets it apart from others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kodava-samaj-bans-cake-cutting-opening-of-champagne-to-save-culture-101636310275940.html
08-11-2021||India||Reports of JD(S) leaders leaving not new: Kumaraswamy, ahead of polls||Troubles continue to increase for the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) with several top leaders of the party helmed by former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda planning to leave it to join either of the two national parties – the BJP and Congress- before various polls in the state in the next few months.The upcoming elections include 25 for the upper house of the state legislature in January next year, zilla and taluk panchayat, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP - the city’s civic body) and the 2023 assembly polls.“Those claiming to leave, it’s not something new. It has already been decided in the last two years. We know what decisions have been taken two years ago itself,” said HD Kumaraswamy, the JD(S) leader and former chief minister.The statement on Saturday came even as leaders like GT Deve Gowda, Srinivas Gowda and Gubbi Srinivas among others have publicly aired their intent to leave the regional outfit before the 2023 assembly election.While the practice of defections before elections is nothing new for political parties, the movement at the top has an impact on grassroot level workers who have often expressed their anger through the ballot box.Siddaramaiah, the Congress leader and former chief minister, on November 2, said the party lost in Sindgi assembly bypolls as workers were not able to combine their efforts as differences persisted.The Congress had fielded Ashok Managuli, the late JD(S) legislator’s son, in the October 30 bypolls that had cost the regional outfit another seat in the lower house of the state legislature. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won this seat while it lost Hanagal in Haveri, the home district of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai.The Congress and JD(S) are no strangers to the effects of grassroot level workers turning against the party, allowing the BJP to capitalise on the discord and expand its footprint across regions where it has minimal presence.The Congress and JD(S) were reduced to just one seat each across all 28 constituencies in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as worker were unable to overcome historical differences even though the leaders at the top had stitched an uncomfortable alliance to defeat the BJP.Sumalatha, an actress and the wife of Kannada film idol Amabareesh (MH Amarnath), benefited as she became the first ever Independent candidate to win from Karnataka.She was officially backed by the BJP, who did not field a candidate in Mandya, in which she defeated then sitting chief minister Kumaraswamy’s son Nikhil in his debut electoral contest.The BJP too had used the opportunity to expand its presence in the old Mysuru region with Sumalathat and KC Narayana Gowda, who had defected from the JD(S) to the saffron outfit in 2019, giving the former its first ever taste of success in what is widely believed to be a JD(S) stronghold.“All big leaders including the current chief minister (Bommai) and his predecessor (Siddaramaiah) got their training from us and left for individual gains,” TA Sharavana, a leader from the party said on Sunday. He added that there were many leaders willing to leave but many others remain committed to the cause of the regional outfit.Political analysts say the JD(S) continues to thrive despite the onslaught on its organisation from both national outfits and it’s own challenges stemming from the deep-seated rivalry between the two sons of Deve Gowda.“Like those leaving the party, the JD(S) also benefits from discontentment in other parties as leaders who were denied tickets look for established outfits to contest elections,” said A Narayana, a Bengaluru-based political analyst.But this often leads to discord between workers who tend to hold onto rivalries despite the alliance at the leadership.The JD(S) will hold an eight-day meet, starting from Monday, to iron out differences within their grassroots level workers ahead of the local body elections that would help it gauge its support structure before 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-of-jd-s-leaders-leaving-not-new-kumaraswamy-ahead-of-polls-101636310274031.html
08-11-2021||India||SIT of Delhi NCB issues summons to Aryan, others in drugs case||After taking over the six cases being investigated by the Mumbai Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the special investigation team (SIT) of the Delhi NCB has started probe in the cruise drug raid case. The team has summoned actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant, alleged drug peddler Achit Kumar and several others connected to the case. Arbaaz Merchant and Achit Kumar reached the NCB office in south Mumbai on Sunday, and the agency has been recording their statement.The SIT headed by IPS Sanjay Singh said, “We have summoned several people including accused and witnesses connected to the case and we are examining them.”Arbaaz Merchant’s father advocate Aslam Merchant said, “We received the summons on Sunday, the date of issue was mentioned Saturday, hence after getting it we came to the NCB office. We do not have any issue and we are cooperating in the investigation. Good for us that the facts will come out. As per law, the NCB can call any suspects for investigation if they are required to verify certain facts and to maintain transparency in the case.”An NCB source said, “Summons have been sent to Aryan Khan and we will record his statement in the coming days.”Aryan, Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were detained by the NCB on October 2 after a drug raid on a cruise ship. After questioning several hours, Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested on October 3. Khan and Merchant were sent to judicial custody at Arthur Road Jail on October 7, while Dhamecha was sent to Byculla Women’s Jail. They got bail from Bombay high court on October 28 and Khan was released from jail on October 30, while Merchant and Dhamecha on October 31.The SIT also visited the cruise ship to verify the facts on Saturday evening. The agency recorded the statement of CISF officials as well as staff members of the cruise ship presented during the raid on October 3. Zonal director Sameer Wankhede was with the team while visiting the cruise ship. “The captain of the cruise ship, nine independent witnesses including Prabhakar Sail as well as other people connected in the case will also be examined,” said Singh.The SIT was formed on November 5 and NCB chief SN Pradhan issued an order transferring the six cases from NCB’s Mumbai zonal unit to the operations branch from its headquarters to conduct a deeper investigation. The SIT team reached Mumbai on Saturday to take over the probe into six cases, which included the drugs-on-cruise case, in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan was arrested by Wankhede.Singh said SIT will take help of Wankhede who was supervising the case earlier.The other cases also include the drugs case against Sameer Khan, son-in-law of Maharashtra cabinet minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik. Khan was arrested by NCB in the first week of January 2021 and was released on bail on September 28.The SIT will also probe the case involving actor Armaan Kohli. An NCB team led by Wankhede had raided Kohli’s Juhu residence on August 28 and recovered a small quantity of cocaine. Kohli was arrested on August 29.The fourth case to be probed by the SIT was registered by the agency’s Mumbai zonal unit on July 25 when it arrested three persons – Sameer Mukhtar Sayyed alias Sam Langda, Zakir Sayyed alias Zakir Takla alias Zakir Chikna and Mohammad Amed Shamsuddin Shaikh and allegedly seized 1.2kg of charas, an intermediate quantity of mephedrone along with ₹17.5 lakh in cash from them. NCB claimed that Sameer Merchant alias Sam Langda was a notorious, organised drug mafia member.The fifth case on the list was registered in September when NCB recovered an intermediate quantity of mephedrone, whereas the sixth case related to the recovery of mephedrone from Dongri area in south Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-of-delhi-ncb-issues-summons-to-aryan-others-in-drugs-case-101636310034600.html
08-11-2021||India||600 farmers died but House yet to pass resolution: Meghalaya governor||Amid continuous protests against the Centre’s agricultural laws, Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik on Sunday said leaders in Delhi offer condolences “even when a dog dies” but haven’t cared about the deaths’ of farmers.The governor said there hasn’t been an agitation earlier in the country in which “600 people” have died, a reference to the deaths due to various causes of protesters camping on the borders of Delhi against the farm laws since November last year.“Even if a dog dies, a condolence message is sent by Delhi leaders. But I am hurt that 600 farmers have died but no resolution was passed in Parliament,” Malik, who was addressing the Global Jat Summit here, said. Referring to the assassination of former prime minister Indira Gandhi by her Sikh bodyguards in 1984, Malik said he had told Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to antagonise Sikhs and Jats - the communities who form a bulk of the protesters.“I met Prime Minister Narendra Modi… and told him not to do two things -- don’t use force on the protesting farmers and don’t send them back empty-handed as they do not forget for 300 years,” he added. The Meghalaya governor, who was earlier posted in Jammu and Kashmir, claimed the Army has felt the impact of the agitation as the farmers’ sons also serve in the military.“Anything can happen. Today, you are in power and are arrogant and do not know what repercussions would follow. When Kargil happens, the sons of these farmers are sent to the hills to fight,” he said.“I do not want the day to come when farmers react… Till date, the farmers have not even thrown a stone,” he added.Reacting to his speech, former Rajasthan minister and Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Vasudev Devnani said the governor should maintain the dignity of the post. “Such statements do not help anyone. If he wants to convey something, then he should speak to the President of India,” he said. State transport minister and Congress leader Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said: “What could be more shameful when a governor appointed by the BJP had to raise the farmer’s issue. The central government should apologise and withdraw the farm laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-in-delhi-condole-a-dog-s-death-not-farmers-meghalaya-governor-101636310030147.html
08-11-2021||India||SIT to quiz Dera chief Ram Rahim over 2015 sacrilege case in Rohtak jail today||A special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police on Monday will visit Rohtak’s Sunaria jail to question Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in connection with a 2015 sacrilege case, people familiar with the matter said. Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh is currently serving a life term in Sunaria jail since his conviction in 2017 for raping two disciples.Following orders of Punjab and Haryana high court, Rohtak district magistrate (DM) Captain Manoj Kumar on Saturday granted permission to the SIT, led by inspector general Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, to probe Ram Rahim in connection with theft of a copy of Guru Granth Sahib from a gurudwara in Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015, the people cited above said.As many as seven Dera followers were arrested in connection with the case, all of whom are on bail right now.In its charge sheet, the SIT claimed that it was Ram Rahim who ordered the sacrilege to avenge the insult of sect followers by a Sikh preacher. Three Dera committee members – Harsh Dhuri, Sandeep Bareta and Pardeep Kler – too were booked in this case but are absconding. Permission was granted under section 56 (4) (admission of police officers and interrogation of prisoners by them) of Punjab Jail Manual, and instructions were already issued to Sunaria jail superintendent in this regard. “As per section 56 (5) of Jail Manual, any interview, permitted under an order from the district magistrate, shall take place in the presence of the deputy superintendent or an officer of the jail, who shall maintain such a distance that he may not hear the conversation that takes place,” Kumar told jail authorities.Last month, a Faridkot court had issued a production warrant against Ram Rahim on a plea by the Punjab Police SIT, seeking his custodial interrogation in the case. The Punjab and Haryana high court, however, directed Punjab Police to probe the accused in Rohtak jail itself, if it wanted, and directed jail authorities to make arrangements for the same.On November 2, the SIT chief had requested the Rohtak DM to allow his team to probe the accused on orders of the high court. The team has already prepared a list of questions on the basis of evidence on record for the Dera chief. Parmar said the SIT has completed all the formalities to probe Ram Rahim in the prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sit-to-quiz-dera-chief-ram-rahim-over-2015-sacrilege-case-in-rohtak-jail-today-101636309852142.html
08-11-2021||India||India, China harden positions on LAC row||India and China have hardened their stance on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies in the midst of the ongoing border standoff in the sensitive sector, China watchers said on Sunday, four weeks after military talks to cool Ladakh tensions reached an impasse.Military talks are unlikely to result in a breakthrough and only higher intervention can show the way to resolving the 18-month-old border crisis, said one of the people cited above. The Indian Army’s activities in the sector are in response to the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) actions and countermeasures have been taken to stay ready for any contingency, said a second official.Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points on the LAC this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry deployed in Ladakh. In a report released last week, the US defence department said Beijing was taking “incremental and tactical actions to press its claims” at LAC, despite participating in talks to resolve the crisis.It is quite obvious that positions on both sides have hardened and the statements from India and China after the 13th round of military-level talks are a clear indication that finding common ground is difficult, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“Any breakthrough in the deadlock will now have to come at the political and diplomatic level. However, it is uncertain whether there is a desire in either country to undertake such initiatives at this stage,” he added.PLA did not agree to suggestions made by the Indian Army at the 13th round of talks on October 10. The Indian Army said it made constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals, while China accused India of unreasonable and unrealistic demands in an unusually aggressive statement.PLA carried out tank drills across LAC after the October 10 talks hit an impasse, and the Indian Army launched an airborne exercise in eastern Ladakh last week to validate and showcase its rapid response capabilities.There’s been a visible hardening of attitudes on both sides but talks are still on, said Lieutenant General SL Narasimhan (retd), a China expert and member of the National Security Advisory Board. “The fact that the military dialogue is still on indicates that things could progress, provided there is peace and tranquillity along the border,” Narasimhan said.There is no end in sight to the standoff, with army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane stating on October 9 that if PLA is there to stay in the Ladakh theatre, so is the Indian Army. He was referring to the military buildup and infrastructure development by the neighbouring army across LAC.PLA has taken a hard line on LAC and India is taking countermeasures to defend its interests, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd). “We want to retain a position of strength to thwart any designs of the adversary,” Jaswal said.Asked to comment on PLA’s intentions given its aggressive moves in the northern sector, Naravane last month said: “I wish I knew. The most difficult thing is to get into your adversary’s mind. But whatever those reasons may have been, I don’t think they have been able to achieve their aims because of the rapid response by the Indian armed forces.”Highlighting Chinese attempts to continue pressing its claims at LAC, the US defence department report pointed to a large 100-home civilian village China has constructed “inside disputed territory” between Tibet and Arunachal Pradesh.Eastern Army commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande last month flagged concerns about the “dual use” of villages being set up by China in forward areas, and said the army was factoring in the development in its operational planning.PLA has also intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across LAC in Arunachal Pradesh after the lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector. It has ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers to forward areas to supervise the military activities in the eastern sector, as previously reported by HT.In the Ladakh sector, outstanding problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs (Patrolling Point (PP)-15) and PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to PP-10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.Even as the border row lingers, the department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, last week asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations, and submit comprehensive reports within six months.The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-harden-positions-on-lac-row-101636309309358.html
08-11-2021||India||Tripura violence: Opposition hits out at state govt over UAPA cases||Opposition parties in Tripura on Sunday condemned the police action of booking 102 people, including journalists, under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967, in connection with the recent violence in the state.While the Congress demanded the immediate withdrawal of cases, the CPM termed the police move as an interference by the government. Speaking to news agency PTI, Tripura Pradesh Congress chief Birajit Sinha said “the mosque at Panisagar was attacked by activists of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and houses of minority communities were vandalised by them... they should be arrested first”. “I do not think the lawyers, who visited the state, came with any bad intentions and did not spread any communal hatred. The government should immediately withdraw charges against them,” he said. A mosque, a few houses and shops were reportedly vandalised by VHP activists during their rally on October 26. While four people were arrested in this regard, police later said that no mosque was burnt and photographs showing the same were not from Tripura.As many as four Delhi-based advocates, who visited the state as part of an independent fact-finding team, were booked under section 13 (any unlawful activity will be punishable with maximum seven years imprisonment along with fine) of UAPAand sections of Indian Penal Code. Besides them, 102 social media account holders were booked under UAPA for allegedly spreading misinformation. “Controversial posts on social media that can ignite communal tension are not encouraged. The concerned social media platforms can alert them, but how come the government asks to block social media accounts,”CPM leader Pabitra Kar said.A high-rank police official, on the condition of anonymity, said that “notices have served to social media companies, asking to block 102 social media accounts and provide particulars of the account holders to us”. The Editors Guild of India also criticised the government move, saying the latter cannot use such stringent laws to suppress reporting on communal violence incidents.“The Guild is of the opinion that this is an attempt by the state government to deflect attention away from its own failure to control majoritarian violence, as well as to take action against the perpetrators of this. Governments cannot use stringent laws like UAPA to suppress reporting on such incidents,” it said in a statement. The Guild demanded that the state government conduct a fair probe into the matter and also reiterated their earlier plea to the Supreme Court “to take cognizance of manner in which such laws are unjustifiably used against freedom of speech, and to issue stringent guidelines on charging journalist under them, so that these laws don’t become an easy tool for suppressing press freedom”. On October 29, the state government had alleged that a group from outside with vested interests had hatched a conspiracy against the administration to create unrest in Tripura and malign its image by uploading fake photographs of a burning mosque on social media after the October 26 incident. Last week, the Tripura high court had taken cognisance of the violence and sought a detailed report from the state government by November 10. The report, however, is yet to be submitted, according to people aware of the developments. The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has also sought an action taken report, within four weeks, from the Tripura government on the violence. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, Tripura Police had registered two cases under UAPA between 2016 and 2020. Both cases were registered in 2020 but no arrests were made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-violence-opposition-hits-out-at-state-govt-over-uapa-cases-101636309192325.html
08-11-2021||India||BJP’s NEC meet discusses polls, WB violence and Modi’s leadership||At its national executive committee meeting on Sunday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) passed a political resolution praising the leadership and policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, discussed the strategy for the upcoming assembly elections in five states and set new targets for the party’s pan-Indian expansion.The resolution also accused the Opposition of “opportunism” and acting with a mindset of “extreme hate”, while predicting a big win for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur on the planks of development and the party’s organisational strength.Modi asked BJP members to become a “bridge of faith” between the party and the people and expressed confidence that the BJP will win the trust of people in the upcoming assembly polls in five states. Addressing the valedictory session of the national executive, he stressed that the BJP runs on the values of “Sewa, Sanklap aur Samparan (service, resolution and commitment)” and “does not revolve around a family”, urging its members to work for people, Union minister Bhupender Yadav said, quoting the Prime Minister.Sunday’s meeting, which began with party president JP Nadda’s address and concluded with the PM’s valedictory speech, saw party leaders — some of whom were present virtually — discuss key concerns, including the political violence in West Bengal, the recent bypoll results, and the strategy on the ongoing farmers’ stir, people aware of the developments said.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath proposed the party’s political resolution.The BJP, which is in power at the Centre and in over a dozen states, has set its eyes on the southern states and set itself the target of setting up booth committees at all 1,040,000 polling stations across India by December 25, getting in place panna pramukhs or voter list page incharges at each of these booths by April 6, 2022, and making provisions for institutionalised broadcast of the PM’s radio show Mann Ki Baat at all booths by May 2022.The BJP isn’t run by a family but by a culture of public service and dedication, Yadav said while quoting Modi.The BJP’s emphasis on expansion comes at a time when the Opposition has been exploring coalitions to take on the BJP at the Centre, and in the face of the party’s inability to take on regional satraps such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in Tamil Nadu, the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) in Odisha and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal. The micromanagement of the electoral process at the grassroots is crucial to retain power in poll-bound states where the party may face anti-incumbency and anger over the deficiencies in key sectors of employment generation and health, people aware of the matter said.“Strengthening the party structure at the lowest levels will be a key step for poll preparation in all the five states, particularly in UP, which is the biggest in size and politically crucial,” said a party functionary.Commenting on the targets set for the expansion of the party, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Nadda turned to his predecessor Amit Shah while exhorting the BJP members to increase the party’s footprint. “In 2014, Shah had set targets, many of which we achieved such as (winning) Assam, Tripura and many other states in the North East. He had said utkarsh aana baki hai (peak is yet to come) and Nadda repeated this,” Pradhan said.Pradhan, who is also incharge of the UP polls, said that even as the party faces challenges in states such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, it has shown exponential growth in states such as West Bengal. He was referring to the BJP having increased its vote share in the state where it now has about 70 legislators and 18 MPs.During the brainstorming about the upcoming elections, the chief ministers of four poll-bound states made a presentation on the work done by their government and gave an account of their poll preparedness. UP CM Adityanath spoke about his government’s decision to offer oil, salt and sugar from December to March 2022 in addition to grains and pulses free of charge to households headed by women and to antyodaya card holders.Another leader said the PM exhorted the party functionaries and ministers to “not ignore or overlook” the workers who form the backbone of the party. “He asked them to remain accessible to them and also address their concerns,” the leader said, asking not to be named.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the 18-point political resolution applauded the achievements of the Modi government on several fronts, including the work done during the pandemic, the vaccination programme, India’s fresh commitments made at COP26, the developments taking place in Jammu and Kashmir following the reading down of Article 370 and on the foreign policy front.The resolution appreciated the Modi government for delivering corruption-free governance with emphasis on digital payments and transparency, Sitharaman said. She said the resolution that was moved by the UP CM and seconded by the president of the Tamil Nadu unit, K Annamalai, appreciated the “methodical way” in which India’s image was shaped abroad and also condemned how the Opposition indulged in politics of opportunism.“The opposition parties were absent during the pandemic but confined themselves to Twitter to spread suspicion (about the vaccine) and spread conspiracies,” she said.Referring to the post-poll violence in West Bengal, Sitharaman said: “The party is committed to stand with every party worker and shall seek justice through the court.”On the issue of the continuing famers agitation in poll-bound Punjab, in parts of UP and Haryana, and the demand to repeal the farm laws passed in Parliament, she said the Union government is ready for discussions with the protesting farmers but they have not been able to explain what their objections are.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-nec-meet-discusses-polls-wb-violence-and-modi-s-leadership-101636309011976.html
08-11-2021||India||CBI seeks US help in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has approached the United States through a formal channel, seeking assistance in retrieving deleted data from the email and social media accounts of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to understand if anything happened in the past which could be linked to June 14, 2020, the day he was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai, people familiar with the development said.The information has been sought under MLAT (mutual legal assistance treaty) from California-headquartered Google and Facebook, asking them to share details of all deleted chats, emails or posts of the actor so that investigators can analyse the content.India and the US have an MLAT under which both sides can gain access to information in any domestic investigation, which otherwise may not be possible. While the ministry of home affairs (MHA) is the central authority in India for receiving or sharing such information under MLAT, the attorney general’s office processes such information in the US.An officer, who didn’t want to be named, said: “We don’t want to leave any loose ends before we finalise the case. We want to know if there are any particular deleted chats or posts which could be useful in the case.”The development means that finalising the probe in Sushant Singh’s death may take some more time as sharing information through MLATs is a time-consuming process.The premier agency explained last year through a statement that it is probing the case from all angles. Among the angles it is exploring are abetment of suicide charges against Rhea Chakraborty, as alleged by Rajput’s family; and whether the actor took the step under any professional pressure, nepotism in Bollywood, etc. “Sending the request to the US is part of that exercise only as we don’t want to miss out on any aspect,” said a second officer, asking not to be named.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who represents Sushant Singh’s family, appreciated CBI sending a request to Google and Facebook. He said: “I am not surprised because they (CBI) want to do a thorough investigation before they finalise the case. There is a lot of mystery behind Sushant Singh’s death like there are no eyewitnesses, or camera footage to show what happened and I think that CBI is trying to find a proper lead.”As reported by HT on June 14 this year, the CBI, with the help of experts, is also carrying out a detailed psychiatric evaluation to assess Singh’s state of mind prior to his death. It has also examined the reports shared by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL).The 34-year-old actor was found dead in his apartment in Mumbai’s Bandra on June 14 last year. Rajput’s father, KK Singh, lodged a complaint with the Patna police against Rhea Chakraborty, her parents and her brother, Showik, on June 25. The CBI took over the probe in August 2020 on orders of the Supreme Court. Two other agencies — the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) — are also investigating different aspects in the case.A medical board of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had concluded in September 2020, after studying the post-mortem exam and viscera reports, that the actor’s death was a case of suicide. The Mumbai Police, which initially probed the death, had also ruled out any foul play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-seeks-us-help-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-101636308949965.html
08-11-2021||India||Modi urges BJP workers to ‘connect’ with people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged the Bharatiya Janata Party workers to become a “bridge of faith” between the party and the people and said they must forge ties with the people based on the party’s guiding values of “service, resolve and sacrifice”.In his 50-minute valedictory address at the party’s national executive committee meeting that comes ahead of the assembly elections in a clutch of states next year, the PM said to be able to win the trust of the people, the party workers must come up with a “constructive, humane and holistic” approach of connecting with the masses.“The PM spoke about the need to be in constant contact with the common people, of adopting a humane approach. He also said that the work that was undertaken by the party during the Covid pandemic will show results years from now, and the party will benefit from the exemplary work that was done during this period just as the party is now reaping the benefits of the work that was put in by senior leaders in the past,” said a senior party leader on condition of anonymity.The PM was referring to the work undertaken by the party during the pandemic, under its Seva Hi Sangathan (organisation means service) programme that set targets for distributing food, ration, medicines, and other necessities to people.Underlining the importance of selfless service and pro-people policies, he said the account of work that was presented by the chief ministers of four poll-bound BJP-ruled states is an indicator that they will succeed in winning the trust of the people. The CMs of the four states made a presentation on the accomplishments of their government at the meeting.Addressing the media after the Prime Minister’s address, Union minister Bhupendra Yadav said, “…Based on the presentations made by the CMs of the states that will go to polls in 2022, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that the BJP will get the blessings of the people.”Of the five states that will pick new assemblies, BJP is in power in four —Manipur, Goa, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The fifth state, Punjab, will see the BJP contest all the seats for the first time on its own after breaking up with its long-term ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal.The PM also took a dig at the Congress and said that, unlike the opposition party that is centred around a dynasty, the BJP has grown based on its values of service, resolution and sacrifice.Quoting the PM, Yadav said, “The Prime Minister in his inspirational speech said that the BJP at the Centre has created a space for itself because of being connected to the common people. It is not a dynastic party but has worked with the values of seva (service), sankalp (resolve) and samarpan (sacrifice).”The PM also urged the workers to seek inspiration from the work done by the party seniors that has been added as a new segment, Kamal Pushp, on the NAMO app. He told the workers that it is incumbent on them to take forward the work done by the seniors to ensure that the party goes from strength to strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-urges-bjp-workers-to-connect-with-people-101636308411823.html
08-11-2021||India||Indian fisherman killed in firing by Pakistani security personnel||An Indian fisherman was killed while another got injured when personnel from Pakistan’s Maritime Security Agency (MSA) fired at their vessel in an unprovoked incident in the waters off Gujarat, people familiar with the matter said on Sunday.The incident occurred on Saturday when the Indian fishermen were out fishing, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The Indian side is taking the incident seriously and will raise it diplomatically with Pakistan, they said.“The MSA personnel, in an unprovoked incident, fired on the Indian fishing boat, resulting in the death of one Indian fisherman and leaving another injured,” one of the people cited above said.“The injured fisherman is being treated at a hospital in Okha in Gujarat,” the person added.“We have taken serious note of this incident. We are going to take up this issue diplomatically with the Pakistani side The matter is under investigation and further details will be shared in due course,” the person further said.Both India and Pakistan detain hundreds of fishermen each year on charges of violating the maritime boundary. Their vessels are also often seized. The detained fishermen are sometimes held for months even after completing their prison terms.There have also been instances in the past of the MSA attacking Indian fishing vessels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-fisherman-killed-in-firing-by-pakistani-security-personnel-101636302289858.html
08-11-2021||NA||Breaking: Over 70 million Covid vaccine doses administered in Bihar so far||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Fire erupts at toy manufacturing factory in ThaneFire breaks out at a plastic manufacturing factory in Murbad area of Thane, Maharashtra. Fire tenders have been pressed into action.12 killed in bus accident in NepalA passenger bus skidded off the road in Western Nepal on Sunday, killing at least 12 people and wounding nearly 20, a senior police official told PTI. According to the preliminary investigation conducted by the police, the accident took place due to high speed.Maharashtra to allocate funds for fire audits of district hospitals: Rajesh TopeMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday that the state government will allocate funds for fire safety audits in all district hospitals, adding a post of 'fire safety officer' has also been proposed in all such hospitals. Read moreOver 70 million Covid vaccine doses administered in Bihar so farBihar on Sunday reached another milestone in its Covid-19 vaccination drive when the number of doses administered crossed seven-crore mark in its target population of 72.2 million, state’s health minister Mangal Pandey said. Read moreAfter Goa CM's jibe, Arvind Kejriwal accuses him of copying AAP's poll promisesDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP)'s national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday accused Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant of copying the AAP's promises in Goa, which will go into elections next year. Read moreShooting of Indian fisherman by Pak Navy under probe, says CentreIndia has taken note of the Nov 6 incident in which an Indian fishing boat was fired upon by Pakistani side; leaving 1 Indian fisherman dead, 1 injured. India to take up this issue diplomatically with Pakistan. Matter under probe, further details will be shared soon: SourcesCop shot dead by terrorists in J-K's SrinagarA Jammu and Kashmir police personnel was shot dead by terrorists in Srinagar on Sunday. The cop has been identified as Tauseef Ahmad.Madhya Pradesh adds 7 new Covid-19 cases, tally nearing 793,000Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 caseload surged to 792,907 on Sunday after seven new cases were reported. No deaths were reported and the toll remain unchanged at 10,524. The total recoveries, meanwhile, have climbed to 782,283 with 13 patients discharged on Sunday. Gurugram Namaz row: Religious events should be held inside places of worship, says VijDays after attempts were made to disrupt Friday Namaz in Haryana's Gurugram on October 29, state home minister Anil Vij said on Sunday that people should hold their religious events inside the respective places of worship. Read moreNIA conducts searches at 2 locations in J'khand's Latehar districtThe case was registered by NIA on March 4 this year in connection with conspiracy and commission of terrorist acts for extortion and disruption of government works at Tetariakhar Colliery in Latehar, Jharkhand: NIAFrom November 8, Afghanistan to begin nationwide polio vaccination campaignA four day-nationwide door-to-door polio inoculation vaccination campaign will begin in Afghanistan from Monday, to inoculate children below the age of five, the Taliban ruled-government said on Sunday. The vaccination campaign in the war-ravaged country was announced by the United Nations in October. Read moreAndhra Pradesh reports 320 new Covid-19 cases, 5 more deathsAndhra Pradesh on Sunday recorded 320 new cases of the coronavirus disease, which pushed the caseload to 2,068,241, according to the state health department's bulletin. Five more patients died while 425 recovered from the viral disease on Sunday. With this, the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries has climbed to 14,397 and 2,050,386 respectively. Tripura violence: Cong, CPI(M) condemn police action against lawyers, othersOpposition parties on Sunday condemned the Tripura Police for acting against 102 people over their social media posts on alleged communal violence in the state. These people, which included journalists, rights activists, have been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) along with criminal conspiracy and forgery charges. Read moreZika virus cases in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur city mount to 8910 more people have tested positive for Zika virus in Kanpur city of Uttar Pradesh. With this, the total tally has gone up to 89, Chief medical officer of Kanpur City, Dr Nepal Singh said.(File Pic) pic.twitter.com/kzYIAfK8oBTen more people tested positive for the Zika virus in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur city on Sunday. With this, the tally in Kanpur has climbed to 89. BJP to contest on all seats in upcoming Punjab pollsPunjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said on Sunday that the party will contest on all seats in the upcoming assembly elections in the state.Fisherman shot dead by Pak Navy at Gujarat coastA fisherman from Palgarh, working on a Diu-based trawler at the Gujarat coast was killed by the Pakistani Navy on Saturday noon, while the captain of the trawler was injured. Tamil Nadu CM announces 2-day rain holiday for schools in Chennai, 3 other districtsTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Sunday announced a two-day rain holiday for schools in Chennai and adjoining districts of Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur and Chengalpattu.'Delhi will again suffocate if stubble burning doesn't reduce': Gopal RaiDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai warned that the national capital will again suffocate if stubble burning does not come down. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, Rai cited official data from November 1 till November 6, which revealed that whenever stubble burning increased in neighbouring states such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, the level of pollution also went up in Delhi. Read moreFrom Nov 10, MP to hold Covid-19 vaccination drive every WednesdayFrom November 10, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Madhya Pradesh will hold a special mega vaccination drive every Wednesday  in order to achieve 100% vaccination by the end of this year, an official told news agency PTI on Sunday. Setting smoke tower ‘colossal’ waste of public money, says Medanta doctorInstalling a smoke tower is a colossal waste of public money and a grave mistake. The answer lies in preventing the air from getting polluted. Pollution has killed more people than Covid-19 has: Dr Arvind Kumar, chairman, Institute of Chest Surgery, MedantaIran's Covid-19 tally nears 6 millionWith 6803 fresh Covid-19 infections, Iran's Covid-19 tally rises to 5,980,260. Toll mounts to 127,173 with 120 fresh fatalities.Anil Deshmukh in ED custody till NovemberBombay high court remands former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh to Enforcement Directorate custody till November 12.Toxic foam surfaces on Yamuna in Delhi#WATCH Toxic foam floats on Yamuna river near Kalindi Kunj in DelhiThe national capital's overall air quality is in the 'severe' category today. pic.twitter.com/janktDxmg9Toxic foam surfaces on Yamuna river in Delhi's Kalindi Kunj.Australia's Sydney to further ease Covid-19 relaxationsAustralia's largest city of Sydney will further ease social distancing curbs on Monday, with removal of limits on house guests or outdoor gatherings, among other measures.PM Modi at BJP's national executive meeting in DelhiPrime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at Delhi's NDMC Convention Centre to attend BJP's national executive meeting.BJP's Mohit Kamboj ‘mastermind’ of Aryan Khan case: Nawab Malik“Aryan Khan didn't purchase the ticket for the cruise party. It was Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala who brought him there. It's a matter of kidnapping and ransom. Mohit Kamboj is the mastermind and partner of Sameer Wankhede in demanding ransom,” says Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik.2 dead, 1 injured in accident in Maharashtra's ThaneDriver and cleaner killed on spot as vehicle carrying chickens meets with an accident in Maharashtra's Thane. One other person injured as well.India sees 10,853 fresh Covid-19 infections and 526 deathsIndia logs 10,853 new Covid-19 cases and 12,432 recoveries, while daily toll rises to 526. Tally mounts to 34,355,536 including 33,749,900 recoveries, 460,791 deaths and 144,485 active cases.Lahore HC acquits 6 JuD leadersLahore high court acquits six Jamaat-ud-Dawa leaders in connection with a terror financing case, reports Pakistani media.Overall air quality ‘very poor’ in UP's Kanpur, MoradabadOverall air quality in 'very poor' category in Kanpur (pic 1) and Moradabad: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB)Iraq PM escapes unhurt in ‘assassination’ attemptIraqi PM Mustafa al-Kadhimi escapes unhurt after a drone laden with explosives targets his residence in Baghdad. Iraqi military calls it ‘assassination attempt.’Over 25 vehicles gutted as fire breaks out in Gujarat's KhedaMore than 25 vehicles, including bikes, autorickshaws and cars, gutted as fire breaks out on the premises of Kheda Town Police Station in Kheda district in Gujarat.Over 3500 new Covid-19 cases in MexicoMexico records 3574 new Covid-19 cases and 261 related deaths. Total infections rise to 3,825,404 including toll of 289,674.Delhi's overall air quality remains ‘severe’Delhi's overall air quality continues to remain 'severe' with Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 436: System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-7-2021-101636241951485.html
