09-11-2021||India||Centre names Vice Adm Hari Kumar as next chief of navy||The Union government on Tuesday announced that Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar will take over as India’s next chief of naval staff, replacing Admiral Karambir Singh, who retires on that day. Kumar is currently heading the Mumbai-based Western Naval Command. The 59-year-old officer was commissioned into the navy in January 1983.Before taking over the Western Naval Command, Kumar served as the Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee, the ministry said in a statement.In that capacity, Vice Admiral Kumar was involved in the ongoing theaterisation drive for optimal use of the military’s resources.The warships commanded by Kumar include aircraft carrier INS Viraat (no longer in service), INS Ranvir, INS Nishank and INS Kora, the statement said. He has undergone courses at the Naval War College, the US, Army War College, Mhow and Royal College of Defence Studies, the UK.Kumar will take over the navy’s reins when the department of military affairs (DMA), headed by the chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of theatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations, and submit comprehensive reports within six months.The setting of an April 2022 deadline for the submission of the studies focusing on finalising the joint structures seeks to give new impetus to theaterisation, a long-awaited military reform.The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022.The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command.The creation of theatre commands could take up to two years.Theaterisation refers to placing specific army units, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander.Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-names-vice-adm-hari-kumar-as-next-chief-of-navy-101636482549033.html
09-11-2021||India||Don’t have time to attend Afghanistan summit: China tells India||Beijing: China on Tuesday said it will not be able to attend the India-convened security dialogue on Afghanistan on Wednesday because of “scheduling reasons”, joining close ally Pakistan in skipping the meet.“Due to scheduling reasons, it is inconvenient for China to attend the meeting,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said at the regular ministry briefing on Tuesday. Asked why China would not be attending the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan, Wang said: “We have already given our reply to the Indian side.” India will host top security officials from Russia, Iran and five central Asian countries -- Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan -- for a security dialogue on Afghanistan in a bid to explore a common approach for practical cooperation in confronting increasing threats of terrorism, radicalisation, and drug trafficking following the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul in August.The security dialogue will chaired by National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval.Pakistan backed out from the meeting earlier this month.China, in coordination with Pakistan and Russia, has been maintaining close contact with the Afghan Taliban though it is yet to recognise its interim administration in Kabul. Not recognising the Taliban, however, has not stopped Beijing from frequently reaching out to them since their takeover in August. The Taliban has responded by calling China a “trustworthy friend” and assuring Beijing that it will not allow the East Turkestan Islamic Movement to fuel separatism in Xinjiang.Last month, Chinese state councillor and foreign minister, Wang Yi, held talks with acting deputy Prime Minister of Taliban’s interim administration in Afghanistan, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, in the Qatari capital of Doha.In September, a day after the Taliban announced the formation of an interim government in Kabul, China announced that it would donate 200 million yuan (US$31 million) worth of aid, including grains, winter supplies, and coronavirus vaccines to Afghanistan. Foreign minister Wang Yi announced the donation in a meeting held by video link with counterparts and senior diplomats from Pakistan, Iran, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.“China has decided to urgently provide 200 million yuan ($30.96 million) worth of grains, winter supplies, vaccines, and medicines to Afghanistan according to the needs of the Afghan people,” according to state councilor and foreign minister Wang Yi, who was quoted bythe official news agency, Xinhua.Earlier this month, the first flight carrying 45 tonnes of Afghan pine nuts arrived at the Pudong International Airport in Shanghai from Kabul, marking the first time Afghanistan has exported goods to China since the Afghan Taliban took power in the country, state media reported.“As global air transport is still limited, China and Afghanistan had to overcome numerous difficulties and yet they managed to arrange the flights, which solved the problem of Afghan farmers and solidified bilateral trade ties,” Wang Yu, Chinese Ambassador to Afghanistan, said on Twitter. “In the coming months, tens of thousands of tons of pine nuts will be exported to China,” Wang added.Chinese state media even took part in selling the nuts online.“China’s e-commerce live streamer Li Jiaqi partnered with CCTV reporter Wang Bingbing selling out 120,000 cans of pine nuts from Afghanistan on Saturday, which are valued at more than 10 million yuan ($1.56 million), showing the country’s efforts to help the Afghan people to overcome economic difficulties,” the state-run tabloid Global Times reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-have-time-to-attend-afghanistan-summit-china-tells-india-101636481768558.html
09-11-2021||India||Gujarat: Deputy collector held for stalking, blackmailing woman govt officer||The Ahmedabad cybercrime branch on Tuesday arrested a 28-year-old deputy collector for allegedly stalking and blackmailing a woman government officer with her private photos and videos, which he had acquired when they were working together and became friends, police said. A complaint was lodged against the accused, identified as Mayank Patel, a class 1 state government officer serving as deputy collector in the Aravalli district, by the woman officer, said Deputy Commissioner of Police, Cyber Crime, Amit Vasava. Despite being married, Patel has been pressuring the victim, who is also married, to keep relations. When she refused to accept his demand, Patel started harassing and blackmailing her using her private photos and videos, the DCP said. Patel was arrested under sections section 354-D (stalking), 500 (punishment for defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (insulting the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. He was also booked under the Information Technology Act for the breach of privacy and sending obscene material to the victim and her relatives, said Vasava. Patel, who became deputy collector in 2018 after clearing the competitive exam, had come in touch with the victim in 2016 when they were working in a town in the Kheda district. He was serving as a class-3 revenue officer back then. "He and the woman officer maintained friendly relations in the past and both used to visit each other's house. However, when the woman snapped relations and stopped talking with him, Patel started harassing her by calling her from different numbers for the last year. He used to threaten to commit suicide and also threatened to kill the victim," said Vasava. The accused used nine different numbers to call or message the victim. "If the victim ignored his calls, Patel used to call her husband and threaten him using foul language," said Vasava, adding that Patel had sent the victim's private photos and videos to her husband and her father-in-law. "At one point, Patel even tried to show the woman's private photos to her son. Though the victim's family tried to make him understand that what he was doing is wrong, he did not mend his ways. Patel did not even listen to his family members, who were aware of his activities. His only objective was to pressure the victim in continuing the relations," said Vasava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-deputy-collector-held-for-stalking-blackmailing-woman-govt-officer-101636477793388.html
09-11-2021||India||Public perception of courts going on vacation like schools not correct: High Court judge||The public perception of courts going on vacation like schools is not correct and an appropriate machinery must be engaged to project their hard work for an "image change", said Delhi High Court Judge Justice Jayant Nath who demitted office Tuesday.The judge, speaking at his farewell reference organised by the high court, said that overburdening of courts with long pending cases was a known fact but the reasons for delay were not attributable to the courts themselves.The pendency is there in spite of “huge efforts” by courts and lawyers, he said."It is a known fact that courts are overburdened with long pending cases. Unfortunately, the perception of a common man is to blame the court for delay in disposal of cases. Much is said about the courts going on vacations, comparing it with school vacations. I can say with full conviction that this public image is not correct,” said the judge.“The reasons for delay are many but are not really attributable to the courts. All I can say is, the court needs to take some steps to project this hard and good work that is being put in place by engaging an appropriate machinery. I need not say further on this, but I feel some image change would be useful,” he added.In his farewell speech, Justice Nath advised lawyers to “be sincere” to their briefs and clients, and reminded that there was “no shortcut to success”.The judge said that the Delhi High Court was a “cosmopolitan court” where success came from merit.“It doesn't matter from which part of the country you come from, which religion you follow, success in this court comes from merit, not from your background,” he said.Chief Justice D N Patel said that Justice Nath is a distinguished judge who will be remembered for his eminence and excellence.Born on November 10, 1959, Justice Nath was appointed as additional judge of the high court in April 2013 and became a permanent judge on March 18, 2015.Recently, Justice Nath had restrained various generic pharmaceutical companies from manufacturing or selling Valsartan and Sacubitril tablets, a combination to treat cardiovascular diseases, as it may amount to infringement of patent of pharma major Novartis AG.In May, he had ruled that the Delhi government has no power to indefinitely postpone the collection of annual charges and development fees by private unaided schools as it would unreasonably restrict their functioning.In January 2018, the judge had upheld an international arbitral award passed in the favour of Daiichi Sankyo, which paved the way for its enforcement against the Singh brothers who had sold their shares in Ranbaxy to Daiichi in 2008 for ₹9,576.1 crore.Before his elevation to the bench, Nath was designated as Senior Advocate by the high court in May 2006.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/public-perception-of-courts-going-on-vacation-like-schools-not-correct-high-court-judge-101636476369334.html
09-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Two Lakhimpur violence accused remanded to 3-day police custody and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Lakhimpur violence: Two accused remanded in 3-day police custodyAdditional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM), Mona Singh, remanded two accused of Tikunia violence case Ranjit Singh and Avtar Singh in three-day police custody on Tuesday. Read MoreBJP moves court after election body okays Kolkata, Howrah civic polls on Dec 19The West Bengal State Election Commission on Tuesday accepted the state government’s proposal to hold civic body elections in Kolkata and Howrah on December 19. Read MoreChina cites ‘scheduling reasons’ for not attending Afghanistan meet in IndiaChina on Tuesday said it will not be able to attend the India-convened security dialogue on Afghanistan on Wednesday because of “scheduling reasons”, joining close ally Pakistan in skipping the meet. Read MoreRohit Sharma named India's T20I captain; Harshal Patel and Venkatesh Iyer receive maiden call-ups for New Zealand seriesRohit Sharma has been named India's new T20I captain as the BCCI on Tuesday announced a 16-member squad that will play three T20Is against New Zealand starting later this month. Read MoreIeshaan Sehgaal opens up about his sexuality, clarifies relationship with Bigg Boss 15's Rajiv AdatiaEvicted Bigg Boss 15 contestant Ieshaan Sehgaal has opened up about his sexuality and clarified his relationship with co-contestant Rajiv Adatia. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-two-lakhimpur-violence-accused-remanded-to-3-day-police-custody-and-all-the-latest-news-101636470529978.html
09-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 10, 2019 — SC rules in favour of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, right of child deity upheld||New Delhi- The Supreme Court ruled on Saturday in favour of a Ram temple on a disputed 2.77-acre plot in Ayodhya, in a move cheered by hundreds of millions of people around the country although some Muslim parties questioned the verdict and said they may seek a review of the order passed by a five judge Constitution bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi, who retires on November 17.The construction of the temple at the place several Hindus believe is the birth place of Ram also ticks off another item on the checklist of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Many people believe the ruling is the beginning of the end of the festering dispute, if not the end itself.The court told the Union government to setup, within three months, a trust to oversee the construction of the temple.“The faith of Hindus has been reaffirmed by the Supreme Court verdict. We had faith before the mosque. We had faith during the mosque and we had faith after the demolition of the mosque and there was continuous worship by the Hindus,” said PS Narasimha, who appeared for the child deity Ram Lalla Virajman in the title dispute. “We are grateful to the institution of judiciary for the extraordinary measures for restituting the historical belief,” he added.The All India Muslim Personal Law Board’s secretary Zafar yab Jilani, a lawyer, expressed his dissatisfaction over the verdict.“The Ayodhya verdict holds no value for us. We are dissatisfied with the verdict. It has a lot of contradictions. We will seek a review.”Zufar Faruqi, the chairman of the UP Sunni Waqf Board, struck a different note: “I, as the chairman of the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board, want to make it clear that the Board will not go in any review of the Supreme Court’s order or file any curative petition.”Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who on Wednesday, warned his ministers not to make extreme comments on the judgment, irrespective of which way it went, welcomed the court’s Ruling. “The Honourable Supreme Court has given its verdict on the Ayodhya issue. This verdict shouldn’t be seen as a win or loss for anybody. Be it Ram Bhakti or Rahim Bhakti, it is imperative that we strengthen the spirit of Rashtra-Bhakti. May peace and harmony prevail!, he tweeted.Addressing the nation later over the SC order, the Prime Minister said the verdict marked a new dawn and gave a message that even toughest issues can be resolved within the framework of the Constitution. “We should learn from this verdict that even if there is somedelay, we should remain patient. This is in everyone’s interest,” he said.An issue of faith for over a hundred years, the Ram Janmabhoomi-babri Masjid , or mandir issue, issue has been one of the two major shapers of the political landscape of the country over the past three decades. The other has been the Mandal movement, which has made Other Backward Classes a powerful political constituency. The mandir issue helped revive the BJP’S fortunes in the mid-1980s, and has found a mention in every one of the party’s manifestos since 1991. Given the sensitivity of the issue, and remembering the riots that followed the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992, the response from most political parties was measured.Home minister Amit Shah welcomed the verdict and appealed all communities to accept the SC order, maintain peace and remain committed for “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat”. Defence minister Rajnath Singh urged everyone to accept the verdict with equanimity and magnanimity.The Congress said it respected the verdict and was in favour of the construction of a Ram temple. “It is the responsibility of each one of us to reaffirm our tradition of mutual respect and unity among all that has defined our society through the ages,” the Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, quoting a resolution passed by the Congress Working Committee, the party’s highest decision-making body, at a meeting chaired by party chief Sonia Gandhi.However, there was fear among some Muslim parties that the ruling could strengthen the resolve of Hindus fighting for control of other disputed sites, including ones at Mathura and Varanasi.All India Majlis-e-ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi said the verdict was a “victory of belief over facts”. Owaisi said he was not satisfied with the ruling and quoted a former CJI to say the top court is “indeed supreme but not infallible”. National Commission for Minorities chairperson Ghayorul Hasan Rizvi, however, said that Muslims were happy with the order and condemned remarks made by Jilani on considering a review plea.The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the BJP, and also of most groups that actively worked for a temple at Ayodhya, said the dispute over the issue must be forgotten. “Forgetting all the things that happened in past, we all should come together to build a grand temple at Ram Janma Bhoomi in Ayodhya,” RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said. “The decision should not be taken as victory or defeat,” he added.“We believe that the government should take steps to end the dispute in the case after the SC decision.”Several Hindus believe that a temple to Ram once stood at the disputed site. In the 16th century, one of the generals of Babur, the founder of the Mughal dynasty, built a mosque at the spot. An Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) report referenced by the court points to the existence of a Hindu structure below where the mosque stood (before its demolition in 1992), but the court added that it hasn’t been able to show that this structure was a temple, or that it was demolished to build the mosque.The court’s ruling comes 136 years after the first case in the Ram Janmabhoomi-babri Masjid issue was filed, and nine years after the Allahabad high court delivered a judgment that each of the three main parties, the Sunni Waqf Board, the Nirmohi Akhara and Ram Lalla Virajman get an equal portion of the disputed land measuring 2.27 acres. The court based its decision largely on the title claims to the disputed land, choosing to look beyond the ASI report on the matter, but sticking to its previously stated intent of viewing a case that the parties and much of India saw as a faithbased one through the strict legal lens of ownership and possession. As such, it found Ram Lalla Virajman (the personification of the Hindu god), whom it identified as a juristic person, and who is represented by Trilok Nath Pandey, as having a better claim to the title than the Sunni Waqf Board. The latter, it said, can’t exercise the right of “adverse possession” nor establish a “possessory title”.Under the first, a person who is not the original owner of a property becomes the de facto owner by being in possession of it for at least 12 years during which the original owner did not seek legal recourse, and can, if dispossessed by the original owner, file a case seeing restoration of ownership under the right of adverse possession. The court held that this did not apply in the case because the Muslim parties never really lost possession. The second refers to the ownership of land or property by someone who does not hold a title deed or document that proves ownership – specifically because these documents do not exist, having been lost or destroyed. In this case, the court held that the Muslim parties were not able to establish a possessory title. The Hindus, the court found, had “unimpeded access” to the outer courtyard and, till 1857, even the inner courtyard.“Hindu worship at Ramchabutra, Sita Rasoi and at other religious places including the setting up of a Bhandar clearly indicated their open, exclusive and unimpeded possession of the outer courtyard. The Muslims have not been in possession of the outer courtyard. On a preponderance of probabilities, there is no evidence to establish that the Muslims abandoned the mosque or ceased to perform namaz in spite of the contestation over their possession of the inner courtyard after 1858,” the SC order said.The court also seems to have gone by its understanding that namaz was not offered in the structure before 1857 or after 1949 on the basis of documentary and oral evidence. In contrast, similar evidence points to continuous worship by the Hindus, it added. However, its judgment did highlight the fact that both in 1949, when locks were broken and idols installed in the structure, and 1992, when the Babri Masjid was demolished, the Muslims were at the receiving end. To remit the wrong committed – to paraphase the court – the judgment said five acres of land must be given to the Sunni Waqf Board for a mosque, elsewhere in Ayodhya.“We welcome and humbly accept the verdict of the Supreme Court,” the UP Sunni Waqf Board chairman said. Speaking about the decision on the five acres of land, AIMIM’S Owaisi said: “We have full faith in the Constitution, we were fighting for our right, we don’t need five-acre land as donation. We should reject this fiveacre land offer. Don’t patronise us.”Leaders linked to the Hindu parties welcomed the apex court’s order for an alternative land to the Muslim parties in the case. Ram Lalla deity lawyer CS Vaidyanathan told news agency ANI: “It is a great day for India. The Supreme Court has pronounced a verdict that has balanced the interest of all parties and also tried to ensure that unity and integrity of the nation are preserved and brotherhood is maintained.” The court also directed that “in the scheme to be framed by the Central Government, appropriate representation may be given in the Trust or body to the Nirmohi Akhara in such manner as the Central Government deems fit”, even though it rejected the claim of the Nirmohi Akhara of being a ‘shebait’ (a devotee who serves the deity).The Ram Janmabhoomi is not a juristic person, the SC held.Mahant Dhinendra Das, head of the Nirmohi Akhara, said: “All members of the Nirmohi Akhara will meet and take a collective decision. Only after this meeting we will be able to say anything on the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-10-2019-sc-rules-in-favour-of-a-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-right-of-child-deity-upheld-101636471513783.html
09-11-2021||India||Ahmednagar hospital fire: Medical officer, 3 nurses arrested on negligence charges||A medical officer and three staff nurses were arrested Tuesday on charges of causing death by negligence and culpable homicide not amounting to murder after 11 people lost their lives last week in a fire incident at a hospital in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district. Medical officer Dr Vishakha Shinde, and staff nurses Sapna Pathare, Asma Shaikh and Channa Anant were arrested under sections 304 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said Manoj Patil, Superintendent of Police, Ahmednagar rural police.Quoting Ahmednagar police, HT earlier reported that 70% of deaths were caused by smoke from the fire while the remaining died after directly getting caught in the blaze that broke out in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Civil Hospital. Most of them were senior citizens undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In connection with the incident, an FIR was registered against unidentified persons under Section 304(A) of the IPC.The fire broke out last Saturday at 11am on the ground floor of the hospital, where 17 patients were admitted, of which 15 were on either ventilator or oxygen support. While 10 patients died in the blaze at the spot, one person later succumbed to injuries.After the incident, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray ordered an inquiry and sought a detailed report on the matter. Thackeray’s office said in a statement that the chief minister spoke to the district guardian minister Hasan Mushrif and chief secretary Sitaram Kunte as soon as he came to know about the incident, asking them to ensure medical attention to those in need.“CM Thackeray has expressed condolences and ordered a detailed probe and action against those responsible for negligence,” the chief minister's office stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmednagar-hospital-fire-medical-officer-3-nurses-arrested-on-negligence-charges-101636469966585.html
09-11-2021||India||Internet celebrates as popular physicist, textbook author HC Verma conferred Padma Shri award||Experimental physicist and author of widely used physics textbook 'Concept of Physics', Harish Chandra Verma, was awarded the Padma Shri award on Monday. President Ram Nath Kovind presented the award to Verma for his achievements in science and engineering.“He is a physics educator and researcher, who is famous for his two-volume book 'Concepts of Physics' which has revolutionised Physics education at school level,” the President’s office said in a tweet, sharing an image of the award being conferred.President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Dr Harish Chandra Verma for Science and Engineering. He is a physics educator and researcher, who is famous for his two-volume book "Concepts of Physics" which has revolutionised Physics education at school level. pic.twitter.com/nOGjzGKIn4The award was announced in 2020 and was presented to Verma earlier on Monday. Earlier, he worked as a professor in IIT Kanpur and is currently associated with the institute as an adjunct faculty.“Many congratulations to Prof. H C Verma for receiving this prestigious honor for his unparalleled contributions in the field of Physics,” IIT Kanpur said. “I am delighted to share that Prof. Harish Chandra Verma, our alumnus & retired Professor (and now associated as an Adjunct faculty) was presented the prestigious #PadmaShri award by the Hon'ble Rashtrapatiji. The award was announced in 2020,” director of the institute Abhay Karandikar tweeted.Meanwhile, several people on Twitter lauded the professor upon receiving the award and remembered fondly of their school days and using his book for exam preparations. “What is engineering (IIT JEE) preparation without HC Verma’s ‘Concept of Physics’! I still have it on the shelves in my home,” one user said.What is engineering (IIT JEE) preparation without HC Verma’s ‘Concept of Physics’! I still have it on the shelves in my home. @IITKanpur #iitians @iitbombay #iitjee https://t.co/UMG3RefBdW“Thanks Sir for making Physics a little easy for us,” another user tweeted. “HC verma , holding his award at 45 degree,” quipped one user. HC verma , holding his award at 45° pic.twitter.com/zxWEAGMqTV“HC Verma was golden textbook during IIT-JEE prep and for Olympiad and other competitive exams ! Great man,” another exclaimed.HC Verma was golden textbook during IIT-JEE prep and for Olympiad and other competitive exams ! Great man https://t.co/JtZXWx0WrRAnother user tweeted, “For any science student or engg. aspirant - "Concepts of Physics" is a default choice - His writing style made difficult concepts easier to understand! His books have helped millions of students over the years incld. me”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/internet-celebrates-as-popular-physicist-textbook-author-hc-verma-conferred-padma-shri-award-101636469356009.html
09-11-2021||India||Mullaperiyar dam: TN releases Kerala’s order to fell 15 trees which was later revoked||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday released the controversial order received from Kerala’s forest department that granted permission to fell 15 trees on the downstream Baby dam at Mullaperiyar dam. The order was subsequently revoked as chief minister Pinrayi Vijayan was not in the know of the development until Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin thanked him for granting permission. The letter also shows that Tamil Nadu sought the removal of 23 trees to widen the base of the existing Baby Dam and earthen bund to strengthen the structure at Mullaperiyar Dam. But permission was granted to clear 15 trees within an approximate area of 40 cents falling within the leased area of Tamil Nadu at the Mullaperiyar Dam site. Kerala’s four-page letter dated November 6 lists the species of trees that can be felled. The order came from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Bennichan Thomas of Kerala, permitting the Executive Engineer of Water Resources Department, Cumbum, Tamil Nadu, “As per Clause 5 of the Principal Deed, the Lessee, Tamil Nadu is permitted to fell the trees, underwoods and saplings within the leased areas for the maintenance works.” A copy of the order was submitted to the Additional Chief Secretary, Water Resources Department and Principal Secretary, Forests and Wildlife Department, Kerala.That such an order was granted came to the knowledge of Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan after Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin wrote to him on November 6 thanking him for granting the long-pending request. Stalin in his letter said that he was informed by officers of the state’s Water Resources Department officers. The Kerala assembly on Monday witnessed a protest against the CPI (M)-led government’s decision to allow Tamil Nadu to fell trees, the order was later revoked. The Congress-led opposition sought a response from Vijayan and a judicial inquiry into the ‘flip-flop’.Meanwhile, in Tamil Nadu, the ruling DMK is also facing the heat from opposition parties AIADMK and BJP over matters related to the Mullaperiyar dam which is located in Kerala but comes under the control of the Tamil Nadu government. The NDA alliance partners on Monday led a protest in Tamil Nadu’s Theni district and criticised the DMK government for giving up on the state’s rights over issues related to the water storage and release in the dam. State BJP chief K Annamalai accused the DMK government of not following the due procedure while opening the dam due to the heavy rains and landslides in Kerala last month. “Theni and Idukki collectors have to be present there (while opening the dam). Why were they not present?” Annamalai asked reporters. Annamalai also questioned Stalin’s silence over the controversy on the revoked order to fell trees. On Monday night, water resources department minister S Duraimurugan responded that the dam was opened in the presence of officers of his department by following norms of the Rule Curve approved by the Central Water Commission (CWC). In a statement, Duraimurugan said that as per the Standard Operating Procedure, advance information has to be given to the officers of Kerala before opening the dam. Accordingly, Kerala officers were informed on October 27 at 6 pm that the spillway gates would be opened on October 29 at 7.29 am. “At that time, the minister and officers of Kerala were also present,” Duraimurugan said. “Thus, the decision to open the gates were made by WRD (water resources department), TN, and opened by the officers of Tamil Nadu, who are regulating the dam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mullaperiyar-dam-tn-releases-kerala-s-order-to-fell-15-trees-which-was-later-revoked-101636465448589.html
09-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Two of eight WHO-approved vaccines from India, says Mandaviya||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said the World Health Organisation (WHO) had so far included eight vaccines against Covid-19 in Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of which two were Indian -- Covaxin and Covishield. Besides, 96 countries had recognised the vaccines which reflected India’s inoculation process, Mandaviya said.On November 3, the technical advisory team of the world health body recommended Bharat Biotech-made Covaxin for EUL for 18 years and above.“Reflecting worldwide acceptance of India’s vaccines and our vaccination process, 96 countries have agreed to Mutual Acceptance of Vaccination Certificates,” the minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, adding the list can be checked via CoWIN aap.In a statement, he said the government was continuing its communication with the rest of the nations so that beneficiaries of the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme were accepted and recognised, thereby easing travel for education, business and tourism purposes.Among the 96 countries that have so far recognised Indian vaccines are the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Spain, Bangladesh, Russia, Kuwait, Oman, United Arab Emirates, Maldives and Brazil. Mandaviya further said over 109 crore doses of vaccines against the deadly virus had been administered so far in the country. “Under 'Har ghar dastak', healthcare workers are going to all houses to carry out the vaccination drive,” he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-two-of-eight-who-approved-vaccines-from-india-says-mandaviya-101636458244777.html
09-11-2021||India||Probe against BSL and BEL: ED provisionally attaches assets worth ₹61.38cr||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached assets worth ₹61.38 crore in connection with its ongoing probe against Bhushan Steel Limited (BSL) and Bhushan Energy Limited (BEL) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.The assets include agricultural land in Maharashtra’s Raigad and warehouses of entities under the control of erstwhile promoters of BSL, the ED said in a press release on Tuesday.The ED initiated the money laundering investigation against BSL and BEL over the alleged siphoning of public funds on the basis of a Serious Frauds Investigation Office’s complaint in August 2019.The ED said during the investigation, it was discovered that Neeraj Singhal and BB Singhal (former promoters of BSL) diverted funds from BSL. It added the siphoning was carried out through an elaborate and complex web of transactions by way of routing of public funds in the garb of unsecured loans given by BEL to its associate companies. The proceeds from the crime were allegedly utilised for acquiring immovable properties. “The elaborate and complex web of transactions was structured to project these assets as untainted,” the ED said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-against-bsl-and-bel-ed-provisionally-attaches-assets-worth-6138cr-101636458248614.html
09-11-2021||India||Don’t expect easy prices post-Diwali, analysts say||During the Diwali shopping blitz, consumers may have splurged on account of pent-up demand but they paid higher prices due to shortages of common goods. Now the potential of inflation rising remains strong, analysts say as supply-side constraints fanning across the global economy exacerbate domestic shortages.Indians spent a staggering ₹1.25 lakh crore on consumer goods during Diwali, according to the Confederation of All India Traders. But they faced a shortage of home appliances and electronics, which were priced higher by up to 12% compared to a year ago, according to data from the Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association.A shortage of semiconductors, or the ubiquitous chip, has crippled the production of a range of goods--from cars, appliances, and mobile phones to television sets.Chipmakers are struggling to make enough of the vital component and there are no quick fixes, analysts say. That could mean Indian factories and consumers are buckling up for higher costs, already evident during Diwali.“Post-Diwali stocks are low and even during Diwali, stocks were not enough,” said Nilesh Gupta of electronics retailer Vijay Sales. The supply of high-end mobile phones, including the iPhone, was especially low, he said.India is also anticipating lower output of some primary food commodities, such as onion and tomatoes due to crop damage from extreme rainfall this summer.Also Read| Inflation may fall below 8 pc: RangarajanThe government has succeeded in fending off a surge in prices of onion, a volatile staple, by intervening in markets. Rains in recent months have damaged 15% of the country’s onion harvest, prompting the food ministry to release onions from a state-held stockpile beginning October, when prices rose.The government has offloaded 1,11,376 tonnes of onions between October 10 and November 2 which cooled prices, for now, the latest official data show.The government had a record reserve of 200,000 tonnes of onion to douse any inflation in the food item during the current lean season, which can impact the wider economy and households alike.Edible oil prices remain elevated despite the government’s deep cuts to import tariffs and virtual abolishing of basic custom duties. India imports up to two-thirds of its edible oil demand. Average mustard oil prices were up 42% than a year ago on November 6.However, the real upside risk to inflation lies in “imported inflation” due to the global supply-chain crisis, Ashok Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a commodities trading firm, said.The takeaway from the pandemic has been that as vaccination rates have gone up and economies opened, supplies could not keep up with demand.The government has sought to halt the fuel price spiral by cutting excise duty on petrol by ₹5 and on diesel by ₹10. “However, a lot of manufacturers have already worked in higher fuel and transportation costs and prices are sticky,” Agrawal said. Even so, a further rise in crude oil, India’s highest-value import item, remains an inflation risk.Inflation has been falling in recent months, but average price rise during and following the peak pandemic has been higher and more broad-based than in previous years, according to the Reserve Bank’s data.Three components of inflation — food, fuel, and core inflation ie price in all items minus food and fuel — have moved divergently. Food inflation fell significantly from above 5% at the start of the current financial year to 0.7% in September. During the same period, fuel inflation rose from 8% to 13.6%. Core inflation, which doesn’t include volatile items such as food and fuel, remained sticky near 6%.“When compared to developed economies, inflation in Asia has remained relatively benign so far -- is this about to change?” wrote Sonal Varma, an analyst with Nomura in a November 5 Asia research note.According to Nomura, broad-based price rise across coal, gas, and oil prices will have the largest impact on countries with limited fiscal subsidies and higher shares of energy and transport in the consumer price index basket such as India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-expect-easy-prices-post-diwali-analysts-say-101636458247022.html
09-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP accuses previous UPA govt of irregularities in Rafale jets deal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP accuses previous Congress-led govt of irregularities in Rafale jets dealThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday accused the previous Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government of irregularities in the Rafale fighter jets deal, citing a French online journal’s report, and triggered a fresh war of words between the governing and the opposition party. Read moreFaf du Plessis has his say on India's early exit from T20 World Cup and Virat Kohli's legacy as T20I captainIndia's campaign at the T20 World Cup 2021 came to an end on Monday, following their final Round 12 match against Namibia. The Men in Blue played extremely well in their final three games of the World Cup, but that would not prove enough to nullify the repercussion of a poor start to the tournament that the team endured. Read moreSpider-Man No Way Home leak: Tom Holland, Andrew Garfield, Tobey Maguire in one frame, Daredevil joins party. See picsA new leak has added more fuel to rumours of Andrew Garfield and Tobey Maguire returning for Spider-Man: No Way Home. An apparent leak of an upcoming trailer for the movie shows them sharing a frame with current Spider-Man, played by Tom Holland. Read moreSkoda Slavia cabin sketch revealed. Booking details, deliveries and more hereSkoda Slavia sedan is the next big launch lined up by the Czech auto maker for India and the company on Tuesday revealed the design sketch of the cabin in the Slavia. Read moreVaani Kapoor sizzles in ₹1.3 lakh strappy jumpsuit, says ‘Aashiqui on my mind’While fun and citrus-coloured jumpsuits were a fashion fad this summer, the style is still trending for autumn and winter but with a more subtle (albeit still bright) route and Vaani Kapoor's latest pictures are enough to back our claim. Read moreArtist’s mind-blowing transformations into different characters will make your jaw drop in wonder“Wow, that is incredible,” probably this is what you will be inclined to say after seeing the amazing transformation videos of makeup artist Dikshita Jindal. This Delhi-based artist often shares her videos on Instagram that showcase her incredible makeup skills. Read more'India should...': Obama slams China, Russia, Trump on climate change | COP26At COP26, former United States President Barack Obama criticised China and Russia for a ‘dangerous lack of urgency’ in cutting their climate emissions. Chinese president Xi Jinping and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin skipped the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-accuses-previous-upa-govt-of-irregularities-in-rafale-jets-deal-and-all-the-latest-news-101636457296239.html
09-11-2021||India||Man in Assam enjoyed citizenship rights despite being declared foreigner in 1999||A man in Assam continued to enjoy the rights and privileges of an Indian citizen, including voting, for over 20 years despite being declared a foreigner in 1999. The matter came to light during the of hearing of Jagat Ghosh’s petition in the Gauhati high court challenging verdict of a foreigners’ tribunal declaring him a foreigner. The tribunal found Ghosh, a resident of Lanka in Nagaon district, entered Assam between January 1, 1966, and March 25, 1971. On May 3, 1999. it passed an ex-parte order against Ghosh for failing to appear in person or submitting documents to prove that he entered Assam prior to January 1, 1966. He was directed to get himself registered as a foreigner with the superintendent of police (border), Nagaon.As per the Citizenship Act, 1955, people who entered Assam between January 1, 1966, and March 25, 1971, and have been found to be foreigners are supposed to register themselves with the nearest authorities within 60 days. Their names, if included in electoral rolls, have to be removed for 10 years but they will continue to enjoy other rights accorded to citizens. After 10 years, they can be declared Indians for inclusion of their names on voters’ lists.Also Read: A month and half after Dhalpur violence, Assam evicts 562 families from reserveIn his petition, Ghosh claimed due to his ignorance he did not get registered as a foreigner even after the tribunal passed its order. He added he came to know about the tribunal’s order in 2018, following which he approached the high court in 2020.“From the documents annexed by the petitioner, it appears that the petitioner had been casting his vote...continuously from 1970 to till date, thus virtually enjoying all the rights and privileges of being a citizen...,” justices N Kotiswar Singh and Malasri Nandi said in their order passed on November 3.“Unfortunately all the state authorities involved in the process of detecting foreigners were also oblivious of the ex-parte order passed by the foreigners’ tribunal..”The court directed Ghosh to get himself registered with the Foreigner Regional Registration Officer in Nagaon within 60 days while disposing of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-in-assam-enjoyed-citizenship-rights-despite-being-declared-foreigner-in-1999-101636457766980.html
09-11-2021||India||Protests in Delhi, Lucknow if concerns over voters list revision not addressed: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said 2.1 million new names have been added and over 1.6 million removed from voters lists ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh without allowing political parties to cross-check the additions and deletions. He warned of sit-in protests in Delhi and Lucknow if their concerns over the matter were not addressed.Yadav said the Election Commission of India (ECI) has not given the lists to the political parties to cross-check unlike until before the 2019 national elections. “ECI then gave lists to the political parties, then why not this time?” he asked at a press conference called on the fifth anniversary of the demonetisation of high-value currency notes in 2016.Yadav said SP’s state president Naresh Uttam Patel led a party delegation that met Uttar Pradesh’s chief election officer and gave him a memorandum over the matter. “We will give a memorandum in Delhi (to ECI) also and if needed sit on sit-ins.” He added he understands most of the officers posted in ECI were sent from Uttar Pradesh.Yadav earlier celebrated the birthday of Khajanchi, who was born shortly after his mother queued up in Kanpur Dehat to get her demonetised currency notes exchanged on December 2, 2016, before starting the press conference.SP has been celebrating Khajanchi’s birthday since the first anniversary of demonetisation. Khajanchi is often referred to as a demonetisation baby and he was named Khajanchi (treasurer) by the manager of the bank outside which he was born.Yadav said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) should celebrate Khajanchi’s birthday. “Demonetisation was their gift to people to ruin the economy and businesses. The BJP has not been talking about the benefits of demonetisation. Black money did not end, corruption rose, and corruption in Uttar Pradesh rose unprecedentedly. The BJP was telling people through TV channels that the new currency had chips to check black money. Demonetisation did not end black money. Money is not black or white; it is the transactions that you or I do that are black or white. The demonetisation was done deliberately to trouble people.”Yadav blamed the BJP for the“ruin” in the economy. He called the demonetisation a “masterstroke” that turned out to be “brain stroke”. Yadav added the way it was implemented, ruined traders and businesses. He also displayed an empty cylinder at the press conference citing high fuel prices.Also Watch | ‘Ram not Dashrath’s son’: Owaisi reacts to BJP ally Nishad’s controversial claimHe referred to the Supreme Court’s observation on Monday that the investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri violence appears to be favouring the “main accused” in the case. “The SP has been saying since the beginning that till the BJP is in power, forget about justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. BJP’s triple engine government will not let justice happen. Triple engine--the BJP government in the state, the BJP government at the Centre, and the BJP government of (Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni) who has not resigned even till now.”A convoy, in which at least one vehicle belonged to Teni, ran over farmers protesting three controversial laws and triggered the violence. Ashish Mishra, the son of the minister, is one of the accused in the violence.Yadav said the Special Investigation Team probing the violence will do what the state government will tell it to do. “There will be a change in 2022 and justice will be done.”Yadav also launched Samajwadi Itra (perfume). The perfume bottles and boxes are red and green (SP colours) while the cartons also have a picture of Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-in-delhi-lucknow-if-concerns-over-voters-list-revision-not-addressed-akhilesh-101636457107016.html
09-11-2021||India||Activists, Opposition seek extension of free ration scheme under PMGKAY||The Right to Food Campaign and some opposition leaders have appealed to the Union government seeking extension of the free food distribution scheme under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna (PMGKAY) which is set to be terminated on November 30.“The Right to Food Campaign immediately demands: Extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (for at least six months till May 2022), with the provision of edible oil and pulses to each household,” a letter by the campaign, written to the food and public distribution minister Piyush Goyal, said.The Right to Food Campaign claims to be an informal network of individuals and organisations that is “committed to the realisation of the right to food in India”.It also demanded that the public distribution system is made universal to support all persons (except income taxpayers), especially migrants workers, homeless, sex workers, trans people and all vulnerable communities even without ration cards. The network also demanded that millets and other nutritious commodities such as pulses and oil are added to the PDS.This letter came after food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey’s November 5 announcement that there was no proposal to extend the free ration scheme launched for the underprivileged during the coronavirus pandemic beyond November 30. Pandey rationalised the Centre’s decision by saying the economy was reviving and the disposal of food grains in the open market under the Open Market Sale Scheme was positive.Opposition leaders such as Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP (member of parliament) Ripun Bora and Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Sougata Roy have also sought the continuation of the scheme. “…urging our PM to not discontinue PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana as is provided relief to several thousands of poor households,” Bora said, posting his letter to the Prime Minister on Twitter .Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMKGAY) was announced in March last year to ameliorate distress caused by Covid-19. Initially, the scheme was launched for the April-June 2020 period but was extended till November 30, 2021.Also Read: BJP accuses previous Congress-led govt of irregularities in Rafale jets dealUnder the PMGKAY, the government claims to have provided 5 kg free wheat/rice per month along with 1 kg free whole Chana to each member of underprivileged families per month, totalling more than 80 crore people. Families belonging to the Below Poverty Line - Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Households (PHH) categories were eligible for the scheme.When contacted, DJ Narain, spokesperson to the minister said, "Ration worth ₹1.8 lakh crore has been distributed during the last 18 months approximately. There is going to be no shortage of subsidised and almost free ration [for] all the poor and other beneficiaries.”He said “speculation” about ration availability should be avoided. “National Food Security Act (NFSA) was always there and shall be there. Politics may be avoided on matters concerning the same,’’ he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extension-of-free-ration-scheme-sought-from-union-government-101636455366647.html
09-11-2021||India||IMD issues red alert for Chennai, 5 other districts on Nov 11, as TN's north coast awaits more rain||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert for six districts in Tamil Nadu on November 11 as a low pressure area is expected to bring widespread rainfall to several districts along the state’s northern coast.The red alert was issued for Chennai and its adjoining districts Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kanchipuram, along with Villupuram and Tiruvannamalai. On Tuesday, the IMD said that a well-marked low pressure area over central parts of Arabian Sea is likely to move west-southwestwards during the next three days.Also read | Tamil Nadu rains: Five die, homes destroyed; minister fears more losses with intensified downpour“Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood, a low pressure area has formed over the same region. Associated cyclonic circulation extends upto 4.5 km above mean sea level. It is very likely to concentrate into a Depression over Southwest & adjoining Southeast Bay of Bengal during next 36 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and reach near north Tamilnadu coast by the early morning of 11th November, 2021,” the IMD further said.The forecast for more rainfall remains a key concern for the people residing in Chennai as several parts of the city remained inundated following heavy rainfall in the state since Sunday. Chief minister MK Stalin along with some state ministers inspected the relief works and the extent of damage due to the floods at several constituencies in the city. Works to drain the stagnated floodwater is currently underway across several pockets in the city while schools and colleges remained closed in several districts due to the rains.Earlier in the day, state revenue and disaster management KKSSR Ramachandran said that five people lost their lives due to the rains in Tamil Nadu while 538 huts and four houses were damaged, news agency ANI reported. He also warned of further damage if the rain intensified.Meanwhile, a few other districts, including, Nagapattinam, Karaikal, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, Thiruvarur and Ramanathapuram, along TN’s southern coast were on red alert on Tuesday (November 9). On Wednesday (November 10), Cuddalore, Puducherry, Villupuram and Sivagangai along with the six districts mentioned previously have been issued a red alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-red-alert-for-chennai-5-other-districts-on-nov-11-as-tn-s-north-coast-awaits-more-rain-101636454839923.html
09-11-2021||India||Sushma Swaraj’s daughter honours mom's tradition; greets LK Advani with sweet surprise on his birthday||Bansuri Swaraj, the daughter of former external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj, honoured the tradition started by her late mother by visiting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stalwart LK Advani on his birthday with something sweet in tow.“A very happy birthday to respected Advaniji. I pray to god for his health and a long life. Had an opportunity to visit his residence and seek blessings, and according to the sweet tradition started by my mother Sushma Swaraj I brought a chocolate cake,” Swaraj tweeted on Monday.
09-11-2021||India||India poised to achieve services export target of $1 trillion: Goyal||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said that India is poised to achieve services export target of $1 trillion by 2030. Speaking at the 'Services Export Promotion Council - Global Services Conclave 2021” in New Delhi, the Union minister of commerce and industry said that the services sector is a key driver of India’s economic growth since not only does it provide employment to nearly 2.6 crore people, it also contributes approximately 40% to India’s total global exports.The theme of the conclave was 'India Serves: Exploring Potential Growth Sectors Beyond IT/ITes'.Goyal said that the trade surplus in the services sector was $89 billion in the financial year 2020-21 and it has been the largest FDI recipient.The minister also lauded India’s commitment to enabling ‘work from home’ during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, saying the services sector showed “immense resilience”, especially when it remained depressed in other countries. Earlier this year, the labour ministry formalised work from home and prepared separate model standing orders for the first time for the services sector."Sectors like tourism, hospitality, etc. which suffered due to Covid-19, showing revival signs" he added.Emphasising India’s potential to become the top services exporter globally, he added that the services sector is boosting the country’s transition from an “Assembly economy” to a “Knowledge-based economy”. The minister listed higher education as a crucial sector that can catapult India’s services sector on a high growth trajectory.Quoting former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Goyal said that "our aim may be as high as the endless sky, but we should have a resolve in our minds to walk ahead, hand-in-hand for victory will be ours".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-poised-to-achieve-services-export-target-of-1-trillion-goyal-101636450114349.html
09-11-2021||India||Rafale row: BJP says INC can be renamed as ‘I need commission’, Congress hits back||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday said the Congress or Indian National Congress (INC) should be renamed as ‘I Need Commission’ (INC) over reports that commissions were paid for securing the Rafale deal between 2007 and 2012.BJP's national spokesperson Sambit Patra said the Congress was attacking the ruling regime as it was dissatisfied that the “cut” on offer did not yield the final deal when it was in power.Patra’s accusations came amid a fresh French media report alleged kickbacks in the multi-crore Rafale deal.Coming down heavily on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been leading the party’s attack on the Narendra Modi government over the purchase of the fighter aircraft, Patra accused him of spreading "canard, disinformation and lies". He also sought Gandhi's response to the fresh revelation by French investigative journal Mediapart. Also read | Slugfest after French report alleges trace of Rafale deal pay-offHe should respond to this from Italy, Patra said, citing reports that the Congress leader is currently not in India.The Congress hit back saying that the Modi government had launched "operation cover up" and demanded to know why it had not probed the entire episode so far.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said his party had been seeking a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe into the deal and wanted to know why the government had not yet agreed to this.The Mediapart report said Dassault Aviation had paid the kickbacks to the intermediary in Mauritius between 2007 and 2012.The Congress-led UPA was in power between 2004 and 2014, leading the ruling BJP for the first time to launch an aggressive counter-attack on the grand old party.The Modi government had inked the deal on September 23, 2016, to procure 36 Rafale jets from Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the UPA regime.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inc-can-be-renamed-as-i-need-commission-bjp-s-sambit-patra-on-rafale-reports-101636446728694.html
09-11-2021||India||High court pulls up Greater Chennai Corporation over waterlogging||The Madras high court on Tuesday pulled up the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), questioning what it was doing since the 2015 floods as several parts of the city continued to be inundated following rains since Saturday. “Half the year, we are longing for water, and for the rest of the year, we are dying in water in Chennai,” the court said.A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu warned of suo moto proceedings if the waterlogging was not brought under control. It criticised the corporation for its failure in taking up adequate measures to prevent the inundation.Also Read: Tamil Nadu rains: Five die, homes destroyed; minister fears more lossesThe bench made the observations while hearing a public interest litigation.On November 7, Chennai received 21cm of rainfall, the highest recorded in a day in November since 2015 when floods in Chennai left people marooned for a week.Following the 2015 floods, the state and GCC announced projects to improve the stormwater drain network in the city. The corporation, in its 2016-17 budget, allocated ₹415 crore for drains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-pulls-up-greater-chennai-corporation-over-waterlogging-101636446246174.html
09-11-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti hits out, says people being killed despite repressive measures||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday hit out at the administration, saying people were being killed in the region despite repressive measures in name of security.In a tweet, she said, “Security situation in J&K has deteriorated to an extent where not a week goes by when an innocent doesn’t lose his life. Unfortunate that despite repressive measures taken in name of security, people are being killed & have no sense of dignity or normalcy. Condolences to his family.”The tweet came a day after Kashmiri salesman Mohammad Ibrahim Khan was shot dead in Srinagar’s old city area. It was the second targeted killing in Srinagar in two days. On Sunday, 29-year-old police constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani was shot dead. Eleven civilians were killed in a spate of targeted killings in the region last month.Also Read: Terrorists gun down one more civilian in KashmirLieutenant governor Manoj Sinha was expected to chair a meeting of top army, police, paramilitary, and intelligence officers in Srinagar on Tuesday in the backdrop of the fresh killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-hits-out-says-people-being-killed-despite-repressive-measures-101636445825899.html
09-11-2021||India||Fisherman killed by Pak navy hit by bullets while fixing diesel leak||Shridhar Chamre, 32, the fisherman who was killed when Pakistan’s Maritime Security Agency fired at a boat in waters off the coast of Gujarat on Saturday, received fatal bullet injuries as he was trying to fix a diesel leak that was preventing their trawler from picking up speed as Pakistani boats chased them, his father in law said. Chamre had earlier taken cover in a box when the firing began.Namdev Meher, Chamre’s father-in-law who was also on the boat, said they speeded up fearing they will be taken as prisoners but soon realised the trawler’s diesel nozzle had broken. He added Chamre, who was hiding inside an empty fish box to escape the firing, was forced to come out to fix the leak as the boat was not picking speed. “Shridhar and I crawled to the engine room...diesel was leaking and hence the speed was reduced. We had no spare nozzle but were using an empty plastic bottle to plug the leak. Somehow the leak stopped temporarily and just then Dilip (the other fisherman) was wounded...”Meher said that two speedboats were chasing them. He added they started to cry and left to God their fate but Dilip continued to steer the boat and after 40 minutes or so, the speedboats gave up the chase. “Then I saw Shridhar lying motionless and I thought he may have become unconscious due to the shock...soon blood started to ooze from his nose and I was shocked to find bullet wounds on his back...a bullet also was visible near the chest and soon I realised that Shridhar was no more.”Meher said they somehow reached the Okha coast around 3am on Sunday. “I also heard that the Pakistan Navy seized a boat from Porbander and abducted six labourers on board...”Also Read |Deplorable: India protests killing of fisherman by Pak Maritime Security AgencyMeher said they along with six labourers left Vanakbarain in Diu on October 26 for a 10-day fishing trip. He added on Saturday, Chamre called his wife Jyoti and also spoke to his daughters. “At around 4pm, we were retrieving nets and finding the catch for the day when suddenly a speed boat came towards us at full speed... and started to fire. At first, we thought firecrackers were being burst due to Diwali but soon we saw a bullet piercing the 200-litre water drum and then we realised that Pakistan Navy personnel were firing at us.” Meher said their trawler was hit with a few bullets.Chamre was cremated at his native Vadrai in Maharashtra’s Palgarh district on Tuesday after Meher brought the fisherman’s body from Gujarat.Maharashtra Machimaar Kriti Samiti vice president Manendra Arekar, who attended the funeral, said Chamre’s father, Ramesh, lit the pyre in presence of his widow, Jyoti, who fainted.Rajendra Gavit, the Member of Parliament from Palghar, gave a ₹50,000 cheque as immediate relief to Chamre’s family. He said they will take up the issue of maximum compensation with the state as well as central governments. “I will also raise the issue during the winter session of Parliament...for a permanent solution to stop such firing on Indian fishermen at high seas... the fishermen were inside the Indian territorial waters..” He said authorities have taken the GPS device from the boat to find their exact location at the time of the firing.India on Monday summoned a senior Pakistani diplomat to protest the Chamre’s killing.India and Pakistan detain hundreds of fishermen each year on charges of violating the maritime boundary. Their vessels are also often seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fisherman-killed-by-pak-navy-hit-by-bullets-while-fixing-diseal-leak-101636445286006.html
09-11-2021||India||Comedian Nalin Yadav claims he was treated like ‘criminal’ by police||Comedian Nalin Yadav has alleged that he was frisked like he was a “hardcore criminal” by Indore police on Saturday night and was also warned not to step out of his house in the night. The police, however, said it was part of “routine” checking in wake of robberies in the area, and that Yadav has been asked to file a complaint in the matter.Yadav, who was accused of hurting religious sentiments in January this year along with comedian Munawar Faruqui during a performance in an Indore restaurant, was going to a nearby eatery to get some good when the incident occurred. Apart from being frisked, he was asked to put his hands in the air and to show ownership documents of his two-wheeler. Yadav claimed this was not the only harassment; and that he was targeted several times by saffron activists, local goons and even educated people in the last nine months. He said he did not file any complaints because he cannot fight many cases in the court. “Not only this, I receive threatening and abusive calls on my social media almost daily. Recently, I posted something about Tripura violence and local people threatened me over the phone. They said I was an anti-Hindu and a sympathiser of only one community. I have to change my thinking otherwise I won’t be able to survive, I was told. Similarly, a few days ago I was harassed at a bar,” Yadav said. Pithampur Sector 1 town inspector Lokesh Bhadouriya refuted the allegations, and said, “Due to a rise in robberies in the area, we have strengthened our checking after midnight. Police personnel checked him thoroughly to rule out the possibility of him being a thief. What is wrong with it? If the person has any problem, he can come to me to file a complaint but I haven’t received any complaint.” Yadav said his earning had shrunk since the Indore incident in January and his attempts to overcome depression and serve his passion for comedy was being blocked by people, not allowing him to live normally. “Two months ago, I saw a ray of hope when my show was finalised in Chandigarh, but at the last moment, the organiser dropped me and roped in two other comedians. Similarly, I got a contract for at least five shows in Indore but all were cancelled without any reason,” said Yadav. Also Read | Munawar Faruqui case: Co-accused comedian takes to working as labourer to make ends meetYadav says he has been working in a bags manufacturing unit as a daily wager to earn a living and visits New Delhi occasionally to perform for free in cafes to maintain his connection with the audience. “A few months ago, I had lost all the hope but after media highlighted my plight, I received many calls and a new hope emerged. I am fighting hard but I don’t know for how long can I fight,” he said. “Will they ever allow me to live a normal life? Even a murderer, who is out on bail has a right to live with freedom but I don’t have it because I am carrying a stigma imposed by saffron activists of being an anti-Hindu,” Yadav added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comedian-nalin-yadav-claims-he-was-treated-like-criminal-by-police-101636444265801.html
09-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Toxic foam in Yamuna a gift from Haryana, UP, says AAP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Yamuna's toxic foam gift to Delhi from UP, Haryana govts: AAP's Raghav ChadhaAam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Raghav Chadha said on Tuesday the toxic foam found floating on the Yamuna river was a gift to Delhi from the governments in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Read moreSameer Wankhede's father files police complaint against Nawab MalikThe father of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede has filed a police complaint against Nationalist Congress Party (NCB) Nawab Malik under certain sections of the SC/ST Act. Dhyandev Wankhede has accused Malik of making "false and derogatory" remarks against him and his family members. Read moreTravelling to Karnataka from Maharashtra? Fresh guidelines you should knowThe Karnataka government has issued fresh guidelines for people arriving in the state from the neighbouring Maharashtra, due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read moreChina’s covid zero turns more elusive as symptom-free cases growChina reported more infections in people who exhibited no symptoms of Covid-19 on Tuesday than in those who were actively suffering from the virus, indicating the challenge it faces in eliminating the highly infectious and insidious pathogen. Read moreMira Rajput in floral print mini dress looks refreshing, see her new picIf we could describe Shahid Kapoor's wife, Mira Rajput Kapoor's style, the only words that come to our mind are poised, elegant and always dressed on-point. The mother-of-two has proved her sartorial prowess ever since the news of her wedding with Shahid came out in July 2015. Read moreKid feeds mom as she gets her mehendi done. Watch adorable videoA sweet moment between a son and his mom was captured on camera. The video of the interaction was also shared on Instagram. Since being posted, it is winning people's hearts. Read moreAudi Q5 facelift to launch in India on November 23Audi India has confirmed that it will launch the new generation Q5 SUV in India later this month. The 2021 Q5, which is all set to make a comeback after nearly two years after being pulled out due to stricter emission norms, will hit Indian roads once again from November 23. Read moreDia Mirza wished she had some of her German father's possessions: 'All his belongings went to my step-brother’Actor Dia Mirza has revealed how she wanted to have some of her late father's belongings in her house and how she came to be satisfied with what she actually had. In a new interview, Dia has spoken about her biological father, German artist Frank Handrich, who died when she was nine years old. Read moreRavi Shastri leaves Indian dressing room with riveting speech on last day as head coachTrust Ravi Shastri to mesmerize you with his words every time he speaks. It was therefore not a surprise to those who know him or have followed his cricketing journey - as a player, broadcaster and coach - when Shastri gave a riveting speech - his last - to the Indian players in the dressing room before signing off as the head coach of the team. Read moreWatch| SpaceX capsule with ISS astronauts returns to Earth after ending 200-day flight||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-toxic-foam-in-yamuna-a-gift-from-haryana-up-says-aap-101636442520885.html
09-11-2021||India||Corbevax may seek emergency use authorisation by November||Hyderabad based vaccine manufacturer Biological-E is likely to declare phase 2/3 trial results of its anti Covid-19 vaccine Corbevax this month, according to people familiar with the development. “After interim phase 3 trial data is collated, the company might approach the drugs regulator to seek emergency use authorisation for Corbevax this month itself. It is likely to happen very soon,” the person said, adding the government’s Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) in Kasauli, Himachal Pradesh, has cleared a batch last week after quality testing, paving the way for advance manufacturing of the vaccine. In June, this year, the Centre finalised arrangements with the company to reserve 300 million Corbevax doses, Union ministry of health and family welfare announced, even though its phase I/II trial results were yet to be made public and the phase III trial was still underway. “These vaccine doses will be manufactured and stockpiled by M/s Biological-E from August-December 2021. For this purpose, the Union Ministry of Health would be making an advance payment of ₹1,500 crore to M/s Biological-E,” said the ministry in a statement at the time the deal was finalised. Also Read: UK to recognise Covaxin for inbound travel from November 22The vaccine being developed by Biological-E is a RBD protein sub-unit vaccine. According to people familiar with the matter, the company sought an advance from the Central government to develop its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, and after duly examining its proposal, the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) recommended it for approval to the health ministry. The ministry in turn also gave its consent, and went for the advance purchase. The doses were to be supplied by December. The company, last month, also sought permission from India’s drugs regulator to conduct the phase-3 clinical trial for Corbevax as a single booster dose for those who have been fully vaccinated with either Covishield or Covaxin. Serum Institute of India locally manufactures the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, and Covaxin is manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corbevax-may-seek-emergency-use-authorisation-by-november-101636441505809.html
09-11-2021||India||'Personal grudge': Sameer Wankhede's father files police complaint against Nawab Malik||The father of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede has filed a police complaint against Nationalist Congress Party (NCB) Nawab Malik under certain sections of the SC/ST Act. Dhyandev Wankhede has accused Malik of making "false and derogatory" remarks against him and his family members.The complaint was filed with Oshiwara division's assistant commissioner of police on Monday. Dhyandev has demanded that an FIR be registered against the minister.The NCP leader has made several allegations against Sameer Wankhede, including the claim that he was a Muslim but forged documents (like caste certificate) to get a government job."We belong to 'Mahar' community which comes under the Scheduled Caste category," he mentioned in the complaint. He demanded that an FIR be registered against the minister under provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Schedule Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections including 503 (criminal intimidation).He further alleged that Malik, owing to his personal grudge, went to the extent of "stalking" his daughter Yasmeen online and illegally used her personal photographs from her social media accounts and circulated them in print and electronic media.Now, the minister is giving "direct threats" and using "illegal tactics" to hinder the investigation into the case involving his son-in-law (Sameer Khan) where he is likely to convicted, the senior Wankhede alleged.Malik's son-in-law was arrested in January this year in an alleged drugs case and granted bail in September.An official from the assistant commissioner of police's confirmed that they have received Dhyandev Wankhede's complaint, and said further investigation is underway.This comes a day after the Bombay high court directed Malik to respond to the defamation suit by Dhyandev Wankhede. The NCB official's father has sought ₹1.25 crore in damages from Malik "within a day".The bench directed the NCP leader to file an affidavit in reply to the suit by Tuesday and posted the hearing of the suit to November 10.An NCB team led by Sameer Wankhede last month conducted a raid on a cruise ship and claimed to have seized drugs onboard. Later, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and 19 others were arrested in connection with the cruise drugs case. Malik has termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled a string of allegations against Sameer Wankhede.The NCB official has denied the allegations levelled against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sameer-wankhede-s-father-files-police-complaint-against-nawab-malik-101636439934897.html
09-11-2021||India||Mumbai Police detain 1 person in Antilia security scare case||The Mumbai Police has identified one of the two persons who were asking about the location of Antilia, the residence of industrialist and Reliance chairperson Mukesh Ambani, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday . However, the person, a taxi driver from Gujarat, did not seem to possess anything suspicious, ANI further quoting the city police. "One person identified; has been called for an inquiry... Nothing suspicious recovered from him so far," the ANI report further said.Acting on the inputs, the police placed barricades outside the house, and checkpoints were installed in various parts of south Mumbai.Meanwhile, an inquiry has also been initiated into the situation and the situation is being monitored by a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP)-rank officer. "We received a call from a taxi driver that two people carrying a bag asked for Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia; recording his statement. DCP level rank officer monitoring the situation. Security heightened outside Antilia; CCTV footage also being checked," police had said on Monday.This comes months after an explosives-laden SUV was found near the residence of Ambani. In subsequent inspection, the cops had recovered 20 gelatin sticks and a threatening note from the vehicle.In the series of events that followed, Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, the owner of the car who reported it stolen on February 17, was found dead in a Mumbra creek on March 5. It was later discovered that dismissed Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze had borrowed Hiran’s car in November and returned it in February.Later, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the explosives case, and Vaze was named the main accused. He was arrested by the NIA on March 13. On March 24, the agency began probing the murder too, and Vaze was again named the main accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-detain-1-person-in-antilia-security-scare-case-101636439507738.html
09-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu rains: Five die, homes destroyed; minister fears more losses with intensified downpour||At least five persons died and over 500 huts were damaged, while another four houses were completely destroyed due to incessant rainfall in Tamil Nadu. The state’s revenue and disaster management minister KKSSR Ramachandran apprehended more losses if the rain intensified again.With the onset of northeastern rains, the southern state received one of the heaviest downpours in years with large stretches of its capital Chennai flooded.Ramachandran said the Chennai civic body was pumping out water from low line areas with the rains having reduced in intensity. He added that rescue operation was being undertaken by the Army, National Disaster Relief Force, state fire department and others. “In Chennai, more nodal officers are posted for review and rescue operations,” the minister said.5 deaths in Tamil Nadu due to rain. 538 huts damaged, 4 houses fully damaged. More damage expected if rain intensifies: KKSSR Ramachandran, Tamil Nadu Revenue and Disaster Management Minister pic.twitter.com/UHRKgCnCtEThe Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall between November 9 and 11 in Tamil Nadu and some parts of coastal Andhra Pradesh due the formation of a low pressure system over southeast Bay of Bengal in the next 12 hours.Also read | Din in Kerala house on Mullaperiyar tree felling orderChief minister MK Stalin continued to inspect rain-affected areas of Kolathur and Villivakkam in Chennai and distribute food and relief materials to the needy people.Opposition leader and former deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi “to issue instructions to the ministry of finance to release funds to the state to carry out rescue, relief and rehabilitation operations in view of heavy rainfall”, an ANI report said. Meanwhile, schools and colleges remained closed in a number of districts, including Chennai, Madurai, Kanchi and Chengalpattu, due to the heavy rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rains-five-die-homes-destroyed-minister-fears-more-losses-101636438224786.html
09-11-2021||India||COP26: Maharashtra bags top leadership award in Glasgow||Maharashtra, which joined the global Under2 Coalition of regional governments for greenhouse gases emissions mitigation in July, bagged the inaugural Inspiring Regional Leadership award at the U2C General Assembly that coincided with the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) summit in Glasgow on Sunday.It also received “high commendations” in two other categories - Climate Partnerships and Creative Climate Solutions. British Columbia and Québec in Canada won awards in these two categories. Around 260 regional governments are part of the coalition.“As India’s most industrialised state with a 720km-long vulnerable coastline, Maharashtra in its nominations highlighted how within a short span of time, the State had found it essential to include climate resilience into policymaking, and had embarked upon novel projects, policies, and campaigns that reflect a monumental shift in prioritising sustainable development,” the state government said in a press release after receiving the award.Also Read: India’s pledge among most substantive: Climate expertState environment minister Aaditya Thackeray said it is high time for collective efforts and meaningful actions to work on this global issue that sees no borders of geography, race, nationality, or gender. “We are truly delighted to have been recognised by the Under2 Coalition for our heartfelt ongoing contribution towards climate action.”The coalition has previously supported Bengal in revamping its state climate action plan by allocating money from its Future Fund for a feasibility study on e-ferries in Kolkata. In Chhattisgarh, the coalition organised capacity-building workshops for officials on how to track greenhouse gas emissions and build inventories that comply with international standards.Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana, and Bengal are also part of the coalition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-maharashtra-bags-top-leadership-award-in-glasgow-101636437365182.html
09-11-2021||India||‘One Health approach all about coordinating, communicating, collaborating’||As the government is working towards creating One Health platform for knowledge sharing on human and animal health, Atul Chaturvedi, the secretary of the department of animal husbandry, spoke to Anonna Dutt about it. Edited excerpts:What is the digital platform for the livestock sector about and how will it help in predicting or maintaining surveillance on outbreaks of zoonotic diseases?The department has been working with the support of the office of the principal scientific adviser to the government of India to develop an end-to-end digital platform that aims to create unique identification numbers for animals and their registration. This will help in collecting real-time data on various aspects of livestock including disease and active surveillance. The digital platform tries to address information gaps at multiple levels in livestock production. The platform also enables monitoring disease prevalence in specific geographies, the kind of remedy, and services provided for identifying and mitigating the diseases. Additionally, the digital data captured ensures better data recording, accountability and allows for better data analysis. This data will aid policy in the generation of informed policy decisions.How will surveillance data on diseases that may jump to humans be shared between departments?In the animal sector, we have a nationwide surveillance programme being steered by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics (NIVEDI), for animal infectious diseases, which also include zoonotic diseases like anthrax and brucellosis. This surveillance data are available on NIVEDI’s website.With respect to data sharing, it is still scanty. Data sharing systems with built-in mechanisms for credit sharing need to be streamlined for easy access to data by various sectors.The One Health Framework follows a multi-stakeholder approach bringing together stakeholders and institutions from both the public as well as the private sector to address the communication gap. It engages with human health and animal health professionals along with other related stakeholders working across animal, human, and environmental health sectors to improve the health of people and animals, including pets, farm animals, and wildlife. The implementation of the new One Health India programme has incorporated adequate elements to ensure complementarity and resolve the communication gaps between human health (medical practitioners) and animal health (veterinarians) professionals, especially in the area of zoonoses, antimicrobial resistance (AMR), and food safety. One Health approach is all about coordinating, communicating, and collaborating among various stakeholders.Additionally, the Covid-19 pandemic saw veterinary and medical professionals working together as many laboratories working on animal disease diagnosis actively engaged themselves in the testing of human samples. Veterinarians posted in the field played a very important role in the management of the Covid working together with medical professionals.Also Read: Peak power deficit in India almost wiped out, says power ministryHow will antibiotic resistance be addressed under the programme?As part of the One Health Initiative, we are looking at building good production practices – referred to as Good Animal Husbandry Practices – at farm and field level to reduce disease burden and hence anti-microbial resistance. To reduce the incidence of vaccine-preventable diseases, we will be organising vaccination drives in critical areas.Vaccination plays an important role in reducing disease and, hence reducing antimicrobial resistance. Under the National Animal Disease Control Programme, animals are vaccinated for FMD and Brucellosis besides other nationwide programmes on PPR and CSF in small ruminants and pigs respectively. As anti-microbial resistance is relevant in several sectors and industries, we are building and initiating awareness programmes to reach the different stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-health-approach-all-about-coordinating-communicating-collaborating-101636435625143.html
09-11-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh govt plans to distribute smartphones, tablets among students||The Uttar Pradesh government plans to distribute smartphones and tablets among students graduating from technical, medical, and nursing institutions as well as those enrolled for skill development programmes, officials aware of the matter said.At a meeting he presided over on Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to prepare a list of those eligible for getting these devices for their distribution by November end.An official spokesman said the modalities for the distribution are being worked out. “We will come out with details for distribution of these devices soon.”Chief secretary R K Tiwari said the devices will make the students digitally empowered and lead to the creation of job opportunities for them.A supplementary budget was earlier presented in the state assembly in August to earmark ₹3,000 crore for procuring the devices for youths and to make them digitally proficient. The government has invited bids to buy 2.5 million smartphones and as many tablets. More procurements were expected to be made.Adityanath earlier last week announced an extension of the scheme for free distribution of rations till Holi (March) in the poll-bound state. He lauded Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his leadership in the fight against Covid-19 and said free ration has been given to 150 million people in the state since 2020. On November 6, cash transfers were made into accounts of parents of the 18 million students of primary and upper primary schools to buy two sets of uniforms, bags, sweaters, shoes and socks.Also Read: RSS plans series of events to instill patriotic fervour in poll-bound UPOpposition Samajwadi Party leader Rajendra Chaudhary said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government was offering freebies in view of the 2022 assembly elections. “The BJP will not be able to win the polls whatever it does.”BJP leader Chandra Mohan said the government has been working for the people’s welfare for five years. “We began with the waiver of farm loans up to ₹1 lakh. The decision for loan waiver was taken at the first meeting of state Cabinet in 2017.”SK Dwivedi, a former political science department head at Lucknow University, said the measures were being implemented to woo the voters. “Other parties are giving assurances to implement them if they win the polls. The BJP is in power and so is taking measures to please the voters now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-plans-to-distribute-smartphones-tablets-among-students-101636435505388.html
09-11-2021||India||UK to recognise Covaxin for inbound travel from November 22||The UK will recognise India’s Covaxin jab as an approved Covid-19 vaccine for inbound travel from November 22, a move that is expected to benefit thousands of travellers from India.Britain on Monday announced that it is adding Covaxin and China’s Sinovac and Sinopharm Beijing vaccines to its list of approved vaccines following their “emergency-use listing” by the World Health Organization (WHO). Around one billion doses of these three Covid-19 vaccines have been delivered worldwide. The WHO issued an emergency-use listing for Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, on November 3 and added the jab to a growing portfolio of vaccines validated by the health body for preventing Covid-19. The listing followed an assessment of the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine and allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval for the jab. The UK began recognising Covishield, the Indian version of the AstraZeneca vaccine, for inbound travel from October 4. Britain also began accepting India’s vaccine certificates from October 11, ending a travel row that had resulted in UK nationals facing mandatory 10-day quarantine on arrival even if they were fully vaccinated. Covishield and Covaxin are the two main vaccines being used for India’s immunisation programme. British high commissioner Alex Ellis tweeted that the new announcement was part of “more good news” for travellers from India to the UK. “From November 22, travellers fully vaccinated with a #COVID19 vaccine recognised by @WHO for Emergency Use Listing, including Covaxin, will not have to self-isolate; so joining those fully vaccinated with Covishield,” he said. In a statement issued on Monday night, the UK government said, “From 4am on Monday, November 22, the government will recognise vaccines on the World Health Organization’s Emergency-Use Listing (WHO EUL).” The statement said, “As a result, Sinovac, Sinopharm Beijing and Covaxin will be added to our list of approved vaccines for inbound travel, benefitting more fully vaccinated people from countries such as the UAE, Malaysia and India.” The UK said passengers who are fully vaccinated and have received their vaccine certificate from one of more than 135 approved countries and territories will no longer be required to take a pre-departure test, another test on the eighth day after their arrival, or self-isolate upon arrival.  “Instead, passengers will just need to pay for a lateral flow test to take before the end of their second day, post-arrival,” the statement said. The UK also further simplified travel rules for all inbound travellers under 18 years, who will now be treated as fully vaccinated at the border and exempt from self-isolation requirements on arrival, day eight testing and pre-departure testing. “They will only be required to take one post-arrival test and a confirmatory free PCR test if they test positive,” the statement said. Britain’s transport secretary Grant Shapps said, “As we continue to recover from the pandemic and expand our recognition of international vaccines, today’s (Monday’s) announcements mark the next step in our restart of international travel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-uk-to-recognise-covaxin-for-inbound-travel-from-november-22-101636434545073.html
09-11-2021||India||Model Film Policy draft soon to promote and make film making easy||Tourism and Information and Broadcasting ministry organised a symposium on Monday to promote film tourism in various states and ease of shooting and clearances for film making. The government will soon come out with a Model Film Policy to address related issues. “14 states have come out with film facilitation policy, and [the] government is planning to come out with a draft Model Film Policy based on some of these policies and circulate to other states too so that they can also adopt that,” Information and Broadcasting secretary Apurva Chandra said. He added that while 18 states were giving incentives for film making, ease of shooting and ease of clearances were “very important” for the industry’s smooth functioning. Chandra also mentioned the Best State Film Friendly Award presented by the President. “It is an invitation to all states to compete for this award, facilitate film shooting and reap benefits of shooting and filming in India,” he said.Tourism secretary Arvind Singh acknowledged the restrictions that impede the film making industry in India . “State governments should consider establishing a film promotion office preferably in the chief minister’s office for timely shooting permissions… There should be a two-pronged approach, one at the policy level by making it procedurally easy for the producers to shoot in India and the other with a promotional effort by making them aware of the vast potential of India as a film shooting destination,” he said.Also Read | UNESCO’s network of creative cities: Srinagar is now newest memberNine states including Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Goa and Maharashtra were present at the symposium to showcase steps taken towards ease of filming as well as shooting destinations within the states.Film tourism helps boost the local economy in various forms, such as employment, hospitality, transportation, skill development and income generation amongst other things. It also has a “multiplier effect on the economy”, stated the press release issued by the ministry of Tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/model-film-policy-draft-soon-to-promote-and-make-film-making-easy-101636434365542.html
09-11-2021||India||Doctor, 2 others arrested for death threats to Mamata’s chief adviser||A 41-year-old doctor at a private medical college in Kolkata and two others were arrested on Monday for allegedly sending death threats through a letter to Alapan Bandopadhyay, the chief adviser to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, last month.“We have arrested three persons including Arindam Sen, the doctor. His driver and a typist were also held. The three will be produced in the court today (Tuesday),” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.The letter sent to Bandopadhyay was among at least seven letters Sen allegedly wrote and were dispatched from a post office in south Kolkata on the same day. The other letters were sent to the director of medical education, principal of a state-run medical college, and senior bureaucrats.“In some cases, he wrote the letters because he had some personal grudges. In some cases, he was influenced by media reports. In one of the letters, sent to the principal of a medical college, he alleged that there would be a doctors’ agitation and two doctors would die,” the police officer said.Also Read: Bengal BJP protest over state fuel tax stopped, told it violates Covid protocolAfter preliminary interrogation, police suspect Sen could have some mental health issues. He is believed to have told the police that he was under stress. Police were trying to find his medical history.Acting on a tip-off, police first arrested Bijoy Kumar Kayal, who allegedly typed the letters on Sen’s instructions, and then his driver, Ramesh Shaw, who dispatched them.“Sen used to send his driver with draft letters to get them typed by Kayal. Finally, Shaw would post the letters. On October 25, he dispatched seven letters through the Sarat Bose Road post office. Further investigation is on,” said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/doctor-2-others-arrested-for-death-threats-to-mamata-s-chief-adviser-101636434185240.html
09-11-2021||India||India logs 10,126 fresh Covid-19 infections and 332 deaths; daily cases lowest in nearly 9 months||India recorded 10,126 fresh infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the lowest in nearly nine months (266 days), as the cumulative infection tally reached 34,377,113, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Tuesday. The country also logged 332 new fatalities, as the toll mounted to 461,389, the ministry said.The new cases mark a fall of 11.6 per cent or 1325 cases from the 11,451 people who tested positive on Monday. Daily deaths, however, rose nearly 25 per cent to 332 from 266 a day ago.Also Read | India logs 11,451 new Covid cases, 266 daily deaths; active caseload lowest in 262 daysTuesday's bulletin also showed that as many as 11,982 more patients--higher than new cases--recovered from the viral illness, taking the total number of discharges to 33,775,086. The number of active cases, meanwhile, declined further to 140,638, sliding by 2188 cases. The active caseload in the country is at its lowest 263 days, the health ministry noted in its statement.Also Read | Majority of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra reported in urban areasOverall, the national recovery rate stands at 98.25 per cent, the highest since March last year. Active cases contribute 0.41 per cent to the overall caseload and, like the recovery rate, are at their highest since March 2020. Deaths, meanwhile, comprise 1.34% of the total tally.The daily and weekly positivity rate were recorded at 0.93 per cent and 1.25 per cent, as both remained below the 2 per cent mark for the 36th and 46th consecutive day, respectively.The cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage topped 1.09 billion as nearly 6 million more beneficiaries were inoculated against the disease. Also, Covaxin, India's first indigenous Covid-19 jab, has been added by the United Kingdom to its list of approved vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-10-126-fresh-covid-19-infections-and-332-deaths-daily-cases-lowest-in-nearly-9-months-101636428682330.html
09-11-2021||India||RSS plans series of events to instill patriotic fervour in poll-bound UP||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s ideological fountainhead, plans a series of events to instill patriotic fervour among the masses in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, functionaries aware of the matter said. The events will be held from November 19, the birth anniversary of Rani Laxmi Bai, who fought the British in India’s first war of independence in 1857, to December 16, the day India celebrates its victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.In the countryside, RSS cadres plan worship of Bharat Mata (Mother India) as part of the organisation’s Swaraj 75 plan to celebrate 75 years of independence. It seeks to create a Diwali-like atmosphere by lighting up earthen lamps and mass recitation of Vande Mataram. The RSS also plans to hold tiranga (tricolour) yatras and street plays.In Lucknow, the RSS plans a gathering of about 100,000 cadres to recite Vande Mataram. Earthen lamps would also be lit. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad and other like-minded organisations will also be associated with the outreach.The RSS plans to hold quiz programmes and competitions in schools and colleges.“The idea is to acquaint our students, our people about the heroes of the freedom struggle, many of them lesser-known,” said RSS functionary Ashok Dubey. “We have been gathering details about them so that the younger generation takes inspiration from such unsung heroes of the freedom movement.”Also Read | Fatehgarh jail violence: Prisoner died due to bullet injury, reveals autopsyThe RSS is expected to compile a booklet on such unknown and unsung heroes.RSS leaders said their cadres will also hold functions across the state to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur, the ninth of the 10 Sikh Gurus. “...the party cadres would make people aware about the life and times of the Guru and his ultimate sacrifice,” said an RSS functionary. “We have it all planned with the tagline Swaraj 75.”The RSS plans a shakha (gathering) in each of the villages before 2025 when the organisation will complete 100 years of its existence. Shakhas that were being held online due to the Covid-19 pandemic are back offline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-plans-series-of-events-in-poll-bound-uttar-pradesh-101636430704788.html
09-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu, coastal Andhra Pradesh to receive heavy rainfall for 3 days||Tamil Nadu and some parts of coastal Andhra Pradesh are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall between November 9 and 11 under the influence of a low pressure system, which is likely to develop over southeast Bay of Bengal in the next 12 hours, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) daily weather forecast. It adds that light to moderate rainfall may persist in the above mentioned region for one more day following the intense downpour. It also predicts light to moderate rainfall over Kerala during the same period. There is a cyclonic circulation over the southeast Bay of Bengal, which is likely to lead to the formation of the low pressure system, which is likely to move northwestwards before it concentrates further into a depression and reaches the coast of Tamil Nadu by early morning on November 11, the weather bulletin states. The low pressure system will lead to rough conditions in the Bay of Bengal and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea off Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh coasts till November 11, according to the bulletin. IMD has also said that the rains under the influence of the system may reduce visibility, lead to traffic jams due to water-logging, and some damage to vulnerable structures. The met department has also suggested restricting recreational activities near the coast. Also Read |Tamil Nadu rain: 4 dead, orange alert issued; cyclonic circulation persistsThe depression over the Arabian Sea, which was moving away from the Indian landmass, has weakened to a low pressure area. Fishermen have still been warned to stay out of the water till Tuesday evening. The forecast also states that the minimum temperatures across the country are unlikely to drop over the next three days. After that, it will gradually drop by 2-3 degree Celsius over the next two days in northwest India and Madhya Pradesh and increase by the same in East India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-coastal-andhra-pradesh-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-for-3-days-101636429984693.html
09-11-2021||India||Short circuit likely cause of MP hospital fire in which 4 infants were killed||A short circuit may have caused the devastating fire at the paediatric critical care unit of Kamla Nehru Hospital in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh's medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said on Monday. Four infants died in the fire incident. Describing the situation of the ward as "very scary", the minister also informed that "there were 40 children in the ward out of which 36 are safe"."We reached the spot along with others soon after getting information about the incident. It was dark inside the ward. We shifted the children to the adjacent ward," news agency PTI quoted Sarang as saying. The blaze reportedly started on the third floor of the hospital, which houses the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). It had broken out at around 9pm on Monday and was brought under control by 10 fire tenders.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has ordered a high-level probe into the incident. The investigation will be done by ACS Public Health and Medical Education principal secretary Mohammad Suleman," Chouhan announced on Twitter. The state government has also announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh to parents of each deceased."The untimely departure of children from the world is unbearable pain. I pray to God for peace to the departed souls. My deepest condolences to the families of the children. I wish speedy recovery for those who were injured in the incident," the chief minister said, condemning the deaths of the children.Meanwhile, angry family members of some infants have alleged that instead of saving the children, the hospital staff fled.Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital is part of Hamidia Hospital, one of the biggest government medical facilities in the state.Former chief minister and leader of opposition Kamal Nath also expressed sadness over the incident and demanded stern action against those responsible. In a tweet, state BJP president Vishnu Dutt Sharma also expressed grief over the incident. He said he was praying for the speedy recovery of those injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/short-circuit-might-have-caused-fire-at-bhopal-hospital-that-killed-4-infants-101636428916730.html
09-11-2021||India||A month and half after Dhalpur violence, Assam evicts 562 families from reserve||Over a month after two people were killed and 18 others injured during an eviction drive in Assam, 562 families were evicted from protected Lumding reserve forest in Hojai district on Monday for allegedly encroaching upon around 500-hectare land.“Nearly half of the Lumding forest was encroached upon over the years by people from Barpeta, Nagaon, and Dhubri districts. We have come to know that they were encouraged by a person called Nazrul,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. “Since 2012, these encroachers have cut nearly half of trees in the forest and started ginger cultivation with an annual turnover of ₹25 crore. Monday’s eviction went peacefully and is a successful one after Garukhuti (in Darrang district). Such drives will continue.”Nearly 1,000 security personnel were deployed for the fresh eviction drive. Elephants, excavators, and bulldozers were used to dismantle houses and other structures in the area.“...we were able to evict 562 families. There was no resistance or opposition as most families had already relocated. Eviction in other areas will continue on Tuesday,” said Hojai deputy commissioner Anupam Choudhury.Nearly 1,410 hectares of the reserve forest have been allegedly encroached upon and the government is planning to evict the squatters in a phased manner. “The eviction is taking place as per a Gauhati high court order to remove illegal squatters from the reserve forest,” said Hojai police superintendent Barun Purkayastha.A 12-year-old boy was among two people killed during the eviction drive at Dhalpur in Darrang district on September 23 to evict families settled for decades on government land. The eviction drive was carried out to make way for a composite community farming scheme. On September 20, 788 families and 48 shops were removed in the first phase of the drive. The two were killed during the second phase of the drive.Also Read: Former Assam chief minister’s son gets bail in bank fraud caseSheikh Farid, the 12-year-old, was on his way back home from the local post office after collecting his Aadhaar card. He was caught in the violence that broke out during the drive.Visuals showing government photographer Bijay Shankar Baniya repeatedly jumping and kicking the apparently lifeless body of Mainul Haque, the other person killed in September, provoked outrage.The government has ordered a judicial inquiry on the violent eviction drive.Opposition leader Debabrata Sakia moved the high court over the use of excessive force. The government has maintained the evicted families were encroachers. The families have insisted they were forced to relocate earlier because of floods and erosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-evicts-562-families-from-reserve-forest-101636429025025.html
09-11-2021||India||10 non-BJP states yet to cut VAT on petrol, diesel. Here’s what they say||After the Centre last week slashed excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10, respectively, all Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states also cut value-added tax (VAT) on fuels. Odisha and Punjab also decided to reduce VAT on fuels, with the latter becoming the only Congress-ruled state to bring down fuel prices.Asked about the need to cut VAT in other Congress-ruled states, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said it’s being considered.“Look at the BJP… for the last two years, they have been saying that [the issue of rising] prices of petrol and diesel have nothing to do with the government. But when they lose a by-election, suddenly the government realises that it can reduce the excise duty on petrol and diesel,” Khera said.Also Read: Contextualising the debate on central and state taxes on petrol and dieselBJP spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal reiterated the party’s position, saying that BJP-ruled states have asked the Congress to “walk the talk” and reduce VAT in the remaining two Congress-ruled states - Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. Here is a list of 10 states that are yet to announce a reduction in VAT on auto fuels:1. Andhra Pradesh The state government led by YS Jagan Mohan Reddy ruled out cutting VAT on petrol and diesel last Sunday and even published advertisements in newspapers clarifying its stand on the issue. The state government said the Centre did not adequately compensate it despite collecting ₹3.35 lakh crore as central excise duty. Petrol costs ₹108.20 in the state.2. Chhattisgarh Even though the Congress-ruled state is yet to announce a decision, reports suggest that it is mulling a move to cut VAT on petrol and diesel after Congress-ruled Punjab went ahead with it.3. New DelhiThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led Delhi government is yet to declare a cut in VAT for fuels. Delhi’s Opposition - comprising the BJP and the Congress - have both demanded an immediate reduction in the taxes. On Saturday, members of New Delhi’s BJP unit protested outside chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence over the Capital’s decision not to announce a reduction in VAT.As of Monday, petrol and diesel in Delhi cost ₹103.97 and ₹86.67, respectively.4. JharkhandLike other non-BJP ruled states, Jharkhand is also yet to make an announcement regarding a cut in fuel taxes. The Opposition BJP and the petroleum dealers’ association have put pressure on the Hemant Soren government, seeking a reduction in VAT.5. Kerala The government led by the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) made it clear on Friday that it has no plans to go for a cut on VAT. Finance minister KN Balagopal argued that the Centre reduced fuel taxes only marginally. Balagopal termed the Centre’s excise duty cuts a “temporary, face-saving measure” in the light of the nationwide protests against rising fuel prices.6. Maharashtra The Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government also announced that it will not reduce VAT on petrol and diesel. It argued that it will have to take a hit of ₹1,700 crore for the period from November 2021 to March 2022 as a result of a cut in Central excise duty. The state, which is saddled with a public debt of over ₹6.15 lakh crore, said it doesn’t have the cushion to handle the impact from a revenue loss as it was already struggling with a mismatch in revenue and expenditure.7. Rajasthan The government in the Congress-ruled state is facing pressure from various quarters to cut VAT on fuels. Despite the Centre’s cuts, Rajasthan still has the country’s costliest petrol and diesel prices. In Jaipur, petrol costs ₹111.06 and diesel sells at ₹95.71. The state itself had been asking the Centre to cut excise duty, arguing that VAT could then subsequently be reduced.8. Tamil Nadu The government led by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)’s M.K Stalin hasn’t announced reductions in VAT on petrol and diesel. All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leaders O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami pointed out that fuel price reduction was part of the DMK’s election manifesto and cited the examples of several other states that have slashed VAT.9. Telangana Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday ruled out a reduction in VAT. The TRS government hasn’t increased the state taxes on fuels since the formation of Telangana seven years ago. The CM also called upon the Centre to withdraw cess on petrol and fuel, which he said will automatically bring down the prices of petrol and diesel further.10. BengalChief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress (TMC) termed the Centre’s decision to slash excise duty a “mere eyewash”. “The BJP-ruled state governments get their dues from the Centre on account of the taxes it levies, but Bengal remains deprived,” TMC general secretary and spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-non-bjp-states-yet-to-cut-vat-on-petrol-diesel-here-s-what-they-say-101636428484516.html
09-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Army looks at threat detection radar along LAC and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army looks at threat detection radar along LACThe army wants a 3D active electronically scanned array radar that has a range of 50km with tactical control of air defence weapons. Read moreKartarpur corridor's second anniversary today, travel remains suspendedThe gurdwara had faced neglect for 70 years after Independence due to its location along the International Border. Read moreEmotions run high as Virat Kohli bids goodbye to Ravi Shastri and Bharat Arun with warm hugs, Social media explodesIndia vs Namibia was Kohli's last match as T20I captain and Shastri, Arun's last day as India's coaching staff members. Read moreAkshay Kumar thinks Katrina Kaif is ready for marriage after she passes this test on The Kapil Sharma Show, watchAkshay Kumar believes his Sooryavanshi co-star Katrina Kaif is ready for marriage after she passed (well, almost) a test about kitchen utensils. Read moreKangana Ranaut's Sabyasachi saree to receive Padma Shri Award wows netizens, say it's surrealKangana Ranaut wows the internet with her stunning look in a bespoke Sabyasachi saree, which she wore for receiving the Padma Shri Award. Read moreModi govt reacts to Pakistan navy killing Indian fisherman off Gujarat coastIndia on Monday summoned a senior diplomat of the Pakistan High Commission and lodged a strong protest. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-army-looks-at-threat-detection-radar-along-lac-and-all-the-latest-news-101636427178006.html
09-11-2021||India||Karnataka issues Covid-19 guidelines for short term travellers from Maharashtra||The Karnataka government has issued fresh guildelines for people coming to the state from Maharashtra for a short stay (two days or less). The new guidelines have been formulated keeping in view the high Covid-19 caseload in Maharashtra.In a statement, the Karnataka government has said that only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed to come to the state from Maharashtra. Anyone with fever, cough cold, throat pain, fever or difficulty in breathing will be stopped at the border, the guidelines said.The travellers from Maharashtra also need to carry their vaccination certificates."The travellers are mandatory to undergo thermal scanning for fever on arrival and carry Covid-19 vaccination certificate for both the two doses," the statement said.Those coming from Maharashtra, including Mumbai, need to wear face masks and follow the Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) throughout their stay in Bengaluru and Karnataka, it added.Maharashtra on Monday reported 751 fresh coronavirus positive cases and 15 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 66,18,347 and the toll to 1,40,403, according to state health department.The number was lower than Sunday's tally when the state recorded 892 infections and 16 deaths due to Covid-19.Maharashtra's case recovery rate now stands at 97.62 per cent. The fatality rate is 2.12 per cent.Mumbai districts reported the highest 206 new infections, followed by the Ahmednagar district with 46 cases.Karnataka, meanwhile, logged 283 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths on Monday, taking the total number of infections to 29,90,235 and the toll to 38,118. Bengaluru Urban topped in the number of cases (159), as the city saw 104 discharges and one death.The total number of active cases in Karnataka is now 7,989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-issues-covid-19-guidelines-for-short-term-travellers-from-maharashtra-101636424398474.html
09-11-2021||India||Kartarpur corridor's second anniversary today, travel remains suspended||Tuesday marks the second anniversary of the opening of the Kartarpur corridor, a visa-free border crossing that connects the Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan to India. The 4.7-kilometre-long corridor was inaugurated on November 9, 2019 to commemorate the 550th Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. It is believed that the Gurudwara Darbar Sahib is the final resting place of Guru Nanak.The gurdwara had faced neglect for 70 years after Independence due to its location along the International Border. The proposal for the Kartarpur corridor was first made in 1999 by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and his Pakistani counterpart Nawaz Sharif. The proposal was part of the Delhi-Lahore bus diplomacy.Before this, Sikh pilgrims from India had to take a bus to Lahore to get to Kartarpur which is an almost 125-kilometre-long journey.Currently, the movement of pilgrims to Pakistan through the Kartarpur corridor has been suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic and the neighbouring country has banned all travel from India citing the surge in cases in April this year. It is shut since March 2020.India had gone ahead with the opening of the corridor last year to respect the sentiments of the Sikh community despite strong misgivings about several steps taken by the Pakistani side, including the imposition of a service fee of $20 on every pilgrim, and security concerns.Following the closure of the corridor in March, Pakistan had offered to reopen it in June. Pakistan has also opened its section of the corridor on the occasion of some Sikh festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kartarpur-corridor-s-second-anniversary-today-travel-remains-suspended-101636422167310.html
09-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu rain: 4 dead, orange alert issued; cyclonic circulation persists | 10 points||Chennai got some relief on Monday from the continuous rain, but many roads and areas in the city are under sheets of water. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast more rain for the city and nearby areas starting Tuesday. Four people have so far been killed in rain related incidents in Tamil Nadu, news agency PTI reported.Also, widespread light to moderate rainfall is very likely over Kerala, south coastal Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu during the next five days, according to IMD forecast.Meanwhile, in Chennai and its suburbs, a section of subways were closed on Monday and traffic diversions were implemented, giving commuters a harrowing time even as civic workers slogged to remove silt and de-clog drains.Here are the latest developments:• The IMD has issued an orange alert for 14 districts, including Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Dindigul, Theni, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli.• In a bulletin on Monday, the weather department has warned of a cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining South Andaman sea. Under its influence, a low pressure area is very likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours, the IMD said.• For the second consecutive day on Monday, chief minister MK Stalin inspected rain-affected areas and distributed flood relief assistance.• Fishermen have been advised to not venture into sea between November 9 and 12.• Southern Railway said due to rains and water-logging, 'Sunday pattern' (minimal services) would be in force on November 9 in Chennai suburban train services in Central-Arakkonam, Central-Sullurpeta (Andhra Pradesh), Beach-Chengelpet and Beach-Velachery sections.• To clear water-logging and inundation of subways, Greater Chennai Corporation has deployed 23,000 personnel. Stalin has appointed 15 IAS officials to monitor relief work in 15 corporation zones.• The heavy rainfall led to disruption in bus services on several routes. The metro train services were not affected.• National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) chief SN Pradhan has said that more than 20 teams will be deployed in Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh by Tuesday in the wake of heavy rain alert. Pradhan said the NDRF's focus is to avoid situations similar to the "urban flooding that took place in 2015-2016 (in Chennai)".• Since the start of northeast monsoon last month, Tamil Nadu has recorded about 43 per cent above normal rainfall.• The IMD has issued a yellow alert for Karnataka, denoting heavy rainfall, in 13 districts till Tuesday. According to IMD statement, heavy rain will be caused by the cyclonic depression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-rain-4-dead-orange-alert-issued-cyclonic-circulation-persists-101636421011365.html
09-11-2021||India||SC issues notice on PIL seeking facilities for victims of domestic violence||The Supreme Court on Monday sought response from the Centre on a plea seeking adequate infrastructure for providing legal aid to women who have faced domestic violence and creating shelter homes for them.“The victims are clueless as to which authority they can approach for counselling or protection due to lack of proper enforcement and dissemination of information to public at large,” the petition filed by organisation ‘We the Women of India’ said.A bench of Justices UU Lalit and Justice S Ravindra Bhat issued notices and sought response from the Centre by December 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-on-pil-seeking-facilities-for-victims-of-domestic-violence-101636420833170.html
09-11-2021||NA||Breaking news: Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar to be next chief of naval staff, reports ANI citing defence ministry||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Fire breaks out on 5th floor of Mohd Umar Palace in Maharashtra's Mumbra, reports ANIFire on Tuesday broke out on the fifth floor of Mohd Umar Palace in Maharashtra's Mumbra, reports news agency ANI. Fire brigades are currently present at the site. No casualties or injuries have been reported yet. Fire fighting operations are underway. More details are awaited.Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar to be next chief of naval staff, reports ANI citing defence ministryVice Admiral R Hari Kumar has been appointed as the next chief of naval staff by the government, reports news agency ANI, citing the union ministry of defence.  He will take over his new office on November 30, ANI further quoted the ministry as saying.Delhi govt deploys 15 boats to remove froth from YamunaThe Delhi government on Tuesday deployed 15 boats to remove the froth in the Yamuna river with the help of ropes. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) conceived the plan and implemented it with the help of the Irrigation Flood Control Department and Revenue Department, news agency PTI cited officials as saying.EU pledges 100 million euros to climate adaptation fund: ReportEU climate policy chief Frans Timmermans pledged on Tuesday 100 million euros ($115 million) to the United Nations adaptation fund, which offers finance to developing countries vulnerable to the impact of climate change, reported Reuters.Bengal declares public holidays on November 10 -11 for Chhath PujaThe West Bengal government has declared public holidays on November 10 and 11 in view of Chhath Puja, reported news agency ANI. The decision has been taken keeping in view of a sizable population of people from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in the state.Rajasthan govt to reduce VAT on petrol, diesel like other states, says CM GehlotRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said his government will reduce a value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel like other states.NCPCR writes to states, UTs recommending fire safety audits in all hospitals for childrenThe National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to chief secretaries of all states/Union territories to recommend fire safety audits for all hospitals/medical colleges/nursing homes having NICU, PICU, SNCU and other medical facilities for children, reported news agency ANI. The commisison has also advised all states and UTs to get the No Objection Certificate (NOC) from fire departments concerned.“District wise compliance report should be arranged for the Commission within 30 days from the date of issue of this letter,” it added.Medical officer, three staff nurses arrested on charges of negligence in Ahmednagar hospital fire caseA woman medical officer and three staff nurses were arrested by the police on the charge of causing death by negligence, three days after eleven Covid-19 patients died in a fire in the ICU of the Ahmednagar civil hospital.Medical officer Dr Vishakha Shinde and staff nurses Sapna Pathare, Asma Shaikh and Channa Anant, were arrested under sections 304 (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 304 A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), said Manoj Patil, Superintendent of Police, Ahmednagar rural police.UP govt issues order that district magistrates can declare public holiday for Chhath Puja on November 10The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday issued an order stating that the District Magistrates can declare public holiday on November 10, in the districts where Chhath Puja is celebrated on a large scale.500 farmers to partcipate in tractor march to Parliament every day during winter session: SKMAt least 500 farmers will participate in a peaceful tractor march to Parliament every day during the Winter Session, news agency PTI quoted farmers' union Samyukta Kisan Morcha as saying.The Cabinet Committee on Parliament Affairs on Monday recommended that the Winter Session of Parliament be held from November 29 to December 23.EU set to approve first Covid-19 antibody drugs: Report The European Union drugs regulator is set to authorise the use of two monoclonal antibodies to treat Covid-19 patients in coming days, Reuters quoted people familiar with the development as saying. The authorisations would come as the bloc faces a new surge in infections and hospitalisations despite high vaccination levels in many countries.CRPF says 112 terrorists killed, 135 apprehended in J&K so far this year, reports ANIThe Central Reserve Police Force on Tuesday said that a total of 13 maoists have been killed, 603 apprehended while 486 surrendered in Left Wing Extremism (LWE) or Naxal-affected areas so far this year, reported news agency ANI. Amit Mitra appointed as princiapl chief advisor to WB CM Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra appointed as principal chief advisor to CM Mamata Banerjee and state finance department, in the rank of Cabinet Minister, reports ANI.Earthquake of magnitude 4.4 hits Himachal's KinnaurAn earthquake of magnitude 4.4 on the richter scale on Tuesday hit Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur at 4:27 pm, National Centre for Seismology confirmed.RBI lifts restrictions on Diners Club International; allows onboarding of new customers, reports PTIThe Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday lifted restrictions on Diners Club International and allowed it to onboard new domestic customers, reported news agency PTI. The restrictions have been lifted with immediate effect, the central bank was quoted as saying in a statement.The RBI had on April 23, 2021, imposed restrictions on Diners Club International Ltd from onboarding new domestic customers onto its card network from May 1, 2021, for non-compliance with the norms on Storage of Payment System Data.2 accused officers sent to 7-day police custody in extortion case against Param Bir Singh, othersTwo accused officers – police inspector Nandkumar Gopale and inspector Asha Korke –  have been sent to seven-day police custody in extortion case against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and others, reported news agency ANI.4 dead in Bihar's Muzaffarpur due to alleged consumption of spurious liquor, reports ANIA total of four deaths have been reported so far, in Kanti, Muzaffarpur, due to alleged consumption of spurious liquor, reported news agency ANI.Nawab Malik says he will reveal Devendra Fadnavis' underworld connection tomorrowMaharashtra cabinet minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday said he will reveal Devendra Fadnavis' underworld connection on Wednesday. Malik also reacted on Fadnavis's claims that he and his family members entered into land deals with people associated with the underworld.“The allegations are baseless. I had no relations with underworld and never purchased land from blast convict," Malik said as he addressed a press conference.“We were tenants of plot, the owner wanted to sell it. We carried out the transaction with the person who had the power of attorney on behalf of the owner,” Malik added. Read more Bengal govt to lift night curfew in Nadia and Hooghly on November 12 and 13West Bengal | Night curfew lifted in Nadia & Hooghly Districts on 12th & 13th November on the occasion of 'Jagadhatri Puja': State Government pic.twitter.com/colh8vegRPNight curfew in Nadia and Hooghly Districts to be lifted on 12th and 13th November on the occasion of Jagadhatri Puja, announces West Bengal govt.‘Nawab Malik has dealings with 1993 Mumbai blast convicts’Nawab Malik has dealings with people from the Underworld, and people convicted in the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts case. He purchased land from convicts of the case on rates cheaper than market rates. Was this deal to save prime land from being forfeited under TADA law?: Devendra Fadnavis, former Maharashtra CM and BJP leaderBhopal fire: MP CM calls for report on fire safety auditI want a report on fire safety audit to know where it happened and where it didn't. Both govt and private hospitals to undergo fire safety audit as well: Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Madhya Pradesh chief ministerCongress delegation stopped outside Bhopal hospitalPolice stop Congress delegation outside Bhopal's Kamla Nahru Hospital where four children died in fire last night.Congress MP seeks extension of PMGKYCongress Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora writes to PM Modi and urges him to extend the deadline of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna beyond November 30, 2021.Tamil Nadu rain: Ex-dy CM Panneerselvam writes to PM ModiFormer Tamil Nadu deputy CM O Panneerselvam writes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to instruct the Union finance ministry to release funds to the State to carry out rescue, relief & rehabilitation operations in view of heavy rainfall in the state.Magnitude 3.8 earthquake near Manipur's ShiruiEarthquake of Magnitude:3.8, Occurred on 09-11-2021, 09:47:22 IST, Lat: 25.45 & Long: 94.93, Depth: 60 Km ,Location: 62km NE of Shirui, Manipur, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/qryvEpY9YF@ndmaindia @Indiametdept pic.twitter.com/b3hxXbtkXsEarthquake of magnitude 3.8 on the Richter scale occurred 62 km northeast of Shirui, Manipur at 9:47am: National Center for Seismology (NCS)House collapses in Mumbai's Antop HillA house collapsed in Antop Hill area. Nine persons rescued and shifted to a hospital; four fire brigade vehicles at the spot: Mumbai Fire Brigade10,126 new Covid-19 cases and 332 deaths in IndiaIndia records 10,126 new Covid-19 cases, 11,982 recoveries and 332 deaths. Total tally reaches 34,377,113 including 33,775,086 recoveries, 461,389 deaths and 140,538 active cases.Air quality in Gurugram ‘very poor’: SAFAROverall air quality in Haryana's Gurugram in 'very poor' category, according to SAFAR-India.Tamil Nadu rain: Schools in Madurai closed todaySchools and colleges will remain closed today due to heavy rainfall in Madurai district: District CollectorDelhi's air quality ‘improves’ to ‘very poor’Delhi's air quality improves to 'very poor' from 'severe' with Air Quality Index (AQI) at 372: System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting & Research (SAFAR)Karnataka issues guidelines for travellers from MaharashtraAccording to the state government, those coming to Karnataka for two days or less should be free from fever, cough cold, throat pain, fever, difficulty in breathing etc. On arrival, they will undergo mandatory for fever, and should have Covid-19 vaccination certificate for both the doses.US-Mexico border reopens after Covid-19 shutdownUS-Mexico border opens for non-essential travel, reopening for the first time in 20 months after being closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-9-2021-101636417424701.html
09-11-2021||India||Focus on joint efforts to combat terror at summit||India will bring together top security officials of seven countries, including Iran and Russia, for a dialogue on Afghanistan aimed at forging a cooperative approach for tackling threats such as terrorism and radicalisation in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover.The Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on November 10, to be chaired by National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, will be attended by Iran’s Supreme National Security Council secretary Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s Security Council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and NSAs or security council secretaries of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.Though this is the first such meeting on Afghanistan to be chaired by India, the dialogue is a continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meets in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were also invited to this week’s meeting but will not be present. Pakistan NSA Moeed Yusuf said earlier this month that he would not attend, and people familiar with the matter said on Monday that the Chinese side had informed India it would be unable to participate because of “scheduling difficulties”. The Chinese side also said it was open to maintaining contacts with India on the situation in Afghanistan through bilateral or multilateral channels, they said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-joint-efforts-to-combat-terror-at-summit-101636417545000.html
09-11-2021||India||Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj posthumously conferred Padma Vibhushan||Former Union ministers Arun Jaitley, Sushma Swaraj and George Fernandes were posthumously conferred the country’s second-highest civilian honour, the Padma Vibhushan, for their distinguished service in a ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan on Monday.Olympic medallist MC Mary Kom, former Mauritius president Anerood Jugnauth, spiritual leader Shri Shri Vishwesha Thleertha Swamiji of Udupi were also honoured with the Padma Vibhushan by President Ram Nath Kovind.“An outstanding parliamentarian and a distinguished lawyer, he made significant contributions in judicial reforms, electoral reforms and progressive social and economic legislations,” Kovind said about Jaitley.The award was received by Jaitley’s wife Sangeeta Jaitley, in the presence of vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and others.“My father Shri Arun Jaitley may no longer be amongst us, but his work and vision will always remain a part of our lives & the lives of millions of Indians. I thank PM Shri @narendramodi ji for honouring his legacy & contribution, by conferring upon him the Padma Vibhushan,” tweeted advocate Rohan Jaitley, Jaitley’s son.Advocate Sonali Jaitley Bakhshi, Jaitley’s daughter, also remembered the late Union minister. “Can’t express the emotions I felt as I sat & watched mom @JaitleySangeeta walk up to the stage to receive Dad @arunjaitley‘s #PadmaVibhushan from the President. We miss Dad so, so much today - but are much happier that India was able to benefit from his life & service!” she tweeted.There were two Padma awards ceremonies held in the morning and evening. Among the awards given away were seven Padma Vibhushan, 16 Padma Bhushan and 118 Padma Shri honours. The Padma Vibhushan is awarded for exceptional and distinguished service, Padma Bhushan for distinguished service of high order and Padma Shri for distinguished service in any field.President Kovind termed Fernandes a “champion of the poor”. The award was received by the late minister’s wife Leila Kabir.Kovind said Swaraj was a visionary leader, deeply rooted in Indian traditions. She “embodied the empowerment of women and was a woman of many firsts,” Kovind said in another tweet. The award was received by Swaraj’s daughter, advocate Bansuri Swaraj. Classical singer Chhannulal Mishra was also conferred the honour.Former defence minister Manohar Parrikar (posthumous), who had also served as chief minister of Goa, chairman of Mahindra Group Anand Mahindra, chairman of Sundaram-Clayton Group, Venu Srinivasan, former Nagaland chief minister of Nagaland, S C Jamir, were among those given Padma Bhushan.Badminton star PV Sindhu, Kashmiri leader Muzaffar Baig, Tsering Landol, the first gynaecologist from Leh, bilingual author Manoj Das (posthumous), activist Krishnammal Jagannathan also received the Padma Bhushan. Bollywood star Kangana Ranaut, director Karan Johar, producer Ekta Kapoor, senior professor at PGIMER, Chandigarh, Digambar Behera, dance exponent Indira PP Bora were among those conferred the Padma Shri.Kovind presented Padma Shri to Harekala Hajabba, an orange vendor in Mangalore who saved money to build a school in his village and Mohammad Shareef, a cycle mechanic turned social worker who performed last rites of unclaimed dead bodies.Captain of the Indian hockey team Rani Rampal and leading Indian epidemiologist Raman Gangakhedkar were also among those who received the Padma Shri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arun-jaitley-sushma-swaraj-posthumously-conferred-padma-vibhushan-101636415756180.html
09-11-2021||India||Chennai gets some relief from rain but parts of city continue to be inundated||The intensity of rainfall reduced in Chennai on Monday, but the city continued to be inundated even as civic authorities used motor pumps in more than 600 locations to clear roads.“Rainfall has been comparatively lower today,” commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation, Gagandeep Singh Bedi said. “377 locations were waterlogged. Now only 177 places are stagnated.”Bedi further said that as many as 1288 people living in low-lying and flood-prone areas have been shifted to shelters operated by the corporation. Around 169 shelters have been readied, and 58 of them are currently occupied. More than 700,000 food packets have been distributed to flood-affected people. The city’s 1913 helpline received more than 1500 calls of complaints.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted very heavy rainfall for 14 districts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, in the next 48-hours. Another low pressure is likely to form in the Bay of Bengal and reach north Tamil Nadu on November 11, the IMD said.The Meteorological department in a bulletin said that the cyclonic circulation over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining the south Andaman sea, extending up to 5.8 kilometres above the mean sea level, persists. “Under its influence, a low-pressure area is very likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours. It is likely to move west–northwestwards, concentrate into a depression and reach near north Tamil Nadu coast by November 11, early morning and bring widespread rainfall in several regions of the state,” the bulletin said.The government appointed five senior bureaucrats as nodal officers to monitor relief in Chennai and Chengalpattu as the state braces for severe rainfall in the coming days. The civic body deployed 23,000 personnel to help with rain-related work and restore normalcy. Around 200 special monsoon medical camps were held, in which 3,776 people received medical assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-gets-some-relief-from-rain-but-parts-of-city-continue-to-be-inundated-101636413363980.html
09-11-2021||India||CRPF jawan kills 4, injures 3 colleagues in Chhattisgarh||Four CRPF personnel were killed and three others injured after one of their colleagues opened fire at them at a camp of the paramilitary force in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district on Monday, a police official said, the fifth such instance of fratricide in the state since 2019. The total toll, including Monday’s, is 15.Police said that the incident occurred at around 3:30 am in the camp of CRPF’s 50th battalion in Lingampalli village of Sukma district of Bastar region.“The CRPF constable Reetesh Ranjan opened fire on his friends with his AK-47 service weapon in which seven CRPF personnel were injured. Two jawans died on the spot while five of the injured were shifted to a hospital in nearby Bhadrachalam in Telangana where doctors declared two of them dead. The condition of the other three is stable,” said Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P.Police said that the deceased constables were Rajmani Kumar Yadav, Rajib Mondal, Dhanji and Dharmendra Kumar while those injured were Dhananjay Kumar Singh, Dharmatma Kumar and Malay Ranjan Maharana.Superintendent of Police, Sukma, Sunil Sharma, said that the accused has been arrested and is being questioned.“Preliminary investigation suggests that a few days ago, Ranjan got offended with jokes cracked by the jawans (he killed) and nurtured a grudge. On Monday morning, Ranjan, on sentry duty, came to the barracks and opened fire with his AK-47, injuring seven people. Other jawans overpowered him after the incident and handed him over to the police,” said Sharma adding that exact reason behind the incident is being probed.“Because there are fewer mobile towers in Sukma and other nearby districts, there is lack of communication between a jawan and his family, which is also a reason behind taking these extreme steps. The government in 2018 started a Sapandan Campaign to contain these incidents but nothing concrete has been done,” said an IPS officer who asked not to be named.Under the Sapandan Campaign, Yoga training, weapon handling and outdoor sports were made mandatory.Another senior officer claimed that suicides and fratricides in Bastar are also caused by difficulty in getting leave sanctioned and homesickness. “Chhattisgarh police records broadly categorise 50% of the suicides as having been caused by personal and, or family reasons, 11% on account of illness, 8% as work-related, and 13% under other reasons.The remaining 18% continue to be under investigation,” added this officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpfjawan-kills-4-injures-3-colleagues-in-chhattisgarh-101636410677551.html
09-11-2021||India||Was a stop-gap arrangement, says SC on plea to continue virtual hearing in HCs||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday decided to hear in December a petition challenging discontinuation of the virtual hearing mode by high courts, which are gradually resuming to full-fledged physical hearing of cases.Listing the petition filed by All India Association of Jurists on December 6, the bench of justices L Nageswar Rao and AS Oka said, “We are also opening up now. Let us open fully and then we can hear the petition.”Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra who appeared for the petitioner body which said it represents 5,000 lawyers practising across the country said that there was urgency in the matter as several high courts were closing the option of the virtual court hearing. He cited the example of high court of Madhya Pradesh which it said, was the latest high court to stop virtual hearings Similar orders were passed earlier by the high courts of Uttarakhand and Gujarat.On September 6, the top court issued notice on this petition but the matter could not be taken up since.Luthra said, “By the time this court opens up fully for physical hearing, this petition will become infructuous. This raises a fundamental issue of access to cheap, affordable justice as litigants can participate in the proceedings.”The bench said there was access to justice for the past 70 years without virtual hearings and the virtual hearing was meant to be a stop-gap arrangement for courts to function during the pandemic. “Continuation of courts virtually will be a problem as completing even 30 matters is becoming difficult. During physical hearings, we managed to dispose of over 65 matters in a day.”In addition, the bench pointed out that it was good to see senior lawyers appearing in person and making arguments than appearing on screen. “Your arguments are more effective when you appear physically than on the screen.” The court added that the fundamental rights of litigants matter more than lawyers who are representing the petition for a continuation of the virtual hearing mode.This is not the only petition for continuing with virtual court proceedings that the top court is hearing. On October 8, the top court issued notice on a petition filed by ex-CIC Shailesh Gandhi, former Mumbai police commissioner Julio Ribeiro and the National Federation of Societies for Fast Justice.This petition sought a direction from the top court barring high courts from discontinuing the virtual hearing of cases. While dealing with the matter, the court clarified that virtual courts cannot become a norm.At the Supreme Court, physical hearing of cases was made mandatory on Wednesdays and Thursdays but this was objected to by senior counsels led by Kapil Sibal. Following deliberations, the top court amended its standard operating procedure (SOP) issued on October 7 giving judges the discretion to allow lawyers to address arguments virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-a-stop-gap-arrangement-says-sc-on-plea-to-continue-virtual-hearing-in-hcs-101636403401888.html
09-11-2021||India||Supreme Court gives Centre more time to respond to petition on vaccine||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday gave the Centre more time to file its response to a petition seeking a direction against compulsory vaccination mandates and transparency of data on clinical trials conducted for Covid vaccines.The issue is pending in court since August 9 when a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose issued notice to the Centre on a petition filed by Jacob Pulayil, a former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization – the apex body on immunization.On Monday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta appeared for the Centre and sought time to file a response. He said, “The petitioner wants a mandate that Covid vaccine should not be administered. I wonder what kind of interests he represents. Let the country go the way it is going.”Pulayil was represented in Court by advocate Prashant Bhushan who pointed out that many persons were losing jobs due to the insistence on vaccination by government and public institutions.Mehta told the court that he received instructions from the government for filing a response considering the nature of prayers sought. The bench accepted the request and posted the matter for hearing on November 29.Earlier, while issuing notice on the petition, the bench cautioned that its decision to entertain the petition should not be construed as a signal on the safety of vaccines.The petition demanded the government and the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to provide segregated data for each of the phases of clinical trials undertaken with regard to the Covid vaccines administered in India. Vaccine manufacturers, Covaxin producer Bharat Biotech and Covishield producer Serum Institute of India were also named as respondents in the petition.The petition raised a legal issue on the personal autonomy of citizens and the balance to be struck between the right to livelihood and the right to public health. On August 9, the bench said, “We cannot take responsibility of passing any order which can increase the number of casualties or endanger public health.”The court, while issuing notice on the petition, was conscious of vaccine hesitancy in rural areas and said, “Our apprehension is that a detailed enquiry into this issue will amount to throwing a spanner into what already exists leading to more doubts.”The petition claimed that the emergency use authorization to the two vaccines was given in clear violation of the basic norms of scientific disclosures and the guidelines with respect to the disclosure of clinical trial data, laid down by the World Health Organization (WHO) and followed by the ICMR.It also quoted the Helsinki Declaration of 2013 on Ethical Principles for Medical Research involving Human Subject adopted by the World Medical Association which casts a duty on researchers to publicly disclose all negative, inconclusive and positive results of their research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-gives-centre-more-time-to-respond-to-petition-on-vaccine-101636402387361.html
09-11-2021||India||Fatehgarh jail violence: Prisoner died due to bullet injury, reveals autopsy||The post-mortem examination on the body of prisoner Shivam who died in Fatehgarh district jail has revealed the death was caused by a bullet injury, a doctor and police officer familiar with the matter said on Monday.The prison inmate died late Sunday night after getting injured in violence that broke out inside the district jail.Police had denied firing on the prisoners to bring the situation under control. SSP Fatehgarh Ashok Meena had categorically denied police firing and maintained that the police would look into the reasons that led to Shivam’s death.The post-mortem report showed that the bullet was found lodged in the left side of the waist area, said the doctor and police officer privy to the findings.“He died of the bullet wound. The bullet ruptured the vital organs, and there was excessive loss of blood,” they said.Director general, prisons, Anand Kumar, visited the Fatehgarh jail on Monday. Asked about Shivam’s death due to a bullet injury, he said he hadn’t seen the post-mortem report yet, but the fact had been brought to his knowledge.“I haven’t seen the autopsy report. Yes, it has (Shivam died of a bullet injury) been brought to my knowledge. We are looking into it,” he told reporters.The prisoners had taken control of the prison for more than three hours on Sunday after a convict, Sandip Yadav, died of dengue in the hospital. His death led to a series of violent protests, with inmates alleging that Yadav was not given proper and timely treatment.In the violence that ensued, one prisoner was killed and three others, along with 30 policemen, were injured. The prisoners set the jail hospital and four other places on fire. Police suspect that the violence was a cover for a jailbreak planned by some hardcore criminals.Yadav, whose death triggered the violence, had written to the district magistrate, Farrukhabad, on October 24 alleging that he was not being given proper treatment by the jail authorities. Apart from Yadav, the letter was signed by 15 other jail inmates supporting his contention of being maltreated. Yadav said he was unwell since October 18, but all he was getting was one tablet a day. A copy of the letter is with HT.In addition, Yadav said when he complained to the jailor and the deputy jailor, he was threatened. He demanded that he be treated by a doctor at the district hospital. DG, prisons, Kumar said a three-member inquiry team was formed to look into lapses on the part of the jail administration. “It will not be appropriate at this point of time to make any further comment,” he said, adding that action would be taken against jail staff and officials if found guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatehgarh-jail-violence-prisoner-died-due-to-bullet-injury-reveals-autopsy-101636400821716.html
09-11-2021||India||Cost of electric vehicles will be on a par with petrol variants in 2 years: Nitin Gadkari||New Delhi: Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said that the cost of electric vehicles (EV) in India will drop to the level of petrol vehicles in the next two years.“Within two years, the cost of EVs will come down to a level that will be at par with their petrol variants. Already GST is only 5% on EVs and the cost of lithium ion batteries is also declining. Besides, the government has already framed a policy allowing petrol pumps to set up EV charging stations. In two years there will be a lot charging points across India as well,” Gadkari said at a webinar, organised by The Sustainability Foundation, Denmark, on accelerating the phasing out of coal and switching to electric vehicles, in the national capital on Sunday evening. “Electric mobility is gaining good momentum in the country. There is no artificial push required. The per kilometre cost of petrol-based vehicle is ₹10, that of diesel is ₹7/km, whereas for EVs, it is ₹1/km,” he said.This is significant because by 2030, India has set a target of 30% EV sales penetration for private cars, 70% for commercial vehicles, 40% for buses and 80% for two- and three-wheelers. At present, only about 2-3 e-car variants cost below ₹15 lakh in the country. The cost of two-wheelers and three-wheelers have already almost come at par with the existing petrol after factoring in the subsidies. Gadkari further said that a potential pilot project is being planned to install an electric highway system in the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway which can be electrified using abundant solar power energy in the region. Apart from this, the government also plans to set up charging points at fuel stations. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has chalked out a plan to install at least 700 EV charging stations across its major highways in the country by 2023. These will be spread across a range of 40-60kms. The Union minister said that the central government is also focusing on ensuring that EV charging stations get their electricity from renewable sources. The government will also soon launch the country’s fully electric tractor, the minister added. This comes months after Gadkari introduced the country’s first-ever tractor run on CNG in February this year. “There is no benefit in producing coal based electricity. Our attention is now on renewable sources such as solar, tidal, wind energy and biomass. Domestic EV charging can be fulfilled through rooftop solar system. The average retail electricity charge across the country is as high as ₹7-8 kWh, that of backup power with diesel generator sets is as high as ₹20/kwh. Meanwhile, solar power is less than ₹2/kwh today. So, rooftop solar system can address the twin problem of high electricity cost and grid reliability,” he said.At present, India has world’s fourth largest renewable energy capacity at 145 GW. Gadkari said domestic EV charging through solar PV cells, panel system at homes, malls, parking lots and offices would make EVs more affordable and adaptable. The country has seen an increased demand for small battery operated vehicles such as e-scooters, e-carts, e-autos, e-bicycles in the past two years, Gadkari said.Electric two-wheeler and electric car sales have seen a rise of 145% and 190% respectively when compared to the pre-Covid period, he said. India has the potential to become an exporter in these two segments of EVs, the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cost-of-electric-vehicles-will-be-on-a-par-with-petrol-variants-in-2-years-nitin-gadkari-101636400406139.html
09-11-2021||India||Madras high court quashes defamation case against DMK MP Kanimozhi||The Madras high court on Monday quashed a criminal defamation case filed against DMK MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi for allegedly accusing former Tamil Nadu minister Edappadi Palaniswami of corruption during the AIADMK regime. In 2018, Kanimozhi had participated in a DMK-led protest in Villupuram where she criticised the then chief minister Palaniswami. The DMK, which formed the government in May, was then the opposition party. A defamation case was filed against Kanimozhi in Villupuram district court under Section 499 of Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860) punishable under Section 500 of the IPC, following which she approached the high court and filed a quash petition in 2019. In her petition, she stated that she was misquoted and that a complaint was filed against her based on hearsay of two witnesses who attended her speech. She had listed the “gross failures of the government, its corruption and non-adherence to poll promises,” in her speech, Kanimozhi stated in her affidavit. She added that no public servant has absolute immunity and gets protection against criticism from the opposition or public.“Mr Palaniswami filed a criminal complaint through the Public Prosecutor,” said DMK Rajya Sabha MP and senior advocate P Wilson, appearing for Kanimozhi. He argued that the Public Prosecutor’s office was being misused and abused by the AIADMK to file cases against the opposition for political gains. “There can’t be protection from defamation in case of corruption, and the state cannot defend the corrupt chief minister through its resources, time and machinery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-quashes-defamation-case-against-dmk-mp-kanimozhi-101636400283515.html
09-11-2021||India||Din in Kerala house on Mullaperiyar tree felling order||The Kerala assembly on Monday witnessed a huge protest against the CPI (M)-led government’s decision to allow Tamil Nadu to cut trees near the Baby dam in Mullaperiyar, which was later revoked, with the Congress-led Opposition seeking a judicial inquiry into the ‘flip-flop’ and a response from chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Moving an adjournment motion, Kerala Congress leader Thiruvanchur Radhakrishnan said it was a serious issue and asked how the officials issued the permission without the notice of the government. He further said the government had frozen the controversial order, but was yet to cancel it, which points towards a conspiracy. Vijayan continued his silence and left it to state forest minister A K Saseendran to defend the government’s decision and the revocation later. The minister reiterated that it was a lapse on the part of some forest officials, and they will be dealt with firmly. “There is no change in the government’s position on Mullaperiyar – safety for Kerala and water for Tamil Nadu. The state assembly had passed a unanimous resolution in 2014 on this, and there is no dilution,” said Saseendran. The minister also said the government was inquiring into circumstances that led to the issue of such an order and assured agitated members that action will be taken against responsible officers. He explained that it came to the notice of the government only after Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin sent a letter to Vijayan thanking him for the permission. In response, opposition leader V D Satheesan said the government was making officials a scapegoat to get away from severe embarrassment. “Even a small child knows it well that an official can’t issue such an order without the knowledge of the political leadership. The government is trying to hide its lapses, and we need a judicial inquiry into this,” he said. “This will not happen without the knowledge of the CM. He has to shed his silence,” said BJP state president K Surendran.However, Speaker M B Rajesh ruled that since the minister explained the position, there was no need for an adjournment motion. Angry opposition members later staged a walkout raising slogans that the government sacrificed the state’s interests. Two neighbouring states have been fighting over the 126-year-old dam for more than two decades. The issue came to light again after torrential rains claimed many lives in the Idukki district last month. Tamil Nadu said it was routine for Kerala to trigger panic, but the latter cited unusual rain patterns and recurring calamities in the state to prove its point. Political parties on both sides have whipped up the emotional issue unmindful of panic triggered downstream of the dam. The dam is built in the Periyar river inside the Periyar tiger reserve. Its water is diverted to the Suruliyar river, a tributary of the Vaigai river, a source of agriculture and drinking water in five districts of southern Tamil Nadu. Besides this, Tamil Nadu takes water through huge penstock pipes and underground tunnels. Though the Mullaperiyar dam is in Kerala, it is controlled and operated by Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/din-in-kerala-house-on-mullaperiyar-tree-felling-order-101636400223628.html
09-11-2021||India||MLC polls in Andhra, Telangana likely on Nov 29||The Election Commission on Monday said the notification for the conduct of elections to six seats in the Telangana state legislative council and three in the Andhra Pradesh legislative council under the state legislature quota will be issued on Tuesday. According to the schedule announced by the EC, the filing of nominations will commence on Tuesday, and the last date for the same will be November 16. The scrutiny of nominations will be held on November 17, and the last date for withdrawal of nominations is November 22. The polling, if required, will be held on November 29 from 9 am to 4 pm; and the counting of votes will take place on the same day from 5 pm. The vacancies in the two-state legislative councils have arisen due to the completion of the term of the sitting MLCs. In Andhra Pradesh, the term of three MLCs – Chinna Govinda Reddy Devasani (YSR Congress party), Mohammed Ahmed Shariff (Telugu Desam Party) and Somu Veerraju (Bharatiya Janata Party) – ended on May 31 last. Similarly, the term of six MLCs in Telangana -- Akula Lalitha, Mohammed Fareeduddin, Gutha Sukender Reddy, Vidyasagar Nethi, Venkateshwartu Rodakunti and Kadiyam Srihari (all Telangana Rashtra Samithi) – came to an end on June 3. The elections, supposed to be held in May, were postponed due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The EC said it would take up the election after the pandemic situation significantly improves and conditions become conducive to hold above mentioned biennial elections. These MLCs have to be elected by the members of the state legislative assembly (MLAs). The YSRCP in Andhra Pradesh and the TRS in Telangana are expected to win the seats, as they have sufficient MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlcpolls-in-andhra-telangana-likely-on-nov-29-101636400221542.html
09-11-2021||India||Digital University Act, 2021 comes into effect in Kerala||Setting a major milestone in the path towards digital transformation of Kerala economy, the Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology Act, 2021 has come into effect.Governor Arif Mohammad Khan has signed the Bill which was unanimously passed by the Kerala Legislative Assembly last month, a varsity statement said here.The Act intended to establish and incorporate a non-affiliating research and teaching university in Kerala to facilitate and promote studies, research, incubation and knowledge extension work in Digital Technologies and its application domains.The transformation of Indian Institute of Information Technology and Management-Kerala (IIITM-K) to the Digital University Kerala has been accomplished with the introduction of the Act, it said.The Governor’s address in January 22, 2018, has first announced the government’s plan to upgrade IIITM-K as a prominent centre for research and education in the field of latest technologies.This was also announced in the budget speech in February 2018. Following this, Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology ordinance was published in January, 2020.To address the growing demand of skilled candidates for the fourth industrial revolution, the state government had officially inaugurated DUK at the Technocity campus in February this year.With a strong innovation cluster, latest facilities and renowned faculty, the Digital University Kerala has started admissions to its master programmes in cutting edge technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cyber Security, Internet of Things etc, it said.The DUK has AICTE-approved MTech courses and MSc course and PhD programmes approved by UGC.The courses are conducted under its five schools - School of Computer Science and Engineering, Electronic Systems and Automation, Informatics, Digital Sciences and Digital Humanities and Liberal Arts.It has a range of innovation centres and centres of excellence such as Maker Village, Kerala Blockchain Academy, Centre of Excellence in Intelligent IoT sensors, thingQbator etc.The courses of DUK are designed to give students the opportunity to understand and identify real world problems and find solutions through innovations, the statement added.The DUK campus at Technocity is equipped with state-of-the –art labs and residential facilities for students||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/digital-university-act-2021-comes-into-effect-in-kerala-101636400163831.html
09-11-2021||India||KCR: BJP government’s strategy is to brand its critics ‘anti-nationals’||Telangana Rashtra Samithi president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Narendra Modi government of branding all those who opposed its policies as “Desh Drohis” (anti-nationals).Addressing a late evening press conference for the second consecutive day, the chief minister alleged that the Centre was systematically targeting its opponents by calling them “anti-nationals or Urban Naxals”. “If they are the political rivals of the BJP, the Centre would unleash its agencies like the Income Tax department or the Enforcement Directorate to harass them,” he said.KCR was referring to the statement of Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay calling the chief minister a “Desh Drohi” for pointing out the inaction of the Central government when China was building villages on the borders of Arunachal Pradesh.“How can I be called a Desh Drohi for pointing out the illegal occupation of our territories by China and calling for an appropriate action by the Central government?” he asked.He alleged that even the farmers who were agitating against the draconian farm laws were branded as anti-nationals. KCR pointed out that even Meghalaya Governor Satyapal Malik and BJP MP Varun Gandhi extended support to the agitating farmers. “Will they, too, be called Desh Drohis?” he questioned.The chief minister took exception to the state BJP president’s comment that he would soon be thrown behind the bars. “I am not scared of such threats. You can’t do anything to me, as I don’t have businesses and illegally-amassed wealth, nor am I indulging in any money laundering. If you try to intimidate me, it will only boomerang on you,” he said.Accusing the Centre of cheating Telangana farmers by refusing to buy paddy this season, KCR declared that his party would organise massive protest dharnas across the state on Friday, demanding that the Centre purchase all the paddy from Telangana, as it was doing in Punjab.“If the state BJP leaders have any love for farmers, they should join us in the protests against the Centre,” he said.The chief minister further said his party would also take up protest demonstrations demanding that the Centre withdraw cess being collected on petrol and diesel.The BJP is yet to respond to KCR’s comments.Meanwhile, following KCR’s suit, the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh, too, demanded the Centre to either withdraw cess on petrol and diesel or share the proceeds of the cess with the states before asking them to reduce the VAT.Advisor to the state government on public affairs Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said the relief given by the Centre in the form of reducing the fuel prices by ₹5 on petrol and ₹10 on diesel was very insignificant compared to what it had collected in the form of cess.“It is like increasing the prices of a product abnormally and later announcing a marginal discount for the consumers,” he said.He said the Centre had so far collected nearly ₹3.60 lakh crore from fuel prices, of which nearly ₹3.13 lakh crore was pocketed by it in the form of cess. Only ₹ 47,500 crores were collected in the form of excise duty, of which only ₹19,475 crores was shared with the states in the form of tax devolution, he pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kcr-bjp-government-s-strategy-is-to-brand-its-critics-antinationals-101636400161924.html
09-11-2021||India||Expansion a major cause of flooding in Chennai: Experts||Even as the heavy rainfall, lashing Chennai and its neighbouring districts since Saturday, subsided on Monday, experts said flooding would remain a perennial problem in the city due to its expansion taking over natural water drainage systems and flood plains.Most of the roads and bylanes in city are covered under sheets of water while there was water up to two feet in low lying localities. Overnight, Chennai recorded 21 cm of rainfall between November 6 and 7, causing severe inundation. This was the city’s highest single-day rainfall for November since 2015. The intensity of the rains reduced on Monday, with Chennai’s Nungambakkam station registering 14.5 mm of rainfall up to 5.30 p.m.Following the floods in 2015, the state as well as the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) in their budgets had announced several projects to improve the stormwater drain network. Chennai corporation in its 2016-17 budget allocated ₹415 crores for the drainage system.Between October 2011 and June 2016, the corporation laid around 565 km of new drains. Chennai, as of today, has 2,071 km of stormwater drain network. Civic authorities at that time had also found that a crucial factor that links the drain network was largely either absent or broken, officials said.‘Missing links’ were identified for 33 locations in Chennai’s central city and 278 locations in the extended areas, they added. Projects to build drains and links receive funding from the World Bank, Asian Development Bank and German-based KfW bank to the tune of more than ₹5,000 crores, spanning across the past few years, they said.A massive integrated stormwater drain network project announced in 2014 by the city corporation to connect them to the four river basins Adyar, Cooum, Kosasthalaiyar, and Kovalam is still in progress.The area under the Chennai Corporation was expanded from 176 sq km to 426 sq km in 2011, following which the basic road infrastructure for extended areas is still not in place. Based on topography, the corporation and the Public Works Department have divided Chennai into four watershed basins, comprising 12 major catchments. Work for about 406 km of drains for the basins in Adyar and Cooum combined was completed last year and civic officials say that this has helped decrease flooding in the south and central parts of Chennai in the present rains.“In 2015, water was stagnant in localities such as Valasaravakkam for a week. Due to the new drains, there has been no stagnation,” said a senior civic official not wishing to be named.The work includes the building of collector drains, feeder drains, arterial drains and macro and major micro canals to prevent flooding. Work is ongoing in the ISWD network to cover 763km for Kosasthalaiyar Basin in north Chennai and 360-km for Kovalam in the south. “It will take two years to complete,” the civic official said.“The ISWDs are designed in a scientific way to prevent a worst-case scenario, like the 2015 floods.” In 2015, the local body had identified 588 spots where flooding probability was high. However, after the unprecedented rainfall and flooding, the corporation revised this number to around 820.The coastal city of Chennai is essentially a flat terrain dotted with wetlands where excess water can drain into, but it has been occupied for residential, commercial and industrial projects. A study by Chennai-based biodiversity research organisation Earth Trust states that only 15% of the city’s wetlands are left. Their findings show that Chennai’s built-up area grew from 47 sq km in 1980 to 402 sq km in 2012 - while the area under wetlands declined from 186 sq km to 71sq km during the same period. The study also found that most of the water bodies affected were in the southern and western suburbs.This can be attributed to the Information Technology boom in Chennai in the 1990s where IT parks came up in the south which was accompanied by increased residential projects.“Due to overall dense urbanisation where there is too much concrete and tar and no natural buffers like lakes and open spaces, rainwater can’t move anywhere so it stagnates,” said Raj Bhagat, senior manager, GeoAnalytics, World Resources Institute-India.“Chennai’s terrain is close to the sea level, so you require larger conduits. The stormwater drains are not scientifically designed according to rainfall data though officials may claim that. So when there are no natural buffers and inadequate road infrastructure, Chennai will continue to flood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expansion-a-major-cause-of-flooding-in-chennaiexperts-101636400105508.html
09-11-2021||India||List reasons for not including diesel, petrol under GST, Kerala high court asks council||The Kerala high court on Monday asked the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council why petroleum products can’t come under the GST and directed it to file a reply in ten days. Hearing public interest litigation (PIL), a division bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly directed the GST Council to explain reasons for not including petrol and diesel within the ambit of GST. The PIL was filed by Kerala Pradesh Gandhi Darshanvadi, a voluntary organization. Its counsel Arun B Varghese contended that the price of petrol and diesel vary in different states according to the tax levied by them and sought a uniform tax regime for petroleum products. The petition also cited that though the Union and state governments plead helplessness in this citing, petroleum marketing companies enthusiastically participated in the reduction of fuel price before elections. “Now different rates are being charged in different states and same is due to a different rate of tax levied by the state governments under their fragmented taxing policies. This impedes harmonised national market as contemplated under Article 279(A) 6 of the constitution,” the PIL said. It also said the state and central taxes account for at least 60 per cent of the price of one-litre fuel. If petrol and diesel are brought under the GST, there will be a harmonious market throughout the nation and the maximum tax rate will be 28%, it said, adding that even people who are not direct consumers of fuel are affected by the unprecedented price hike. “A welfare state must be the one where everyone is in a position to bear expenses of basic amenities. The unprecedented hike in fuel prices push the public to immense hardships by which their right to life guaranteed under Article 21 is violated,” the petition said. Respondents in the PIL are the Union of India, Kerala government, petroleum secretary, Goods and Service Tax Council and three major oil companies. The Centre and GST Council can’t argue that if the fuel was included in the GST it would have serious implications on revenue collection. A constitutional duty was cast upon the GST Council to make a serious recommendation to include both (petrol and diesel) under the GST, the PIL said. “To declare the non-inclusion of petrol and diesel under the GST regime are violative of the Article 14 and 21 of the constitution.” The PIL was first filed in July but it was withdrawn later after the court pointed out some glitches and they were corrected in the new one which was readily admitted by the court, said the counsel. Earlier the counsel for both union and state governments opposed the PIL, saying the fuel price regime was part of a policy decision and the judiciary can’t intervene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-reasons-for-not-including-diesel-petrol-under-gst-kerala-high-court-asks-council-101636400103858.html
09-11-2021||India||Criminal justice system is reform-oriented: Supreme Court||The criminal justice system in India is reform-oriented and does not seek to punish criminals, said the Supreme Court while directing the Uttar Pradesh government to consider afresh the premature release pleas of more than 100 life convicts languishing in jail for over 16 years.“The idea of punishment has to be reformative,” the bench said, adding, “We do not want to punish persons. They must be reformed and sent back to society. Any policy must consider this aspect of reformation in it,” said a bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari while dealing with a petition filed by 113 life convicts from Uttar Pradesh for premature release.The petition by convicts filed earlier this year relied on a premature release policy issued on August 1, 2018, by the state under the UP Prisoners’ Release on Probation Act. Every year, on Republic Day, the state granted remission to prisoners under Article 161, the governor’s power of clemency. In January 2020, the petitioners became entitled to premature release as they had completed a minimum of 16 years of imprisonment under the 2018 policy. But they did not figure in the list of prisoners released in 2020 and 2021. On July 28, 2021, an amendment to the 2018 policy was made, restricting the benefit to prisoners aged 60 years and above. The same was to apply retrospectively.Not happy with the state’s amended policy, the bench said on Monday, “We are of the view that that the un-amended policy dated August 1, 2018, should be applicable to the petitioners.” The court directed the state to consider or even reconsider the premature release of the petitioners within six weeks.The convicts, all lodged at Bareilly Jail, represented by senior advocate ZU Khan and advocate Anu Gupta submitted to the apex court that the amended policy should not be applied retrospectively as the 113 convicts became eligible for release before the coming of the amendment. Gupta said that all the convicts are either young or middle-aged and are bound to be disqualified if the age bar of 60 years is to be applied in their case. Further, they argued that it amounted to discrimination as a 45-year-old person who commits murder will get premature release as compared to a relatively younger convict who is in jail for a similar offence.The bench said, “Suppose a person is convicted for murder at the age of 20, should he wait for another 40 years to be eligible for premature release? Then what is the purpose of calling it premature release? During this time, if he studies or secures a PhD, what is the harm if he wishes to become a teacher?”The state argued through additional advocate general Garima Prashad that no convict has an absolute right to premature release on the completion of 16 years imprisonment. Since the petitioners were murder convicts sentenced to life imprisonment, she said, “Life imprisonment is imprisonment for the whole of the convict’s natural life, as held by the Supreme Court in a series of judgments. These petitions do not challenge the amended policy of July 2021. This aspect is being considered by a separate bench of the Supreme Court.”Arguing in the present case earlier, the state government had filed an affidavit stating that the power to remit or refuse to remit the sentence of a life convict is the discretion of the state and the petitioners’ cases will be strictly considered according to the amended policy. But even here, there were discrepancies as two convicts among the 113 had been refused premature release despite being aged above 60 years. This is not the first time the Supreme Court has leaned in favour of prisoners languishing in Uttar Pradesh jails. In September, a bench of the Supreme Court granted bail to 97 life convicts languishing in UP jails for more than 20 years with no certainty about their appeals being taken up by the Allahabad high court and the high court bench at Lucknow. In this petition, the convicts had questioned the amendment to the 2018 premature release policy of the state government.There are over 7,200 convicts in UP who have spent over 10 years in jail and are awaiting a decision on their appeals. At present, nearly 1.83 lakh criminal appeals are pending consideration before Allahabad HC. These figures were presented by the state government before the Supreme Court in August this year where the court was considering a petition by 18 life convicts whose appeals were pending for years together without any hearing on their bail as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/criminal-justice-system-is-reform-oriented-supreme-court-101636399321478.html
09-11-2021||India||Don’t do politics over Mekedatu project, Eshwarappa tells Congress||Asserting the Karnataka government’s commitment in realising the Mekedatu project across Cauvery river, senior Minister K S Eshwarappa on Monday asked the opposition Congress, which has decided to organise a ‘Padayatra’ demanding its speedy implementation, not to play politics over the issue.“The Mekedatu project is the desire of every citizen of Karnataka. We have decided to implement the project in accordance with law and will do it. But I don’t know why Congress is remembering Mekedatu now?. When their government was in power they did not pay attention to it and now when BJP is in power they are talking about it,” Eshwarappa said.Speaking to reporters here, he said, “Who told them (Congress) that we will not implement the Mekedatu project? If you go on politicising every issue, development of the state will not be possible. Whether it is ruling or opposition, we have never played politics over the issue of Mekedatu or the state’s water. I appeal to them not to do politics.” The Rural Development Minister further asserted that the Karnataka government will definitely implement the project. “Let there be no doubts about it.” Eshwarappa was reacting to Karnataka Congress’ announcement on Sunday to organise a ‘Padayatra’ (march) from Mekedatu to Bengaluru, a distance of over 100 km, probably during the first week of December, demanding implementation of the project.To a question on whether the Congress’ Padayatra was inappropriate, he said, “if they want to do it for the sake of politics and to show they are involved in activities as an opposition party, let them do it. Whether they do Padayatra or not, we will implement the Mekedatu project.” Mekedatu is a multi-purpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district.Neighbouring Tamil Nadu has been opposing the project, raising apprehensions that the state would be affected if the project takes shape.The project, once completed, is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power, and the estimated cost of the project is ₹9,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-do-politics-over-mekedatu-project-eshwarappa-tells-congress-101636399021348.html
09-11-2021||India||Mumbai-Karnataka region to be renamed Kittur-K’taka: Karnataka Govt||The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party government (BJP) on Monday approved the rechristening of “Mumbai-Karnataka” as “Kittur-Karnataka” to sever any ties to the erstwhile Bombay presidency or colonial-era nomenclature. Around seven districts were included into Karnataka when the reorganisation of states had been done in 1956. “It was decided to rechristen as we didn’t want to refer to the region as Bombay-Karnataka or Mumbai-Karnataka,” JC Madhuswamy, the minister for law, parliamentary affairs and minor irrigation, said after a cabinet meeting. While Karnataka celebrates Kannada Rajyotsava on November 1, the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), a group of native Marathi speakers, observe a black day as they claim to have been forcibly separated from their parent state 66 years ago during the reorganisation exercise. The renaming has two benefits -- one is to shrug off any ties to Mumbai and Maharashtra as well as naming the region after 19th century ruler Kittur Rani Chennamma, who is from the dominant Panchamasalis, the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats.In 2012, the state government inaugurated the Suvarana Vidhana Soudha, a replica of the Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, where it holds the winter session of the state legislature, to further thwart any claims of territory from the neighbouring state. This region, among the most backward in the state and country, includes districts of Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Bagalkote, Gadag and Haveri. The change in name has been a long-standing demand by pro-Kannada organisations. Kittur Rani Chenamma, one of the first rulers to take on the British, ruled the region from 1778 to 1829. The Karnataka government has been trying to rid itself of nomenclature in regions that came under the newly formed state of Karnataka in 1956. The northern and north-eastern districts came from Bombay presidency and Nizams while some regions in the south were from the Madras presidency. In 2019, the BS Yediyurappa government had renamed Hyderabad-Karnataka region as Kalyana-Karnataka. The rechristened region would also be a move to assuage simmering tensions between the government and the Panchamasali who have been intensifying its demands to be included in the 2A category of the state reservation list. Influential seers and other leaders of the Panchamsalis have demanded that their reservation-related request be met at the earliest, failing which the community would revive its agitation. The community has already started to mobilise support for its cause and the government continues to reassure the group of appropriate action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbaikarnataka-region-to-be-renamed-kittur-k-taka-karnataka-govt-101636398901681.html
09-11-2021||India||Karnataka govt okays new sand policy||The Karnataka cabinet on Monday approved a new sand policy that is expected to bring down cost of the material and put greater regulation over chances of over exploitation of the resource. JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for law and parliamentary affairs, said the new policy was approved under three categories which would give greater powers to local administrative bodies. “We have made it easy to procure sand in Karnataka,” Madhuswamy said in Bengaluru. Sand in gram panchayat would be sold at ₹300 per tonne, while riverbed sand is fixed at ₹700 per tonne to be sold at urban, inter-districts and other areas. The minister said a separate authority would be constituted with enforcement and monitoring of any sand mining. The government has identified 183 sand blocks in the state. The state government has fixed ₹300 per tonne for extracting sand from pits and ponds, HT reported on February 10. These measures, the government has said, is to allow local administration to find a new revenue stream from sand that is mined from the ponds and pits in these regions. The developments come at a time when illegal sand mining and other activities has seen a rise in recent months in a state which has borne the extreme weather that fluctuates between droughts and floods. The sight of tractors and other vehicles extracting sand, illegally and legally, from river beds, lakes and other places is common in rural areas of the state. However, the minister said divers who extract sand will continue to be allowed to safeguard their livelihoods but there will no usage of machinery for the same. He said it would be allowed only in small scale in non-CEZ area but it is illegal to use machinery. . For rural housing and other government-sanctioned projects, sand would be sold at a discounted price. The Basavaraj Bommai-led cabinet also decided to approve amendments to the Karnataka Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 1994, under which the lease period for both minor and major minerals mined in a particular area would be the same, which is about 50 years.“Along with major minerals, some minor minerals are also being mined in the same areas in several regions of the state. The Centre gives a 50-year lease for major minerals, but for minor minerals the State used to give for 20 or 30 years. So we are now changing it. So, whatever mining is done in a particular area, it will be for 50 years in line with the major mining policy,” Madhuswamy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-govt-okays-new-sand-policy-101636398781468.html
09-11-2021||India||MeT office sounds alert for heavy rain in 13 Karnataka districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a yellow alert, denoting heavy rainfall, in 13 districts till Tuesday. According to a statement from the IMD, heavy rains are the result of cyclonic depressions over the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.Heavy rains will be witnessed in Bengaluru city, Bengaluru Rural, Chamarajanagar, Chikkaballapur, Chikmagalur, Chitradurga, Hassan, Kodagu, Mandya, Mysuru, Ramnagar, and Shivmogga districts. Rains are also going to lash coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada. North interior Karnataka districts are going to witness average to scattered rainfall.“The cyclonic circulation over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining south the Andaman Sea... Under its influence, a low-pressure area is very likely to form over the southeast Bay of Bengal and the neighborhood during the next 24 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards, concentrate into a depression and reach near north Tamil Nadu coast by the early morning on Thursday,” the IMD said in a statement.Scattered rain was reported from Bengaluru city on Monday.Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said the state government will take short and long-term steps to ensure more drain-related works are taken up during summer months to avoid a repeat of flooding each time it rains in Bengaluru.The chief minister held a meeting with senior officials after entire Bengaluru had flood-like conditions after Thursday night’s downpour, which stands testimony to the city’s poor quality of infrastructure and planning.“Whenever there are monsoons, low-lying areas, wherever there is waterlogging, identify it and find the reasons for it. We have to take immediate steps for short and long-term plans and ensure water does not enter such homes,” Bommai said in Bengaluru.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), at least 18 people lost their lives in Bengaluru due to civic apathy that is more than all other major cities combined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/met-office-sounds-alert-for-heavy-rain-in-13-karnataka-districts-101636398723820.html
09-11-2021||India||Karnataka: Prime accused in Bitcoin case held on drug charges||A day after he was detained for creating ruckus at a five-star hotel in the city, Bengaluru police on Monday arrested hacker Sri Krishna on charges of consuming narcotics. Sri Krishna is also the prime accused in the case involving cryptocurrency, in which the Opposition had alleged the involvement of some BJP leaders.A senior police officer in the know of the development said ever since the Opposition has leveled allegations against the BJP leaders there was pressure on police. Even though he was arrested on charges of consumption of narcotics, he was interrogated by senior police officers, including officers from the Central Crime Branch probing the case involving theft of Bitcoins.The officer said Sri Krishna was living in the hotel in Domlur for more than a month. On Saturday, a person by the name Vishnu Bhat came to the hotel and tried to go to Sri Krishna’s room without providing details to security guards. When the hotel staff tried to stop him, there was an altercation and police were called in.After detaining Sri Krishna and Bhat , police conducted a blood test on both of them and found that they had consumed marijuana. Based on this medical test, both were booked under the Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. Police claimed that they had searched the police searched the room of Sri Krishna and home of Bhat and recovered 10 cigarettes with marijuana. Both men are currently in police custody.Sri Krishna was caught on November 8 after police arrested some drug dealers to whom he had allegedly sold drugs procured from the dark web. Sri Krishna graduated in computer science from a college in Amsterdam in the Netherlands in 2017 and has good knowledge about computers and the internet. A senior police officer said Sri Krishna would encrypt data and demand payment from owners for the site to be unlocked by attacking the sites online.When he was arrested police had claimed that they had seized ₹9 crore worth of Bitcoins from him. However, when the charge sheet filed against him in connection with the hacking case makes no mention of the bitcoins recovered from him. Similarly, Hemanth Mudappa, who was named in the initial complaint by police for his involvement in the case, did not find any mention in the charge sheet.Apart from this, police are accused of failing to inform central agencies about Sri Krishna’s involvement in the infamous Bitfinex cryptocurrency exchange hack in 2016. The Bitfinex hack had alerted international authorities as 1.19 lakh bitcoins were stolen in 2016 and it is considered one of the biggest crypto exchange hacking so far.“Police knew about this in 2020 following his interrogation, but the police department shared this information with the central agencies in April 2021. Even the details mentioned in the charge sheet make it clear that investigators were aware of his involvement, but they informed the CBI about this only after a nudge came from the central agencies. So, there is pressure on the investigators, especially CCB over this,” said the senior officer.It was an ED probe into an 11-month-old case in Bengaluru involving a cryptocurrency hacker Sri Krishna alias Sriki that snowballed into a political controversy with the Opposition accusing the ruling BJP of a cover up last week. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah told the media that two influential politicians were involved and there was an attempt to cover up their role in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakaprime-accused-in-bitcoin-case-held-on-drug-charges-101636398722016.html
09-11-2021||India||Mahakumbh fake Covid testing accused arrested from Noida residence||The main accused in the Mahakumbh fake Covid tests case, Sharat Pant and his wife Mallika Pant were arrested from their Noida residence late on Sunday. The couple, absconding for months, arrived at their home late on Sunday night.The arrest, by the Special Investigation Team investigating the fraud comes six months after it registered a case in the matter.The two are partners in Max Corporate Services, which had the contract for Covid-19 testing of pilgrims, tourists and local residents during the Mahakumbh held earlier this year.According to deputy Inspector General of Police Yogendra Singh Rawat ,who also holds the charge of Senior Superintendent of Haridwar ,SIT and Special Operation Group (SOG), the police received vital information regarding location and movement of Sharad and Mallika Pant in Noida.“On the intervening night of November 7 and November 8 both the accused had arrived at their residence B-56,Sector 48 in Noida to take some belongings but prior information led to them being nabbed by the investigating team. They have been arrested and the police is interrogating them for further revelations and details about other accomplices involved in the fake testing case,” Rawat said during a press conference in Haridwar on Monday afternoon.The Mahakumbh fake Covid testing fraud surfaced in June after a Faridkot resident complained to the authorities that he received a message to collect his Covid-19 report despite never having been tested. The complaint triggered a probe into nearly 100,000 tests conducted in Haridwar during the Kumbh.On June 17, Haridwar police booked Max Corporate Services, and two private labs, Nalva Lab from Hissar and Lalchandani Lab from Delhi, in connection with the fake COVID testing caseOn June 18, Haridwar police formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to assist the investigation.The four- month Kumbh Mela was curtailed this year to one month (April 1-30) but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts warning that saying the crowds could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27, including at least six million people in April, coinciding with the second wave of the pandemic. The Mahakumbh coincided with a major spike in the COVID cases in Uttarakhand. The spike was blamed influx of millions of people from across the country to Haridwar, where testing remained low despite a direction from the Uttarakhand high court direction. Between April 1 and April 30, overall active cases in the state registered a spike of 2392 %.SIT’s investigation officer Narendra Kathait said that the couple has been booked under IPC sections 188, 269, 270,420,467,468,471 and 120 (B) and relevant sections of Disaster Management Act.This is the second arrest made by SIT in the case; in July, it arrested the owner of LOCATION’s Delphia laboratory Ashish Vashisth.Rawat said that with the arret of the Pants, SIT has made a major breakthrough in the case.The Mahakumbh is held every 12 years between Makar Sankranti, which usually falls on the second weekend of January, and Chaitra Poornima, which is celebrated in the last week of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-fake-covid-testing-accused-arrested-from-noida-residence-101636397341376.html
09-11-2021||India||Indigenous tech key to winning wars, says Army chief Gen Naravane||Rooting for increased self-reliance in the defence sector, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday said indigenous technologies will play a critical role during conflicts and war-like situations.“Developing indigenous capabilities to confront emerging security challenges and reducing our dependence on borrowed technologies is imperative,” Naravane said at a seminar organised jointly by the defence ministry and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci).He said the industry’s enthusiastic participation in the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) campaign reaffirmed the country’s collective resolve to fight and win future wars with indigenous weapons and equipment.He said the army was undergoing rapid modernisation and increasingly looking at indigenous solutions for its operational needs. “India has an expanding industrial base and we are confident that most of our core requirements can be realised in-house.”Naravane’s comments come at a time when the government is encouraging self-reliance is the defence manufacturing sector through a slew of policy decisions. India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹62,000 crore in less than two months to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons.The army chief enumerated steps taken by the government for promoting self-reliance, including increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) from 49% to 74%, notifying two lists of 209 weapons/equipment that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware.“These reforms will have a significant impact in times to come. We are privileged to be the agents of this change that has the potential to redefine India as a global hub for manufacturing defence equipment,” Naravane said.Enabling policy measures, swift decision-making and accelerating process timelines have induced new confidence in the success of ‘Make’ projects, he said.‘Make’ is a category of capital acquisition in the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP), and the cornerstone of the Make in India initiative that seeks to build indigenous capabilities through the involvement of both public and private sector.‘Make-I’ refers to government-funded projects while ‘Make-II’ covers industry-funded programmes.Another subcategory under ‘Make’ is ‘Make-III’ that covers military hardware that may not be designed and developed indigenously, but can be manufactured in the country for import substitution, and Indian firms may manufacture these in collaboration with foreign partners.“Make-II is undoubtedly going to remain the preferred mode of acquisition for us. The Indian Army is participating in 36 ‘Make’ projects, including 15 projects which are suo motu proposals from the industry,” Naravane said.He released a list of ‘Make’ projects that the industry can participate in. These projects include surveillance and armed drone swarm, counter-drone systems, low-level light radar for surveillance along eastern and northern borders with China, infantry weapon training simulator, robotic surveillance platforms, portable helipads and a variety of ammunition.“We have to cut down our weapons import bill and eventually tap the export market. The Make in India campaign seeks to take us in that direction,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).On October 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said one of the country’s key goals under the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign was to emerge as one of the most powerful militaries and develop a modern defence industry in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigenous-tech-key-to-winning-wars-says-army-chief-gen-naravane-101636397221479.html
09-11-2021||India||Army looks at threat detection radar along LAC||The Indian Army has sought to equip itself with a modern low level lightweight radar (LLLWR) for threat detection and response along the China border where surveillance is restricted due to mountainous terrain, officials said on Monday. The terrain provides easy ingress to enemy aircraft, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) flying at low altitudes, they said.The radar figures on a new list of Make in India projects that the army plans to pursue in partnership with the industry. The list, released by army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday, includes surveillance and armed drone swarm, counter-drone systems, infantry weapons training simulator, robotics surveillance platforms, portable helipads, and a variety of ammunition.The army wants a 3D active electronically scanned array radar that has a range of 50km with tactical control of air defence weapons. To boost self-reliance, the government has notified two lists of 209 defence items that cannot be imported in bans that will be progressively enforced from 2021 to 2025. LLLWR is among the weapons and systems that cannot be imported.The radar is required for the northern and eastern borders with China, whose army has ramped up military activities in both sectors. India and China have been locked in a border row in Ladakh for more than 18 months, and ongoing military talks to resolve tensions have not resulted in a major breakthrough.The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has also developed an LLLWR named Aslesha Mk I for ground-based surveillance in high-altitude plains and mountains to detect and track airborne targets.The Indian Air Force has inducted the Aslesha radar but the army chose not to order it as its requirements were different, the officials said.There is an urgent need of LLLWR to plug a critical vulnerability along the China border, the officials said.The army has just inducted the upgraded L-70 anti-aircraft gun, a legacy weapon manufactured by Swedish arms firm Bofors AB, into the eastern sector to tackle aerial threats. This is the first time the upgraded L-70 gun has been positioned at high altitude. The upgraded L-70 guns, with a range of 3.5km, are capable of shooting down aircraft, armed helicopters and UAVs.India and China have hardened their positions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies in the midst of the ongoing border standoff, as reported by HT on Monday.Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points on LAC this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry deployed in the Ladakh theatre. In a report released last week, the US defence department said Beijing was taking “incremental and tactical actions to press its claims” at LAC, despite participating in talks to resolve the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-looks-at-threat-detection-radar-along-lac-101636397160762.html
09-11-2021||India||Winter session of Parliament likely to begin from November 29||New Delhi: The winter session of Parliament to be held from November 29 to December 23 is set for another major tussle between the Opposition and the government over a host of issues including farmers’ issues, and the latest developments related to the Agusta Westland deal. The Cabinet Committee on Parliament Affairs headed by defence minister Rajnath Singh has recommended the schedule for the winter session of Parliament, officials said on Monday. The month-long session will be crucial after the near washout of the monsoon session that was slated to be the first full session after Covid pandemic hit the Indian shores. The upcoming session too, will adhere to Covid protocols and other health guidelines, said officials. MPs will be encouraged to take their vaccines and in unvaccinated lawmakers or officials would have to undergo a mandatory RTCPR test, added officials. But the political significance of the upcoming session would be huge as both the government and the Opposition would be busy pushing their agenda. Two top Opposition leaders added that the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, in which eight people died in violence after a car hit protesting farmers, would be a key issue ahead of the elections in UP, Punjab and Uttarakhand due in March next year. The latest developments related to the Agusta Westland deal and the Union government’s lifting of the ban on the Italian firm that was involved in the controversial chopper deal, Leonardo SpA, will also be raised. The government will be looking to pass several bills including the data protection bill, the Assisted Reproductive Technology bill and two key financial bills such as amendments to the PFRDA act to allow separation of NPS from pension fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-of-parliament-likely-to-begin-from-november-29-101636396981311.html
09-11-2021||India||Zydus jab cleared for kids to cost govt ₹265||The Centre has placed an order for 10 million doses of ZyCov-D, Zydus Healthcare’s anti-coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, at ₹265 per dose (or ₹795 for the recommended three-dose regimen), according to people familiar with the matter, paving the way for India’s first Covid-19 vaccine for children between the ages 12 and 18 years that will soon be introduced into the national immunisation programme. There was no announcement on a likely date for the launch of vaccinations for children in this age group.Additionally, ₹93 per dose will be charged as the cost of the needle-free intradermal applicator that is required to administer the shot.The price ( ₹1,074 in all) is a significant reduction from the ₹1,900 the company initially quoted for the regimen of the indigenously-developed Covid-19 vaccine that is the world’s first plasmid DNA-based one.The two other vaccines that are currently part of the government’s programme are priced at ₹225 a dose (for the two-dose Covaxin one) and ₹215 a dose (for the two-dose Covishield one).“The Centre has placed an order for about 10 million doses. After hard bargaining by the government, the company agreed to bring down the cost. It is just a matter of time before this particular vaccine is used under the public immunisation programme,” said a person aware of the matter, on condition of anonymity.It took months for both the parties to fix a price for each dose of the vaccine that was approved for emergency use on August 20. The company confirmed the development.“…received an order to supply one crore (10 million) doses of ZyCoV-D, the world’s first Plasmid DNA Vaccine, to the Government of India at ₹265 per dose and the needle-free applicator being offered at ₹93 per dose, excluding GST. The pricing has been decided in consultation with the Government of India,” said the company in a statement on Monday.Sharvil Patel, managing director of the company, said, “We are happy to support the Government’s vaccination programme with ZyCoV-D. The needle- free application of the vaccination, we hope, will motivate many more to vaccinate and safeguard themselves from COVID-19, especially children and young adults in the age group of 12 to 18 years.”Till Monday night, India has fully vaccinated 348million people and partly vaccinated another 393 million. That works out to 78.8% of the adult population of 940 million that is currently eligible for Covid vaccines.The vaccine works by instructing cells to produce the spike protein of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which elicits an immune response. Results from the company’s phase 3 clinical trials showed the vaccine has an efficacy of 66.6%.“Since this vaccine is administered differently using a needle-free applicator, vaccinators are being trained to give the shot,” said an official in the government aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.The vaccine is to be given on Day zero, Day 28 and Day 56, as per the schedule shared by the company.“ZyCoV-D has shown good stability at temperatures of around 25 degrees for at least three months. The thermostability of the vaccine will help in easy transportation and storage of the vaccine without any problems of fluctuations in temperature. For prolonged use, a temperature of 2-8 degrees is sufficient. Also being a DNA plasmid vaccine, ZyCoV-D doesn’t have any problem associated with vector based immunity. The DNA Plasmid platform allows generating new construct quickly to deal with mutations in the virus,” the company’s statement said.ZyCoV-D was developed in partnership with the government’s Department of Biotechnology under Mission Covid Suraksha, which involved the pooling of resources by several Indian research institutions for development and clinical trials.There are two vaccine candidates that have been tested among children in India; apart from the Zydus vaccine, subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation also recommended use of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for use in children between 2 and 18 years recently.The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation is working on the protocol and framework for the inclusion of this vaccine in the programme as the vaccination in children is likely going to be introduced in phases with those at high risk (children with comorbidities) being given priority.Government experts are at present working on a list of comorbidities.“They will have to do it in a phased manner as if you look at the numbers there should be about 400 million children, and 1-2% of them likely to be at higher risk because of their medical condition and the kind of treatment they would be taking such as chemo, transplant medication, etc. It will be a huge challenge logistically; therefore, doing it in phases makes sense,” said Dr Anupam Sibal, senior paediatrician and group medical director, Apollo Hospitals. The 400 million number includes children in the 2-18 year age group.Globally, at least 50 countries have begun giving doses to children. In most cases, children above the age of 12 are being inoculated. The shots being used for these ages are typically the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-jab-cleared-for-kids-to-cost-govt-265-101636396924109.html
09-11-2021||India||Accused in Lakhimpur case being favoured: SC||The investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident appears to be favouring the “main accused” in the case, the Supreme Court said on Monday, pushing for the appointment of a retired high court judge from outside Uttar Pradesh to oversee the probe and “infuse fairness, independence and faith” into it.Monday’s comments by the apex court continue the trend of its criticism of the way the state has handled the investigation in the case where a convoy, in which at least one vehicle belonged to a Union minister, ran over farmers protesting three controversial laws, leading them to run amok and lynch some of the occupants of the vehicles. Eight people died in that incident on October 3 -- four farmers, three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, and a journalist, who, the state said on Monday, was also killed when a vehicle ran over him, not lynched by farmers as originally claimed in some quarters.Ashish Mishra, the son of the minister, is one of the accused in one of the two cases (the convoy running over farmers) being investigated. His arrest came only after the court criticised, on October 9, the kid-gloves treatment he seemed to be receiving from the police.“We are very sorry to say this but prima facie, it appears that one particular accused is sought to be given benefit by overlapping the two FIRs in the case...evidence is collected...in a way to protect the main accused,” remarked a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, while hearing the case registered by the top court on its own motion (suo motu) .The other case being investigated by the police has to do with the lynchings of some of the occupants of vehicles in the convoy, and the court was perturbed that some of the evidence being collected in this case was aimed at protecting the “main accused”.The court did not name Mishra, the son of the junior Union minister of home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’.To be sure, on Monday, the state said it has “clinching evidence” of Mishra’s presence at the scene (something he and his father have consistently denied), but that forensic reports on this are awaited.The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, underscored the need for appointing a retired high court judge from outside the state to monitor the probe after finding out that the investigation in the farmers’ murder case (FIR no 219) could be adversely impacted by the manner in which the UP Police were recording evidence in the case relating to the murder of three BJP workers (FIR no 220) .It added that the court does not have confidence in the judicial commission appointed by the UP government. On October 7, the UP government set up a judicial commission, headed by retired Allahabad high court judge PK Srivastava, to probe the incident.The court’s views on having a former high court judge to independently oversee the probe and ward off any mix-up of evidence were fortified by the revelation that local journalist Raman Kashyap was not murdered by the protesting farmers, as widely perceived, but run over by the offending vehicle that fatally knocked down the four farmers.On his part, senior counsel Harish Salve, appearing for the UP government, told the bench that the police have “clinching evidence” in the form of videos and call detail records (CDRs) to show the presence of Ashish Mishra on the spot, and that forensic reports were awaited.Commenting on the delay in getting the reports from the forensic science laboratory (on the video clips of the incident) and also on non-seizure of mobile phones of all the accused, the bench said: “We gave you 10 days after the last date but nothing has been done. This is not going the way we wanted it to.”The police have identified a total of 16 accused in the case. While Mishra and 12 others were arrested over the past few weeks, the three others are the three BJP workers lynched in the aftermath.On Monday, when the Supreme Court took up the latest status report submitted by the UP government in a sealed envelope, it pointed out certain statements recorded by the police during the course of the investigation into the death of the three BJP workers. The bench noted that at least 50 witnesses in the BJP workers’ murder case (FIR no 220), in their statements to the police, sought to exonerate the “main accused” in the farmers’ murder case (FIR no 219).“We are very sorry to say this but prima facie, it appears that one particular accused is sought to be given benefit by overlapping the two FIRs. Now, it is being said that there are two FIRs and the evidence collected in one FIR will be used in another. Evidence in the FIR no 220 is being collected in a way to protect the main accused. You can very well understand the fate of the case in such a scenario,” the bench pointed out to Salve.The senior lawyer replied that it was after the Supreme Court’s direction on October 26 that the police started recording statements of witnesses in the second FIR relating to BJP workers’ death.“Some of these witnesses started giving exculpatory statements against the accused in the other FIR. There are a lot of people who are trying to exculpate the accused in the farmers’ case. They appear for their statements in FIR no 220 but start giving evidence about FIR no 219. The police also have this problem but they will have to record statements of everyone,” Salve argued.The bench, however, observed that the two FIRs should be investigated separately.“What appears to us is that this SIT (special investigation team) is unable to maintain an investigative distance between the different FIRs. They are not bound to record the statements of whosoever is coming forward. The witnesses must have something substantial to say. Otherwise, it will become oral evidence in one case versus oral evidence in another case,” said the bench.It added: “To ensure that there is no mix-up of evidence in the case, we are inclined to appoint a former judge of a different high court to monitor this probe. We are not confident about your state judicial commission to oversee it. Let a former judge monitor everything till the charge sheet is filed.”The bench proposed the names of justices Ranjit Singh and Rakesh Kumar, both retired judges of the Punjab & Haryana high court, asking Salve to come back with instructions on Friday about the state’s preference of a judge when the matter is next heard.The bench emphasised that there were three sets of murders in the case -- of the four farmers; three political workers; and a journalist. “Each one should be investigated independently and taken to a logical conclusion,” it added.At this, Salve said that the investigations have now disclosed that the journalist was also crushed by the offending vehicle. “He was earlier thought to be with Ashish Mishra but then it was seen that he was also crushed by the car with the farmers. His case has now been transferred to the FIR on the farmers’ death,” the lawyer said.The disclosure prompted the bench to remark: “This is why we are saying let a former high court judge oversee the investigation... that is why monitoring is required. The cause of death (of the journalist) was earlier being shown as something entirely different. The impression given to us was that the journalist was also in the car,” the bench told Salve, who replied that there are political overtones to this case.The bench retorted: “We don’t want to add to any political overtone or any other tone. We don’t want to monitor each and everything. Let a retired high court judge look at everything till the chargesheet is filed. This is the only solution.”At this point, senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj registered a complaint on behalf of the widow of BJP worker Shyam Sunder Nishad, who was among the three lynched allegedly by the furious crowd .Bhardwaj showed a picture to claim that Nishad was initially in the custody of the policemen but was later lynched by the mob. The lawyer said that Nishad’s family has lost faith in the state police and wants the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to take over the investigation into Nishad’s death.But the bench replied: “We are not giving it to the CBI. CBI is not the solution to everything. We want a retired high court judge to monitor the probe and filing of separate charge sheets. We want to protect the evidence collected.”On October 26, the UP government informed the Supreme Court that all the 16 accused, including the three BJP workers who were later allegedly lynched, have been identified by eyewitnesses in the case. The state did not name any accused though.On October 20, the bench asked the UP Police to pull up its socks and record witnesses’ statements before a judicial magistrate under Section 164 as quickly as possible to dispel the impression that the state is “dragging its feet”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-in-lakhimpur-case-being-favoured-sc-101636396920752.html
09-11-2021||India||Maharashtra: PM Modi lays foundation stone for key road projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday laid the foundation stone for two road projects aimed at improving connectivity to the temple town of Pandharpur in Maharashtra via video conferencing. Modi said the annual Pandharpur ‘Wari’ (pilgrimage) is also the inspiration behind his call for ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’ (everyone’s support, everyone’s development and everyone’s trust). “There is no discrimination in the pilgrimage on the lines of caste. Every pilgrim is equal and lives with the spirit of brothers and sisters. Everyone has one ‘gotra’ that is Vitthal gotra. So when I say Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, it is inspired from the same tradition,” Modi said, after laying the foundation stone for four-laning of five sections of Shri Sant Dnyaneshawar Maharaj Palkhi Marg (NH-965) and three sections of Shri Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg (NH-965G) via video conferencing. Apart from the sections, the road projects will also have dedicated walkways for ‘Palkhi’ on either side, at an estimated total cost of more than ₹6690 crore and about ₹4400 crore respectively.The Wari is a pilgrimage undertaken by devotees of Lord Vitthal to his temple in Pandharpur. Palanquins (Palkhis) venerating Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram are carried to Pandharpur from Alandi and Dehu in Pune district by the Warkaris, who cover the 250km distance by foot. The PM said sentiments possessed by the Warkaris inspire everyone to work for the development of the nation. Commenting on the women participation in the Warkari movement, Modi said women take part in the yatra with the same zeal as men as the key feature of the tradition. “This is a reflection of the power of women in the country. ‘Pandhari ki wari’ symbolizes the equality of opportunity. Warkari movement considers discrimination inauspicious, and this is its great motto,” said the prime minister. The prime minister also said that most Warkaris come from the farmer’s community, and these sons of the soil, the ‘Dharti Putras’, have kept Indian tradition and culture alive. “A true ‘annadata’ unites the society and lives the society and lives for the society. You are the cause as well as a reflection of society’s progress”, Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtrapm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-for-key-road-projects-101636396863626.html
09-11-2021||India||Indian Ocean Region nations need cooperative architecture: Harsh Shringla||Countries in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) need a new cooperative architecture for their common maritime space to ensure both security and free trade, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on Monday said.The Covid-19 pandemic and new threats have highlighted the need to work together to forge common solutions, and India is ready to do its share to tackle these issues, he said, while addressing the Goa Maritime Conclave on the theme “Maritime security and emerging non-traditional threats: A case for proactive role for IOR navies”.Defence secretary Ajay Kumar, who also addressed the event held in a hybrid format, raised the unprecedented expansion of conventional navies in the Pacific region, and said this is prompting a “new genre of arms race” whose effects are being felt far beyond the region. Though he didn’t name any country, his remarks were an apparent reference to China.Shringla noted that the prosperity and well-being of people of countries in the region are built on a foundation of law and order and security, and said: “A new cooperative architecture for our common maritime space that ensures security for its inhabitants, driven by our realities, and our aspirations to lead better lives, is necessary to grasp this opportunity.”While security in the context of foreign policy was traditionally associated with countering external security threats, countries in the region now have to contend with non-traditional and sub-conventional threats that require new solutions, he said.“We now operate on the basis of an expanded concept of human security that takes a broader view,” he said.Navies, coast guard forces, and maritime security agencies of the region need to do more together since all problems that will arise cannot be anticipated, he said. “India stands ready and willing to do its share – and more – in tackling these problems.”The IOR countries can work on strengthening structures, understandings, procedures and resources so that they can better manage problems. “It will also enable us to create a ‘surge’ capacity to deal with the unknown,” he said.The pandemic has led to a rebalancing that resulted in a dispersal of capacities, including for Indian Ocean nations. “Every one of us present here have a growing ability to come up with common solutions to common problems. That means we are able to do more together,” he said.Many of the cooperative activities are in the areas of policing and law-enforcement, and more appropriate to the “newer and rapidly evolving threat matrix”, he noted. Among the non-traditional and sub-conventional problems listed by Shringla were transnational crime syndicates engaged in human trafficking, smuggling and narcotics, irresponsible fishing that damages food security, maritime accidents that lead to pollution, and natural disasters that affect coastal economic and population centres.Coastal population centres, Shringla noted, are also “targets for terrorists, supported and encouraged by the resources of governments”.In an apparent reference to China’s aggressive maritime activities, especially in the South China Sea, he said: “Another set of challenges arises from geopolitical volatilities. A lack of commitment to settled international law has led to an increased militarisation of the region. Militarisation always adds to complexities.”Defence secretary made a special reference to illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing in international waters off India’s coast – something that Chinese boats have been accused of – and called for action against the practice.“While we talk of non-traditional threats, we cannot ignore the impact of expansion at unprecedented speed of conventional navies in the Pacific. We are also witnessing enhancement of certain maritime presence in passages in our region which do not always seem innocent,” Kumar told the gathering that included the Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh.“The negative effects of such expansion are felt beyond the Pacific. Though it is early to conclude, such expansion has triggered others to acquire traditional capabilities and thus to start a new genre of arms race,” he said.The third edition of the Goa Maritime Conclave is being held under the aegis of the Naval War College in Goa. The event was joined by senior officials of 12 Indian Ocean countries, including Bangladesh, Indonesia, Thailand, the Maldives, Myanmar, Singapore and Sri Lanka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-ocean-region-nations-need-cooperative-architecture-harsh-shringla-101636396861972.html
09-11-2021||India||Terrorists gun down one more civilian in Kashmir||Terrorists gunned down a Kashmiri salesman in the old city area of Srinagar on Monday evening, the second targeted killing in the Jammu and Kashmir capital in the last 24 hours.Police said unidentified gunmen fired on Mohammad Ibrahim Khan in the Bohri Kadal area of Srinagar around 8pm. Khan, a resident of Bandipore, worked in the dry fruit shop of Roshan Lal Mawa, a Kashmiri Pandit businessman who returned to the Valley in 2018 and set up his business.“Terrorists fired upon one civilian identified as Mohammad Ibrahim Khan son of Ghulam Mohammad Khan resident of Astengoo Bandipora at Borikadal area of Srinagar. In this terror incident, he sustained critical gunshot injuries and was immediately shifted to nearby hospital for the treatment where he succumbed to his injuries,” said a spokesperson for the Srinagar Police.He said security forces cordoned off the area to trace the attackers.Khan’s killing was the second attack in the city in the past 24 hours. On Sunday night, militants killed 29-year-old police constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani in the Batamaloo area .Former chief minister Omar Abdullah condemned the killing. “The dastardly killing of Ibrahim is reprehensible & I unreservedly condemn it. Unfortunately Ibrahim is the latest in a series of targeted killings in the valley, especially Srinagar,” he tweeted,This is the 13th targeted killing in Kashmir since October 1, including five non-local labourers. Multiple gunfights broke out during operations by security forces to find those responsible for the attacks. Of the 11 people killed in October, seven were in Srinagar.The killing of civilians had spread panic in the Valley, especially in the city where security was bolstered. The attacks on civilians and non locals were discussed during home Minister Amit Shah’s security review meeting in October.During the four-hour meeting, Shah directed the chiefs of intelligence and investigative agencies, and security forces to make rigorous efforts to wipe out terror from the Valley, people familiar with the development said.The Resistance Front (TRF), an arm of the Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit, has claimed responsibility for most of the attacks.The wave of violence began on October 2, when two civilians, Majid Guroo and Mohammad Shafi, were shot dead in Srinagar.On October 5, three civilians – Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and well-known pharmacist in Srinagar; Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar’s Bhagalpur; and Mohammad Shafi Lone, head of a taxi union in Bandipora district – were killed in terror attacks.On October 7, two teachers – Supinder Kaur, principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School, and Deepak Chand, a teacher at the same school in Srinagar’s Eidgah area – were shot dead by gunmen inside the school.On October 16, A street vendor from Bihar, Arvind Kumar Sah, and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, Sagheer Ahmad, were gunned down in Srinagar and Pulwama, respectively. On October 17, two more non-local labourers from Bihar, Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi, were killed by terrorists in the Wanpoh area of Kulgam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-gun-down-one-more-civilian-in-kashmir-101636396740667.html
09-11-2021||India||UP leapfrogged 7 ranks, Gujarat tops logistics ease index||Uttar Pradesh (UP) has shown an outstanding performance in the ease of logistics this year, jumping seven slots from its previous 13th position, while Gujarat retained its top slot for the third consecutive year, Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal said on Monday, releasing the Logistics Ease Across Different States (LEADS) Report 2021.“I saw some states have leapfrogged significantly... Uttar Pradesh, for example, has leapfrogged seven ranks in just two years, from 2019 to 2021, and that is probably the highest jump any state has had,” he said, adding that the significant improvement reflects the efforts made by the UP government in improving infrastructure.Launched in 2018 by the commerce and industry ministry, the LEADS index ranks 21 states on the basis of ease of logistics parameters such as infrastructure, services, and operating and regulatory environment.The 2021 survey was conducted between May and August 2021, and the exercise garnered 3,771 responses from 1,405 respondents across the countryThe top six states in the LEADS index are Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Odisha came seventh in the latest round, followed by Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.Compared to the rankings in 2019, while Haryana jumped from the sixth position to second, Punjab slipped from the second position to third, Tamil Nadu moved up one rank to fourth, and Maharashtra lost one rank.Assam stood last among 21 states while Jammu & Kashmir was ranked first in the Northeastern states and Himalayan region, followed by Sikkim and Meghalaya. Delhi ranked first among the Union territories, while Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jharkhand were among the states recording remarkable improvements, the report said.While launching the report, Goyal said, LEADS will encourage healthy competition among states and UTs for improvement in logistics development and help the government in bringing down the logistics cost by 5% over the next five years. According to industry secretary, Anurag Jain, estimated logistics costs in India is currently about 14%, which is quite high compared to 8-10% globally.“Rather than just absolute improvement in one state, improvement of logistics across all states will be a force multiplier for the entire logistics ecosystem,” Goyal said. States play an indispensable role in improving the logistics ecosystem of India, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-leapfrogged-7-ranks-gujarat-tops-logistics-ease-index-piyush-goyal-101636396681395.html
09-11-2021||India||‘Not a desirable situation’: SC slams states for delaying nod for CBI probes||The Supreme Court on Monday favoured suo motu (on its own motion) registration of a public interest litigation (PIL) over inordinate delay by eight states in the country, including West Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra and Punjab, in deciding requests of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to carry out investigations in more than a hundred cases.“This is certainly not a desirable situation,” said a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh, as it came across the data submitted to the court by CBI director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on how the investigations were yet to take off for want of a go-ahead by eight states that have withdrawn the general consent from the agency to conduct probe in their territories.The bench noted that the issue was serious, and required urgent attention in view of the CBI’s assertions that crucial evidence in economic offences of high magnitudes are getting disappeared or destroyed while the states do not respond to the agency’s requests.Expressing its views on registration of a suo motu PIL, the bench said that the matter should be placed before the Chief Justice of India (CJI) for his consideration and appropriate orders.Jaiswal on October 18 filed his personal affidavit in response to posers by the court on September 3, asking the director to place relevant data on the cases being prosecuted by the agency throughout the country; their success rate in securing conviction; and the impediments in completing investigations in a timebound manner.Jaiswal, apart from disclosing that the agency has maintained a success rate of about 65-70% in getting conviction over the last 10 years and that it intends to improve this average to 75% by August 2022, cited the agency’s predicament in completing investigation in cases where the state concerned has withdrawn the general consent, requiring CBI to obtain the state’s consent on a case-by-case basis.His affidavit stated that CBI has sent over 150 requests to the governments of Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Kerala and Mizoram between 2018 and June 2021 for grant of specific consent for investigation of cases in the territory of these states but approvals were granted in less than 18% cases.Jaiswal highlighted that the cases in which the states agreed for a CBI probe chiefly related to trap of corrupt central public servants, while requests in approximately 78% cases pertaining to bank frauds of high magnitude impacting the economy of the country remained pending.“The delay caused in taking up cases by CBI due to any of the reasons mentioned above, at times, leads to destruction or dissipation of evidence. This is detrimental not only for the investigation by the CBI but also for subsequent prosecution of cases,” lamented Jaiswal.On Monday, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain and advocate Sanjay Tyagi, appeared for CBI and referred to Jaiswal’s affidavit.Another aspect in Jaswal’s affidavit that the court highlighted in its order pertained to holding up of trials because of stay orders granted by the Supreme Court and high courts despite the top court’s directives in 2018 disapproving of an indefinite stay on trials.The statistics submitted by the CBI director showed that trials were stayed in 367 cases of 9,757 pending cases. The oldest instance of stay on trial was from the Calcutta high court, where two corruption cases remain suspended since April 1991. Similarly, in one case, the stay on the trial from the Supreme Court has been operating since August 2000.The bench said that both these aspects are important and should be placed before CJI NV Ramana for issuing appropriate orders on registration of a PIL to deal with the subject matter.The court was hearing a matter arising out of the CBI’s appeal from a 2018 judgment of the Jammu & Kashmir high court. By this judgment, the high court let off some lawyers from the charges of fabricating false evidence against a few security forces personnel to frame them in a case of rape and murder. While the two girls from Shopian due to drowning in March 2009, CBI claimed that some lawyers and doctors created false evidence of rape and murder to implicate personnel of security forces.However, it took CBI more than a year to file its appeal against this order. In January, the top court sought an explanation from the department noting the delay in filing the case “shows clearly gross incompetence in the legal department of CBI which raises serious questions of its efficacy to prosecute the case”.When the agency submitted its explanation for the delay in February, the bench called it “a saga of gross negligence in performing duties” while asking, this time, the CBI director to file his personal affidavit as to what steps are being taken to ensure proper functioning of prosecution of legal cases.Subsequently, then CBI director Rishi Kumar Shukla filed his affidavit in March 2020 apologising for the inordinate delay in filing the appeal. The director pointed out that a new set of instructions with stipulated timelines have been issued to streamline the process of filing and monitoring of appeals filed by the agency.But, in September, the bench called upon the new CBI director to submit relevant data on the agency’s success rate, observing that an analysis of CBI’s working must be done and that the “premier investigating agency” cannot simply launch prosecutions and then not bother about their outcome.On Monday, the bench also issued a notice on CBI’s petition in the case while imposing a penalty of ₹25,000 on the officers guilty of causing delay in filing the appeal before the top court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-desirable-situation-sc-slams-states-for-delaying-nod-for-cbi-probes-101636396502020.html
09-11-2021||India||Slugfest after French report alleges trace of Rafale deal pay-off||Mediapart, a French online journal, on Sunday published alleged fake invoices for payments between 2004-2013, that it claimed enabled French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation to pay at least €7.5 million in kickbacks to a middleman to help it secure a multi-billion deal with India for the sale of Rafale fighter jets. The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance was in power then, and the deal referred to is the original deal signed by that government with Dassault.The French publication also claimed that despite being made aware of the existence of documents to this effect in 2018, when the National Democratic Alliance was in power, Indian investigative agencies decided not to pursue the case.“It involves offshore companies, dubious contracts and ‘false’ invoices. Mediapart can reveal that detectives from India’s federal police force, the Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI), and colleagues from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which fights money laundering, have had proof since October 2018 that Dassault paid at least €7.5 million in secret commissions to middleman Sushen Gupta,” Mediapart said in a report.Neither CBI nor ED officials responded to repeated callsfrom Hindustan Times.Reacting to Mediapart’s revelations, BJP’s Amit Malviya tweeted: “Dassault paid €14.6 Mn to intermediary Sushen Gupta over the period 2004-2013 to sell Rafale. So UPA was collecting kickbacks but couldn’t close the deal? NDA later scrapped it and got into a contract with the French Govt, which upset Rahul Gandhi no end.’’Five months ago, Mediapart reported that a French judge was appointed to head a probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the deal. In a report in April, the online journal claimed that it was in possession of documents that showed Dassault and its industrial partner Thales, a defence electronics firm, paid “middleman” Gupta several million euros in “secret commissions” in connection with the deal.HT could not reach Gupta for a response.According to the April report, the bulk of the payments were made during the UPA regime. “According to an accounts spreadsheet belonging to Sushen Gupta, an entity called simply ‘D’, which is a code he regularly used to designate Dassault, paid €14.6 million to Interdev in Singapore over the period 2004-2013,” the report said.It said Interdev was a shell company with no real activity and administered by a straw man for the Gupta family.The report said according to another accounts spreadsheet belonging to Gupta, which only covers the years 2004 to 2008, Thales paid €2.4 million to another shell company.In another report in April, Mediapart claimed that Dassault paid €1 million to Gupta for manufacturing 50 large replica models of Rafale jets, even though the planemaker provided inspectors of French anti-corruption agency Agence Française Anticorruption no proof that these models were made.India’s decision to sign an $8.7 billion government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 Rafale warplanes made by Dassault was announced in April 2015, with an agreement signed a little over a year later. This replaced the previous Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL).The deal became controversial. The Opposition, led by the Congress, claimed that the price at which India was buying Rafale aircraft was ₹1,670 crores for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crores by the company when the UPA was trying to buy the aircraft. It also claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with HAL.The UPA deal, struck in 2012, was not a viable one, the then defence minister Manohar Parrikar maintained, implying that it would have never been closed and that, therefore, any comparison was moot. The UPA was not able to close the deal till 2014, largely over discussions related to the pricing of items not included in the initial bid.The government has said that it cannot disclose the details of the price because of a confidentiality agreement with France, and the strategic reason of not showing its hand to India’s enemies. It said that the current deal also includes customised weaponry.The Supreme Court heard a public interest case on the deal and in November 2019, said it saw nothing wrong in it. In a February 2019 report, the government’s auditor, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, said India had not overpaid for the jets.HT has not reviewed any of the documents cited by Mediapart.Interestingly, in a press conference on Monday, the Congress focused on the government’s inability to stop operations by middlemen like Gupta, who was also involved also in the Agusta Westland deal for VVIP choppers. Gupta was investigated by Indian agencies over his role in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam, also during the UPA’s rule.ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) are probing allegations of money laundering in the 2007 contract for the purchase of 12 luxury VIP helicopters for use by top political leaders, including the President, the Prime Minister, and former PMs. The deal was cancelled in early 2014 over allegations of wrongdoing.The opposition party demanded to know the “deal” between the NDA government and Augusta or Finmecania (the former is a unit of the latter) after news reports said the Centre has lifted its 2014 ban on an Italian company Leonardo SpA (the new name of Finmeccanica ).Government’s information officer refused to comment on the matter.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, “Is it now ok to deal with a company that Modi ji & his Govt called “corrupt-bribe giver-bogus”? Does it mean that fake bogey of corruption is being given a quite burial? Nation awaits answers!”Congress Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said that after “mysteriously withdrawing blacklisting of Augusta Westland/Finmecanica on July 22, 2014” the government has now “lifted procurement ban from it.”The AgustaWestland scam pertains to irregularities in the purchase of 12 VVIP choppers by IAF from Anglo-Italian firm, which came to light in 2012. It is alleged that government officials involved in procurement of choppers agreed to change the mandatory service ceiling from 6000 meters to 4500 meters for the VVIP choppers, which ultimately benefitted Anglo-Italian firm AgustaWestland.According to CBI, it has established “money trail” of 62 million Euros (around 415 crore) out of suspected 67 million euros ( ₹452 crore) total bribe paid to Indian officials through middlemen. The irregularities in the award of contract to AgustaWestland led to estimated loss of 398.21 million euros (around ₹2,666 crore) to the Indian government in the 556.262 million euros ( ₹3726.9 crore) contract, according to CBI.ED arrested Kamal Nath’s nephew Ratul Puri in September 2019 for allegedly using his companies to launder the bribe money in the scandal. A charge sheet was filed against him in November 2019 in which it was stated by the ED that Ratul Puri received proceeds of crime amounting to Euro 704,134.57 and $150,000 from Interstellar Technologies Limited in his foreign entities. The same were thereafter layered through various companies in foreign jurisdictions and then brought into India and invested in Hindustan Power Group whose Chairman is Ratul Puri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/slugfest-after-french-report-alleges-trace-of-rafale-deal-payoff-101636396441666.html
09-11-2021||India||Contextualising the debate on central and state taxes on petrol and diesel||On November 3, the union government announced a cut in special excise duty on petrol and diesel by ₹5 and ₹10 respectively. The announcement also urged states to do the same . “States are also urged to commensurately reduce VAT (value added tax) on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers” a press release from the union finance ministry said. Another release, issued by the ministry of petroleum on November 5, listed 14 states and union territories which had not reduced their VAT on petrol and diesel. Almost all of these states are ruled by non-NDA parties. Are these states not cooperating with the centre in bringing down inflation?There is a difference between central and state taxes on fuelCentral taxes on petrol and diesel are split into multiple components. While some of these taxes are ad valorem – tax imposed as a share of price of the commodity -- in nature, some of them are fixed. While state taxes are also a mix of ad valorem and fixed, the latter is a much smaller share than the former when compared to the taxes levied by the centre. Data from the ministry of petroleum shows this clearly. In many states, the ad valorem taxes have an upper limit, which means that even when prices increase beyond a point, taxes do not increase.The ad-valorem component of state taxes has come down with a cut in central dutiesState taxes are levied on the price which is inclusive of central duties and dealers’ commission. This means that a cut in central duties automatically lowers the tax burden on account of state taxes as well. Ashok Gehlot, the chief minister of Rajasthan, made this point in a tweet on November 4.This can be seen clearly from the price build up data for petrol and diesel which is available for Delhi. A litre of petrol in Delhi on 16 October included ₹32.9 as central excise duty and the state tax (VAT) on it was 24.34.After the cut in excise duty to 27.9 on 4 November, the VAT component has fallen to 23.99. Similarly, a litre of diesel included ₹31.8 as excise duty on 16th October which resulted in VAT of 13.8.This amount has reduced to ₹12.7 after central excise duty was cut by ₹10. This is why the price of petrol and diesel has fallen by more than ₹5 and ₹10 per litre in the four metro cities.States have seen a decline in their share in petroleum revenues over timeIndia’s constitutional framework calls for a formula based – it is decided by the Finance Commission every five years – distribution of revenues between the centre and states. The latest award, which was decided by the 15th Finance Commission, put the share of states at 41%. However, special duties and cesses collected by the centre do not come under the divisible pool which is governed by the finance commission’s awards. With the centre shifting a bigger share of petrol-diesel taxes under the special duty/cess heads, states have seen a fall in their share in taxes collected from sale of petroleum products in the country. This share was the lowest since 2014-15 in 2020-21, when the states faced the biggest fiscal squeeze on account of pandemic related spending. The share has improved in the first quarter of 2020-21, perhaps on account of higher prices leading to higher tax collection on ad valorem state taxes.Debate on petrol-diesel taxes is just one aspect of the crisis in fiscal federalismIndia’s fiscal federalism framework is in a deep crisis and this predates the pandemic’s disruption to the economy.Its reform-quotient notwithstanding, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) has played an important role in this. To get the states to agree to GST, the centre agreed to provide 14% guaranteed growth in the base revenue of the states for five years following the roll-out of GST. The promise has run into both short-term and long-term difficulties. The centre has not been able to collect adequate compensation through the compensation cess and has had to facilitate state borrowing in collaboration with RBI. Repayment of this borrowed amount will be made by extending the period of the compensation cess. Even after this mess is sorted, a lot of states might see a reduction in their revenue collections when the centre stops its guaranteed compensation programme.Then there is the fear among states that the centre is violating the spirit of finance commission awards by shifting more of its taxes outside the divisible pool. But what is also true is the fact that the political calculations have led to the centre taking greater spending responsibilities in areas where the states should have played a bigger role. Schemes such as PM-KISAN etc. – agriculture is state subject in the constitution – are the biggest example of this. N K Singh, the chairperson of the 15th Finance Commission echoed these concerns in a HT interview published on February 5, 2021 when he admitted that he thinks the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution (the part which divides domains into central, states and joint Centre-states jurisdiction) has outlived its purpose. “The Seventh Schedule decided to classify between the three categories... what would be in the exclusive category of the Union, exclusive domain of the states, and what would be in the concurrent list. There was a degree of clarity in that. Over a period of time, you have really transgressed from one end to the other. Most of the centrally sponsored schemes are subjects which are classic subjects in the domain of the states, such as employment, food, education,” he said then.This is a trend which is likely to continue, as delivery of centralised welfare benefits is one of the biggest electoral planks of the Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contextualising-the-debate-on-central-and-state-taxes-on-petrol-and-diesel-101636390921086.html
09-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 9, 2016 — The black buck stops here, says PM Modi||New Delhi- Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Tuesday the abolition of 1000 and 500 rupees bank notes from midnight, a dramatic move aimed at stamping out corruption and draining illicit cash from the economy.In a surprise late-evening televised address to the nation, Modi said the notes in circulation can be exchanged at banks till December 30. Some concessions will be allowed for use of these notes at hospitals and crematoriums, and to buy air, rail and bus tickets till November 11.There will be some restriction on withdrawal of cash from banks and ATMs.The move could help bring billions of dollars-worth of unaccounted for cash back into the economy, and choke the flow of fake high-value banknotes militant groups use to fund their attacks against India.The decision is also an attempt by Modi to fulfill his election promise of curbing tax evasion and recovering illegally stashed incomes overseas. It gives his Bharatiya Janata Party a talking point ahead of elections in five states next year.But the move entails possible downside risks. Given that about 40% of India’s economy is driven by small- and medium-sized enterprises that largely run on cash transactions, the decision could have a knock-on effect on economic growth.The short notice too sparked concern among people, and large queues were reported outside ATMs across India, as people rushed to withdraw smaller bank notes. The move could also inconvenience poorer people and families planning weddings, the season for which starts in days.It wasn’t immediately clear how businesses and private banks with large stocks of high-value notes will deal with the transition. The banned denominations account for more than 80% of all currency in circulation by value.“Banks will be closed tomorrow. It will cause some hardship to you… Let us ignore these hardship… In a country’s history there come some moments when every person feels he too should be a part of it,” the prime minister said in a 4-minute speech.“We have an opportunity when every citizen can join this mega mission,” he added, calling the move an “Imandari ka Utsav”, or celebration of honesty.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will issue a new R2000 and R500 notes later.Modi also dwelled on the scourge of fake bank notes, saying militants operating against India were using counterfeit of the 500 rupee note, worth about $7.50 at current exchange rates.“Terrorism is a frightening thing ... But have you ever thought about how these terrorists get their money? Enemies from across the border have run their operations using fake currency notes,” he said, referring to a euphemism many Indian leaders use to describe Pakistan.This is the first time since 1978 that India has “de-monetised” its larger bank notes. Prime Minister Morarji Desai too had banned all notes above R100 to fight corruption, which Modi on Tuesday described as “a disease” that impedes the fight against poverty.India has struggled to curb corruption and slush funds in the economy, or “black money”, especially in the real estate sector. The country was ranked 76th among 168 countries in Transparency International’s 2015 index on corruption, which is estimated to cost the country 1-2% of gross domestic product every year.Modi said there was a proposal for new notes of 5000 and 10,000 denominations, but it was not accepted by the RBI. Tuesday’s announcement comes just over a month after the government raised nearly $10 billion through a tax amnesty for Indians to declare hidden income and assets. Modi had then said that no one should blame him for taking tough decisions on black money after September 30 when the amnesty scheme ended.Some officials and experts said Tuesday’s move was the biggest in decades aimed at fighting graft. BJP president Amit Shah tweeted, “This decision of PM @narendramodi is a surgical strike on menace of corruption and black money.”The Congress maintained it will support government in its effort to curb “black money” but expressed concern at the hardships it could cause farmers and families in the wedding season.Party chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala also questioned the logic of introducing 2000-rupee notes in curbing corruption.President Pranab Mukherjee also welcomed “the bold step” and called upon people not to panic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-8-2016-the-black-buck-stops-here-says-pm-narendra-modi-abolishes-1000-and-500-bank-notes-101636385528192.html
09-11-2021||India||Army chief says local technology is a must to win future wars||Rooting for increased self-reliance in the defence sector, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Monday said only indigenous technologies will be available to the military for full exploitation during conflicts and war-like situations.“Developing indigenous capabilities to confront emerging security challenges and reducing our dependence on borrowed technologies is imperative,” Naravane said at a seminar organised jointly by the defence ministry and the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). He said the industry’s enthusiastic participation in the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India) campaign reaffirmed the country’s collective resolve to fight and win future wars with indigenous weapons and equipment.He said the army was undergoing rapid modernisation and increasingly looking at indigenous solutions for its operational needs. “India has an expanding industrial base and we are confident that most of our core requirements can be realised in-house.”Naravane’s comments come at a time when the government is encouraging self-reliance in the defence manufacturing sector through a slew of policy decisions. India has signed contracts and cleared projects worth almost ₹62,000 crore in less than two months to boost military capability with locally produced weapons and systems including transport planes, tanks, helicopters, airborne early warning systems and counter-drone weapons.The army chief enumerated steps taken by the government for promoting self-reliance, including increasing foreign direct investment (FDI) from 49% to 74%, notifying two lists of 209 weapons/equipment that cannot be imported and creating a separate budget for buying locally-made military hardware.“These reforms will have a significant impact in times to come. We are privileged to be the agents of this change that has the potential to redefine India as a global hub for manufacturing defence equipment,” Naravane said.Enabling policy measures, swift decision making and accelerating process timelines have induced new confidence in the success of ‘Make’ projects, he said.‘Make’ is a category of capital acquisition in the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) and the cornerstone of the Make in India initiative that seeks to build indigenous capabilities through the involvement of both the public and private sectors.‘Make-I’ refers to government-funded projects while ‘Make-II’ covers industry-funded programmes.Another sub-category is ‘Make-III’ that covers military hardware that may not be designed and developed indigenously, but can be manufactured in the country for import substitution, and Indian firms may manufacture these in collaboration with foreign partners.“Make-II is undoubtedly going to remain the preferred mode of acquisition for us. The Indian Army is participating in 36 ‘Make’ projects, including 15 projects which are suo moto proposals from the industry,” Naravane said.He released a list of ‘Make’ projects that the industry can participate in. These projects include surveillance and armed drone swarm, counter-drone systems, low-level light radar for surveillance along eastern and northern borders with China, infantry weapon training simulator, robotic surveillance platforms, portable helipads and a variety of ammunition.“We have to cut down our weapons import bill and eventually tap the export market. The Make in India campaign seeks to take us in that direction,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).On October 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said one of the country’s key goals under the Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign was to emerge as one of the most powerful militaries and develop a modern defence industry in the country....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-says-local-technology-is-a-must-to-win-future-wars-101636379640316.html
09-11-2021||India||Economy, security two main pillars for India-UK cooperation in Indo-Pacific||Economy and security are set to be the two main pillars for cooperation between India and the UK in the Indo-Pacific against the backdrop of concerted efforts by the global community to counter China’s assertiveness across the region.With virtually no country capable of matching China’s deep pockets in terms of cheap financing for its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), India and the UK can come together to offer alternative sources of transparent financing for infrastructure projects and to roll out new technologies such as 5G, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.In the realm of maritime security, the UK plans to have a persistent presence in the western Indian Ocean by deploying two offshore patrol vessels in the region from 2022 and a littoral defence group, based around amphibious vessels, from 2023, the people said. These deployments will be centred round the British naval base at Duqm in Oman.The UK also has a military presence at four more locations in and around the Indian Ocean – Kenya, Diego Garcia, Brunei and Singapore.Also Read: The Pakistan factor: Why India, China ties remain challenging since 1971There are also plans for more complex naval exercises and joint training to build inter-operability between the navies of the two countries. In June, the UK posted a liaison officer at the Indian Navy’s Information Fusion Centre for the Indian Ocean Region in Gurugram, a facility that tracks shipping in the region and monitors security threats.In keeping with an “Indo-Pacific tilt” in its integrated defence and foreign policy review published earlier this year, the UK is looking to work with trusted partners such as India and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) both to secure its presence in the region and to put in place security arrangements that ensure sea trade routes remain free and open.The people cited above said such maritime security arrangements are essential in view of potential flashpoints in the Indian Ocean and the South China Sea. These arrangements will also build on work done together by India and the UK in regions such as the western Indian Ocean, where the two countries have collaborated in countering piracy.The Aukus alliance forged by the US, the UK and Australia reflects the commitment of these three countries to ensure that the seas remain open and secure by providing Australia nuclear-powered submarines.Despite the negative fallout from the Aukus alliance because of Australia’s cancellation of a lucrative contract with France for conventional submarines, the people noted that there was a deep level of trust between the UK and France, which is reflected in their security, intelligence and counterterrorism cooperation.The people said the Indo-Pacific has become the focus of interest for the international community because of the dynamic growth of trade in the region. At the same time, the region has become more contested and there is a need to secure and keep open maritime trade routes, they said.Even as countries in the region work to make supply chains more diverse and resilient, India and the UK can also work together to exploit opportunities for rolling out trusted technologies in areas such as 5G, the people said.In terms of countering China’s role in infrastructure projects through the BRI, the people pointed to the potential for the UK and India to work together on the US-led Build Back Better World (B3W) initiative, including offering alternative sources of financing to Indian Ocean region countries.In this context, they noted the new India-UK Partnership on Infrastructure Policy and Financing, which will help catalyse private finance flows into India’s National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), and the UK’s plans to invest $1.2 billion in green projects and renewable energy in India.Though there are occasional disagreements between the two sides – such as India’s concerns about the activities of pro-Khalistan elements in the UK and a recent row on Covid-19 vaccine certificates – these are outweighed by the strong cooperation in key areas such as trade and defence and the top leadership in both countries has also thrown its weight behind transforming the bilateral relationship, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/economy-security-two-main-pillars-for-india-uk-cooperation-in-indopacific-101636371478046.html
09-11-2021||NA||LIVE: 3 dead as fire breaks out at children's ward in Bhopal hospital||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:3 children dead in fire incident at Bhopal hospitalThree children died in a fire that broke out in a paediatric ward of the Kamal Nehru Hospital. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan confirmed the deaths. He said it was unfortunate to lose three children, who were already serious and admitted at the critical ward of the hospital.'No information on our children,' say parents outside Kamala Nehru Hospital in Bhopal"We have no information of our children, it's been 3-4 hours," parents who are waiting outside the Kamla Nehru Hospital told news agency ANI. Fire brigade reached the spot and rescue operations are underway.Fire at children's ward in Bhopal hospital; fire brigade reach spotThe children's ward of Bhopal's Kamla Nehru Hospital has caught fire, news agency ANI reported. Several children are suspected to be stuck in the building. The fire brigade is at the spot and rescue operations are currently underway. State medical education minister Vishvas Sarang is also present at the spot.Police arrest two active LeT (TRF) terrorists in south KashmirPolice have arrested two categorised active terrorists of LeT (TRF) in south Kashmir and also busted a terror module in Baramulla by arresting three terrorist associates. Arms and ammunition were also recovered from their possession, police added.Cops named as co-accused in FIR along with Param Bir Singh in extortion case held by Maharashtra CIDThe Maharashtra Crime Investigation Department (CID) has arrested two police officers, who were named along with former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in extortion case.Srinagar included in UNESCO Creative Cities Network: J&K Lieutenant Guv Manoj SinhaLieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir took to Twitter on Monday to inform that Srinagar has been included in UNESCO's Creative Cities Network in the “crafts and folk art category.” “It is ultimate recognition for artisans and weavers of J&K,” he tweeted.Firing in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar, salesman shot at by terroristsAccording to latest updates, firing is underway in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar wherein a salesman has been shot at by terrorists. This is the second attack in the city in the previous 24 hours.Two small boats came from Pak and started firing as boat Jalpari turned: PoliceBoat 'Jalpari' left from Okha port for fishing on October 25 as per the complainant, news agency ANI reported quoting JC Kothiya, Incharge SP, Porbandar. “Two small boats came from Pakistan and started firing as the boat turned due to which, of six fishermen, one died,” Kothiya said, adding that an FIR under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged at Navibandar PS.NSA Ajit Doval to hold bilateral talks with his Uzbek and Tajik counterparts tomorrow, reports ANINational Security Ajit Doval will hold bilateral talks with his Uzbekistan and Tajikistan counterparts tomorrow, ahead of NSA level dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10, ANI reported citing people familiar with the matter.NSAs discuss terrorism, arms left behind in AfghanistanChina said unable to attend due to scheduling issue. Open for dialogue with India on Afghanistan multilaterally and bilaterally: Sources on NSA level dialogue on AfghanistanDiscussions over terrorism in Afghanistan and across border along with radicalisation and extremism were held among NSAs. “Central Asian countries also worried about drug production, trafficking. Threat emanating from military weapons left behind in Afghanistan,” ANI reported quoting people familiar with the development.Security beefed up outside Antilia after Mumbai PoliceThe security billionaire Mukesh Ambani's residence 'Antilia' has been beefed up after Mumbai Police received a call from a taxi driver that two people carrying a bag asked for his residence, ANI reported.Delhi reports 25 new Covid-19 cases, 48 more recoveries COVID19 | Delhi reports 25 new cases and 48 recoveries in the last 24 hours; Active caseload stands at 342 pic.twitter.com/nehpr8KhCAThe national capital on Monday recorded 25 new cases, 48 recoveries and zero deaths due to the coronavirus disease, according to the health department's bulletin. India summons Pak diplomat over killing of fisherman in maritime security agency firingIndia on Monday summoned a senior diplomat from the Pakistan High Commission, and strongly condemned the death of fisherman in maritime security agency firing. The Pakistani agency fired upon an Indian fishing boat ‘Jalpari’ on November 6, 2021, resulting in the death of an Indian fisherman and serious injury to another.A militant has been held in J&K's Pulwama with two hand grenadesA militant, identified as Sarwar Ahmad Mir, has been arrested from Rajpora in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama during conducting search operations in the region. The militant has been found with two hand grenades. The Valley police said that the militant has gone missing and only recently joined Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).Joint meeting of all depts to be held tomorrow over air pollution: Gopal RaiDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Monday that a joint meeting consisting of all departments of Delhi will be held tomorrow over the issue of air pollution, ANI reported. “Its primary reason is stubble burning. Yesterday stubble burning reported at around 400 places. It needs to be restricted,” Rai was quoted saying.Winter session of Parliament between Nov 29 and Dec 23The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs (CCPA) on Monday recommended the winter session to take place between November 29 and December 23, ANI reported.Data for Covaxin for children under evaluation by DCGI, ANI report citing people familiar with the matterThe data for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for children is under evaluation, and the process will take some more time for getting the final nod from DCGI, ANI reported citing people familiar with the matter.South Delhi civic body says 1,171 dengue cases reported last weekAs many as 1,171 dengue cases reported last one week, ANI reported citing the South Delhi Municipal Corporation . The total tally now stands at 2,708 for this year, with nine deaths including three last week.Delhi court sentences Ansal brothers to 7 years over tampering evidence in Uphaar fire tragedy caseDelhi court has sentenced seven years simple imprisonment to Gopal Ansal and Sushil Ansal in a case related to the tampering of evidence in the Uphaar fire tragedy case. Chief metropolitan magistrate Pankaj Sharma also imposed a fine of ₹2.25 crore each on the Ansal brothers.Prabhakar Sail reached CRPF camp in Mumbai where Delhi NCB vigilance team has been recording his statement in drugs' casePrabhakar Sail, a key witness in the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case has reached CRPF camp in Bandra (west) in Mumbai where the vigilance team of Delhi NCB has been recording his statement. The vigilance team was formed to probe the allegations levelled by Sail against NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede and the central agency's independent witness Kiran Gosavi. The is led by deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh, and it had come to Mumbai from Delhi on October 27 and commenced probe. They recorded statement of as many as eight people, of which are five NCB officials, including Wankhede, and three private persons.Bengal BJP leaders take out rally protesting against TMC-led govt over VAT on fuel prices still not been reducedWest Bengal BJP leaders and workers have taken to the street in Kolkata to protest against the TMC-led state government over VAT on petrol and diesel prices still not been reduced in state, ANI reported. State BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar says, “We'll force CM [Mamata] Banerjee to reduce the VAT. Police might try to stop us but we'll fight them.”Nitish Kumar calls high-level meet on Nov 16 over liquor banBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has called a high-level meeting on November 16 over liquor ban existing in the state, ANI reported. This comes after multiple deaths in the Bihar after suspected consumption of spurious liquor.PM Modi calls on President KovindDelhi: PM Narendra Modi called on President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan today. pic.twitter.com/pNdBjApOaSPrime Minister Narendra Modi calls on President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan.Defamation suit: Bombay HC seeks Nawab Malik's replyBombay HC seeks reply from Nawab Malik by tomorrow over defamation suit filed by Sameer Wankhede's family. Matter adjourned to November 10.Calcutta HC seeks fresh probe report in post-poll violence caseCalcutta high Court directs both CBI and SIT to file a fresh investigation report over alleged post-poll violence case. Report to be submitted by December 23, the next date of hearing in the case.‘Will appoint a retired HC judge from outside UP to monitor probe’“We will appoint a former judge of a high court from outside UP to monitor the investigation,” says SC on Lakhimpur Kheri case. Next hearing on November 19.‘Nothing in Lakhimpur Kheri case status report’: SC to UP govtSupreme Court expresses unhappiness over the status report filed by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. “Nothing in report apart from saying that more witnesses have been examined,” top court observes.Padma Awards ceremony beginsPresident Ram Nath Kovind arrives for Padma Awards ceremony. PM Modi, home minister Amit Shah among the attendees.Global Covid-19 cases top 250 million: ReutersGlobal coronavirus disease cases surpass 250 million, reports Reuters citing its tally.PM Modi greets BJP veteran LK Advani on 94th birthdayBirthday greetings to respected Advani Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life. The nation remains indebted to him for his numerous efforts towards empowering people and enhancing our cultural pride. He is also widely respected for his scholarly pursuits and rich intellect.“Birthday greetings to respected Advani Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life. The nation remains indebted to him for his numerous efforts towards empowering people and enhancing our cultural pride. He is also widely respected for his scholarly pursuits and rich intellect,” tweets Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Tamil Nadu rain: Schools to remain shut in SivagangaSchools and colleges will remain closed today due to heavy rain in Sivaganga district: Madhusudhanan Reddy, district collector11,451 new Covid-19 cases and 266 deaths in IndiaIndia reports 11,451 new Covid-19 cases and 13,204 recoveries, while daily toll comes down to 266. Total tally at 34,366,987 including 33,763,104 recoveries, 461,057 deaths and 142,826 active cases.Magnitude 4.4 earthquake hits ManipurAn earthquake with magnitude 4.4 on the Richter Scale hit 56km ESE of Ukhrul, Manipur today at 7:48 am: National Centre for SeismologyDelhi's air quality remains 'severe' with AQI of 432Air quality in Delhi continues to remain in the 'severe' category for the third consecutive day with Air Quality Index (AQI) standing at 432.4 CRPF jawans killed, 3 injured in fratricide in ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh: Four jawans of CRPF 50 Bn killed and 3 injured in a case of fratricide in a CRPF camp in Maraiguda Police station limits of Sukma. A jawan had opened fire at the camp. pic.twitter.com/4ZF64RCNKMFour jawans of CRPF 50 battalion killed, three others injured in a case of fratricide in a CRPF camp in Sukma. A jawan opened fire inside the camp.Drugs case: NCB DDG Gyaneshwar Singh leaves for MumbaiNCB DDG Gyaneshwar Singh leaves for Mumbai from Delhi airport in connection with probe in the drugs-on-cruise case.Puducherry closes schools for 2 days due to inclement weatherPuducherry govt announces holiday for all schools on November 8 and 9 due to inclement weather and incessant rain. Reopening of classes 1-8, scheduled for today, postponed for the same reason till further orders.Earthquake of magnitude 4.3 in Andaman and NicobarEarthquake of Magnitude:4.3, Occurred on 08-11-2021, 05:28:29 IST, Lat: 9.98 & Long: 93.82, Depth: 16 Km ,Location: 218km SE of Portblair, Andaman and Nicobar island, India for more information download the BhooKamp App https://t.co/PAYPKjwEef pic.twitter.com/ILSsgUIPqREarthquake of magnitude 4.3 occurred 218 km south east of Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar Islands at 5:28 am today: National Center for Seismology||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-november-8-2021-101636331439847.html
