10-11-2021||India||Depression over Bay of Bengal to cross Tamil Nadu by Nov 11 evening; extremely heavy rain likely: IMD||As Tamil Nadu copes with the aftermath of incessant rainfall, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said in its latest bulletin that the depression lying over southwest Bay of Bengal is expected to cross the coast of northern part of the state and south Andhra Pradesh by Thursday evening.The low-pressure area that lay over central parts of Bay of Bengal changed into a depression earlier in the day. “It is very likely to move west northwestwards and reach north Tamil Nadu coast by tomorrow (November 11) morning,” the bulletin read, adding that thereafter the depression will move west-northwestwards and cross north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coast by November 11 evening.
10-11-2021||India||Afghanistan, bilateral security on NSA Doval’s agenda in meetings with regional counterparts||India’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval discussed the situation in Afghanistan and bilateral security cooperation with his counterparts from Iran, Kazakhstan and Russia on the margins of a regional security meeting on Wednesday. Doval met Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov and Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev after the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan. The three bilateral meetings were substantive and there were detailed discussions on Afghanistan and on bilateral relations, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Doval and Patrushev discussed future high-level exchanges, defence cooperation and deepening interaction between the national security councils of India and Russia, the people said. This was Patrushev’s second visit to India since the Taliban assumed power in Afghanistan in mid-August. A statement issued by the Russian side said Doval and Patrushev had discussed plans for further India-Russia cooperation in security and touched upon a “number of regional problems”. It added, “Special attention was paid to cooperation on various information security issues.” At the meeting with Shamkhani, the two sides discussed the situation in Afghanistan, bilateral trade and the current state of India-Iran relations. Iran had hosted the two previous meetings of the regional security dialogue on Afghanistan and Doval and Shamkhani discussed ways to carry forward the process. Discussions between Doval and his Kazakh counterpart focused on Afghanistan, and practical steps for enhancing connectivity and trade routes between the two countries. The NSAs and security council chiefs of the seven countries that attended the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan had a “very substantive exchange” during a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The people said Modi shared India’s perspective on Afghanistan with the security officials. The people also said the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue had exceeded India’s expectations, as the foreign security officials easily arrived at a complete consensus that enabled the issuance of the joint Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan. The declaration said the eight countries were committed to combat terrorism emanating from Afghanistan. The foreign delegations appreciated the opportunity to engage in frank and open discussions on Afghanistan, the people said. Since this is the only dialogue at the level of NSAs, there was unanimity on the need to continue with this mechanism and have regular consultations, the people added. The people also said there was an “extraordinary degree of convergence” in assessments of the situation in Afghanistan by the eight countries and the principal challenges in the war-torn country and the region. These challenges include the security situation, heightened risk of terrorism and an impending humanitarian crisis. The security officials pointed to the need to provide humanitarian aid and emphasised that land and air routes should be made available and no one should impede the process of providing assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-bilateral-security-on-nsa-doval-s-agenda-in-meetings-with-regional-counterparts-101636566321539.html
10-11-2021||India||'Sorry state of affairs in Tihar jail, murder happening in prison': Supreme Court||It is a "sorry state of affairs in Tihar Jail", observed the Supreme court on Wednesday, as it highlighted the need for prison reforms and enhanced prison management. The court expressed the concern while hearing a case regarding the alleged collusion of prison officials with the realty firm Unitech's imprisoned ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra.Referring to reports in newspapers, a bench headed by Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice MR Shah said murder is happening inside Tihar, adding the jail has become a "den of criminals", according to news agency ANI."It is a sorry state of affairs in Tihar Jail. We have read in newspapers two to three days back that murder is happening in the jail. It has become a den for criminals," the court observed.Also read | Two more Tihar jail staff suspended over links to ex-Unitech promotersThe bench also issued directions to the concerned secretary in the Union ministry of Home Affairs to file an affidavit indicating the steps taken with regards to the implementation of reforms, based on the suggestions given by the Delhi commissioner of police Rakesh Asthana, within three weeks."Having regards to the urgent need for prison reforms and enhanced prison management, comprehensive suggestion are contained in the report submitted by the Commissioner. We direct the Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs, to take necessary steps in pursuance of para 3 and 4 dated of the previous order of this court dated October 6, 2021. An affidavit indicating the steps taken shall be filed by the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs within a period of three weeks," the bench said.With regards to collusion with the Chandra brothers, the Delhi Police informed the court that it has registered an FIR under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code against 37 persons.On October 6, the Supreme court directed suspension of Tihar Jail officials, registration of a case against them and full-fledged probe into their collusion with Chandra brothers, based on Asthana's report. Both Sanjay and Ajay who are in jail since August 2017 are accused of allegedly siphoning home buyers' money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sorry-state-of-affairs-in-tihar-jail-murder-happening-in-prison-supreme-court-101636561877142.html
10-11-2021||India||10 infants evacuated after ventilator in Assam’s Dibrugarh hospital catches fire||Swift action by doctors and other staff helped avert a tragedy after a ventilator of an intensive care unit (ICU) of a paediatric ward in Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH) in Dibrugarh, caught fire on Wednesday. According to hospital authorities, the incident happened around 6:30 pm when a ventilator unit caught fire due to a short circuit. The baby in the unit was immediately moved out and as a safety measure other new-born children were also shifted to another part of the hospital. “As it was an ICU unit, doctors and staff took immediate action and the fire was doused. The baby in the particular unit and all other babies of the ICU are safe and there’s no cause for worry,” Dr Sanjeev Kakati, principal-cum-chief superintendent of AMCH told HT over phone. On being questioned whether the ventilator unit that caught fire was part of supplies from the PM Cares Fund, Dr Kakati mentioned that since the hospital had received several such units over the course of the past one-and-half years from various sources it would be difficult to verify its origin. “There’s no certainty whether the short circuit took place due to a problem in the machine or due to some issues in wiring. As a safety measure, we have ordered an electrical audit of the entire hospital, which will be conducted on Thursday,” Dr Kakati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-infants-evacuated-after-ventilator-in-assam-s-dibrugarh-hospital-catches-fire-101636564101775.html
10-11-2021||India||‘Not election Hindus’: Goa BJP chief hits out at Arvind Kejriwal over temple run ahead of polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit in Goa hit out at Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, alleging that the BJP is “not election Hindu” and questioned why he was visiting temples after claiming that a hospital should be built in Ayodhya instead of a temple.“Today he's visiting every temple. Earlier he used to say that a hospital, instead of Ram temple (in Ayodhya) should be built. We're not election Hindus. We don't do drama. We don't change our colours during polls. BJP works for welfare of people in Goa,” BJP's Goa incharge, CT Ravi, told news agency ANI.Ravi also criticised Kejriwal over his handling of pollution and flooding in Delhi. “Kejriwal ji is speaking a lot on Goa. I would like to ask him what did he do about the pollution in Delhi? People in Delhi suffer a lot every year due to pollution. Delhi gets flooded. What has he done? What is his planning?” he asked.Kejriwal, the national convener of Aam Aadmi Party, has been campaigning in the coastal state of Goa before the assembly elections are held next year. He also already promised the people of development and state sponsored pilgrimages for all religions.He has been accused of resorting to “soft Hindutva” tactics by the opposition for offering state sponsor pilgrimage to Ayodhya. Kejriwal has defended his party’s position by claiming that this was just a replication of a program that is already in motion in Delhi.Adding that his party is also“Making a whole plan for the development of Goa. But here they (other political parties) are talking about alliances. In the morning they say they will ally with one party. In the evening it is someone else. Is anyone even thinking about Goa? Every time I come to Goa I talk about mining, about land rights, about health, education, women programmes, industry, trade. We are making a plan for every sector that affects the people of Goa. Is anybody else doing this? Nobody is worried about Goa.”(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-election-hindus-goa-bjp-chief-hits-out-at-arvind-kejriwal-over-temple-run-ahead-of-polls-101636563151859.html
10-11-2021||India||Two persons injured as terrorists throw grenade in Srinagar’s old city Eidgah||Two persons were injured in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday after terrorists launched a grenade attack in Srinagar’s old city Eidgah. According to news agency ANI, one of the two persons was a policeman.This is the third attack by terrorists in the Valley in only four days, with the previous two ones resulting in the death of two civilians. Moreover, this is the second attack since Sunday’s attack on constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani (29) in which a policeman was targeted.Notably, Wani was shot outside his residence at around 8pm after terrorists opened fire on him. Despite rushing him to a nearby hospital, he succumbed to his bullet injuries. Apart from a case lodged against the suspects, the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police have also formed a team to investigate the matter that led to the murder of Wani, who joined the force two years ago.His attack was closely succeeded by the killing of a salesman, identified as Ibrahim Khan, on Monday. Khan, who hailed from Jammu and Kashmir’s Bandipore district, worked for Kashmiri pandit businessman Roshan Lal Mawa.The attack is believed to have been targeted at Sandeep Mawa, the son of Roshan Lal, who has vowed not to leave the Valley. “There is fear and the family including my father is saying let us go. But how is running away a solution?” he told Hindustan Times.The Mawas relocated to Jammu and Kashmir only in 2019 from Delhi after fleeing to the national capital in the 1990s following Roshan Lal being shot in the abdomen four times. After their return two years before, they restarted their wholesale dry fruit business.Meanwhile, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Tuesday reviewed the security scenario in the Valley as recent incidents of civilian killings have caused terror in the region.As many as 11 civilians, mostly belonging to Bihar and from minority communities, were gunned down by terrorists last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-persons-injured-as-terrorists-throw-grenade-in-srinagar-s-old-city-eidgah-101636562652095.html
10-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Telangana techie taken into custody for rape threat to cricketer’s baby and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.A 23-year-old software engineer in Telangana has been detained on suspicion that he posted a disgusting online rape threat targetting an Indian cricketer’s baby daughter after the infant’s father stood up to Twitter trolls for his teammate. Read moreUnion minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting on Thursday with his counterparts from all states and Union territories (UTs) on the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ mega-vaccination campaign against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreThere were a few surprise call-ups and some expected snubs as India's 15-member squad for the three T20I series against New Zealand was announced on Tuesday. Read moreActor Farhan Akhtar has expressed his relief at the detainment of the person who had made threats to an actor's daughter. After it was reported that the man was caught by the Mumbai Police, Farhan wrote in a tweet that he was glad at the quick action. Read morePandemic restrictions have made our bond with all things digital stronger. While things are slowly crawling back to normal, our screen time refuses to come down with most of the schools still operating in digital mode and offices encouraging work from home. Read moreThe top security officials of seven countries released a consensus document on the issue of Afghanistan on Wednesday afternoon. The document was released after a regional security dialogue chaired by National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-telangana-techie-taken-into-custody-for-rape-threat-to-cricketer-s-baby-and-all-the-latest-news-101636557216345.html
10-11-2021||India||Like no one killed Jessica, nobody demolished Babri Masjid: Chidambaram at Salman Khurshid's book launch event||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said things took a predictable course after Supreme Court's verdict on Ram Janmabhoomi and like no one killed Jessica, nobody demolished Babri Masjid. The former finance minister made these comments at the launch event of Salman Khurshid's book Sunrise over Ayodhya, which is on the Ayodhya verdict."Whatever happened on December 6, 1992, was terribly wrong. It debased our constitution. After the SC judgement, things took a predictable course, within a year or so everyone who was accused was acquitted. So like no one killed Jessica, nobody demolished Babri Masjid," Chidambaram said."That conclusion will forever haunt us that in this country of Jawaharlal Nehru, Mahatma Gandhi, APJ Abdul Kalam... and after 75 years of Independence, we are not ashamed to say that nobody demolished Babri Masjid," Chidambaram added.Both sides accepted the Ayodhya verdict and as both sides have accepted the verdict, it became the 'right judgment', not the other way round, he said. "It's not a right judgment which both sides have accepted," Chidambaram said.Before Chidambaram, Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh said it is unfortunate that Hindutva and Hinduism have become synonymous. "Savarkar wasn't religious. He even asked why the cow is considered 'maata' and he had no problem in consuming beef. He brought 'Hindutva' word to establish Hindu identity which caused confusion in people," Digvijaya Singh said. Congress’s Salman Khurshid in his new book writes that Hindutva is similar to the jihadist Islamist groups like ISIS and Biko Haram.What else can we expect from someone whose party coined the term Saffron terror just to draw equivalence with Islamic jihad, to get Muslim votes? pic.twitter.com/3OikNQJ3qtSunrise over Ayodhya, the book by Salman Khurshid has created a flutter on social media as BJP's Amit Malviya shared a portion from the book where Khurshid reportedly wrote Hindutva is similar to jihadist Islamist groups like ISIS and Boko Haram. "What else can we expect from someone whose party coined the term Saffron terror just to draw equivalence with Islamic jihad, to get Muslim votes?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/like-no-one-killed-jessica-nobody-demolished-babri-masjid-chidambaram-at-salman-khurshid-s-book-launch-event-101636557505458.html
10-11-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya to meet health ministers of states, UTs on ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign tomorrow||Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting on Thursday with his counterparts from all states and Union territories (UTs) on the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ mega-vaccination campaign against coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The drive was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 3 with a focus on administering the doses to those who are yet to receive the first shot and also maximise the second dose of vaccination. The announcement of the campaign was made after PM Modi held a meeting with the officials of 45 districts in 11 states and Union territories with low first-dose vaccination coverage. Chief ministers of these states were also present at the review meetings.Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Jharkhand and Maharashtra, among others, were some of the states and Union territories from where the districts hailed.During the launch of the campaign, PM Modi directed officials to not show any laxity in the speed of the Covid-19 vaccination in the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ drive. He also asked officials to keep micro-strategies in mind, even take help of local religious leaders to create awareness among people and also to tackle rumours around Covid-19 vaccination.According to the health ministry data, as of Wednesday, India’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed 109 crore. Of this figure, 52,69,137 doses were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-to-meet-health-ministers-of-states-uts-on-har-ghar-dastak-campaign-101636556338014.html
10-11-2021||India||In Odisha, offline classes for students of VI and VII to resume from Nov 15||Offline classes for students of classes VI and VII studying in Odisha schools will begin from November 15, state school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash said on Wednesday.The minister said physical classes will be conducted while strictly following all Covid-19 protocols. “The teaching hours for class 6 and class 7 students will be between 9.30 a.m. and 1.00 p.m excluding Sundays and public holidays. The students will be allowed to attend classes either through the online mode or offline mode in consultation with their parents,” Dash said.Classroom teaching for students of classes XI and VIII began on October 21 and October 25 respectively. Classes for students of X and XII had resumed earlier from July 26. For students of class IX, the schools reopened on August 16.The minister said the Odisha government is yet to take a decision regarding reopening of schools for classes I to V.“Discussion on resumption of physical classes for primary students is underway with the deliberation of every aspect including the Covid-19 situation at present. Reopening schools in a phased manner is a judicious process and a final decision in this regard will be taken soon,” he said.The resumption of offline classes in Odisha comes in the wake of a report by an NGO that the pandemic had not only slowed down the learning process among children but also created a digital disparity among students in urban and rural parts of the state. The survey titled ‘Paused Classrooms’, carried out by Save the Children and Odisha RTE Forum, said that only about 6 lakh students from among the 60 lakh students in the age group of 6 to 14 years pursuing elementary education in Odisha, attended online classes.The survey pointed out that the School and Mass Education department did not take into consideration the infrastructure and connectivity issues in rural parts of the state before launching the online education programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-offline-classes-for-students-of-vi-and-vii-to-resume-from-nov-15-101636557262845.html
10-11-2021||India||Union Cabinet restores MPLAD Scheme after Covid-induced suspension||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday decided to restore the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) and an MP will get ₹2 crore for development activities for the remainder of 2021-22 and annually ₹5 crore thereafter.The MPLAD Scheme was suspended temporarily in April 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic and its funds went into the Consolidated Fund of India.Announcing the decision at a press conference, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to restore the scheme for the remaining part of financial year 2021-22. The scheme will continue till 2025-26.While ₹2 crore to each MP will be released in one instalment for the remaining period of 2021-22, from 2022-23 to 2025-26 funds will be released under the scheme at the rate of ₹5 crore per annum to them in two instalments of ₹2.5 crore each, he said."During Covid-19, a decision had been taken by the cabinet that for two years, 2020-21 to 2021-22, MPLAD Scheme money will be used in the fight against the pandemic. And all parliamentarians had also enthusiastically given their consent to contribute in the fight against Covid."I am glad to share with you that in view of the improvement in economic scenario, the way economic recovery has taken place and we have seen growth in various sectors as well, a decision has been taken to restore MPLAD Scheme for the remainder period of the fiscal 2021-22," Thakur told reporters at a cabinet briefing.He said instalments of ₹5 crore each will be given to parliamentarians for the development of their respective constituencies for the remaining three years - 2022-23 to 2025-26.In April last year, the government had suspended MPLADS for two years - 2020-21 and 2021-22, and said that the funds totalling about ₹7,900 crore would be used for improving health infrastructure and managing health services in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic in the country. The government had also reduced the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent in April last.Under the MPLAD scheme, all the MPs can recommend development programmes involving expenditure of ₹5 crore every year in their constituencies.The decision had evoked sharp reactions from opposition parties which had criticised the government and had sought its restoration.While the Congress said the decision would undermine the role of an MP and had sought its review, the left parties and the Trinamool Congress had also slammed the government for the decision. The TMC had termed the step "whimsical" and "undemocratic", while the Shiv Sena said it was taken unilaterally and without consulting anyone.Several MPs had later written to the prime minister seeking restoration of the MPLADS funds.The restoration of the funds will help MPs carry out development works in their respective constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-restores-mplad-scheme-after-covid-induced-suspension-101636555802150.html
10-11-2021||India||'Partition would not have happened if Jinnah...' UP party stokes controversy||Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar on Wednesday gave fuel to a controversy after he said there would have been "no partition" if Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, had been made the first prime minister of India. His remarks came days after his poll ally Akhilesh Yadav, the Samajwadi party supremo, made headlines for speaking about Jinnah in the same breath as Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru as freedom fighters."Had Jinnah been made the first prime minister, the partition of the country would not have happened," news agency PTI quoted Rajbhar as telling reporters in Varanasi.Akhilesh Yadav's remarks on similar lines led many in the Bharatiya Janata Party to raise eyebrows a few days ago. Speaking on the criticism received by Yadav, Rajbhar suggested that former Deputy prime minister L K Advani too had similar views about Jinnah.Also read | Ahead of UP polls, SP chief Akhilesh's Jinnah remark triggers political rowReacting to Om Prakash Rajbhar's remarks, Union minister Anurag Thakur said, "Politics of appeasement start when polls come; some start chanting Jinnah's name. SP-BSP leaders were in closed rooms and traveling abroad for the past four-and-a-half years. The public remembers the Yogi government for its honesty, work and courage." The Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are due early next year.Politics of appeasement start when polls come; some start chanting Jinnah's name. SP-BSP leaders were in closed rooms & traveling abroad for last 4.5 yrs. The public remembers Yogi govt for its honesty, work & courage: Union Min Anurag Thakur, on OP Rajbhar's statement on Jinnah pic.twitter.com/bwRSqYD94n"Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle," Yadav said on Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's 146th birth anniversary on October 31.Reacting to Yadav’s statement on Jinnah, BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi said Jinnah was considered a villain in the country and those who are trying to use his name will not get any benefit.Yadav announced a poll alliance with Rajbhar's party on October 27 for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/partition-would-not-have-happened-if-jinnah-up-party-stokes-controversy-101636554209240.html
10-11-2021||India||Rajnath Singh asks military to stay prepared to respond at short notice||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said the armed forces need to stay prepared to respond to any contingency at short notice, given the volatile situation on India’s borders. Singh’s comments came while addressing the Indian Air Force’s top brass at the opening day of the three-day bi-annual commanders’ conference. The remarks come at a time when India and China have hardened their stance on the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh, and also in the eastern sector, with increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies. The two countries have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh for over 18 months. Singh lauded IAF for its high level of preparedness and ability to respond to any situation at short notice. Addressing the commanders, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari stressed on the need to develop multi-domain capability to give a “swift and befitting response” to any misadventures by India’s adversaries. The air chief also highlighted the need for joint training with the army and the navy for synergised application of combat power in future conflicts. The minister said enhancing jointness was essential and joint structures should be evolved after closely examining various options. He said inputs from all stake holders would be taken into consideration. The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands, and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-asks-military-to-stay-prepared-to-respond-at-short-notice-101636553600984.html
10-11-2021||India||India, regional nations pledge to combat terror, call for inclusive Afghan govt||Eight regional countries, including India, Iran and Russia, pledged on Wednesday to combat terrorism emanating from Afghanistan and called for an open and inclusive government in Kabul with representation from all sections of Afghan society. In an apparent reference to Pakistan’s backing for the Taliban, a declaration issued at the conclusion of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan – which was attended by top security officials from the eight countries – emphasised respect for Afghanistan’s sovereignty and non-interference in its internal affairs. The security officials pitched for collective efforts to counter extremism, radicalisation, separatism and drug trafficking in the region. The meeting, chaired by India’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, was attended by Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and the security council heads of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. “We all have been keenly watching the developments in [Afghanistan]. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan, but also for its neighbours and the region,” Doval said in televised remarks. “This is a time for close consultations amongst us, greater cooperation, interaction and coordination among the regional countries,” he said. This was the first regional meeting on Afghanistan convened by India since Kabul fell to the Taliban on August 15. However, the dialogue was the continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meetings in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were invited to the meeting but chose not to participate. Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf said last week he wouldn’t attend because India was being a “spoiler” in the region, while the Chinese side cited scheduling problems. The Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan, issued after the meeting, said the eight countries are committed to “combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including its financing, the dismantling of terrorist infrastructure and countering radicalisation, to ensure that Afghanistan would never become a safe haven for global terrorism”. It said that “Afghanistan’s territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts”. The declaration stressed the need to form “an open and truly inclusive government that represents the will of all the people of Afghanistan and has representation from all sections of their society, including major ethno-political forces in the country”. The inclusion of all sections of Afghan society in the administrative and political structure is “imperative for the successful national reconciliation process”, it said. The eight countries said they backed a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan while emphasising “respect for sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs”. They expressed concern at the suffering of the Afghan people because of the security situation and condemned terror attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul. The declaration emphasised the protection of the rights of women, children and minorities, and expressed concern at the deteriorating socio-economic and humanitarian situation. In this context, the declaration highlighted the need to provide urgent humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. While pointing to the UN’s “central role” in Afghanistan, the eight countries said humanitarian assistance should be provided in an “unimpeded, direct and assured manner”, and distributed in a non-discriminatory manner to all sections of Afghan society. The representatives of the eight countries, in brief opening statements, pushed for collective efforts to cope with threats such as terrorism and drug trafficking emanating from Afghanistan, and to provide humanitarian aid to Afghans before the onset of winter. Shamkhani referred to the challenges of terrorism and a refugee crisis, and said: “The solution comes only through the formation of an inclusive government with the participation of all ethnic groups.” Patrushev noted the proliferation of dialogue mechanisms on Afghanistan, including the Moscow Format and Turkic Council, and said it was important that these forums do not duplicate work but complement each other. Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov said his country is closely monitoring threats from Afghanistan. “With the Taliban movement coming to power, the situation inside the country remains complicated. There are many obstacles to form an effective government system,” he said. “Terrorist organisations are intensifying their activities. We are strongly concerned with the operations of the Central Asian fighters,” he added. Tajikistan’s security council secretary Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda said his country is concerned about developments following the Taliban takeover because it has a long border with Afghanistan. “The current situation creates extra risk and possibility for growth of drug trafficking, terrorism and criminality. The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border remains complicated currently under the influence of many negative factors,” he said. The security officials also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the dialogue. The meeting in Delhi coincided with the Taliban foreign minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi, beginning a three-day visit to Pakistan. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid expressed optimism over meetings on Afghanistan held in Islamabad, Moscow, Tehran and New Delhi. “We are optimistic because the whole region needs stability and security in Afghanistan...the meetings...pave the way to understanding, and they are hopefully in the benefit of Afghanistan,” Mujahid said. China’s special envoy for Afghanistan Yue Xiaoyong will attend a meeting of the “extended troika” to be hosted by Pakistan on November 11. The meet will also be attended by the senior envoys of the US and Russia. Muttaqi’s delegation is expected to meet senior officials of all four countries while in Islamabad. Pakistan’s security establishment, with its close ties to the Taliban and the Haqqani Network, has gained influence in Kabul since August. At the same time, the Taliban are looking towards China for investments following the withdrawal of Western assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-regional-nations-pledge-to-combat-terror-call-for-inclusive-afghan-govt-101636550721170.html
10-11-2021||India||Wrestler Nisha Dahiya issues video after death news, says she is fine||Wrestler Nisha Dahiya issued a video on Instagram and said the news that she and her brother were shot dead by unknown assailants was fake news. In the video, Nisha Dahiya introduced her and said she has come to Gonda to play senior nationals and the news of her being shot is fake. “This Nisha Dahiya (shot dead) and medalist wrestler Nisha Dahiya are two different people. The medalist wrestler belongs to Panipat and is at an event now,” Sonipat superintendent of Police Rahul Sharma said to ANI.  A post shared by Nisha Dahiya (@nisha_dahiya_07)On Wednesday evening, it was reported Nisha and her brother Suraj were shot dead in Haryana's Sonipat by unknown assailants as she was returning home from Sushil Kumar Wrestling Academy in Sonipat's Halalpur. It was also reported that Nisha's mother was admitted to Rohtak's PGI Hospital in a critical condition. The wrestler has recently won medals at the Wrestling Championships in Belgrade in 65 kg wrestling under 23 for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted congratulating the wrestler along with the other winners of the event. "Congratulations to Shivani, Anju, Divya, Radhika and Nisha for winning medals at the Wrestling Championships in Belgrade. Their performance is special and will contribute to wrestling becoming even more popular across India," PM Modi tweeted on Wednesday.Soon after the ‘fake news’ started doing the rounds, people on social media expressed shock over the incident, minutes after which the video from Nisha Dahiya hit social media.News agency Press Trust of India clarified that the news of a wrestler by the name of Nisha Dahiya being shot dead by assailants in Sonipat is not fake. Quoting the coach, it reported that the wrestler who has been shot is a newcomer wrestler who is also Nisha Dahiya, not the under-13 world championship bronze medalistNisha Dahiya's wrestling career has gone through several ups and downs as she faced a ban in 2016 after she tested positive for meldonium, a drug banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency.An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported the wrestler’s death. The error is regretted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrestler-nisha-dahiya-says-she-is-in-gonda-news-of-her-death-fake-101636550380893.html
10-11-2021||India||Assam police stop road construction by Mizoram near inter-state border||SILCHAR: The Assam police stopped a group of residents from Mizoram from building a road in its border district of Cachar, insisting that the land on which they were building the road falls on its side of the border, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Monday.Mizoram police officer Vanlalfaka Ralte acknowledged that villagers on its side made a mistake and didn’t realise where the inter-state boundary was. Cachar district’s superintendent of police (SP) Ramandip Kaur said this wasn’t a first and there have been multiple such instances in recent months.Assam districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. The decades-old border dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception; Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a demarcation made in 1933. In July this year, the border dispute deteriorated, leading to a bloody clash that led to the death of six Assam police personnel.On Monday, an Assam police officer said, residents of Paglacherra and French Nagar under Dholai assembly constituency of Cachar district noticed that a road was being constructed on forest land by Mizo civilians and its India Reserve Batallion jawans.Cachar SP, Ramandip Kaur said they stopped the construction work because it was on Assam’s side of the border. “This is not the first time they were attempting to construct a road on Assam’s land. In past also, we stopped similar activities but this time they were doing it during the night,” she saidKaur also confirmed that this time, the Mizo civilians agreed to move back and didn’t argue. “In past, when we stopped such activities, Mizoram citizens argued with us. But this time they moved back peacefully because they understood that activities were wrong. I have spoken with the superintendent of police of Kolasib district about this,” she added.Also Read: Assam-Mizoram border dispute has origin in British era notificationsMizoram’s Kolasib district SP Vanlalfaka Ralte said, “People from a village panchayat of our district was involved in the construction. It was under their farming land and they didn’t understand the border. I have talked to the SP Cachar and assured her that the work will not resume for the time being.”Lailapur residents in Cachar district said the police aren’t always as prompt to intervene at their request. “For Mizoram, such attempts of construction and encroachment have become a regular affair. When their civilians do this, IR Batallion jawans patrol the area to protect. Our commandos just stand and watch,” said a local resident.A senior Assam official said a letter has been sent to Mizoram asking the neighouring state to ensure that its residents do not get involved in such activities. Mizoram chief secretary Renu Sharma’s office confirmed receiving the latter but did not make any comment.Monday’s aborted attempt to build the road comes days after an explosive, complete with a detonator, was found at a construction site in Assam near inter-state border. A special team of bomb squad travelled to the spot from Guwahati to defuse the explosive device on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-stop-road-construction-by-mizoram-near-inter-state-border-101636549040772.html
10-11-2021||India||Gujarat riots: Kapil Sibal tells SC message must be sent it's unacceptable||Senior advocate and Congress leader Kapil Sibal said on Wednesday that communal violence was like a lava erupting from a volcano that scared the ground it touched.Arguing on behalf of Zakia Jafri who has challenged a clean chit by the special investigating team (SIT) to 64 people, including Prime Minister Narendra Narendra Modi, the then Gujarat chief minister during the 2002 riots, Sibal told the Supreme Court that said a message must be sent to the world that this was "unacceptable" and "cannot be tolerated".According to a PTI report, he further said communal violence was a "fertile ground" for future revenge and he had lost his maternal grandparents in Pakistan in a similar way."Communal violence is like lava erupting from a volcano. It is institutionalised violence. Wherever that lava touches, it scars the earth. It is a fertile ground for future revenge," he told the bench, headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar."I lost my maternal parents to it in Pakistan," a visibly emotional Sibal told the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar.The senior advocate said he was not accusing A or B, but this was a "historic matter" because the choice was between ensuring that rule of law will prevail or letting people run amok.Jafri is the wife of slain Congress leader Ehsan Jafri, who was killed at Gulberg society in Ahmedabad on February 28, 2002, during the riots.The former MP was among the 68 people killed in the violence, a day after a coach of the Sabarmati Express was burnt at Godhra killing 59 people and triggering riots in Gujarat.On October 26, the apex court had said it would like to peruse the closure report of the SIT giving the clean chit to 64 individuals and the justification given by the magisterial court while accepting it. The argument in the matter was underway in the top court.Sibal had earlier said Jafri's complaint was about “a larger conspiracy where there was bureaucratic inaction, police complicity, hate speeches and unleashing of violence".On February 8, 2012, the SIT had filed a closure report giving a clean chit to Modi and 63 others, including senior government officials, saying there was "no prosecutable evidence" against them.Zakia Jafri had filed a petition in the apex court in 2018 challenging the Gujarat high court's October 5, 2017, order rejecting her plea against the decision of the SIT.The plea also stated that after the SIT gave a clean chit in its closure report before a trial judge, she filed a protest petition which was dismissed by the magistrate without considering its "substantiated merits".(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-riots-kapil-sibal-tells-sc-message-must-be-sent-it-s-unacceptable-101636547734673.html
10-11-2021||India||Jaishankar calls for easing of air travel restrictions by GCC states||External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday called for further easing of restrictions by the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states on air travel from India and mutual recognition of vaccination certificates.He raised the matter during a meeting with GCC secretary general Nayef Falah Mubarak Al-Hajraf. The two leaders also reviewed India-GCC ties and discussed trade and investment relations. Nayef Falah, a former finance minister of Kuwait, is on his first official visit to India during November 10-11. He was appointed secretary general of the GCC in February 2020. The GCC is a regional political and economic union that includes Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Millions of Indians live and work in the GCC states. India has been pushing the GCC to ease travel restrictions so that Indian citizens can return to their jobs in the region.Jaishankar and Nayef Falah carried out a detailed review of India-GCC relations and discussed ways to enhance them, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Jaishankar hoped there would be a further easing of restrictions by GCC states on air travel from India and mutual recognition of vaccination certificates. The two leaders discussed trade and investment ties and expressed satisfaction that essential trade between India and the GCC had continued even during the Covid-19 lockdowns. Both sides agreed on the need to further secure supply chains, including in the areas of energy security, food security and healthcare, the statement said. Jaishankar highlighted India as a destination for foreign direct investments, including for sovereign wealth funds of GCC states. Nayef Falah lauded the contribution of the Indian community to the Gulf countries and said the “GCC wants to be a partner of India in its economic growth”, the statement said. Jaishankar thanked the GCC countries for taking care of the large Indian diaspora during the pandemic and for the medical assistance provided during the second wave of infections in India in April-May. Both leaders expressed satisfaction at India-GCC cooperation in handling the challenges posed by the pandemic, and Jaishankar apprised Nayef Falah of India’s progress in its vaccination programme. The two leaders also exchanged views on regional and international issues of mutual concern. Jaishankar congratulated Nayef Falah for the GCC’s constructive role in promoting stability and prosperity in the region. Both sides decided to hold the next India-GCC troika political dialogue at an early date. The last round of the dialogue was held virtually in November 2020. Both sides also agreed to further institutionalise the annual meetings between the external affairs minister and the GCC troika by signing a memorandum of understanding in the coming months. Nayef Falah will hold talks with commerce minister Piyush Goyal on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-calls-for-easing-of-air-travel-restrictions-by-gcc-states-101636546220667.html
10-11-2021||India||SRK's manager will be summoned again, say Mumbai Police as Pooja Dadlani skips questioning||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday said it will again summon Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani in connection with the drugs-on-cruise case as Pooja has skipped the interrogation citing health reasons. SRK's manager who was often spotted outside the Narcotics Control Bureau office when Aryan Khan was in jail is significant for the investigation. "Her statement is important for SIT and in the time to come, we will summon her again for questioning," the Mumbai Police said.This is the special investigation team of the Mumbai Police conducting a parallel probe into the extortion allegations against the NCB team in teh Aryan Khan case. The SIT has also sought the CCTV footage of NCB's South Mumbai offices, reports said.According to various conflicting accounts given by Prabhakar Sail, Sam D'Souza, names which have surfaced in the past few days in connection with the Aryan Khan case, the extortion demand was made to SRK's manager Pooja Dadlani. Sam D'Souza claimed Pooja Dadlani even paid ₹50 lakh to KP Gosavi as she was promised that Gosavi could ensure Aryan Khan's release from NCB detention, before he was arrested on October 3. D'Souza claimed he returned the money to Pooja Dadlani after Aryan was arrested. While the drugs case is now under an SIT of the NCB, the Mumbai Police are looking into the extortion angle raised by Prabhakar Sail, a former aide of KP Gosavi. Sail claimed he overheard a conversation between Gosavi and D'Souza about a payoff of ₹18 crore from Shah Rukh Khan to secure Aryan Khan's release. Meanwhile, police claimed they have checked the CCTV footage of the Lower Parel area where Pooja Dadlani reportedly met Gosavi and D'Souza and found that Pooja's car was in that area. The Delhi team of the NCB is also looking into the pay-off allegation. On Monday, the team visited the spot outside the Indiana Hotel where Pooja apparently met Gosavi.The NCB special investigation team had summoned Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Achit Kumar; all three were arrested in the case and are now out on bail. While Arbaaz and Achit have met the NCB SIT, Aryan Khan cited health reasons and has skipped the first summons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srks-manager-will-be-summoned-again-say-mumbai-police-as-puja-dadlani-skips-questioning-101636545334056.html
10-11-2021||India||One person detained in Hyderabad for giving rape threats to Indian cricketer's daughter||The cyber cell of Mumbai police's crime branch detained one person from Hyderabad for allegedly giving online rape threats to the infant daughter of an Indian cricketer for supporting teammate Mohammed Shami, who was brutally trolled for his religion after Team India’s loss to Pakistan in the T20 World Cup. Senior Mumbai police officers said that the suspect works as a software engineer for a food delivery app in Hyderabad. They added that the suspect is being brought to Mumbai for further probe into the matter.According to news agency ANI, the suspect has been identified as 23-year-old Ramnagesh Srinivas Akubathini.Although the name of the cricketer has not been revealed, the news comes close on the heels of online rape threats meted out to Team India skipper Virat Kohli’s nine-month-old daughter Vamika whom he shares with Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma.The attack on Kohli’s daughter began soon after India’s loss to Pakistan, but strengthened after the captain threw his weight behind Shami. Notably, Shami is the only Muslim player in the Indian squad.Also Read | 'Nobody gives them any love’: Rahul Gandhi asks Virat Kohli to ‘forgive’ trollsA day before India’s second match in the T20 World Cup held in United Arab Emirates (UAE), Kohli targeted the trolls on social media and called them “a bunch of spineless people who have got no courage to speak to any individual in person.”“To me, attacking someone over their religion is the most pathetic thing that a human being can do,” Kohli had said in a virtual press meet.Several cricketers in the likes of Sachin Tendulkar, Virender Sehwag and Anil Kumble, among others, had also supported Shami.The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) also took suo motu cognisance of media reports and issued a notice to Delhi police, even describing the matter of “serious concern.”“Our chairperson Swati Maliwal has called this ‘shameful,’ and called for immediate arrest of the accused,” the notice that was shared on Twitter, read.The commission mentioned a Twitter handle @Criccrazygirl that had posted a tweet giving online rape threats to Kohli and Anushka’s infant daughter. Soon after several netizens claimed that the account belonged to a Pakistani user. However, reports thereafter had refuted the same alleging that the tweet was made from an Indian after all.After Virat Kohli's support to Mohammed Shami, a Twitter user posted a rape threat to Kohli's daughter. Several people claimed the user is from Pakistani but this is false. The Twitter account belongs to an Indian user. #AltNewsFactCheckhttps://t.co/AOyveYpur4The commission had sought information on the matter pertaining to copy of he First Investigation Report (FIR) lodged, details of accused identified and held, and detailed steps taken to nab the accused if no arrest made thus far by November 8.(With inputs from the bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-person-detained-in-hyderabad-for-giving-rape-threats-to-indian-cricketer-101636544981578.html
10-11-2021||India||Eye on polls, Priyanka Gandhi promises ₹10,000 monthly honorarium for ASHA workers if voted to power in UP||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi expressed solidarity with Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) and anganwadi workers and announced that they will be provided with an honorarium of ₹10,000 per month if the party comes to power in Uttar Pradesh.“The Congress party is committed to the rights of honorarium of ASHA sisters and their respect and if the government is formed, ASHA sisters and Anganwadi workers will be given an honorarium of ₹10,000 per month,” Gandhi tweeted on Wednesday.Gandhi, the Congress general secretary, shared a video of ASHA workers being allegedly “assaulted” by police at Shahjahanpur, where they had gone to meet with chief minister Yogi Adityanath and present a list of demands. Hindustan Times could not independently verify the contents of the video."Every assault on the ASHA sisters by the UP government is an insult to the work done by them. My ASHA sisters have given their services diligently in coronavirus times and on other occasions. Honorarium is their right. It is the duty of the government to listen to them," she tweeted in support.All over the country ASHA and anganwadi workers have been protesting since September demanding risk allowance and insurance cover while on Covid duty, regularisation of appointments, and low wages. This all-female army of grassroot workers who have been at the forefront of rural India’s fight against coronavirus and are now shouldering the responsibility of immunisation.Centre contributes ₹4,500 per month towards their remuneration and many state governments contribute an additional amount. They were promised an extra honorarium of ₹1,000 but many states are yet to follow up on that promise.ASHA workers in Maharashtra had organised a similar strike in June of this year which was called off after the state government agreed to increase their honorarium by ₹1,500 a month. Even during the pandemic they have been assailed by various issues like unavailability of proper protective gears and PPE kits.Gandhi, whose party is fighting the upcoming assembly polls in UP, pledged her support to ASHA and anganwadi workers. "ASHA sisters deserve respect and I am with them in this fight," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-polls-priyanka-gandhi-promises-rs-10-000-monthly-honorarium-for-asha-workers-if-voted-to-power-in-up-101636542601260.html
10-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt sprinkles water, puts up barricades to remove Yamuna foam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi govt installs bamboo barricades, sprinkles water to remove Yamuna frothTo address the problem of toxic foam found floating on the Yamuna River, the Delhi government on Wednesday resorted to measures ranging from sprinkling of water at high speed at various locations. Read More'Allegations serious': Cong's Nana Patole wants CM Uddhav to probe Malik-Fadnavis rowMaharashtra Congress president Nana Patole on demanded chief minister Uddhav Thackeray institute an investigation into allegations and counter-allegations levelled against each. Read MoreChina to join Pakistan’s ‘Troika Plus’ meeting on AfghanistanChina will join an extended “troika” meeting on Afghanistan to be hosted by Pakistan on Thursday, which will be attended by senior diplomats from the US and Russia, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Wednesday. Read More'Sachin did the same playing under various captains': Sehwag opens up on Kohli's new role in Indian team after captaincyWith Virat Kohli stepping down as India's T20I captain and Rohit Sharma taking over the reins. Read MoreSpider-Man No Way Home: John Campea, who leaked viral pics, gets call from Marvel; has even 'juicier' onesCanadian film reviewer John Campea, who leaked the Spider-Man: No Way Home pictures, has shared details of what happened after he posted the images online. Read MoreAir pollution can play havoc with your eyes. Here’s howAs post Diwali air pollution continues to make news and raise concerns, it is important to safeguard ourselves from the side-effects of toxic pollutants that can cause respiratory disorders. Read MoreWatch: Mahindra XUV700 scores smashing five-star rating in Global NCAP testsMahindra XUV700 has become the latest Indian car to register a perfect crash test score for adult occupants in the recently-released Global NCAP safety report. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-sprinkles-water-puts-up-barricades-to-remove-yamuna-foam-and-all-the-latest-news-101636541808789.html
10-11-2021||India||Uphaar and the 25-year long battle for justice||The joy and relief were palpable in their voices for the first time in nearly 25 years. The Krishnamoorthys had never given up on being parents even though they lost both their children in June 1997.
10-11-2021||India||Over 16,000 villages in Gujarat inoculated 100% eligible population with 1st Covid vaccine dose||More than 16,000 villages and five municipal corporations in the state of Gujarat have vaccinated their entire eligible population with the first dose of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), state health minister Rushikesh Patel said on Wednesday.According to news agency PTI, the above 18 population in Gujarat which is eligible to get inoculated, stands at around 49.3 million.Speaking to reporters in Gandhinagar on Wednesday, health minister Patel said that nearly 45 million people have received the first dose while 27.1 million are fully vaccinated, i.e have received both doses.The entire eligible population in the cities of Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Surat, Junagadh and Rajkot have been administered the first jab of the vaccine, Patel said.He added that residents of 16,109 villages of a total 18,500 have received the first vaccine dose. On the other hand, Junagadh, Ahmedabad, Tapi and Mahisagar have also achieved 100 per cent coverage of the first dose till now, the health minister said, PTI reported.Since the beginning of the nationwide vaccination drive from January 16 this year, Gujarat has administered over 72 million doses, according to Patel.Last month, the state government announced that 90% of the eligible population across Gujarat had taken the first jab against Covid-19.Gujarat has so far recorded 826,784 Covid-19 cases, 816,485 recoveries, 209 active cases and 10,090 deaths. On Tuesday, the state recorded 20 new cases, 28 recoveries and no deaths due to the viral disease.According to the Union health ministry, India’s vaccination coverage has exceeded 1.096 billion with over 5.2 million doses administered in the last 24 hours.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-16-000-villages-in-guj-inoculated-100-eligible-population-with-1st-dose-101636537137814.html
10-11-2021||India||INS Vela, India’s fourth Scorpene-class submarine, delivered to Indian Navy||INS Vela, the country’s fourth Scorpene-class submarine, was delivered to the Indian Navy on Tuesday after more than two years of sea trials. The delivery of the attack submarine, which underwent sea trials since May 2019, is seen as a major shot in the arm for the Indian Navy in terms of strength and capability.INS Vela is known to have advanced stealth and combat capabilities when it comes to engaging with the enemy.The diesel-electric submarine was built under Project 75 by Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited (MDL) in Mumbai.The acceptance document for INS Vela’s delivery was signed by Vice Admiral Narayan Prasad (retired), chairman and managing director of MDL, and Rear Admiral KP Arvindan, chief staff officer (technical) of Western Naval Command. MDL directors and other navy personnel were also present on the occasion.Also Read: Indian Navy invites applications for trade apprenticeship at DAS, VisakhapatnamThe first submarine, INS Kalvari, was launched in October 2015 and was commissioned in December 2017 - five years behind schedule. The second one, INS Khanderi, was launched in January 2017 for trials and commissioned in September 2019. The third submarine, INS Karanj, was launched in January 2018 and commissioned on March 10, 2021.And then INS Vela, the fourth in the series, was launched in May 2019. The fifth one, INS Vagir, was launched in November 2020 and has commenced harbour trials. It is expected to go for its maiden surface sortie in December 2021. The sixth submarine, INS Vagsheer, is in the advanced stage of outfitting. “The delivery of four submarines - Kalvari, Khanderi, Karanj and now Vela - reaffirmed India’s membership in the exclusive group of submarine-building nations,” said Ashish Singh, PR manager at MDL.Scorpene-class submarines can undertake multifarious missions such as anti-surface warfare, anti-submarine warfare, intelligence gathering, mine laying, area surveillance, etc. The submarines are designed to operate in all theatres with means provided to ensure interoperability with other components of a naval task force. The state-of- the-art technology used in the construction of Scorpene-class submarines has ensured improved stealth features, such as advanced acoustic silencing techniques, low radiated noise levels, hydro-dynamically optimised shape and the ability to launch a crippling attack on the enemy using precision-guided weapons. Attacks can be carried out using both torpedoes as well as tube-launched anti-ship missiles at the same time, underwater or on surface.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-vela-india-s-fourth-scorpene-class-submarine-delivered-to-indian-navy-101636540700439.html
10-11-2021||India||Uttarakhand high court acquits former MP DP Yadav in 1992 murder case||Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday acquitted former Member of Parliament DP Yadav in the 1992 murder of Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Mahendra Singh Bhati in Uttar Pradesh’s Dadri, said Yadav’s lawyer SRS Gill. Bhati was shot dead in September 1992.Gill said a division bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma Yadav acquitted Yadav of all charges in the murder case.Sandeep Tandon, who represented the Central Bureau of Investigation in the case, said a special court in Dehradun sentenced Yadav and three others to life imprisonment in March 2015 for murdering Bhati. He added Yadav was convicted under Indian Penal Code Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), and 120 B (criminal conspiracy). Yadav challenged the conviction in the high court in 2015.Also Read | Barmer accident: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of victims“Yadav has been acquitted under all these charges. He is currently on extended short-term bail on health grounds which was set to expire within a day or two. Earlier this year, he had been granted bail twice on health grounds,” said Tandon. He added they will go through the high court judgment and then take a decision on challenging the acquittal in Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-high-court-acquits-former-mp-dp-yadav-in-1992-murder-case-101636539502383.html
10-11-2021||India||Congress to launch campaign against price rise from November 14||The Congress will launch a mass agitation--Jan Jagran Abhiyan--from November 14 to 29 against price rise.In a statement, Congress leader KC Venugopal said “the run-away inflation and back-breaking price rise” has added to people’s woes caused by the “destruction of the economy, deepening recession, highest ever unemployment rate, farm distress and escalating levels of poverty and hunger.” It added the Congress workers will reach out to the maximum number of Indians to “strengthen the people’s voice against the unprecedented price rise in the CNG, cooking gas, diesel, petrol, cooking oil, pulses and other essential commodities.”The Congress is creating a logo for the Abhiyan, which will resemble the Dandi March led by Mahatma Gandhi during the national movement.Also Read : Punjab AG issue: Congress MP Manish Tewari takes dig at SidhuA social media campaign will also be launched on November 12. Top Congress leaders will go live on social media as part of the mass contact programmes. The party will also announce a toll-free number for people to register themselves for the campaign.The Abhiyan has been announced ahead of the Parliament’s Winter Session from November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-launch-campaign-against-price-rise-from-november-14-101636538959868.html
10-11-2021||India||Delhi dialogue on Afghanistan calls for open and inclusive govt in Kabul||Top security officials of eight countries, including India, Iran and Russia, on Wednesday said Afghanistan’s soil shouldn’t be used for planning terrorist acts, and called for an open and inclusive government in Kabul with representation from all sections of Afghan society. The officials also pitched for collective cooperation to tackle radicalisation, extremism, separatism and drug trafficking in the region, according to the declaration issued at the conclusion of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan. The meeting, chaired by India’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, was attended by Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and the security council heads of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Though this was the first such meeting on Afghanistan convened by India, the dialogue was the continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meets in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were invited to the meeting but opted not to participate. In his opening remarks, Doval said the time had come for closer consultations and greater coordination among regional countries to find solutions to recent developments in Afghanistan. Also Read: PM Modi speaks to security heads of 7 nations as Delhi calls meet on Afghanistan“We all have been keenly watching the developments in [Afghanistan]. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan, but also for its neighbours and the region,” Doval said in televised remarks. “This is a time for close consultations among us, greater cooperation, interaction and coordination among the regional countries,” he said. Shamkhani referred to the challenges of terrorism and a refugee crisis, and said, “The solution comes only through the formation of an inclusive government with the participation of all ethnic groups.” The Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan, issued at the conclusion of the dialogue, said that “Afghanistan’s territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts”. It stressed on the need to form “an open and truly inclusive government that represents the will of all the people of Afghanistan and has representation from all sections of their society, including major ethno-political forces in the country”. The declaration contended that the inclusion of all sections of Afghan society in the “administrative and political structure is imperative for the successful national reconciliation process” in Afghanistan. The declaration strongly condemned all terrorist activities and reaffirmed the commitment of the eight countries to combat all forms terrorism, including its financing, to dismantle terrorist infrastructure and to counter radicalisation in order to ensure Afghanistan “would never become a safe haven for global terrorism”. The eight countries said they supported a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan while emphasising “respect for sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs”. They also expressed concern at the suffering of the Afghan people because of the security situation and condemned terror attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul. Also Read: Pakistan to host ‘Troika summit’ to discuss Afghanistan situationThe declaration further emphasised the importance of ensuring that fundamental rights of women, children and minorities are not violated, and expressed concern at the deteriorating socioeconomic and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. In this context, the declaration pointed to the need to provide urgent humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. While pointing to the UN’s “central role” in Afghanistan, the eight countries said humanitarian assistance should be provided in an “unimpeded, direct and assured manner to Afghanistan” and this aid should be distributed in a non-discriminatory manner across all sections of Afghan society. The NSAs and security council secretaries of all eight countries, in their brief opening statements, pushed for collective efforts to cope with threats such as terrorism and drug trafficking emanating from Afghanistan and to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people before the onset of winter. Patrushev noted the proliferation of dialogue mechanisms on Afghanistan, including the Moscow Format and Turkic Council, and said it was important that these forums do not duplicate work but complement each other. Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov said his country is closely monitoring threats from Afghanistan. “With the Taliban movement coming to power, the situation inside the country remains complicated. There are many obstacles to form an effective government system,” he said. “Terrorist organisations are intensifying their activities. We are strongly concerned with the operations of the Central Asian fighters,” he said. Tajikistan’s security council secretary Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda said his country is concerned about developments following the Taliban takeover because it has a long border with Afghanistan. “The current situation creates extra risk and possibility for growth of drug trafficking, terrorism and criminality. The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border remains complicated currently under the influence of many negative factors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indialed-summit-on-afghanistan-focuses-on-terrorism-and-inclusive-government-101636537879929.html
10-11-2021||India||Mumbai Police solves 50 auto rickshaw theft cases with 4 arrests||The Mumbai Police on Tuesday arrested four members of a gang suspected to be involved in more than 50 cases of robbing auto rickshaws and reselling them at dirt cheap prices quickly.According to the officers at the Aarey sub police station, the accused, identified as Samad Shaikh (24), Sufiyan Khan (25), Rafiq Khan (24) and Amir Bhatt (25), were arrested from their houses in Powai. Police said they first scanned CCTV recordings of the parking lots after receiving more than six complaints of rickshaw theft in the area in one month and further zeroed on suspects by studying cell tower locations of people detected in the locality at the time of the thefts.Also Read | Mumbai coastline crisis: Urban flooding is a public health issueThe four arrested accused told police they had sold more than 50 stolen auto rickshaws to random people for ₹5,000 each. On further investigation, police found that the buyers had rented out the auto rickshaws for ₹300 a day. “We have recovered six rickshaws till now and are investigating further. The four have been arrested for theft and will be presented before the court,” said a police officer from Aarey Sub police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-solves-50-auto-rickshaw-theft-cases-with-4-arrests-101636537099913.html
10-11-2021||India||Barmer accident: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of victims||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the families of victims who died in an accident at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan. The injured will be given ₹50,000 each.Eleven people died while 22 others sustained injuries after a truck collided with a bus in Barmer district. The accident occurred near the Bhandiyawas village on the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway.As per a tweet by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), Modi expressed condolences to the bereaved families and said, "It is saddening that people have lost their lives due to a bus-tanker collision at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan.”“An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the accident at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000 each,” the PMO said in a subsequent tweet.An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the accident at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000 each: PM @narendramodiBoth vehicles caught fire after the collision. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the flames."Ten bodies have been recovered from the spot and one died at a hospital. Twenty-two others are injured. Eight critically injured persons have been referred to Jodhpur for treatment, "Barmer superintendent of police Deepak Bhargav told news agency PTI.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Wednesday that he has spoken to the district collector and has ordered him to ensure proper treatment for the injured.“I have directed the Barmer district collector for relief and rescue measures in the matter of an accident between a truck and bus. Proper treatment will be ensured for those injured in the accident,” Gehlot tweeted.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/barmer-accident-pm-modi-announces-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-victims-101636534519485.html
10-11-2021||India||India and US hold DTTI group meeting, sign deal for air-launched UAVs||In a major boost for defence ties, India and the US have signed a deal to jointly develop air-launched unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) as the two countries held the 11th Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI) group meeting on Tuesday.The meeting was held virtually and focused on strengthening bilateral defence trade relations and creating opportunities to jointly develop and produce defence equipment.“The co-chairs were pleased to note that since the last DTTI group meeting in September 2020, the first project agreement for air-launched unmanned aerial vehicle under the joint working group air systems was signed, which is a major accomplishment for the DTTI,” the defence ministry said in a press statement.Watch: Should Xi Jinping’s plan to get unprecedented 3rd term worry Quad?The meeting was co-chaired by Raj Kumar, India’s secretary for defence production, and Gregory Kausner, the PTDO (performing the duties of) under secretary of defence for acquisition and sustainment at the US defence department.The defence ministry said that four joint working groups attended the meeting, which focused on land, naval, air and aircraft carrier technologies that were established under the DTTI to boost mutually agreed projects. “The groups reported to the co-chairs on ongoing activities and collaborative opportunities, including a number of near-term projects targeted for completion on priority,” the defence ministry said.Also, in a push for India and the US to jointly develop niche technology, the Defence Industry Collaboration Forum’s (DICF) virtual expo was held on Monday. It was convened by Anurag Bajpai, India’s joint secretary for defence industries, and Jesse Salazar, the US deputy assistant secretary of defence for industrial policy. “This forum offers an opportunity for Indian and US industries to be directly involved in the DTTI and it facilitates dialogue between government and industry on issues that impact industrial collaboration. The results of the discussion were briefed to the DTTI group co-chairs,” the defence ministry said in the press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-and-us-hold-dtti-group-meeting-sign-deal-for-air-launched-uavs-101636536559965.html
10-11-2021||India||PM Modi speaks to security heads of 7 nations as Delhi calls meet on Afghanistan||Senior security officials of seven nations, including Russia, Iran, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday following a meeting on Afghanistan chaired by National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval in the national capital.Speaking about Afghanistan, Doval said the recent developments, following the takeover of the war-torn nation by the Taliban, had important implications not only for the people of that country but also for its neighbours and the entire region.Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets NSAs of seven countries including 5 Central Asian countries and Russia and IranNational Security Adviser Ajit Doval today chaired the Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan in Delhi pic.twitter.com/jh41gSQdAMAlso read | Delhi consensus seeks non-interference in Afghan affairs without naming PakSecretary of the Security Council of Russia, Nikolai Patrushev, said multilateral meetings of secretaries of the security council on the Afghan issue were an important format that would help discuss a range of issues linked to the developing situation in Afghanistan at the highest level."It also helps elaborate practical measures to counter challenges and threat emanation from Afghan territory," he said.Patrushev said the increased activity of international and regional stakeholders in the Afghan dimension and the creation of new formats.Meanwhile, the Taliban said it was optimistic about the meeting hosted by India. The outfit’s spokesperson, Zabihullah Mujahid, referred to the meeting on Afghanistan during a press conference and said the Islamic Emirate was optimistic about it, local media platform Tolo News reported.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-speaks-to-security-heads-of-7-nations-as-delhi-calls-meet-on-afghanistan-101636535554071.html
10-11-2021||India||Delhi Declaration seeks non-interference in Afghan affairs without naming Pak||The top security officials of seven countries released a consensus document on the issue of Afghanistan on Wednesday afternoon. The document was released after a regional security dialogue chaired by National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval.According to a consensus statement issued by the NSAs, discussions were held on the evolving situation in Afghanistan, especially the security situation and its regional and its global ramifications. What is significant is that the consensus was not critical of the Taliban regime in Kabul, barring suggestions to the Sunni Pashtun force that it should be an independent and an inclusive regime.That the consensus emphasised of maintaining the territorial integrity of Afghanistan and was against interference from outside powers is a clear hint to the Pakistani deep state, which seeks strategic space in Kabul. Since the Taliban took over Kabul on August 15, the Pakistani ISI chief Lt Gen Faiz Hamid, close confidante of Pak Prime Minister Imran Khan, has publicly visited Kabul twice and is seen the principal backer of Sirajuddin Haqqani, who heads the eponymous terrorist network.The NSAs and secretaries of the national security councils of respective countries said in the statement that Afghanistan's territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts.The NSAs also called for a collective cooperation against the menace of radicalisation, extremism, separatism and drug trafficking in the region and stressed on the necessity of forming an open and truly inclusive government that represents the will of all the people of Afghanistan.They also condemned in the strongest terms all terrorist activities and reaffirmed their firm commitment to combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.The NSAs expressed deep concern over the suffering of the people of Afghanistan arising from the security situation in the war-torn country and condemned the terrorist attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul reiterating strong support for a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan.National Security Advisers or Secretaries of the Security Council of five Central Asian countries - Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan besides Russia and Iran - attended the New Delhi meet on Afghanistan.Doval, who chaired the dialogue on Afghanistan, earlier called for greater cooperation and interaction and coordination amongst the regional countries over the issue of Afghanistan.According to ministry of external affairs (MEA), the dialogue will deliberate upon measures to address the relevant security challenges and support the people of Afghanistan in promoting peace, security and stability.According to MEA, the countries will review the security situation in the region arising from recent developments in Afghanistan during the meeting. It is a continuation of the format started by Tehran in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-consensus-seeks-non-interference-in-afghan-affairs-without-naming-pak-101636534919377.html
10-11-2021||India||Delhi Police arrests 3 for buying imported marijuana over dark net using bitcoin||The Delhi Police’s crime branch has arrested three persons for allegedly buying at least 1,873 grams of “imported marijuana” valued at ₹35 lakhs through the dark net using bitcoins, officers aware of the case details said. “The consignment was ordered on dark net. The chat for the transaction was done using an app in which the chat details were automatically deleted after three days. The payment for the same was done in bitcoins,” a police officer, aware of the case details, said.Delhi police have pegged the cost of the “imported marijuana” at ₹35 lakh. “This marijuana is expensive and costs about ₹40-50 thousand per ounce. Price for 28 grams is around ₹40-50 thousand,” the officer added.Police are yet to share details such as the place from where the marijuana was imported. A police spokesperson said they would reveal details in a press conference later on Wednesday afternoon.Darknet is a platform for secret networks that use an encrypted channel making it difficult for police and other enforcement agencies to track the users. Over the years, it is commonly used in smuggling drugs. Delhi police believe this is the first such case in which the darknet was used to smuggle marijuana.Marijuana is one of the most commonly smuggled drugs in Delhi. Last year, the police had seized over 600 kg of marijuana and about 60 kg heroin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-arrested-for-buying-imported-marijuana-over-dark-net-101636534699441.html
10-11-2021||India||'No need to panic': UP CM Adityanath as Zika virus tally in Kanpur breaches 100||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday reviewed the Zika virus situation in Kanpur by visiting the virus-hit areas and speaking to family members of the infected patients.The number of Zika virus cases in Kanpur has breached the 100-mark since the infection was first detected on October 25.Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, “Of the total 105 positive cases detected, 17 are now negative for the virus. Five wards have been affected.”Adityanath said the district administration, health department and municipal council have strategically worked on increasing surveillance, sanitisation and investigation in Kanpur.“Our team is identifying symptomatic people and providing them with medicine kits by getting them hospitalised,” he said, adding that the remaining 88 patients will recover.We've increased the number of health teams. I have taken a review of the situation. There is no need to panic: UP CM Yogi Adityanath on Zika virus outbreak in KanpurThe chief minister also said that the number of health teams has increased and there is no need to panic.Zika virus is caused by a virus transmitted primarily by the Aedes mosquito, which bites during the day. The symptoms are mild fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise or a headache.District authorities said on Tuesday that steps are being taken to monitor the rise in cases."A hundred teams have been deployed in the Kanpur city for source reduction, 100 teams for home sampling, 50 teams for sampling and additional 15 rapid response teams (RRT) to check the spread of Zika virus," Dr Nepal Singh, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Kanpur, told news agency ANI.Dr Singh said that nearly 4,000 samples have been collected so far of which 193 samples were collected on Tuesday. “The source detection team visited 3,777 houses on Tuesday taking the cumulative tally to 40,238,” he further told ANI.The top official also said that friends and relatives of infected patients are also being monitored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-need-to-panic-up-cm-adityanath-as-zika-virus-tally-in-kanpur-breaches-100-101636530288814.html
10-11-2021||India||No fuel, ration for unvaccinated people in Aurangabad||The district administration in Maharashtra's Aurangabad has adopted a strict policy to increase the coverage of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine. According to a notification, the administration has said that residents who have not even received one dose of vaccine will not get petrol, gas or ration.The store and fuel station owners and operators have been asked to check vaccination certificate of people.Vaccination has also been made complusory for all workers at hotels, resorts and shops located in tourist places. The notification was issued on November 9 and has come into effect immediately.The district administration has taken the step after the vaccination figures in the region were found to be low, collector Sunil Chavan said.As per the order, at least one dose of vaccine is mandatory for people who wish to visit historic sites and monuments such as Bibi Ka Maqbara, Aurangabad, Ajanta, Ellora and Pitalkora caves.The government health agencies have been directed to undertake vaccination drives and establish vaccination booths at places where that footfall of tourists is high, the official said.Apart from this, the collector has written to the treasury officer instructing him to stop salaries and other fund sanctions for the month of November of employees who have not taken a single dose of vaccine and presented a certificate for the same.This comes a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed the Aurangabad administration to speed up the Covid-19 vaccination drive during an interaction with collectors of over 40 districts across the country.Eight districts in Maharashtra, including Aurangabad, Nandurbar, Buldhana, Hingoli, Nanded, Beed, Amravati and Akola, were identified as laggards with respect to the pace of inoculation drive.The immunisation rate of the district currently stands at 55.12 per cent and after the Prime Minister's appeal, the administration has set a target of taking it to 100 per cent by November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fuel-ration-for-unvaccinated-people-in-aurangabad-101636533293722.html
10-11-2021||India||11 burnt to death in bus-truck collision in Rajasthan’s Barmer, 22 injured||11 people were burnt to death and 22 others were injured in the fire triggered by a collision between a bus and a truck on Balotra (Barmer)-Jodhpur highway on Wednesday, Rajasthan Police said. The accident took place under Pachpadra police station of Rajasthan’s Barmer district at around 11 am when a truck crashed into a bus coming from the opposite direction with at least 28 passengers from Jodhpur. Both the vehicles caught fire after the accident, killing 10 people on the spot, said Deepak Bhargav, Barmer’s superintendent of police (SP). Also Read: Rare pink leopard sighted in Ranakpur hills of RajasthanThe deceased included the driver of the truck and the eleventh victim succumbed to injuries in a hospital. The 22 injured are being treated at Balotra hospital. Eight of these are critical and have been referred to Jodhpur, he said. The SP said it appeared that the truck was overtaking a vehicle and didn’t see the bus coming from the opposite direction, ramming into it. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed the district collector to ensure best treatment possible for the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-burnt-to-death-in-bus-truck-collision-in-rajasthan-s-barmer-22-injured-101636533319513.html
10-11-2021||India||'Never to wrestle with a pig', says Fadnavis as Nawab Malik speaks of underworld, fake currencies||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday shared a quote by famous Irish playwright George Bernand Shaw moments after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik accused the former of patronising a fake currency racket and shielding people with underworld links during his tenure as chief minister. Fadnavis posted an image with a text that read "I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a pig, you get dirty. And Besides, The pig likes it".Thought of the day 👇🏼 pic.twitter.com/PkLiHS3GVWEarlier in the day, Malik accused Fadnavis of saving one Imran Aslam Shaikh after he was caught in a fake currency case and having links with Riyaz Bhati, an alleged aide of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. Malik also alleged that Fadnavis, who served as the chief minister of the state from 2014 to 2019, appointed a Nagpur criminal Munna Yadav and a "Bangladeshi extortionist" Haider Azam to statutory corporations of the state government to shield them.Addressing the conference, the NCP leader also spoke about "more bombs” that were to be dropped in the coming days and spilling more beans on the BJP leadership.He further said that while his fight was against someone who was framing innocent people in fake cases, Fadnavis was trying to defend him. This was in reference to the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede against whom Malik has levelled several allegations ever since the drugs bust case drew national attention.His accusations came a day after Fadnavis said Malik had business dealings with convicts of the 1993 Mumbai blasts case.Meanwhile, BJP leader Ashish Shelar rubbished Malik’s claims and said Fadnavis never shielded wrongdoers. "Munna Yadav had cases against him but there is Nationalist Congress Party link to them too. Fadnavis never shielded any fake currency case and Malik too has not given any proof while levelling allegations," said Shelar, a former state minister.Shelar also produced photographs of Bhati with many ruling party leaders, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, and said he was being protected by the NCP."Bhati was one of the recovery agents engaged by former police officer Sachin Vaze for the collection of the extortion money. The NCP has been shielding Bhati who is absconding to ensure that their links with him are not exposed," the BJP leader added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/never-to-wrestle-with-a-pig-says-fadnavis-as-nawab-malik-speaks-of-underworld-fake-currencies-101636531730162.html
10-11-2021||India||Rare pink leopard sighted in Ranakpur hills of Rajasthan||A rare pink female leopard has been sighted in the Ranakpur region in the Pali district of Rajasthan. Earlier sighting of the pink leopard was reported from South Africa. Experts believe that the different colour is perhaps due to mutation. The Indian leopard usually has its coat spotted on a pale yellow to yellowish-brown or golden background. But this pink leopard has reddish-brown skin and distinctly different spots. Such strawberry-coated leopards have been seen in South Africa more than once. Deputy conservator of forest, Fateh Singh said the pink coloured leopard was being sighted occasionally by locals in the Ranakpur region and in Kumbhalgarh area of Rajsamand district. “The colour seems to because of skin mutation,” he said. However, it was not clear if the same leopard had been sighted at both the places.Retired Indian Forest Officer (IFS) Sunayan Sharma said this strawberry coated leopard was a mature female with a cub and was an example of a rare mutation with pink colour. Usually, mutation occurs in black and white colours. “I haven’t come across a pink leopard,” he said. Wildlife Institute of India scientist Dr YV Jhala said, “The leopard seems to have a light coat colour and a natural variation but not an albino.” Albinism is a congenital absence of any pigmentation or colouration in an animal, plant or person. Also Read | Rajasthan: At least 11 dead, 22 injured after bus collides with truckUdaipur based wildlife conservationist and member Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, Anil Rodgers said this is India’s first strawberry (leucistic) leopard. He said a black panther, which is a melanistic (an increase of dark pigment in the plumage) variant of leopard can be sighted, but pink colour is rare. Kumbhalgarh is a proposed tiger reserve and this leopard can add to tourism attractions. Expressing concern over her safety, Rodgers said she was not only vulnerable to poachers but also to unethical wildlife photographers who will disturb the habitat. The leopard was presently moving in an unprotected area and the forest department needs to increase its monitoring, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-pink-leopard-sighted-in-ranakpur-hills-of-rajasthan-101636531999359.html
10-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Hong Kong, Vietnam latest to approve Covaxin for emergency use||Hong Kong and Vietnam are the latest to approve India-made coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Covaxin for emergency use. The vaccine made by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has already received a nod from the World Health Organization (WHO).Covaxin is the ninth vaccine to be approved in Vietnam, the country's health ministry said on Wednesday. The Vietnam government had said in July that it was seeking to secure 15 million doses of the Covaxin vaccine.Hong Kong has approved 14 vaccines, including Covaxin.This comes a day after Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that Covaxin and Covishield have been recognised by as many as 96 countries."WHO has included 8 vaccines in EUL (emergency use listing) so far. We are happy two out of these are Indian vaccines - Covaxin and Covishield. 96 countries of the world have recognised both these vaccines," Mandaviya told news agency ANI.Canada, the United States of America, Australia, Spain, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, Russia and Switzerland are among the 96 countries.While the US approved travellers inoculated with Covaxin to enter the country from November 8, the UK announced the policy change will take effect from November 22.The move follows the WHO Emergency Use Listing for Covaxin, which is the second most used formulation in India.Covishield, the India-manufactured Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, was added to the UK's approved list last month.Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech's partner in the US and Canada has submitted a request to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for emergency use authorisation (EUA) of Covaxin for paediatric use.The submission is based on results of a Phase 2/3 paediatric clinical trial conducted by Bharat Biotech in India with 526 children 2-18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-hong-kong-vietnam-latest-to-approve-covaxin-for-emergency-use-101636530349366.html
10-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Army wants special radars along China border to track drones, planes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army wants new radar for threat detection along China borderThe Indian Army has sought to equip itself with a modern low-level light-weight radar (LLLWR) for threat detection and response along the China border where surveillance is restricted due to mountainous terrain, officials said on Monday. Read more72 liquor bottles stolen from Delhi Gymkhana Club during lockdown; FIR filedThe Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has registered a First Information Report (FIR) over the alleged theft of 72 liquor bottles worth over ₹2 lakh from the Delhi Gymkhana Club during the nationwide lockdown imposed in March last year to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read morePunjab AG issue: Congress MP Manish Tewari takes dig at SidhuAnandpur Sahib Congress MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday took a dig at the Punjab government’s decision to replace advocate general APS Deol, saying that politicising the AG’s office undermines the integrity of constitutional functionaries. Read moreCanada authorises Pfizer Covid vaccine booster for adultsCanada on Tuesday authorised the use of the booster dose of the Covid vaccine co-developed by Pfizer and BioNTech for those aged 18 years and above. The decision from the Canadian health authorities makes Pfizer/BioNTech’s application for its booster the first to get clearance in Canada. Read moreOla Electric scooter test ride starts today, but with rider. Check details hereFor all those customers eagerly looking forward to test ride Ola Electric scooters, the wait is finally over. The Tamil Nadu-based EV-maker will start to offer test rides of its S1 and S1 Pro electric scooters today for the first time since its launch back on August 15 this year. Read moreDaughter shares heartwarming throwback video of dad proposing momA daughter recently took to Instagram to share a video of a sweet moment when her dad proposed her mom. The heartwarming clip is now making people happy. There is a chance that it will have the same effect on you too. Read moreDecoupled trailer: R Madhavan and Surveen Chawla in marriage of inconvenience. WatchNetflix has shared the trailer for their upcoming series, Decoupled. A romantic comedy, it stars R Madhavan in the lead with Surveen Chawla. The series will release on December 17. Read morePriyanka Chopra is a literal fairy queen in ₹72k white abaya for Dubai event, all pics and videosActor Priyanka Chopra is currently busy attending back-to-back events in Dubai for the luxury jewellery label Bulgari. However, that hasn't stopped the Desi Girl from serving breathtaking sartorial moments for her fans. Read more‘What’s the point of Ranji Trophy': Harbhajan slams selectors for not naming 2 batters in India and India A squadsVeteran India off-spinner Harbhajan Singh was not happy that Indian selection committee ignored Sheldon Jackson and Mandeep Singh. India's T20I squad for the home series against New Zealand and India A squad for the South Africa tour was announced on Tuesday but Jackson and Mandeep did not find a place in either of those, something which did not please Harbhajan at all. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-army-wants-special-radars-along-china-border-101636528504930.html
10-11-2021||India||How active Covid-19 cases have come down in last 20 days in India||The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to fall across India, and dropped to 1,39,683 on Wednesday, according to Union health ministry data. This is the lowest number of active cases in 264 days.The country reported 11,466 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 460 fresh fatalities int he last 24 hours, the ministry's data further showed. With this, India's overall tally of infections reached 3,43,88,579, and death toll at 4,61,849.The active cases, the number of people still considered to be infectious, have been falling steadily since October, in a sign that the spread of the infection is slowing down in the country. On October 17, the active cases came down to 2,00,000 for the first time.The number has dropped more than 95 per cent from the peak of India's brutal second wave of infections when it touched 3.75 million on May 9.Measurement of active cases offers a crucial metric in the country's battle against the disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the healthcare system in a region.Though the number of active cases is dropping, the central government has warned people against dropping their guards amidst fears of a third wave of infection. The Centre launched the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door vaccination campaign against the disease on November 3 with special focus on second dose inoculations.India crossed a significant milestone of administering a billion doses on October 21 and since then, the government has been focusing on completing the vaccination of all eligible adults in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-active-covid-19-cases-have-come-down-in-last-20-days-in-india-101636529278865.html
10-11-2021||India||Rajasthan: At least 11 dead, 22 injured after bus collides with truck||At least 11 people were reported to have died and 22 others injured after a passenger bus collided with a truck at Pachpadra in Rajasthan's Barmer district on Wednesday, officials familiar with the development said. Earlier in the day, the news agency reported five deaths, citing the state police who confirmed the incident and also shared visuals from the accident site.Five people dead, several injured in collision between a passenger bus and a truck near Pachpadra in Rajasthan's Barmer district, say policeCM Ashok Gehlot directs District Collector regarding relief and rescue operations, asks him to ensure medical treatment for the injured pic.twitter.com/wLyd9ra0xtA few local media reports claimed that a resulting fire from the collision between the bus and the truck burned as many as 12 people alive; however, there is no official confirmation from authorities on this as of yet.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has taken stock of the situation and directed officials to conduct prompt relief and rescue operations at the earliest. The chief minister has also asked for immediate medical treatment of the injured.About 25 people were reportedly on board the bus when it met with the road accident on the Barmer-Jodhpur highway.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-at-least-5-dead-several-injured-after-bus-collides-with-truck-101636528156861.html
10-11-2021||India||Air India flight makes emergency landing in Silchar due to a 'technical glitch'||A Kolkata-bound Air India flight with 144 passengers on board made an emergency landing minutes after taking off from the Kumbirgram Airport in Assam’s Silchar due to a technical glitch on Wednesday morning.PK Gorai, the airport director, said the pilot detected the glitch along with a hydraulic leak. “...the pilot...landed the plane back at the Silchar airport. A full emergency was declared at the airport and the flight also suffered landing gear failure.” Gorai said they were trying to figure out what went wrong. “This is a huge plane and we have only one runway at our airport which is presently blocked. If this Air India flight does not fly, we have to cancel other flights for now.”Also Read: Prime Minister Modi to lay the foundation stone of Noida airport on November 25The defence airport in Silchar is partially being used for domestic purposes. A greenfield airport is proposed to be built in the region. An aviation ministry team recently visited Cachar to find land for the proposed airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-silchar-101636529001065.html
10-11-2021||India||India records 11,466 new Covid-19 cases, 13% higher than Tuesday’s tally||India on Wednesday registered 11,466 new Covid-19 cases, 13.23 per cent higher than Tuesday's jump in daily cases when 10,126 infections were recorded in a span of 24-hours.The cumulative tally of infections now stands at 3,43,88,579, according to updated data shared on the Union health ministry's website.The overall related fatalities rose by 460 and the death toll now stood at 4,61,849. The count of active Covid-19 cases in India was at 1,39,683, the lowest in 264 days, the health ministry further said. Currently, the active cases constitute 0.41 per cent of the country's total positive cases.Meanwhile, 11,961 patients were cured of the infection in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries to 3,37,87,047.The recovery rate of the country stood at 98.25 per cent. According to the health ministry’s data, it is the highest since the beginning of the pandemic.Meanwhile, the country has administered 1,09,63,59,208 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to the provisional report of the health ministry. Of these, 52,69,137 were administered on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-11-466-new-covid-19-cases-13-higher-than-tuesday-s-tally-101636528393700.html
10-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to receive heavy rains, flood warning issued for Theni: Top updates||The regional meteorological department in Chennai said on Wednesday that parts of Tamil Nadu will continue to receive heavy rainfall for the next few days due to depression over the Bay of Bengal. Till now, five people have died due to rain-related incidents in the southern state.Issuing a bulletin, the meteorological department said, “Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood, a low-pressure area has formed over the same region. Associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 4.5 km above mean sea level. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over Southwest and adjoining Southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 36 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and reach near the north Tamil Nadu coast by the early morning of November 11, 2021.”Earlier, because of heavy rainfall, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday declared a local holiday on Wednesday and Thursday in nine districts including Chennai, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur.Here are the latest updates:> All schools in Coimbatore remained closed on Wednesday due to heavy downpour in the city, which is likely to continue.> Heavy to very heavy rainfall is expected in isolated places over Chennai, Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu.> Several other districts in Tamil Nadu including Erode, Ranipettai, Salem and Vellore will also witness heavy rainfall.> Government authorities have issued a flood warning for the Theni district and adjourned low-lying areas.> Fishermen have been advised to not venture into the sea till Friday (November 12).> Chief minister MK Stalin has announced that free food will be distributed at all Amma Canteens till the current spell of rain ends.> In neighbouring Puducherry, all schools and colleges will remain closed till Thursday, education minister A Namassivayam said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-receive-heavy-rains-flood-warning-issued-for-theni-top-updates-101636524611071.html
10-11-2021||India||Malik:Fadnavis permitted fake currency racket after demonetisation||On Day 2 of the political slugfest between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik, the latter accused the former of allowing a fake currency racket to flourish in Maharashtra after the 2016 demonetisation, when currency notes of ₹500 and ₹1000 ceased to be legal tender.Malik on Wednesday also accused Fadnavis, who was the chief minister at the time, of shielding underworld criminals.On Tuesday, Fadnavis had accused Malik of buying property from two people, one of whom has links with the underworld while the other is convicted in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts that killed 257 people. Malik had responded stating that the property deals were above board and that he would reveal how Fadnavis “held the city hostage” during his tenure as CM of Maharshtra.In a press conference on Wednesday, Malik said that while fake notes were seized in other states after demonetisation , there was not a single such instance in Maharashtra.On October 8, 2017, the Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized fake notes worth ₹14.56 crore from the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai, Malik said.“But Fadnavis helped sweep the case under the carpet. The seized amount was later shown with a value of ₹8.8 lakh,” Malik alleged, questioning why the case was not handed over to the National Investigation Agency.“Imran Alam Shaikh, an accused arrested from Mumbai got bail and no further probe was conducted. Shaikh is the younger brother of Haji Arafat Shaikh, a BJP leader, who was appointed chairman, state minorities commission by Fadnavis,” Malik said.“Incidentally, Sameer Wankhede (the Narcotics Control Bureau officer against whom Malik has levelled several allegations) was the DRI’s joint director at that time,” he added.Malik said that Fadnavis shielded Shaikh, who was caught in the fake currency case and who had links with Riyaz Bhati, an alleged aide of underworld don and ’93 serial blasts mastermind Dawood Ibrahim.Malik also alleged that a certain Munna Yadav from Nagpur, who faces serious criminal charges, was appointed as the head of the state construction workers welfare board. He said that Fadnavis put pressure on the police to not investigate BJP leader Haji Hyder Azam wife, who was found to be a citizen of Bangladesh. Azam was chairperson of the Maulana Azad Minorities Financial Development Corporation.The allegations came a day after Fadnavis said that a company owned by Malik and his family members hadbought a three-acre plot in Kurla at rate that was cheaper than the going market rate between 2003 and 2007. Fadnavis chose not to directly respond to the allegations. He tweeted a quote by British author George Bernard Shaw: “I learned long ago, Never to wrestle with a pig, You get dirty. And Besides, The pig likes it!”BJP leader and former state minister Ashish Shelar defended the appointments questioned by Malik.“It is true that Haji Arafat, Haji Hyder and Munna Yadav were appointed to some government boards...Haji Arafat and Haji Hyder’s appointments were cleared after the inquiry reports against them came out clean,” Shelar said.Munna Yadav claimed that the cases are of political in nature and he will be filing a defamation of Re 1 against Malik. Haji Arafat countered the allegations saying that Malik was running a drug racket through his son-in-law Sameer Khan.Sameer Khan was recently granted bail by a court here citing lack of evidence, months after the NCB arrested him in an alleged drugs caseMalik said that a nexus of fake currency run by ISI (Inter Services Intelligence), Pakistan and Ibrahim through Bangladesh and alleged it was allowed to flourish in Maharashtra with Fadnavis’ blessing.“Is Fadnavis making allegations against me to divert attention from cruise drugs bust case and allegations against Wankhede, who is facing serious charges and is being investigated by two SITs, is also a question?” Malik asked.Malik has made allegations against Sameer Wankhede, who led an NCB raid on a cruise ship on October 2, which led to the arrest of 20 persons including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan (23). Malik said last week that Wankhede plotted with some others to “kidnap” Aryan for ransom.Questioning Fadnavis alleged links with Bhati, Malik said a person arrested with two passports, and with links to Ibrahim was released within two days. “Why is Bhati seen in all events with you (Devendra Fadnavis) and on your dining table? How come he was allowed to attend the prime minister’s event in Mumbai and was allowed to click pictures with him? No person can attend a PM’s event without state and central intelligence agencies scanning that particular individual’s background. How come Bhati got a VIP pass?” Malik asked.BJP leader Ashish Shelar said Fadnavis never shielded any fake currency racket and that Malik offered no proof of his allegations.Shelar produced photographs of Riyaz Bhati with many ruling party leaders including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar. “Bhati was one of the recovery agents engaged by former API Sachin Vaze for collection of the extortion money. The NCP has been shielding Bhati who is absconding to ensure that their links with him are not exposed,” he said.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said that the daily “mudslinging” needed to stop as it was against the culture of Maharashtra’s politics.“How are they not fed up with it? This needs to stop somewhere and [we must] look at other issues. The ones who started are now running away. Nawab Malik’s attacks are fierce. I wouldn’t get into whether they are political or personal. This is not the culture of Maharashtra and some senior leader must intervene in this and stop this,” Raut said in New Delhi.“This is not a matter of fun. Till yesterday, the people of the country that charas and ganja were being cultivated in the fields of Maharashtra. Now, they think that politicians are connected to goons and dons. Nawab Malik is doing this out of sheer annoyance. We have closely seen the situation he and his family faced,” he said.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that the accusation were bringing disrepute to Maharashtra.Malik had last week sought to link the Fadnavis with an alleged narcotics dealer by tweeting the latter’s photograph with the former chief minister and his wife, Amruta.Amruta Fadnavis on Wednesday tweeted a verse in Hindi referring to “Bigade Nawab” (spoilt prince), an apparent swipe at Malik. “He held press conference after press conference but only spoke lies, and his sole objective is to save his “black wealth” and “son-in-law”, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-says-fadnavis-patronised-fake-currency-racket-shielded-underworld-links-101636527559047.html
10-11-2021||India||8 nations call for joint efforts to tackle terrorism emanating from Afghanistan||Top security officials of eight countries, including India, Iran and Russia, on Wednesday called for closer coordination and collective efforts to tackle threats such as terrorism emanating from Afghanistan and to address a looming humanitarian crisis. In his opening remarks at the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan being hosted by India, National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval said the time has come for closer consultations and greater coordination among regional countries to find solutions to recent developments in the war-torn country. The NSAs and security council secretaries of Iran, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, in their brief opening statements, pushed for collective efforts to cope with threats such as terrorism and drug trafficking emanating from Afghanistan and to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people before the onset of winter. Also Read: Don’t have time to attend Afghanistan summit: China tells India“We all have been keenly watching the developments in [Afghanistan]. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan, but also for its neighbours and the region,” Doval said in his televised remarks. “This is a time for close consultations among us, greater cooperation, interaction and coordination among the regional countries,” he said. Though this is the first such meeting on Afghanistan to be convened by India, the dialogue is the continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meets in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were invited to Wednesday’s meeting but opted not to participate. Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani¸ secretary of Iran’s supreme national security council, referred to the challenges of terrorism and a refugee crisis and said, “The solution comes only through the formation of an inclusive government with the participation of all ethnic groups.” Nikolai Patrushev, secretary of Russia’s security council, called for practical measures to deal with threats and challenges emanating from Afghan territory. Noting the proliferation of dialogue mechanisms on Afghanistan, including the Moscow Format and the Turkic Council, he said it was important that these forums should not duplicate work but complement each other. He also noted that the Moscow Format, which held its third meeting in the Russian capital on October 20, has important potential to coordinate efforts to settle the Afghanistan issue. “In Moscow, we laid a good foundation to determine the position of our countries regarding the development of the dialogue with the Taliban as well as to practically coordinate the efforts of all stakeholders of the region,” Patrushev said. Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov said his country is closely monitoring threats and challenges coming from Afghanistan. “With the Taliban movement coming to power, the situation inside the country remains complicated. There are many obstacles to form an effective government system,” he said. “Terrorist organisations are intensifying their activities. We are strongly concerned with the operations of the Central Asian fighters,” Massimov added. Tajikistan’s security council secretary Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda, said his country was concerned about developments following the Taliban takeover because it has a long border with Afghanistan. “The current situation creates extra risk and possibility for growth of drug trafficking, terrorism and criminality. The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border remains complicated currently under the influence of many negative factors,” he said, adding that Afghanistan may face a “humanitarian catastrophe” during the upcoming winter. “We need to find a solution to provide all the necessities for the population of Afghanistan,” Mahmudzoda said. India is looking to the dialogue to help forge a joint approach for tackling security threats emanating from Afghanistan. According to an Indian assessment, the five main threats and challenges following the Taliban takeover on August 15 are terrorism within Afghanistan and across its borders, radicalisation and extremism, cross-border movements, drug production and trafficking, and the danger posed by vast amounts of weapons and military gear left behind by US troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-nations-call-for-joint-efforts-to-tackle-terrorism-emanating-from-afghanistan-101636524919109.html
10-11-2021||India||Who is Padma Shri awardee and transgender folk artiste Manjamma Jogati||Transgender folk dancer Matha B Manjamma Jogati was honoured with a Padma Shri award for her contribution to arts by President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday at a ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan. In a clip tweeted by the news agency ANI, Manjamma Jogati is seen performing a unique gesture to greet the President at the ceremonial event. Many people on social media have said that it was to wish President Kovind luck.Vice President Venakaih Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were also present at the event along with other senior dignitaries. The Padma awards are conferred on civilians to honour their distinguished service in a field of activity.Born in Ballari district of Karnataka as Manjunatha Shetty, was part of a Jogappa ritual when she was 15 years old. In this, a devotee is believed to be married to a god or goddess. Following this, Manjunath became Manjamma Jogathi and was restricted from coming back home.Over the years, Manjamma faced extreme poverty and abuse before finding love for folk dance. She then mastered the art form of Jogathi Nrithya through Kallava Jogathi and began performing across the state.Manjamma also went on to become the first transgender president of Karnataka Jaanapada Academy, a government body for performing arts in Karnataka.This year's list of Padma Awards includes seven Padma Vibhushan, 10 Padma Bhushan, and 102 Padma Shri Awards, of which 29 awardees are women, 16 posthumous awardees, and one transgender awardee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-padma-shri-awardee-and-transgender-folk-artiste-manjamma-jogati-101636516806026.html
10-11-2021||India||‘Weapons of three accused were used during Lakhimpur Kheri violence’||A rifle, a repeater gun, and a pistol belonging to three key accused were used during the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, which was triggered after a convoy of cars ran over a group of protesting farmers and left eight people dead on October 3, people aware of the matter said citing a Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report. HT has not seen the report. The people added the Special Investigation Team (SIT), which is probing the violence, recovered the weapons from the accused - Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, and his private gunner Latif alias Kaale - days after the violence and subjected them to ballistic examination. Mishra is Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son.At least one vehicle in the convoy that ran over farmers protesting three farm laws belonged to Teni. Four farmers, three Bharatiya Janata Party workers, and a journalist were killed in the violence that followed. Ashish Mishra, who has maintained he was not present at the site of the violence, was arrested on October 9. Das and Latif were taken into custody five days later.Also Read: Lakhimpur Kheri: Family of journalist seeks FIR against Union minister, sonThe farmers maintained there was firing during the violence and that a farmer from Bahraich died of a bullet injury. But two post-mortem examinations of the farmer ruled out the bullet injuries.The post-mortem reports of the eight concluded they died of shock, excessive bleeding, and haemorrhage caused by anti-mortem injuries and that none of them received bullet injuries.No SIT official confirmed the use of firearms either.The details about the FSL report have surfaced days after the Supreme Court on Monday said the investigation into the violence appears to be favouring the “main accused” in the case. The court pushed for the appointment of a retired high court judge from outside Uttar Pradesh to oversee the probe and “infuse fairness, independence and faith” into it.Ashish Mishra was arrested after the court on October 9 criticised the kid-gloves treatment he seemed to be receiving from the police.On Monday, the state said it has “clinching evidence” of Mishra’s presence at the scene even as he and his father have consistently denied this and that forensic reports on the matter were awaited.A police officer, who did not want to be named, said if it is established that the weapons were used for firing, it may bring more trouble for the main accused, Ashish Mishra, who has denied his presence at the scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weapons-of-three-accused-were-used-during-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101636522938826.html
10-11-2021||India||Nawab Malik drops 'hydrogen bomb' with fake currency racket claim against Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday morning held a press conference to drop a "hydrogen bomb" - reference to an alleged expose against former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday morning held a press conference to drop a "hydrogen bomb" - reference to an alleged expose against former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis.|#+|He questioned the appointments done during Fadnavis' tenure and alleged that people with "dubious Pakistan connections" were appointed at key posts. Malik also said that the fake currency racket was going on in Maharashtra under Fadnavis' protection.“With the blessing of Fadnavis, the game of counterfeit notes started in Maharashtra. After demonetisation was declared by PM Narendra Modi and when fake currency was being seized in many states, no case was registered in Maharashtra for almost a year. On October 8, 2017, DRI conducted a raid and seized fake currency worth ₹14.56 crore but the case was weakened by Fadnavis, (the then chief minister) showing a seizure of only ₹8.80 lakh,” Malik claimed.“Imran Alam Shaikh, an accused arrested from Mumbai got bail and no probe was conducted. Shaikh is younger brother of Haji Arafat Shaikh, a BJP leader, who was appointed as state minorities commission chairman in the previous government,” the NCP leader further said.He added that there was "direct connection" of the counterfeit notes with Pakistan.Claiming the former chief minister had links with Dawood Ibrahim, the NCP leader alleged that Fadnavis started a recovery racket with the help of gangster's aide Riyaz Bhati, who has been named in an FIR registered in an extortion case.“Bhati was arrested in a 2015 fake passport case, but is absconding now,” said the NCP leader. And he once again targeted Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, alleging that Fadnavis took his help to save the criminals.Malik further said Munna Yadav, accused of murder, was made the chairman of construction workers' board by Fadnavis.He reiterated that he or his family members are not involved in black money trade.Today's press conference was in response to the claims made by Fadnavis on Tuesday, accusing Malik of having business dealings with 1993 Mumbai blasts convicts. The BJP leader said that Malik and his family members purchased land in suburban Kurla at a very cheap rate through fictitious documents from the two convicts.The NCP leader rubbished the "baseless" allegations, which he said have been levelled against him to malign his image and said he did not know underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's sister Haseena Parker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nawab-malik-s-hydrogen-bomb-fadnavis-started-fake-currency-racket-101636520557814.html
10-11-2021||India||Odisha: EC acquits 22 BJD MLAs over office-of-profit charges||The Election Commission has ruled that 22 Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MLAs in Odisha, who were appointed as chairpersons of district planning committees and special development councils and who held minister-of-state status, have been acquitted of charges of holding of office of profit.The EC on Monday said on its website that under statutory law, 20 of the 22 MLAs were exempted from disqualification while two others had resigned from office before becoming lawmakers. The EC gave its ruling following a reference from Odisha governor Ganeshi Lal last month.In July, the Orissa high court had directed the governor to dispose of a plea seeking the disqualification of the 22 BJD MLAs for holding office of profit. A two-judge bench comprising chief justice S Muralidhar and justice SK Panigrahi, while adjudicating a plea by petitioner Samarendra Beura, had asked the Odisha governor to dispose the petition by November 8 in which it was alleged that the lawmakers were liable to be disqualified under Article 191(1)(a) of the Constitution.According to Article 191(1)(a), a person will be disqualified for being chosen as a member of the legislative assembly or legislative council if they hold any office of profit under the central government or the government of any state. Also Read: Political parties in Odisha demand 7 days ban during panchayat pollsTo get around it, the state government in 2016 enacted the Odisha Offices of Profit (Removal of Disqualifications) Amendment Act to declare that MLAs who are appointed as chairpersons of district planning committees, special development councils and the Western Odisha Development Council won’t be disqualified as MLAs.However, Beura, in his petition before the high court, argued that the 22 MLAs in question were given minister-of-state status, which allowed them to get monetary advantage. He alleged that the MLAs, by virtue of being ministers of state, drew sumptuary allowance, daily allowance, and travelling allowance, while also availing of accommodation and vehicles provided by the government.Beura cited the Brundaban Nayak vs Election Commission of India case in 1965, saying the Supreme Court had ruled that complaints under Article 192 of the Constitution seeking disqualification of MLAs must be disposed of as expeditiously as possible. According to the process, the governor has to obtain the opinion of the EC and dispose of his applications within a prescribed period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-ec-acquits-22-bjd-mlas-over-office-of-profit-charges-101636521498746.html
10-11-2021||India||Chhattisgarh allows cinema halls to operate with full capacity in 4 districts||The Congress-led Chhattisgarh government has allowed cinema halls and multiplexes to operate with full capacity in the capital city of Raipur, Durg, Bilaspur and Kawardha districts amid an improvement in the overall coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation.According to a government order issued on Tuesday, people visiting cinema halls and multiplexes will have to present a vaccination certificate. In containment and buffer zones, such facilities will remain closed.The order stated that cinema halls and multiplexes should maintain a temperature ranging between 24 to 30 degrees Celsius through air conditioning. All Covid-19 protocols, including social distancing and wearing masks, will have to be followed."The facility owners must ensure their staffers are fully vaccinated. Entry and exit points and common areas should have touch-free dispensers besides sanitisers," a public relations department official told news agency PTI.Those experiencing symptoms such as cold, fever or cough will not be allowed inside the premises, the official said. In order to avoid overcrowding, online and advance booking of shows will be allowed, he added.Previously, Chhattisgarh had reopened cinema halls and multiplexes in June this year with a 50% attendance cap. These facilities were shut during the more-infectious second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April and May.The state has reported 1,006,220 cases, 992,401 recoveries, 233 active cases and 13,586 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. On Tuesday, 22 new cases were reported while two more patients died and six recovered from the virus.Recently, the government allowed reopening of schools for all classes in Chhattisgarh. In September, schools reopened for classes 6, 7, 9 and 11 with 50% attendance||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-allows-cinema-halls-to-operate-with-full-capacity-in-4-districts-101636515547984.html
10-11-2021||India||Heavy rain, thunderstorm likely to batter Chennai on Wednesday: IMD||Several places in Tamil Nadu such as Chennai, Thiruvallur, Kanchipuram, and Tiruvannamalai along with Puducherry will see thunderstorm along with heavy to extremely heavy rainfalls on Wednesday under the influence of the low pressure area in south Bay of Bengal, according to the India Meteorological Department’s forecast. The thunderstorm and rains are likely to continue till Thursday as the low pressure area intensifies into a depression over the next 12 hours. Tamil Nadu witnessed extremely heavy rainfall on Tuesday as well, under the influence of the same system. IMD’s warning of extremely heavy rainfall of more than 20 cm in 24 hours in the region was spot on with Karaikal (Puducherry) recording 27 cm rainfall and Nagapattinam 24 cm, between 08:30 am on November 9 and 05:30 am on November 10. “Isolated extremely heavy falls (>20 cm) are very likely over different districts of Central and Northern parts of Coastal Tamil Nadu till 11th November,” IMD forecast had said. On November 7, Chennai received 21cm of rainfall, the highest recorded in a day in November since 2015, when floods in Chennai left people marooned for a week. Several areas of the state capital are inundated due to the recent spell of heavy rainfall. Also Read: High court pulls up Greater Chennai Corporation over waterloggingAccording to the latest forecast, light to moderate rainfall will also be seen over Kerala and south coastal Andhra Pradesh. The low pressure system will continue moving northwestward and is likely to reach the Tamil Nadu coast on November 11. Another low pressure area is likely to develop over the South Andaman Sea on November 13 and move northwestwards towards the mainland over the next 48 hours, the met department said. The low pressure system will lead to rough conditions in the Bay of Bengal and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the seal off Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh coast till November 11, according to the bulletin. IMD has also said that the rains under the influence of the system may reduce visibility, lead to traffic jams due to water-logging, and cause some damage to vulnerable structures. The met department has also suggested restricting recreational activities near the coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-thunderstorm-likely-to-batter-chennai-on-wednesday-imd-101636516098264.html
10-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Himachal Pradesh to reopen schools for classes 3-7 today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Himachal Pradesh: Students of classes 3 to 7 back to school from todaySchools in Himachal Pradesh will be reopening from Wednesday for students of classes 3 to 7, in view of the gradually normalising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Read more'Maharashtra crosses milestone of administering 100m Covid vaccine dosesMaharashtra on Tuesday crossed the milestone of administering 100 million anti-Covid vaccine doses, nearly ten months after the national vaccination programme began on January 16. It crossed the 50 million mark on August 17. Read moreNew Delhi’s air quality improves to ‘very poor’ from ‘severe’; mild fog likelyNew Delhi’s air quality improved marginally on Wednesday morning with the air quality index (AQI) hovering in the “very poor” category as the Capital continued to be affected by stubble burning in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab. Read moreFrom 2023, Virgin Galactic planning 3 space flights a monthVirgin Galactic expects to be flying paying passengers three times monthly in 2023, signalling it’s on track to ramp up commercial flights after delays this year pushed back its space tourism debut timeline. Read moreKBC 13's third crorepati Geeta Singh Gour reveals how Amitabh Bachchan put her at ease, role her Rajputana dress playedThe popular game show Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, hosted by Amitabh Bachchan, found its third crorepati this year in Geeta Singh Gour from Madhya Pradesh. Tuesday’s episode showed her winning ₹1 crore on the show. Read moreOla Electric scooter test ride starts today, but with rider. Check details hereFor all those customers eagerly looking forward to test ride Ola Electric scooters, the wait is finally over. The Tamil Nadu-based EV-maker will start to offer test rides of its S1 and S1 Pro electric scooters today for the first time since its launch back on August 15 this year. Read more'He is a mix of MS Dhoni and Virat Kohli': Swann names India player who is 'captain in waiting for next 10 years'Rohit Sharma may have been appointed as the new T20I captain of the Indian team, but at 34, even the most successful IPL captain of all time, may not be a long-term solution for the Men in Blue. Read moreLady Gaga is a vision in sheer gown with Adam Driver, Jared Leto, Salma Hayek at House of Gucci premiereThe House Of Gucci stars - including 'Mrs Gucci' Lady Gaga and 'Mr Gucci' Adam Driver - walked the red carpet in London on Tuesday night. They all looked impressive in stunning ensembles at the world premiere of the film in the UK. Read moreWatch: Indian Army wants these special radars along China border | Explained||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-himachal-pradesh-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-3-7-today-101636514064877.html
10-11-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate Purvanchal Expressway next week: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Purvanchal Expressway next week (on November 16), which will enhance road connectivity of Uttar Pradesh's eastern region to the state capital Lucknow. The 340.824 km-long expressway will start from the state capital and end in Ghazipur, in eastern UP.The expressway will also connect important cities like Varanasi, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur and Allahabad through link roads.It is one of the most prestigious projects of the Yogi Adityanath government. The total cost of the project is ₹22,494.66 crore, including cost of land.Here is everything you need to know about the Purvanchal Expressway:• The expressway would traverse through nine districts of the state, including Lucknow, Barabanki, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Amethi, Sultanpur, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur.• Uttar Pradesh government expects 15,000-20,000 vehicles to use the expressway every day in the initial days after its opening. The number is likely to increase.• Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) has made elaborate security arrangements on the expressway for the safety of the passengers. It will have advanced traffic management system and fencing to stop stray animals. Teams will be present at different spots to catch these animals, if they come on the expressway.• To handle accidents and emergencies, ambulances with life support system will be kept ready, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan. Twenty patrol vehicles will also be deployed, Livehindustan further reported.• The government has also made provision for landing of fighter jets on the expressway. It has a three-km long runway at Kudebhar in Sultanpur district which can be used in emergency situation.• The access-controlled six-lane expressway is expandable up to eight lanes. It will provide a major boost to connectivity, by allowing a journey of 300 kilometres to be covered in three and a half hours.• The government will earn ₹202 crore every year through the Purvanchal Expressway. Initially, no toll will be collected from travellers using the expressway, according to Livehindustan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/purvanchal-expressway-to-be-inaugurated-by-pm-modi-all-you-need-to-know-101636514456752.html
10-11-2021||India||Parliament winter session: Here are some issues Oppn parties plan to raise||Parliament’s winter session will be held from November 29 to December 23. Here are some of the issues Opposition parties plan to take up:* Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said his party will raise the issue of the alleged use of Pegasus spyware for surveillance of Indian citizens. In the monsoon session too, Congress raised the issue. Gandhi said the use of Pegasus is an attempt to crush Indian democracy. He expressed happiness over the Supreme Court’s move to set up a three-member expert to investigate the matter.Also Read: Farmers plan fresh protest near Parliament to mark one year of agitation* All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi has demanded a debate on the protracted India-China border standoff. “As the Central government is not saying anything on this issue… we demand that during the winter session, there should be a debate.”* The Trinamool Congress is expected to oppose the Centre’s decision to extend the area under the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force in West Bengal, Punjab and Assam.* The opposition is also expected to raise the issue of the scrapping of three farm laws enacted last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/issues-opposition-parties-plan-to-raise-during-parliament-session-101636514538283.html
10-11-2021||India||18,000 rural women from Karnataka undergo training for solid waste management||Around 18,000 rural women from Karnataka’s self-help groups are being trained to manage solid waste and utilise solar energy as part of the government’s push for clean energy and better waste management.The Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Rural Energy and Development (MGIRED) is conducting the training sessions in partnership with the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, the Department of Rural Drinking Water and Sanitation, and the National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM). The women will be engaged as “swachh karmikas” by panchayats to handle solid waste management such as daily waste collection, waste segregation, and driving “swacch vahinis”, according to a statement from the Jal Sakti ministry.Also Read: Decade on, Punjab local bodies department scraps waste management project“The goal of the programme is to provide self-help group members with the knowledge and skills necessary to efficiently administer ‘swachh sankeerna’ as a business module and to make solid waste management self-sustaining, hence providing a source of financial assistance for self-help group members,” the ministry said.The five-day training programme includes travel and stay for three women from each gram panchayat in Karnataka.Apart from solid waste management, the self-help group members will also learn about renewable energy sources, composting technologies for wet waste, the idea of biogas for managing biodegradable waste, and the importance of menstrual health.The training spell includes a visit to a solid waste management unit at a nearby gram panchayat for practical understanding of primary segregation, secondary segregation and tendering. The trainees will also visit biogas-to-electricity plants and take a look at commercial vermicompost methods at an agriculture college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18000-rural-women-from-karnataka-undergo-training-for-solid-waste-management-101636514179894.html
10-11-2021||India||Maharashtra crosses milestone, administers 100 million Covid vaccine doses||Maharashtra on Tuesday crossed the milestone of administering 100 million anti-Covid vaccine doses, nearly 10 months after the national vaccination programme began on January 16. It crossed the 50 million mark on August 17.100,137,366 vaccine doses had been administered in the state by 9pm on Tuesday including 68,057,912 first dose and 32,079,454 double doses. In terms of absolute numbers, Maharashtra has administered the second-highest vaccination doses after Uttar Pradesh. However, it lags behind the national average in terms of population covered with 39.3% and 35.1% of its adult population vaccinated partially and fully respectively, against the national average of 41.9% and 37.3% .Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope congratulated all district officers for achieving the milestone. Dr Rahul Pandit, director, critical care, Fortis Hospitals and a member of the national Covid-19 task force, too congratulated all stake holders. “This accomplishment is a fruition of tremendous hard work, strategic acumen and timely intervention by the state and civic authorities, governing bodies, healthcare workers, community caregivers and responsible citizens. However, we must not let our guards down,” he said.The festive season led to a sharp drop in inoculation in Mumbai with 39% less doses administered in October compared to September. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, around 95% of the city’s eligible population has been inoculated with the first dose and 56% have been fully vaccinated.According to civic body data, between September 1 and 29, over 2.6 million citizens were vaccinated, which dropped to 1.6 million until October 29. The data also shows that there has been no shortage of vaccine doses with the civic body receiving 1.6 million doses in October against 1.7 million doses in September, resulting in surplus stock.Also Read: Amit Shah to visit Pune in role as cooperation minister on Nov 26Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week set the target of completing 100% first dose vaccination of the state’s 91.44 million population by November 30. Currently, the state has inoculated 74.38% of its targeted beneficiaries with at least one vaccine dose.Mumbai led the inoculation drive among districts with 14,992,825 administered vaccine doses, followed by Pune (12,233,340) and Thane (8,437,825), while some districts like Nandurbar, Palghar, Hingoli, Gadchiroli and Solapur continued to lag. The government has launched Mission Kavach Kundal, a special campaign to boost the Covid-19 vaccination drive, on October 8 with the aim to vaccinate 1.5 million people a day.Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 982 new Covid-19 cases and 27 related deaths. The case tally of the state stood at 6,619,329 on Tuesday, while the death toll touched 140,430. The state has 13,311 active cases currently. Mumbai recorded 274 new cases and one death on Tuesday, taking the city’s Covid-19 death toll to 16,282.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-crosses-milestone-of-administering-100m-covid-vaccine-doses-101636513998301.html
10-11-2021||India||Balan Putheri, visually challenged man who authored 211 books, gets Padma Shri||President of India Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday presented the Padma Shri, the fourth-highest civilian award in the country, to Balan Putheri, a visually challenged literateur who, despite his very obvious difficulties, managed to author as many as 211 books on various subjects. In a post from his official handle on Twitter, the President informed that Balan Putheri has been conferred with the Padma Shri award for his contributions to literature and education.Also Read | President confers Padma Shri on 'Nanda Sir', gets blessings in return“President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Shri Balan Putheri for Literature and Education,” President Kovind tweeted from his account. “In spite of being visually challenged, he authored 211 books on various subjects.”President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Shri Balan Putheri for Literature and Education. In spite of being visually challenged, he authored 211 books on various subjects. pic.twitter.com/C2PWN27RCiThe news of Balan Putheri receiving the Padma Shri honour coincides with a heartbreaking development. A media report on Asianet informed that hours before receiving the civilian award, the literateur's wife, Shanta, passed away. The report elaborates on the matter, shedding light on the fact that Putheri's wife, who had been a huge inspiration behind his literary zeal, had been battling cancer for a while. Moments before he stepped onto the Rashtrapati Bhavan to receive one of the highest awards in the country, the author received the news that his life partner had passed away.Balan Putheri published his first book in 1983, and by 1997 (little more than a decade) he was found authoring his 50th book, Guruvayoor Ekadashi. The author lost his eyesight two years ago, yet he kept his literary zeal going, continuing to author more books with the help of his wife. That he would be conferred the Padma Shri was announced in January earlier this year.President Ram Nath Kovind presented the Padma Awards on Tuesday at the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The Padma Awards are the highest civilian honours of India announced annually ahead of Republic Day. However, the award-giving ceremony was affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year.The Padma Awards are given in three categories: Padma Vibhushan (for exceptional and distinguished service), Padma Bhushan (distinguished service of higher-order) and Padma Shri (distinguished service). The award seeks to recognise achievements in all fields of activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balan-putheri-visually-challenged-man-who-authored-211-books-gets-padma-shri-101636510783328.html
10-11-2021||India||President confers Padma Shri on 'Nanda Sir', gets blessings in return||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday handed over the Padma Shri, the fourth-highest civilian award in the country, to Nanda Prusty for his contributions in the field of education. The 102-year-old has been teaching children from free in Odisha's Jajpur for decades. His name was announced for the award on Republic Day this year.In a post on Twitter, the Rashtrapati Bhavan mentioned the award being given to Prusty, saying that the educationist in turn blessed the President. The photos of the award ceremony were also shared on the President of India's Twitter handle.Watch: Transgender dancer, tribal activist get 'people's Padma'"President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Shri Nanda Prusty for Literature & Education. 102-yr-old “Nanda sir”, who provided free education to children and adults at Jajpur, Odisha for decades, raised his hands in a gesture of blessing the President," the tweet from Rashtrapati Bhavan said.President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Shri Nanda Prusty for Literature & Education. 102-yr-old “Nanda sir”, who provided free education to children and adults at Jajpur, Odisha for decades, raised his hands in a gesture of blessing the President. pic.twitter.com/4kXPZz5NCJ“Nanda Mastre” (Nanda Master), as he is known in his village in chromite-rich Sukinda block of Jajpur district, is perhaps the last man who has kept the tradition of “chatashali” (a non-formal school for primary education in Odisha) alive.At the break of dawn, children gather around the modest home of the centenarian to learn Odia alphabets and a bit of mathematics. Elders who could not attend school during their childhood come to his home at 6 pm to learn how to sign their names.Nanda himself studied till Class 7 due to the financial condition of his family. But took it upon himself the job of spreading literacy.He told Hindustan Times on January 26 this year that he likes teaching children and wants them to become good human beings when they grow up. He claims to have taught at least three generations from the same family.Nanda Prusty's school runs seven days a week from a makeshift hut.The Padma Awards are given in three categories: Padma Vibhushan (for exceptional and distinguished service), Padma Bhushan (distinguished service of higher-order) and Padma Shri (distinguished service). The award seeks to recognise achievements in all fields of activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-confers-padma-shri-to-nanda-sir-gets-blessings-in-return-101636510498786.html
10-11-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh: Students of classes 3 to 7 back to school from today||Schools in Himachal Pradesh will be reopening from Wednesday for students of classes 3 to 7, in view of the gradually normalising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Issuing an official order in this regard earlier this week, the Jairam Thakur-led Himachal government additionally informed that students of first and second standards will also be able to attend physical classes from November 15 (next Monday) and that transport buses will be allowed to resume at full capacity instead of the earlier 50 per cent norms.An official release from the Himachal Pradesh department of information and public relations reads, “… the cabinet decided to re-open schools for students of classes 3 to 7 standard with effect from November 10 and classes 1-2 standards from November 15 at full capacity.”It is to be noted that physical classes for school students of standards eight and above have already reopened in the state.Following new directions to reopen schools in the state for classes one to seven, the Kangra district administration also issued an order stating that students of classes three and above can attend school from November 10. The order also stated that students of classes one and two will be allowed to attend physical classes from November 15, for the first time since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet has also decided to recommend the governor to convene the winter session of the Vidhan Sabha from December 10 to 15 at Dharamshala, district Kangra. “It would have five sittings,” the release said.The government also gave its nod to enhance the stipend of PG-MDS students at the government dental college in Shimla by ₹5,000 per month from April 1. Now the MDS students of 1st year would get ₹40,000 instead of ₹35,000, 2nd-year students would get ₹45,000 instead of Rs. 40,000 and 3rd-year students will get ₹50,000 per month instead of ₹45,000," the government said. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-students-of-classes-3-to-7-back-to-school-from-today-101636507568612.html
10-11-2021||India||IMD forecasts extremely heavy rainfall in parts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted extremely heavy rainfall for some parts of Tamil Nadu and the adjoining Andhra Pradesh on November 10 and 11. As per the warning, the downpour is expected to inundate roads and may cause riverine flooding due to the depression forming over the Bay of Bengal."Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over Tamil Nadu on November 8 and 9 and heavy to very heavy rain at few places with isolated extremely heavy falls are very likely on November 10 and 11," the weather body said in a bulletin on Monday."Heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy falls at isolated places are also likely over south coastal Andhra Pradesh during the same period," it also warned.According to IMD norms, rainfall between 64.5 mm and 115.5 mm is heavy and between 115.6 and 204.4 is very heavy. Anything above 204.4 mm is considered extremely heavy rainfall.The IMD also warned fishermen to not venture into the seas ahead of the rains. There is also a possibility of localised landslides, minor damage to roads, vulnerable structures and to horticulture and standing crops in some areas, it also informed.Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu government has declared local holidays on November 10 and 11 for nine districts in view of the IMD warning. These districts are Chennai, Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, and Mayiladuthurai.The rains that are continuing for the last few days in the southern state has also led to the death of five people and the destruction of as many as 538 huts and four houses.With the onset of northeastern rains, Chennai received the heaviest rains in the past six years, recalling the 2015 floods. It resulted in flooding in the central and northern parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-extremely-heavy-rainfall-in-parts-of-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-101636509155907.html
10-11-2021||India||NHRC holds debate on if rights are ‘stumbling block’ in fighting terror||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday organised an annual debate competition for the central paramilitary forces on the topic “Are human rights a stumbling block in fighting evils like terrorism and Naxalism?”Addressing the annual debate competition in New Delhi, the commission chairperson Justice Arun Kumar Mishra said that the security forces need to observe a balance to ensure proportionate use of force during their operations. “A due process of law to punish the guilty should be observed,” Justice Mishra said .He said the armed forces cannot adopt the same methods as terrorists may do to defend themselves risking the lives of innocent civilians, adding that “there is no room for fake encounters and instant justice”.Referring to the topic of debate, the Chairperson said the arguments given by the security personnel for and against the motion in the debate “are of very high standard and indicate their sensibility and understanding of the respect human rights require to be given during their operations.”Mishra said the armed forces have rendered a yeoman’s service to the national security in adverse situations despite facing provocation, stone pelting, armed attack, etc.The Assam Rifles lifted the overall best team trophy winning the final round of debate – both in Hindi and English.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrcholds-debate-on-if-rights-are-stumbling-block-in-fighting-terror-101636507032351.html
10-11-2021||India||India hosts NSA-level summit on Afghanistan; 7 nations in attendance||India on Wednesday hosted a regional summit to discuss the ongoing situation in neighbouring Afghanistan following the fall of the democratically-elected government and the subsequent Taliban takeover of the country. The conference is being chaired by India's National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and his counterparts from Iran, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkemenistan and Tajikistan are at the attendance.The summit is being attended by Iran's secretary of Supreme National Security Council Admiral Ali Shamkhani; Kazakhstan's Karim Massimov, chairman of national security committee; Marat Mukanovich Imankulov, secretary of the security council of Kyrgyz Republic; Nikolai P Patrushev, secretary of the security of the Russian federation; Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda, secretary of security council of Tajikistan; and Charymyrat Kakalyyevvich Amavov, deputy chairman of cabinety of ministers of Turkemenistan. Uzbekistan's Victor Makhmudov, secretary of the security council is also there.India had formally invited the NSAs of Russia, Iran, China, Pakistan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan for the meeting. However, China and Pakistan had already said that they will not be attending the conference. No delegation from Afghanistan was invited.This is the first time that all Central Asian countries – and not just Afghanistan’s immediate land neighbours, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan – are participating in discussions in this format along with Kazakhstan and Kyrgyz Republic, according to people aware of the developments.The meeting is being seen as part of Indian efforts to remain relevant in addressing the fallout of the developments in Afghanistan.This is the third such meeting that is being held on the Afghan situation. The previous two regional meetings in this format were held in Iran in September 2018 and December 2019.Meanwhile, Kabul is seeing the conference as a hopeful step to "facilitate the provision of assistance to Afghanistan," as per local media reports.Taliban took over Afghanistan in August in a military offensive in the aftermath of troop withdrawal by the United States and its other Nato allies. The chaotic exit led to a major humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan.No country has formally recognised the Taliban government in Afghanistan and the country is on the verge of economic collapse as international aid has stopped. Afghanistan is also facing a threat from the Islamic State, which has ramped up attacks over the last few months.Since the Taliban takeover, the Indian government has cautioned the global community not to rush into any formal recognition of the setup created in Kabul. It has also urged the world leaders to ensure that the Taliban deliver on their commitments that Afghan soil will not be used by terror groups, especially Pakistan-based organisations such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-host-nsa-level-regional-summit-on-afghanistan-today-101636506566586.html
10-11-2021||India||Farmers plan fresh protest near Parliament to mark one year of agitation||Farm unions will mark a year of their agitation against three agricultural laws passed by the Modi government on November 26 by converging on the national capital’s borders in large numbers, and holding demonstrations near Parliament for the entire duration of the forthcoming winter session beginning November 29, their leaders announced on Tuesday.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of farm unions, said it has decided to escalate protests across the country from November 26, which is a “historic” occasion. On November 28, they will organise a rally at Mumbai’s at Azad Maidan, the platform said.Tens of thousands of farmers are campaigning against the three laws enacted in September 2020 to liberalise domestic agricultural trade. Farm unions, largely from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding protests at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border).On November 26, farmers from across northern states will troop into these sites, a farm leader said. “The day is also Constitution Day, when the Constitution of India was adopted by the Constituent Assembly in 1949. November 26 also marks one year of the all India strike by the working class last year,” a statement by the farm unions said.“The SKM has decided that on and from November 29 until the end of this Parliament session, 500 selected farmer volunteers will move every day to Parliament in tractor trollies peacefully and with full discipline, to assert their rights to protest in the national capital,” it added.Farmers say the new laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — will leave them at the mercy of big corporations who could dictate prices and wean them off state support.The government has argued the changes will not alter an existing state-backed system to give assured prices but would free up farm trade, boost investments and raise incomes.The laws aim to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets, which will coexist with regulated markets, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales, and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements.On January 26, a planned Republic Day celebration by farmers who took out a tractor march in Delhi went awry when protestors turned violent and stormed Red Fort, a monument.During one of the protests on October 2, a convoy of vehicles belonging to Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, allegedly ploughed through protesters in Lakhimpur, killing four farmers, and triggering violence that killed four other people. The minister’s son was later arrested.On January 13 this year, the Supreme Court temporarily suspended the three laws and formed a panel of experts to examine them. The panel has submitted its report to the court, which it is yet to take up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-plan-fresh-protest-near-parliament-to-mark-one-year-of-agitation-101636505117244.html
10-11-2021||India||‘Stop comedian’s show or we will’: VHP’s ultimatum to Chhattisgarh govt||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh’s right-wing outfits have opposed the show of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, scheduled for November 14 and threatened to stop the show if the local administration permits the programme.Leaders of Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal met senior police officials, on Monday, and demanded that the show be cancelled or the outfits will step in.Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Santosh Chaudhary said Bajrang Dal and VHP submitted a written application to Raipur Collector and Superintendent of Police and demanded that the show should not be permitted in Raipur as Faruqui allegedly mocked Hindu deities in the past. “Faruqui mocked our Gods in past and such anti-Hindu people should not be permitted in the capital. And if the administration permits, it will be the administration’s responsibility because we will stop the programme in our own way,” said Chaudhary.Mohammad Inam, who has organised the programme in Raipur, said their application was pending with administration.Raipur collector Saurabh Kumar said the request was being processed.“We have received an application for permission for the show which is in process. The orgainsers have also asked for protection for the show which is scheduled to be held in a hotel… The application has been sent for police approval,” said Kumar said.In January this year, the Madhya Pradesh police booked Faruqui, who is from Gujarat’s Junagadh, and others performing at a New Year’s event at a café in Indore when a group of right-wing activists entered the venue and created a ruckus. He was arrested on January 1 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments and violating the Covid-19 guidelines and released in February on the Supreme Court’s orders||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stop-comedian-s-show-or-we-will-vhp-s-ultimatum-to-chhattisgarh-govt-101636490530216.html
10-11-2021||India||Karnataka CM announces ₹10 cr for Kannada Bhavan in Goa||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday announced ₹10 crore for the construction of ‘Kannada Bhavan’ in neighboring Goa.The Chief Minister gave this assurance to the office bearers of All Goa Kannada Maha Sangha, who met him at his home office ‘Krishna’ in Bengaluru. The delegation was led by BJP national general secretary and MLA C T Ravi.Noting that a large number of people from north Karnataka have settled in Goa, and they are promoting and safeguarding Kannada and its culture there, Bommai said, the government is committed to building Kannada Bhavan in Goa in the interests of Kannadigas.He directed officials to identify land and prepare a detailed project report for construction of the Kannada Bhavan in Goa, the CMO in a statement said.All Goa Kannada Maha Sangha honorary president Siddanna Meti, and other office-bearers expressed happiness about the Chief Minister’s announcement, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-announces-rs-10-cr-for-kannada-bhavan-in-goa-101636485668082.html
10-11-2021||India||89% administered first dose of Covid vaccine in Karnataka: Minister||Karnataka has achieved Covid-19 vaccination coverage of 89 per cent in the first dose and 48 per cent in the second, health minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday as he urged the people to take both shots and not let their guard down.“People should not neglect to take a second dose within the prescribed time as both the doses are necessary to get maximum protection against the virus. We must not let our guard down until the pandemic is completely eradicated,” he said.Stating that the union government would soon start supplying vaccines for children, he said, “We will provide vaccination to children based on priority as we have already identified kids with vulnerabilities, through the Arogya Nandana program.” The state has already administered about 6.75 crore vaccine doses and the entire process has now been we streamlined, the minister added.The Minister was speaking at the 125th anniversary celebration of Minto Eye Hospital here.He said there is a need to create more awareness about Eye Donation and make it a people’s movement. State reports 293 fresh cases, 4 deaths Karnataka logged 293 fresh Covid cases and four deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,90,528 and the toll to 38,122. The day also saw 323 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,44,422, a health department bulletin said.Out of 293 new cases reported on Tuesday, 187 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 106 discharges and two deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is now 7,955.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.36 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.36 per cent.Out of the four deaths reported on Tuesday, two were from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada.Dakshina Kannada followed Bengaluru Urban in number of cases with 21, followed by Mysuru 18, Kolar 12, Hassan 10, while the rest were scattered in other areas.Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total 12,53,177, followed by Mysuru 1,79,330 and Tumakuru 1,20,903.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,30,380, followed by Mysuru 1,76,725 and Tumakuru 1,19,616.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/89-administered-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-karnataka-minister-101636485428711.html
10-11-2021||India||Karnataka BJP plans Jan Swaraj Yatra from next week||The BJP will launch a four-day ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ across Karnataka from November 18 with an eye on winning the coming taluk panchayat and district panchayat elections, the party’s state spokesperson Ganesh Karnik said here on Tuesday.“We are launching ‘Jan Swaraj Yatra’ for four days from November 18. Four teams will travel across the four corners of the state for four days with a focus on winning the Taluk and district Panchayat elections,” he said. Karnik was briefing reporters on the BJP state office bearers meeting on Tuesday.BJP national general secretaries Arun Singh, B L Santhosh and C T Ravi, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Karnataka BJP state general secretary Arun Kumar (organisation), Karnataka ministers, legislators and other state level office bearers attended the event, he added.Karnik said the objective of the ‘Yatra’ was to strengthen the party organisation at the booth level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bjp-plans-jan-swaraj-yatra-from-next-week-101636485249123.html
10-11-2021||India||Victim's age in rape-and-murder cases not enough for death penalty: Supreme Court||Low age of victims in rape-and-murder cases has not been considered as the "only or sufficient factor by this court" for imposing the death penalty, the Supreme Court has said referring to its verdict that had analysed 67 similar cases dealt by it in the last 40 years.The apex court's crucial observation came on an appeal of Irappa Siddappa who was convicted and given the death penalty by a trial court. The Karnataka High Court confirmed the trial court's decision on March 6, 2017.He was convicted for kidnapping, rape and murder of a five-year old-girl in the village of Khanapur in Karnataka in 2010 and post the incident, he had put the body of the victim in a bag and thrown it into a stream, named Bennihalla.A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai confirmed the conviction of Siddappa for offences including rape, murder and destruction of evidence, but set aside the award of death penalty, which was handed down by courts below on grounds including the minor age of the victim, and commuted it to life imprisonment for a period of 30 years."We find sufficient mitigating factors to commute the sentence of death imposed by the Sessions Court and confirmed by the High Court into imprisonment for life, with the direction that the appellant shall not be entitled to premature release/remission for the offence under Section 302 (murder) of the Code until he has undergone actual imprisonment for at least thirty years,” said the verdict penned by Justice Khanna for the bench.It also directed that the sentences shall run concurrently and not consecutively.The top court extensively dealt with arguments based on minor age of the victims in rape-and-murder cases and referred to the apex court's judgement in the Shatrughna Baban Meshram case in which 67 judgments of the Supreme Court in the previous 40 years were surveyed.In these judgements, death sentence had been imposed by the trial court or the High Court for the alleged offences under Sections 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) of the IPC, and where the age of victims was below 16 years, the apex court said."Out of these 67 cases, this Court affirmed the award of death sentence to the accused in 15 cases. In three, ... out of said 15 cases, the death sentence was commuted to life sentence by this Court in review petitions.“Out of the remaining 12 cases, in two cases..., the death sentence was confirmed by this Court and the review petitions were dismissed. Thus, as on date, the death sentence stands confirmed in 12 out of 67 cases where the principal offences allegedly committed were under Sections 376 and 302 IPC and where the victims were aged about 16 years or below,” it said.Out of these 67 cases, at least in 51, the victims were aged below 12 years, it said, adding that in three cases, the death penalty was commuted to life sentence in review.“It appears from the above data that the low age of the victim has not been considered as the only or sufficient factor by this Court for imposing a death sentence. If it were the case, then all, or almost all, 67 cases would have culminated in imposition of sentence of death on the accused,” the top court said.It referred to various verdicts and said that though such an offence was heinous and required condemnation, it was not “rarest of the rare, so as to require the elimination of the appellant from the society.”The state government has not shown anything to prove the likelihood that the convict would commit acts of violence as a continuing threat to society, and his conduct in the prison has been described as satisfactory, it said."There is no doubt that the appellant has committed an abhorrent crime, and for this we believe that incarceration for life will serve as sufficient punishment and penitence for his actions, in the absence of any material to believe that if allowed to live he poses a grave and serious threat to the society, and the imprisonment for life in our opinion would also ward off any such threat. We believe that there is hope for reformation, rehabilitation, and thus the option of imprisonment for life is certainly not foreclosed and therefore acceptable,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/victims-age-in-rape-and-murder-cases-not-enough-for-death-penalty-supreme-court-101636483056356.html
10-11-2021||India||Karnataka HC extends relief to owners of Dream11 app in ‘violation’ of police act case||The Karnataka high court on Tuesday extended the stay on any possible coercive action by law enforcement authorities against the founders of online gaming app, Dream 11, in connection with alleged violation of the state’s new online gaming and gambling law. Dream11 founders Bhavit and Harsh Jain had prayed to quash a petition seeking their arrest.Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar observed that the investigation on the matter should continue, an advocate aware of the developments said on Tuesday. “Dream11 counsel noted that there is a Supreme Court judgment on the issue and amendments to the Karnataka Police Act will not apply to them. The judge said he will apply the SC judgment if it is applicable to them after hearing the matter and arguments,” the advocate cited above said requesting not to be named.The directions come over a month after Manjunath filed a complaint with the Annapoorneshwari Nagar police station on October 7 against the company for the alleged violation of the new act that was notified on October 5 by the state government.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government had tabled and passed the bill despite opposition during the monsoon session of the legislature between September 13-24. Home minister Araga Jnanendra has defended the law despite concerns being raised over the financial impact of the same on the state as well as the dent of Bengaluru’s image as the tech and startup capital of the country.The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which among other changes, has banned “any act or risking money, or otherwise on the unknown result of an event including on a game of skill,” which has added to apprehensions as it proposes to include skill in what was earlier only on a game of chance.Forums like All India Gaming Federation (AIGF) and others have approached the court for securing a stay on the ban itself.Another bench of the HC is hearing a bunch of petitions from companies and other stakeholders challenging the constitutional validity of the amendments made to the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Act 2021 that bans online gaming and gambling and imposes heavy fines of upto ₹1 lakh and maximum imprisonment of nearly three years. The counsel on record and the government advocate could not be reached for comment.Police in Bengaluru and other places continue to crack down on such companies and service providers especially during the just concluded Indian Premier League (IPL) season. The police have booked 20 cases against 27 persons during the 2021 IPL season with most of them with the old laws that bans gambling.There has been at least one case filed for violation of the new legislation, people aware of the developments said.The online gaming industry, which gained significant traction during lockdown to battle Covid1-9, is slated to grow from 360 million gamers to 510 million by 2022, according to a 2021 report by AIGF and EY.The report adds that 85% of these are mobile gamers. It also estimates that online real money game players are expected to grow from 80 million in 2020 to 150 million by 2023.Estimates indicate that Karnataka, known for its prowess in technology, accounts for around 15% of the country’s market. According to the Internet and Mobile Association of India (IMAI) there are 92 gaming companies registered in Bengaluru which employ over 4,000 people and have, in the last three years alone, attracted ₹3000 crores in investments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-extends-relief-to-owners-of-dream11-app-in-violation-of-police-act-case-101636485008826.html
10-11-2021||India||MLC polls for 25 seats in state on December 10||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced to hold polls for 25 seats for Karnataka’s legislative council on December 10. An ECI notification, followed up with another by the state election authorities, stated: “Term of office of 25 sitting members of Karnataka Legislative Council from 20 Local Authorities’ Constituencies is going to expire on 5 January, 2022.”Among those whose terms expire in January include Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Kota Srinivas Poojary, a cabinet minister in the Basavaraj Bommai-led government. The term of Congress’ leader of the opposition in the council, SR Patil also expires in January. The elections come close on the heels of the October 30 bypolls in Hanagal and Sindgi in which the BJP suffered a defeat in the former constituency which adjoins Bommai’s home seat of Shiggaon in Haveri district. The BJP currently has 32 members in the upper house of the state legislature while the Congress accounts for 29 and the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) 12, according to information on legislative council site. All three parties are hoping to win big in the MLC elections to retain some control over the legislature. The BJP on Sunday said it would hold the “Janaswarajya Yatra” ahead of the elections for the upper house under four teams who would tour around seven districts each to mobilise support in the grass roots. The BJP is looking to gain control over the upper house as it plans to introduce more bills, considered contentious, and be passed without too many hurdles. The Congress too has intensified its groundwork for the MLC polls while the JD(S) is holding a seven-day meeting with all district office bearers of the regional outfit since Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mlc-polls-for-25-seats-in-state-on-december-10-101636484948829.html
10-11-2021||India||Core committee meet: BJP will finalise MLC polls’ list in 2 days, says CM||Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit will finalise the list of probable candidates for the upcoming election for the upper house of the state legislature in the next couple of days.“By tomorrow (Wednesday) or day after, we will finalise the list and send it to the parliamentary board,” Bommai said after the BJP’s core committee meeting in Bengaluru.He said there were two to three names coming up in each constituency which was discussed in the meeting but that the party would hold more consultations in the coming days.The chief minister said the party has already received a report from the districts which was discussed in the core committee meeting but more such consultations would be held with district officials, the respective Lok Sabha member and the BJP president among others before arriving at a final list.Bommai is scheduled to depart for Delhi on Wednesday and is expected to discuss the probable candidates with the national leadership of the party among other issues with central leaders.The statements come on the day the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced that the polls for the 25 seats that will become vacant on January 5 next year, will be held on December 10.There are several probable candidates who continue discussions with the saffron outfit to switch sides that lends to the trend of defections in Karnataka’s political landscape. “There have been discussions (on probables coming from other parties) but no final decision has been taken on it yet,” Bommai said.The term of 25 members of the upper house of the state legislature will end on January 5.The BJP is hoping to secure its position and increase its numbers from 32 to get a majority in the upper house to help key legislations pass without much opposition or hurdles in the process.The BJP has 32, the Congress has 29 and the JD(S) has 12 seats in the upper house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/core-committee-meet-bjp-will-finalise-mlc-polls-list-in-2-days-says-cm-101636484828632.html
10-11-2021||India||Bengaluru Tech Summit: State sharpens edge to attract investments ‘Beyond Bengaluru’||The Karnataka government on Tuesday said it will continue to hand-hold inventors and companies to look beyond Bengaluru as a measure to bridge the skill gap, equitable growth and development that continues to hover around India’s IT capital. Under the Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), the state is looking to provide more employment by skilling graduates and creating a talent pool that often finds its way to Bengaluru where most of the opportunities are created at least until the Covid-19 pandemic.Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education; IT & BT, science & technology; skill development, entrepreneurship & livelihood, said the pandemic induced migration has seen a considerable number of the workforce operate out of small towns as they utilise “work from home” policy. “Covid has played a big role in digitisation and the way forward,” Narayan told HT on Tuesday. However, there remains a huge gap between how many graduates, especially in engineering, the state produces and how many are actually employed or employable since a significant number of institutions do not provide necessary industry-relevant skills. To be sure, more than 100,000 engineering graduates pass out from 542 colleges in the state and of this at least 60% remain unemployed after campus placements, according to information shared by the state IT department. The Karnataka government will hold the 24th edition of the Bengaluru Tech Summit from November 17-19 with the theme “Driving the Next” to highlight the role of digital and technological innovations that continue to support the growth of various sectors in the post-pandemic world. While cities like Bengaluru continued to thrive on account of its established technology ecosystem and enabling “work from home”, other cities saw a reverse migration of sorts, that has emphasised the need to create similar infrastructure in these small towns and cities to attract investments. Narayana said “Beyond Bengaluru” initiatives will include fresh graduates to get 4-week free launch pad training in emerging technologies and that the department has identified over 2000 job opportunities. Successive governments in Karnataka have attempted to lure investors away from Bengaluru and set up shop in other regions of the state as a way to distribute growth and employment opportunities to less developed parts. However, this initiative has met with little success in the past as the same governments continue to fixate on development in Bengaluru than build better infrastructure and connectivity to other parts of the state. This has led to inequitable distribution of growth with better healthcare, education, opportunities in Bengaluru and neglecting other regions. The per-capita income of the region was ₹128,761 in 2018-19 as against Bengaluru which stands at ₹301,748. The Kalaburagi division, which covers the Kalyana-Karnataka region, home to six of the most backward districts in the country, at ₹114,133, according to the 2020-21 economic survey of Karnataka. The per capita income of the Mysuru division stands at ₹205,829 and ₹156,729 in Bengaluru rural (not including Bengaluru city), according to data provided in the economic survey. Narayan said though there was a push earlier, the government is now “hand-holding” to assure investors of moving to other regions. To be sure, more than 100,000 engineering graduates pass out from 542 colleges in the state and of this at least 60% remain unemployed after campus placements, according to information shared by the state IT department. S Gopalakrishnan (Kris), Co-Founder, Infosys, Chairman of Axilor Venture, and Chairman, Karnataka Vision Group on Information Technology said there was a significant amount of technology adoption during the pandemic. “The entire world increased its dependency on Indian IT during the crisis and the industry came out with flying colors. It is essential that industry and tech leaders come together to understand and strategize on the emerging opportunities in the IT field in the days to come,” he said. Bengaluru Tech Summit is expecting participation from over 30 countries, scheduled to have 300 speakers, over 20,000 exhibitors, over 5000 start ups, and expect an overall digital reach to over a half a million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-tech-summit-state-sharpens-edge-to-attract-investments-beyond-bengaluru-101636484768703.html
10-11-2021||India||BJP wins 112 out of 334 seats uncontested in Tripura civic polls||AGARTALA: Tripura’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won uncontested 112 out of 334 seats across 20 local civic bodies including the Agartala municipal corporation. Elections to the state’s municipal bodies are scheduled to be held on November 25, said an official of the state election commission. The votes will be counted on November 28.“After scrutiny and withdrawal of some nominations, 785 candidates from different political parties are in the fray. The BJP won 112 seats uncontested out of a total of 334 seats, “ said the official.Most of the seats won uncontested were in municipal councils of Mohanpur, Ranirbazar, Udaipur, Bishalgarh, Santirbazar and Jirania and Kamalpur town panchayats where the opposition Communist Party of India (Marxist) alleged their candidates could not file their nominations due to violence triggered by the ruling party cadres. Tripura’s CPM secretary Jitendra Chaudhury said, “The violence began much ahead of the announcement of schedule of the civic polls and the intensity increased after the announcement of the polls. Many of our party activists were attacked and our candidates in five municipal councils and two nagar panchayats could not file their nominations.”Election officials said over 5.94 lakh people including 3.7 lakh women are entitled to vote across the 20 municipal bodies.A total of 770 polling stations would be set up for the polls.November 3 was the last date for filing nominations. Later, 36 candidates withdrew their nomination papers.The civic polls were initially scheduled to be held in December last year but were postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said his party didn’t want to win uncontested but “the opposition wasn’t accepted by the people”. He dismissed the CPM contention that its candidates were not allowed to file their nomination as a “baseless excuse”, insisting that the his party won a large number of seats as opposition parties did not find acceptance among people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-wins-112-out-of-334-seats-uncontested-in-tripura-civic-polls-101636484648732.html
10-11-2021||India||Police begin fresh probe in Bitcoin scam as pressure mounts||More than 11 months after arresting Bengaluru-based hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki, city police have launched a fresh probe into theft of bitcoins by him by hacking cryptocurrency exchange Bitfinex in 2016. The fresh investigation comes after allegations have been made about a scam involving the hacker and cryptocurrency. Srikrishna was caught on November 18, 2020, after police arrested some drug dealers to whom he had allegedly sold drugs procured from the dark web. Srikrishna graduated in computer science from a college in Amsterdam in the Netherlands in 2017 and has good knowledge about computers and the internet. During his interrogation, police found that Srikrishna used encrypted data and demand payment from owners for the site to be unlocked by attacking the sites online. He had hacked Karnataka government portals as well. While in custody, he also confessed to having hacked into some bitcoin exchanges. One of them was Bitfinex. Around 120,000 bitcoins, which was about $72 million at the time, were stolen from Bitfinex in August 2016. “Early in the morning on August 2, 2016, hackers breached security systems of our exchange. As a result, 2072 unauthorized transactions were broadcast on the bitcoin network, involving 119,755 bitcoins in aggregate. We have learned valuable lessons from this painful episode, addressing the security issues and vulnerabilities associated with the theft,” read a statement issued by Bitfinex in August 2020. The company had also put a reward of 5% of total recovery for anyone who provides information about the hackers. This hacking was said to be one of the biggest breaches of security and theft involving cryptocurrency, and international enforcement agencies began an investigation into the case as well. Incidentally, in December 2020, Srikrishna had confessed to his role in the Bitfinex hacking to police during the interrogation. According to a statement he gave to police, which was later reproduced in the charge sheet, he confessed that he was part of a hacking group that broke into Bitfinex. According to a senior officer, some officers in the department especially officers of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) had come under scanner after the matter was raised by the central enforcement agencies. “Even though the hack into Bitfinex was being probed by international agencies, the CCB, which had information about this involvement in the Bitfinex hacking as early as November 2020 did not share this information with the investigating agencies,” said the officer, who didn’t want to be named. The officer said even though Bengaluru police had announced that they had seized ₹9 crore worth of bitcoins from the Srikrishna, the charge sheet or the evidence submitted before the court doesn’t talk about the bitcoins. “The CCB had claimed that they had created a new bitcoin account in the police department’s name and the ₹9 crore worth of bitcoins were transferred to this account to be presented as evidence,” said the officer. Although the case had gone under the radar, an Enforcement Directorate (ED) probe into the 11-month-old case had snowballed into a political controversy with the opposition Congress accusing the ruling BJP of a cover-up in the case. Congress leader Siddaramaiah told the media that two influential politicians were involved and there was an attempt to cover up their role in the case. A senior officer involved in the investigation denied the scandal and said allegations were baseless. “All the bitcoins that were stolen from the exchange in 2016 were blacklisted, which means they can’t be converted to currency. The exchange itself has claimed that, so there is no chance of any scam. If they are any other allegations, ED is looking at it,” said the officer of Bengaluru police. The officer, however, didn’t comment on the investigation into the transaction of bitcoins by Srikrishna. After being released on bail in January 2021, Srikrishna was arrested on charges of consumption of narcotics on Monday. Even though he was arrested by Jeevan Bhima Nagar police, he was interrogated by officials of the CCB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-begin-fresh-probe-in-bitcoin-scam-as-pressure-mounts-101636484536084.html
10-11-2021||India||Schedule declared for polls to 12 and 11 MLC seats in Telangana, Andhra||The Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday announced a fresh election schedule for 12 more MLC seats in Telangana and 11 MLC seats in Andhra Pradesh under the local bodies’ quota.An official release from the EC said the nomination process for the MLC elections in both states will be issued on November 16 and the last date is November 23. The statement further said that scrutiny will take place a day after the deadline, while nominations can be withdrawn before November 26. The polling for the MLC seats will be held on December 10, and the counting of votes would take place on December 14, the EC said.The EC also declared that the model code of conduct has come into effect immediately. No public meetings or political rallies would be allowed in the poll-bound districts.As a result, Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s proposed mega public rally Vijaya Garjana, scheduled for November 29 in Warangal, has been postponed. The proposed visit of Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR) to Warangal and Hanmakonda districts have also been cancelled due to the model code of conduct, the TRS said.Out of the 40 members in the Telangana state legislative council, 14 members are elected under the local bodies’ quota. In Andhra Pradesh, out of the 58 seats, 20 are elected in the legislative council under the quota.According to the EC release, in Telangana, there are two vacancies each from Karimnagar, Mahabubnagar and Ranga Reddy and one vacancy each from Adilabad, Warangal, Nalgonda, Medak, Nizamabad and Khammam. The term of the sitting MLCs will end on January 4.Among those outgoing next year is KCR’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha, who got elected from Nizamabad local bodies’ quota.In Andhra Pradesh, the elections to the council under the local bodies’ quota will be held for the vacancies in Anantapur, Krishna, East Godavari, Guntur, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Chittoor and Prakasam districts.Though the elections to these vacancies were supposed to be held in August this year, the EC deferred them after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier on Monday, Election Commission issued notification for the conduct of elections to six seats in Telangana and three in the Andhra Pradesh legislative council under the state legislature quota, likely to be conducted on November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schedule-declared-for-polls-to-12-and-11-mlc-seats-in-telangana-andhra-101636484471014.html
10-11-2021||India||Madras high court raps Chennai civic body as IMD warns of more rainfall||The Madras high court on Tuesday pulled up the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) as several parts of the city continued to be inundated following rains since Saturday. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted extremely heavy rains in the city and neighbouring areas from Wednesday onwards. Though there has been a respite from rain on Tuesday, with Chennai registering 11 mm rainfall until 5.30 pm, parts of the city are still inundated from heavy rainfall over the weekend. Five people have lost their lives in rain-related incidents across the state on Monday, while 500 huts were damaged, said a statement from the revenue and disaster management. A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu warned of suo moto proceedings if the waterlogging was not brought under control. It criticised the corporation for its failure in taking up adequate measures to prevent the inundation. “Half the year, we are longing for water, and for the rest of the year, we are dying in water in Chennai,” the court said in its oral observations, reported news agencies. The court, while issuing orders on the PIL, that sought a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to maintain adequate width of roads in the state said that “It may not be out of context to record that the ongoing rains and the floods in and around Chennai and elsewhere in the State should be a lesson for the government officials to take immediate action against any person attempting to encroach into any water body or the path meant for flowing water during the rainy reason.” The bench made the observations while hearing public interest litigation on civic issues in the city. Overnight, from November 6 to November 7, Chennai had received rainfall of 21 cm, which is the highest single-day rainfall recorded for November since 2015. The heavy inundation and water being released from three reservoirs brought back haunting experiences of the December 2015 floods in Chennai, which killed around 400 people across state, and left people marooned for a week. As weathermen forecasted extremely heavy rainfall over the next 48 hours, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday announced holidays for schools and colleges in nine districts, including Chennai for the next two days. On Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red warning for six districts which includes Chennai and its adjoining regions. “Under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood, a low-pressure area has formed over the same region. Associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 4.5 km above mean sea level,” IMD’s bulletin read. “It is very likely to concentrate into a Depression over Southwest and adjoining Southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 36 hours.” This is likely to move west–northwestwards and reach near north Tamil Nadu coast by the early morning of 11th November. “Yesterday’s trough now runs from the cyclonic circulation over southeast Bay of Bengal & neighbourhood to Gulf of Mannar extending up to 5.8 km above mean sea level,” their statement said. The weather agency has forecast thunderstorms and heavy rains in Chennai and delta districts. The state, having deployed SDRF, NDRF and fire and rescue teams in the vulnerable districts, is bracing for more rains, officials said, adding four helicopters in Sulur Airforce Station and two helicopters of the Navy are on standby. The coast guard will also be engaged in case of emergency, they said. As many as 2649 people have been moved to relief shelters across the state. The Greater Chennai Corporation brought 1343 people to stay in 169 shelters across the city. “We need to be very careful from November 9 to November 11 as there is an alert for very heavy rainfall. We are taking all precautionary steps across the state,” disaster management minister KSSR Ramachandran told reporters. “The efforts to drain the floodwater from the remaining are in full swing,” disaster management minister KSSR Ramachandran told reporters. Of the 16 underpasses that reported flooding, 14 have been cleared of water (in Chennai).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-raps-chennai-civic-body-as-imd-warns-of-more-rainfall-101636484468618.html
10-11-2021||India||TDP demands reduction in VAT on fuel, stages protest across Andhra Pradesh||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders and cadres on Tuesday staged hour-long demonstrations at several petrol stations across Andhra Pradesh demanding the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government to reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, as done in other states. The protests were staged in thousands from 12 pm to 1 pm.Holding banners and placards, the TDP workers raised slogans against the state government for being adamant about not reducing the VAT on fuel. The protesters kept on sounding the horns of their bikes to register their discontent at the high fuel prices in the state. At Kurnool and Kadapa, the state government resorted to preventive arrests of the TDP leaders and disallowed them from protesting. Several leaders were taken into custody and later released in the Kadapa district during the day. In Vijayawada, the party activists, led by former minister Kollu Ravindra, party general secretary Panchumarthi Anuradha and former Mayor Gadde Anuradha held protests at Dharna Chowk, Bhavanipuram, Benz Circle and other areas.“We shall continue our agitation till the state government gives up its adamant attitude on fuel prices,” Panchumarthi Anuradha told reporters.In some areas like Tirupati, the TDP leaders took up novel protests by garlanding and breaking coconuts in front of petrol pumps, praying that good sense prevailed on the chief minister to minimise the burden on the common public.Similar, hour-long protests were held at Gannavaram, Eluru, Gudivada, Rajahmundry, Tenali, Ponnur, Guntur and other places. MLA Gorantla Butchayya Chowdary, former MLAs Alapati Raja, Dhulipalla Narendra and other leaders protested in their respective constituencies.The ruling YSR Congress party leaders described the protests as high drama. “Why should we reduce the tax on petrol and diesel and lose revenue unnecessarily? Let these leaders protest before the Centre to withdraw the fuel cess,” state civil supplies minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao said.In Andhra Pradesh, the petrol prices on Tuesday ranged from ₹109.22 in Visakhapatnam to ₹110.87 in Nellore. The diesel prices range from ₹95.51 in Prakasam district to ₹96.91 in Krishna district per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdpdemands-reduction-in-vat-on-fuel-stages-protest-across-andhra-pradesh-101636484408710.html
10-11-2021||India||Mullaperiyar dam: Tamil Nadu releases Kerala order on tree felling||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday released a copy of the order which they received from Kerala’s forest department that granted the former permission to cut 15 trees on the downstream Baby dam at Mullaperiyar dam. This comes two days after the Kerala government revoked the felling order. Subsequently, the Kerala government on Tuesday made it clear that they are firm on their demand for a new reservoir considering the safety of the existing one and a chief minister-level meeting would be held next month to arrive at a consensus with Tamil Nadu over the issue.On Sunday, the Kerala government froze the order and decided to act against the officials who sanctioned it saying that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was not in the know of the development until Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin thanked him for granting the permission on Saturday. The LDF government on Tuesday made it clear that they are firm on their demand for a new reservoir considering the safety of the existing one and a Chief Minister level meeting would be held next month to arrive at a consensus with Tamil Nadu over the issue.The order, dated November 6, comes from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) Bennichan Thomas of Kerala permitting the Executive Engineer of Water Resources Department, Cumbum, Tamil Nadu “As per Clause 5 of the Principal Deed, the Lessee, Tamil Nadu is permitted to fell the trees, underwoods and saplings within the leased areas for the maintenance works.” HT has seen a copy of the order.The order also shows that Tamil Nadu sought the removal of 23 trees to widen the base of the existing Baby Dam and earthen bund to strengthen the structure at Mullaperiyar Dam. But permission was granted for clearing 15 trees within an approximate area of 40 cents falling within the leased area of Tamil Nadu at the Mullaperiyar Dam site. Kerala’s four-page letter, dated November 6, lists the species of trees that can be felled.The order says Thomas permitted the Executive Engineer, WRD, Cumbum in the Theni district for cutting 15 trees. And following that it stated that the Deputy Director, Periyar Tiger Reserve would receive the forest produce from dam authorities after cutting the trees as it cannot be taken outside the sanctuary area.A copy of the order was submitted to the additional chief secretary, water resources department and principal secretary, forests and wildlife department, Kerala.In Tamil Nadu, the ruling DMK is also facing the heat from opposition parties AIADMK and BJP over matters related to the Mullaperiyar dam which is located in Kerala but is under the control of the Tamil Nadu government. AIADMK cadre on Tuesday protested in five districts--Madurai, Theni, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram-- accusing the DMK of succumbing to Kerala’s compulsions and failing to store water up to the permitted 142 feet level in the dam. The NDA alliance partners on Monday led a protest in Tamil Nadu’s Theni district and criticised the DMK government for giving up on the state’s rights over issues related to the water storage and release in the dam. State BJP chief K Annamalai accused the DMK government of not following the due procedure while opening the dam due to the heavy rains and landslides in Kerala last month. “Theni and Idukki collectors have to be present there (while opening the dam). Why were they not present?” Annamalai asked reporters. Annamalai also questioned Stalin’s silence over the controversy on the revoked order to fell trees. On Monday night, the water resources department minister S Duraimurugan responded that the dam was opened in the presence of officers of his department by following norms of the Rule Curve approved by the Central Water Commission (CWC). In a statement, Duraimurugan said that as per the Standard Operating Procedure, advance information has to be given to the officers of Kerala before opening the dam. Accordingly, Kerala officers were informed on October 27 at 6 pm that the spillway gates would be opened on October 29 at 7.29 am. “At that time, the Minister and officers of Kerala were also present,” Duraimurugan said. “Thus, the decision to open the gates were made by WRD (water resources department), TN, and opened by the officers of Tamil Nadu, who are regulating the dam.”On Monday, the Kerala Assembly witnessed noisy scenes over the Left government’s order granting permission to Tamil Nadu for felling 15 trees as the opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) demanded a judicial probe into the issue and staged a walkout.Power minister K Krishnankutty, who spoke on behalf of water resources minister Roshy Augustine in the assembly on Tuesday, said that Kerala has always put forward the suggestion for a new dam to ensure the safety of life and property of the people of the state. Water for Tamil Nadu and safety for Kerala was the state’s motto in this regard, he said during question hour.For the construction of a new dam, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) study should be conducted and the union ministry of environmental and forests had given conditional clearance for the Terms of Reference submitted by the state in this regard on November 14, 2018.“Based on that, an environmental impact assessment study is progressing,” the minister said while answering a question raised by legislator Eldose P Kunnappillil (Congress). The minister admitted that the matter of the construction of a new dam was considered in various government and bureaucratic level meetings held between Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “However, the meetings had failed to reach a consensus. A decision has been taken now to conduct a chief minister level meeting in December to resolve various issues regarding Mullaperiyar, including the construction of the new dam,” Krishnankutty said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mullaperiyar-dam-tamil-nadu-releases-kerala-order-on-tree-felling-101636484348672.html
10-11-2021||India||Telangana eyes increase in revenue via liquor sale||After refusing to slash the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, the Telangana government has decided to generate additional revenue through liquor sales, to fight its precarious financial condition this year.In a notification issued on Tuesday, the state government called for tenders for granting fresh licences to wine shops for a period of two years, beginning December 1, 2023. The applications for obtaining licences would be received till November 16 and the allotment of wine shops would be done through a draw of lots by district collectors on November 18.The provisional licences to run liquor shops would be issued on November 20 and the same would come into operation from December 1, the notification said. “The lockdown imposed across the state during the coronavirus pandemic period in 2020 and this year affected the liquor trade to a considerable extent. However, the revenue flow was not much affected as prices of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) were increased last year by 16 per cent, besides a flat increase of ₹30 on beer of all brands,” an excise department official familiar with the development said, seeking anonymity.Besides, the consumption of liquor also goes up steeply during the festive seasons, the official added. “As a result, the revenue from liquor sales continues to go up every year. In the first year of Telangana formation, the revenue from liquor was ₹10,833 crore and during 2020-21, it went up to ₹27,888 crore,” the official said.Liquor sales and VAT on petrol and diesel are the main source of revenue for the Telangana government. After the Centre reduced excise duty on fuel on November 3, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday said the ruling TRS government had not increased VAT on petroleum products and therefore, the question of reduction did not arise.During 2020-21, the state government had earned ₹27,888 crore from liquor in the form of state excise and licence fee, and ₹10,000 crore through VAT on petrol and diesel.While refusing to reduce the VAT on petrol and diesel, the Telangana government said it will increase the number of retail wine shops in the state. With 2,216 retail wine shops already running, the government plans to add 404 more, taking the total to 2,620.According to the notification, the applicants for licences for wine shops would have to pay a non-refundable fee of ₹2 lakh, besides an annual retail excise tax of ₹5 lakh on allotment of the licence. This tax can be paid in six instalments every year. Unlike in the past, applicants can apply for more than one shop on payment of a separate application fee for each shop, it added.“If a retail wine shop dealer wants to convert the shop into walk-in stores (permit room to consume liquor), he will have to pay another ₹5 lakh per annum,” a government order issued by the excise department in this regard on Saturday said. The order also announced shop allocation reservation of 10 per cent for Scheduled Castes (SC), five per cent for Scheduled Tribes (ST) and 15 per cent for Goud community (an OBC category involved in liquor trade).The state government had issued permits to 159 bars across the state in January this year, in addition to the existing 800 bars and 27 clubs and pubs that serve liquor, to mop up additional revenues.According to state finance minister T Harish Rao, Telangana suffered a revenue loss of ₹4,100 crore due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic this year, prompting the government to request the Centre to relax rules for external borrowings. In the Telangana budget for 2021-22, the total outstanding public debt of the state was projected at ₹286,804.64 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-eyes-increase-in-revenue-via-liquor-sale-101636484288681.html
10-11-2021||India||Farm unions plan fresh protests near Parliament||New Delhi: Farm unions will mark a year of their agitation against three agricultural laws passed by the Modi government on November 26 by converging on the national capital’s borders in large numbers, and holding demonstrations near Parliament for the entire duration of the forthcoming winter session beginning November 29, their leaders announced on Tuesday. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of farm unions, said it has decided to escalate protests across the country from November 26, which is a “historic” occasion. On November 28, they will organise a rally at Mumbai’s at Azad Maidan, the platform said. Tens of thousands of farmers are campaigning against the three laws enacted in September 2020 to liberalise domestic agricultural trade. Farm unions, largely from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, have been holding protests at five sites near Delhi’s borders: Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri, Dhansa and Shahjahanpur (on the Rajasthan-Haryana border).On November 26, farmers from across northern states will troop into these sites, a farm leader said. “The day is also Constitution Day, when the Constitution of India was adopted by the Constituent Assembly in 1949. November 26 also marks one year of the all India strike by the working class last year,” a statement by the farm unions read. “The SKM has decided that on and from November 29 until the end of this Parliament session, 500 selected farmer volunteers will move every day to Parliament in tractor trollies peacefully and with full discipline, to assert their rights to protest in the national capital,” the statement read. Farmers say the new laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — will leave them at the mercy of big corporations who could dictate prices and wean them off state support. The government has argued the changes will not alter an existing state-backed system to give assured prices but would free up farm trade, boost investments in the farm economy and raise incomes. The laws aim to ease restrictions on trade in farm produce by setting up free markets, which will coexist with regulated markets, allow food traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales, and lay down a national framework for contract farming based on written agreements. On January 26, a planned Republic Day celebration by farmers who took out a tractor march in the Capital went awry when protestors turned violent and stormed Red Fort, a monument. Police slapped cases on a few individuals but farm unions accused the government of conspiring to implicate them. They claimed those who breached Red Fort were not farmers. During one of the protests on October 2, a convoy of vehicles belonging to Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni, allegedly ploughed through protesters in Lakhimpur, killing four farmers, and triggering violence that killed four other people. The minister’s son was later arrested. On January 13 this year, the Supreme Court temporarily suspended the three laws and formed a panel of experts to examine them. The panel has submitted its report to the court, which it is yet to take up. Despite 11 rounds of talks — the last one on January 22 this year — there has been no point of agreement between the government and the farmers. The government then offered to freeze the laws for 18 months, a proposal which the farmers rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-plan-fresh-protests-near-parliament-101636483105067.html
10-11-2021||India||96 nations agreed to accept Indian vaccine certificates, says Mandaviya||India and 96 countries have agreed to mutually recognise Covid-19 vaccination certificates, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, according to a statement on Tuesday.India and 96 countries have agreed to mutually recognise Covid-19 vaccination certificates, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, according to a statement on Tuesday.|#+|In addition to this, the United Kingdom government announced that India’s Covaxin will be added to its list of approved Covid-19 vaccines for entry of international passengers into the country without having to self-isolate on arrival. The changes will take effect at 4 am on November 22.The Union health ministry in a statement released on Tuesday, said, “At present, 96 countries have agreed to mutual recognition of vaccination certificates and also those who recognise Indian vaccination certificates of travellers fully vaccinated with COVISHIELD/WHO approved/nationally approved vaccines. Consecutively, persons travelling from these countries are provided certain relaxations as enunciated in Union Health Ministry’s Guidelines on International Arrivals…”“The Union Government continues to be in communication with the rest of the world so that beneficiaries of the world’s largest COVID vaccination program are accepted and recognized, thereby easing travel for education, business and tourism purposes,” the statement said.“Ministry of Health and Family Welfare along with the Ministry of External Affairs is in continuous communication with all countries for mutual recognition of vaccine certificate to facilitate hassle-free international travel across countries,” it said.Meanwhile, the countries that approve of India’s vaccination certificate are Canada, the United States of America, Bangladesh, Mali, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Angola, Nigeria, Benin, Chad, Hungary, Serbia, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Croatia, Bulgaria, Turkey, Greece, Finland, Estonia, Romania, Moldova, Albania, Czech Republic, Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Sweden, Austria, Montenegro, Iceland, Eswatini, Rwanda, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Malawi, Botswana, Namibia, Kyrgyz Republic, Belarus, Armenia, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Russia, Georgia, The United Kingdom, France, Germany, Belgium, Ireland, Netherlands, Spain, Andorra, Kuwait, Oman, UAE, Bahrain, Qatar, Maldives, Comoros, Sri Lanka, Mauritius, Peru, Jamaica, The Bahamas, Brazil, Guyana, Antigua & Barbuda, Mexico, Panama, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Columbia, Trinidad & Tobago, Commonwealth of Dominica, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Nepal, Iran, Lebanon, State of Palestine, Syria, South Sudan, Tunisia, Sudan, Egypt, Australia, Mongolia, and Philippines.For those who wish to travel abroad, the international travel vaccination certificate can also be downloaded from the government’s CoWIN web portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/96-nations-agreed-to-accept-indian-vaccine-certificates-says-mandaviya-101636483098479.html
10-11-2021||India||Amid attacks on civilians,more CRPF troops set to reach Kashmir||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will send additional troops to Kashmir in the wake of fresh killings of civilians there, people familiar with the development said.Five companies – approximately 500 personnel – will be rushed to the Valley for deployment mainly in Srinagar city in addition to 25 companies of the force sent last month .Terrorists gunned down a Kashmiri salesman in the old city area of Srinagar on Monday evening, the second targeted killing since Sunday. A total of 13 targeted killings have taken place in Kashmir since October 1, including those of five non-local workers. These incidents, which have created a panic in the Valley, were also reviewed by union home minister Amit Shah last month during his visit there. Shah asked security forces to take steps to make sure civilians are not targeted and terrorism is wiped out from the Valley.The people cited above said the fresh five companies will move to Kashmir from Delhi as J&K police and CRPF both have increased the number of boots on the ground .“We are checking close to 8,000 vehicles and frisking 10,000-15,000 people every day apart from counter-terrorism operations being carried out by specialized units in coordination with the local police and Army,” said one person, a security force officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity.Apart from CRPF, the Border Security Force (BSF) has also sent close to two dozen companies to Kashmir in the last 45 days to assist other forces.The CRPF has about 60 battalions (a battalion has around 1,000 personnel) in Kashmir valley apart from very few units of other central armed police forces (CAPFs) or central paramilitary forces. The BSF mostly is deployed at the border near Jammu and is only called for additional law and order duties during major incidents.Experts termed the incidents of civilians’ killings as desperate attempts to show that they are relevant.Sameer Patil, Fellow at the International Security Studies Programme at Gateway House, said: “This is the last phase of militancy (in Kashmir) as militants are now desperate. The security forces, over past years, have been able to crackdown on their commanders as well as new recruits. By targeting common people like vendors and shopkeepers, they (militants) are trying to show that they are still relevant. I will also say that this violence will not continue for a long term as this doesn’t advances their cause as this will ultimately be condemned by locals”.Ajay Sahni, executive director of Institute of Conflict Management, also said that “civilians were soft targets who were being targeted in the absence of any effective target as the security establishments are now well guarded”.The Resistance Front (TRF), an arm of the Lashkar-e-Taiba terror outfit, has claimed responsibility for most of the attacks.The wave of violence began on October 2, when two civilians, Majid Guroo and Mohammad Shafi, were shot dead in Srinagar. On October 5, three civilians, Makhan Lal Bindroo, a Kashmiri Pandit and well-known pharmacist in Srinagar; Virender Paswan, a street vendor from Bihar’s Bhagalpur; and Mohammad Shafi Lone, head of a taxi union in Bandipora district, were killed in terror attacks.On October 7, two teachers – Supinder Kaur, principal of the Government Boys Higher Secondary School, and Deepak Chand, a teacher at the same school in Srinagar’s Eidgah area – were shot dead by gunmen inside the school.On October 16, a street vendor from Bihar, Arvind Kumar Sah, and a carpenter from Uttar Pradesh, Sagheer Ahmad, were gunned down in Srinagar and Pulwama, respectively. On October 17, two more non-local labourers from Bihar, Raja Reshi and Joginder Reshi, were killed by terrorists in the Wanpoh area of Kulgam district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-attacks-on-civilians-more-crpf-troops-set-to-reach-kashmir-101636483091312.html
10-11-2021||India||CBI looks to invoke Official Secrets Act in naval leak case, say officials||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has approached the Centre for its approval to invoke the stringent Official Secrets Act (OSA) in a Naval leak case involving a serving Commander and two retired officers, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday.They said the investigation has suggested that classified information was leaked by the accused, making it a fit case under OSA. In this particular case, the Union defence and law ministries are likely to examine the matter on the basis of available investigation details whether the navy officers can be charged under the Colonial-era law or not. OSA attracts imprisonment up to 14 years where the offence is committed in relation to any work of defence, arsenal, naval, military, or air force establishment or station.“Once the government gives a go-ahead, OSA will be invoked in the case,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.Last Tuesday, the central agency had a charge sheet against six accused in the case – including Randeep Singh, retired Commodore; Satwinder Jeet Singh, retired Commander; and serving Navy Commander Ajit Kumar Pandey posted at Western Naval Command headquarters, under prevention of corruption act and for criminal conspiracy. Randeep Singh and SJ Singh were arrested on September 3, when the espionage racket came to the light. The agency recovered ₹2 crore cash from Randeep Singh during a raid at that time.It was initially alleged that confidential information pertaining to upgrade of Russian-origin Kilo class submarines was leaked by the accused. However, as reported by HT last week, the CBI probe has revealed that information in at least three more Navy projects may have been compromised.A CBI document, reviewed by HT, claimed that retired and serving Navy officials conspired to share “secret information of internal files for processing and passing of tender related to procurement and maintenance in different Indian Naval offices with the favoured firms/companies”.It claimed that SJ Singh, who was previously posted at Directorate of Submarine Acquisition (DSMAQ), New Delhi, and took voluntary retirement from the Indian Navy on July 31 this year, “was leaking out internal information regarding operations/procurement from various navy offices to Randeep Singh”.CBI added that Randeep Singh acted as a middleman in the case.According to the CBI document, in August this year, “Randeep Singh asked for the main report of a meeting held in Navy office regarding procurement of three Hulls”, to which S J Singh affirmed to contact concerned navy official and asked for illegal gratification.The accused are currently in prison. HT could not locate their legal representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-looks-to-invoke-official-secrets-act-in-naval-leak-case-say-officials-101636483031160.html
10-11-2021||India||Probe ordered after 4 infants killed in Bhopal hospital fire||Four newborns died as a fire swept through the neonatal care unit of the Kamla Nehru Children’s Hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal on Monday night, prompting chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to order a probe into the cause of the fire.At the time of the incident, there were 40 newborn babies in the ward.As allegations of poor facilities surface a day after the fire, the state fire department said that the hospital authorities never sought a clearance from the department.The blaze started in the neonatal ward of the hospital at around 8.30pm after a short circuit in one of the ventilators, a nurse said, asking not to be named.“Someone controlled the fire with the help of fire extinguishers, but due to power cut and smoke, there was zero visibility in the ward,” she said.In the chaos, she said, people could be heard crying and running out of the ward.The hospital administration on Tuesday said that the four newborns died while they were being shifted from the neo-natal care unit to the paediatric care unit.Three other children died hours before the fire, but their parents hadn’t collected the bodies till the fire broke, the hospital said.The Kamla Nehru Children’s Hospital is part of the Hamidia Hospital and is affiliated with Gandhi Medical College.State medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said, “We safely shifted the children from the hospital but we couldn’t save critically ill four newborn babies of age group 12 days to one day. The three others died naturally due to certain medical complications before the fire.”Families of the children who were admitted at the hospital have accused the hospital staff of negligence, alleging that the staff ran to safety leaving the newborns behind.“I requested them to enter the ward to save my baby but they shut the door. I had to break the window panes to let the smoke out,” said Ramesh Dangi, whose five-day-old child was also in the ward. Dangi’s child survived the fire, but is reportedly in a serious condition.The hospital administration has also been accused of inadequate medical and fire safety equipment.A senior paediatrician, who attended to the children after the fire, said, “In PICU, there was hardly any arrangement of ventilators or warmers. We needed warmers for at least 30 newborns but we had only three. After the fire, most of the children were suffering from hypothermia. We could only provide oxygen support. Later, biomedical engineers and the other staff brought warmers from the special neonatal care unit.” The doctor requested anonymity.Fire department officials said that the fire could have been controlled easily if there were adequate safety equipment, including fire hydrants, at the hospital.“When we reached there, the situation was chaotic. Nobody knew what to do which resulted in delay in taking control of the situation,” said Bhopal Municipal Corporation fire officer Rameshwar Neil.“No fire audit was conducted at the hospital in the last 15 years. The hospital administration didn’t even apply for no objection certificate from the fire department for having enough fire safety arrangements. Even we conducted a mock drill at Hamidia hospital for imparting training of health officers,” he said.“We wrote to the health department at least five times for fire audit of all the government hospitals in Bhopal, including Kamla Nehru. But they did not reply to our letters,” he said.Health department officials did not respond to HT’s request for comment on the allegations.The fire department official further alleged that there was excessive load on the power cables at the hospital, which led to a short circuit, he said. “There was no safety audit done and there was no fire safety officer appointed,” he said.A similar fire was reported at the hospital on October 7. No casualties were reported from the incident.While hospital superintendent Lokendra Dave refused to comment, Jitendra Shukla, dean of Gandhi Medical College, denied the allegations. “There were enough safety arrangements at the hospital,” Shukla said.“We have all the arrangements of fire safety. I don’t know about fire safety audit but it was an accident. We saved 36 critically ill newborn babies,” he said.The state government has announced an ex gratia of ₹4 lakh each to the families of the four newborns who died due to the fire. “It is an unfortunate incident. A probe has been ordered into the incident. This is a case of criminal negligence. Stringent action will be taken against those found guilty,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted.The government has constituted a panel, headed by additional chief secretary Mohammad Suleman, to probe the incident, the CM said. The panel has been directed to submit a report within a week, he added.Former chief minister Kamal Nath accused the hospital administration of negligence and sought criminal action against them. “Police action should be taken against the hospital administration and a high-level inquiry should be conducted in the matter to check the number of deaths,” the Congress leader said.Bhopal gas tragedy activist Rachna Dhingra said the hospital is ill-equipped to handle the high number of patients it treats. “Last year, three Covid-19 patients died due to interruption in oxygen supply because of sudden power cut. That time too, no action was taken against the administration of Hamidia hospital,” Dhingra, who has raised the issue of poor facilities at the hospital in the past, said.An inquiry into the deaths of three Covid-19 patients at the hospital, conducted by then Bhopal divisional commissioner Kavindra Kiyawat, could not confirm that oxygen shortage as the cause of death.The 850-bed Hamidia hospital gets nearly 2,000 patients every day, Shukla said.Several leaders, including state medical education minister Vishwas Sarang and BJP MP Pragya Thakur, visited the hospital on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-ordered-after-4-infants-killed-in-bhopal-hospital-fire-101636482907870.html
10-11-2021||India||Legal profession about service to society, not maximising profit: CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Tuesday underscored the importance of legal services authorities in India to achieve the “constitutional goal of access to justice” for all.Speaking at an event to commemorate Legal Services Day, the CJI recounted the history of the legal aid movement in the country, pointing out that several legal stalwarts offered their pro bono legal services to the freedom fighters and fought against the might of colonial power. The inclusion of the expression “Justice: Social, Economic and Political” in the Preamble of the Constitution, justice Ramana said, reflects the seriousness of the members of the constituent assembly about the notion of justice and its ambit.The CJI also expressed happiness over the fact that the legal services authorities have broken the traditional notions of legal aid in the last 26 years, and have given an expanded meaning to access to justice. “Today, the role of legal services authorities is not constrained merely to the provision of court-based legal representation. They also work towards legal awareness, legal literacy, social action litigation, settlement of disputes through alternate dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms, among others,” he said. Addressing law students present at the occasion, the CJI said that it is their duty to remain alert about the social realities, and act upon them, because young students are essential for expanding the outreach of legal services to every corner of the country.“Your decision to join the legal aid movement will pave the path for a great career. This will help you inculcate empathy, understanding, and a sense of selflessness. Remember, unlike other professions, the legal profession is not about profit maximization, but about service to the society,” justice Ramana told the students.Justice Uday U Lalit, executive chairman of the National Legal Services Authority (Nalsa), emphasised on the need to spread the awareness in every nook and corner of the nation to make certain people can avail of free legal aid in exercise of their rights. “Out of all the matters in the courts, legal aid is given in just 1% of the matters. A major reason behind this is lack of knowledge with the people that they are entitled to legal aid...that there are agencies to give legal aid to them,” rued justice Lalit. The judge added that he has suggested to the Bar Council of India for asking every law college to adopt at least three talukas where law students spread the awareness about legal aid. Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, who was also present at the event, praised the role played by the national, state and district legal services authorities in giving legal aid. The minister also talked about the massive pendency of around 40 million cases across the courts, adding a combined effort by all the stakeholders is required to improve the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legal-profession-about-service-to-society-not-maximising-profit-cji-ramana-101636482670241.html
10-11-2021||India||NGOs misusing foreign funds, support changes to FCRA: NCPCR||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has supported the Centre’s concerns over misuse of foreign funds by non-government organizations (NGO) that prompted the Parliament to carry out amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA). These amendments are under challenge in a set of petitions filed before the Supreme Court on which orders were reserved on Tuesday.In an affidavit filed before the Court on November 6, the NCPCR highlighted the names of certain NGOs, including social activist Harsh Mander’s Centre for Equity Studies, where funds had allegedly been diverted or were received from suspicious sources. The cases have since been referred by the Commission to the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) for further probe.The Commission, in its affidavit filed through advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, said, “There are NGOs which have FCRA registration and there are some NGOs where violations of statutory provisions have been found….To stop the misuse of foreign funds by various NGOs, the NCPCR is continuously inspecting child care institutions (CCI) and taking various steps against NGOs who violate provisions of law.”About Harsh Mander’s NGO Centre for Equity Studies which is facing a probe by the Enforcement Directorate and Delhi Police Economic Offences Wing for allegedly misappropriating funds and laundering of money, the Commission said, “The NCPCR has sent letters dated November 30, 2020, and June 24, 2021, to the MHA to look into the foreign funds being received by Centre for Equity Studies and ‘ARUN’ and further utilization of the same fund.”Though the Centre for Equity Studies has FCRA registration and is entitled to receive foreign funding, the Commission found that the NGO gave funds to another NGO, namely Rainbow Foundation India which does not have FCRA registration but runs CCIs in various cities across the country. On inspection of these children’s homes, the Commission found them to be running in violation of various provisions under the Juvenile Justice Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar concluded hearing arguments in three petitions filed by one Noel Harper and NGO Jeevan Jyothi Charitable Trust and a separate one by one Vinay Vinayak Joshi which is supporting the amendments.The amendments require mandatory registration by NGOs for receiving foreign funds and disclose the purpose – such as social, religious, cultural, economic, etc for receiving funds. The NGOs are further required to open an account with the State Bank of India which alone could receive foreign funds and the same could then be transferred to the local banks where NGOs have their accounts. Other significant features of these amendments include the prohibition to transfer funds from a registered NGO to an unregistered NGO, diverting funds for purposes other than those specified during registration and a cap on spending funds for administrative expenses.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Centre argued that these amendments cannot be objected to by NGOs which have nothing to hide. He cited examples of NGOs where funds are being received from suspicious sources and being utilized to fund subversive activities. “There are intelligence inputs that most of the time, money is received for development works but is used to train Naxalites,” Mehta said.The NCPCR affidavit cited one such example where inspection of five children homes in Assam and one in Manipur revealed how the children were kept in these homes without being produced before the Child Welfare Committees and with no registration as mandated under the Juvenile Justice Act 2015. These homes were being run under the aegis of Markaz-ul-Maarif and one of the homes in Dhubri was receiving funds from a suspect Turkish organization called IHH since 2016 for a project named ‘Akika’.On a deeper probe, the Commission found that IHH had been interrogated by the Turkish law enforcement officers for their alleged links with international organizations which prima facie points towards suspicious activities of this NGO. “There is apprehension based on some documents received by NCPCR during the inspection that details of children could be shared by the CCI with the international organization,” the Commission stated in its affidavit.In addition, the Commission also named other NGOs that were found to operate in violation of provisions of the JJ Act and were found to engage in maltreatment of children and religious conversion, which were not part of their avowed purposes of the establishment.Senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan appearing for one of the petitioners told the court that they were willing to work under the framework of law but some of these amendments will prohibit NGOs from carrying out genuine work.Before enacting the amendments, the Centre noted that foreign contributions had doubled during the years 2010-19 and several recipients of foreign funding had not utilized the funds for the purposes specified for receiving donations.The Court allowed Centre and petitioners to submit notes of their submissions within this week as it reserved the matter for pronouncing judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ngos-misusing-foreign-funds-support-changes-to-fcrancpcr-101636482609981.html
10-11-2021||India||Row erupts over photo of ‘Sare Jahan Se Accha’ writer in BHU||Varanasi: A photo of poet Mohammad “Allama” Iqbal, famous for his 1904 song Sare Jahan Se Accha, on a departmental poster sparked a controversy at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Tuesday with authorities ordering an inquiry and student protests against the 20th century figure.The Urdu department of the university used a photo of Iqbal for a webinar on Urdu Day, which is celebrated on the poet’s birthday on November 9. But many students objected to this and questioned why photos of Madan Mohan Malviya, the founder of the university, were missing. They also held protests.“The picture of Mahamana Madan Mohan Malviya is put up on e-posters of every programme in BHU, including Urdu Day. But this time, the picture of Allama Iqbal was printed on the e-poster in place of Mahamana ji,” said Patanjali Pandey, a research scholar. Students also alleged that the “kulgeet” (anthem) of BHU was also not sung at the beginning of the event. They submitted a memorandum saying that glorification of a Pakistani leader in BHU was unfortunate. Iqbal, one of the proponents of the two-nation theory, died in 1938, before Pakistan was formed in 1947. After the controversy, the department replaced the picture of Iqbal with Malviya. Dean of the faculty of arts, Vijay Bahadur Singh, apologised for the “mistake”. He said that a probe will be initiated into the matter and action taken accordingly. BHU public relation officer Dr Rajesh Singh said a notice was issued to the head of Urdu department and an inquiry committee constituted under M Pandey, head of the English department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-erupts-over-photo-of-sare-jahan-se-accha-writer-in-bhu-101636482550507.html
10-11-2021||India||COVAX supply likely to resume this month||India is likely to resume Covid-19 vaccine supplies to the COVAX facility this month, according to people familiar with the development.India halted the export of vaccines against Covid-19 in April this year after a severe second wave hit the country that impacted the COVAX facility, a global risk-sharing mechanism for pooled procurement and equitable distribution of anti-Covid-19 vaccines.India’s requirement for vaccine doses increased as it decided to open up the vaccination drive for everyone 45 years of age and above from April 1, irrespective of the comorbidities. The move was aimed at curbing the transmission cycle as India is likely experiencing the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak.“Since supplies constraint is no longer there, there will be enough surplus doses that could be shipped out to help other countries in need,” said a central government official aware of the development, on condition of anonymity.India has begun getting close to 300 million vaccine doses in a month; last month, the two companies that contributed towards the national immunisation programme, together provided 280 million doses. The supplies are going to increase further with the manufacturers ramping up production.A senior government functionary, last month, also said, “Since we are producing in excess now, the remaining surplus doses will be exported most likely from next month. About 4 million doses have already been given to some countries.”Indian has given the first dose to nearly 78% of the eligible population, and around 38% are fully vaccinated.In October, India provided one million Covid-19 vaccine doses to four countries: Iran, Nepal, Bangladesh, and Myanmar.COVAX facility has two categories – one is self-financing countries, and the other is those needing support. There are a total of 190 countries, of which 92 low and middle-income countries will be financed by the rich countries.For India, there has been a more tailored arrangement because of the huge numbers involved owing to India’s large population. With India, the arrangement included 20% of Gavi’s total support that comes to about 200 million vaccine doses and monetary support for technical assistance.Arrangement with India is also different because the country contributes to the COVAX facility as their vaccine manufacturing base is solid and appropriate for use in lower and middle-income countries. It suits the settings of these countries in terms of cold chain management, training of workers etc., and India provides products that are cost-effective, easy to use and easy to administer.Despite the impact, the COVAX facility is still likely to manage about 1.4 billion of the 2 billion expected doses by 2021.According to Gavi Deputy CEO Anuradha Gupta, COVAX has managed to deliver nearly 400 million doses across the world so far.“…lack of timely supply from SII has severely impacted the ability of COVAX to rapidly deliver doses to lower-income countries. We are looking forward to the resumption of supplies from SII..,” said Gupta in an interview with HT on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covax-supply-likely-to-resume-this-month-101636482308594.html
10-11-2021||India||Vice Admiral Hari Kumar to take charge as India’s next navy chief||The Central government on Tuesday announced that Vice Admiral R Hari Kumar will take over as India’s next navy chief on November 30, replacing Admiral Karambir Singh who retires on that day, the Ministry of Defence announced on Tuesday.Kumar is currently heading the Mumbai-based Western Naval Command. The 59-year-old officer was commissioned into the navy in January 1983.Before taking over the Western Naval Command, Kumar was Chief of Integrated Defence Staff to the Chairman, Chiefs of Staff Committee, the ministry said in a statement. In that capacity, he was involved in the ongoing theaterisation drive for optimal use of the military’s resources.The warships commanded by Kumar include aircraft carrier INS Viraat (no longer in service), INS Ranvir, INS Nishank and INS Kora, the statement said. He has undergone courses at the Naval War College, US, Army War College, Mhow and Royal College of Defence Studies, UK.Kumar will take over the navy’s reins at a time when the department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources for future wars and operations, and submit comprehensive reports within six months.The setting of an April 2022 deadline for the submission of the studies focusing on finalising the joint structures seeks to give new impetus to theaterisation, a long-awaited military reform. The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022.The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations - two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command. The creation of theatre commands could take up to two years.Theaterisation refers to placing specific units of the army, the navy and the air force under a theatre commander. Such commands are to be led by an officer from any of the three services, depending on the roles assigned to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-admiral-hari-kumar-to-take-charge-as-india-s-next-navy-chief-101636479969741.html
10-11-2021||India||‘Foot stuck between pedals’: Raj bizman seen on video ramming 2 wheelers; 1 dies||JAIPUR: One person died and eight others were injured in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur town on Tuesday when a speeding luxury car rammed into two-wheelers in front of the vehicle before going off the road and crashing into roadside hutments, police said.The accident was captured on a close circuit television camera. A 15-second clip that emerged later shows a white car ramming two-wheelers, some of the riders were flung a few feet, as the car drove off the road into the hutments.Assistant Commissioner of Police (Jodhpur West), Noor Mohammad said the incident involving a speeding Audi car took place near the town’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences at about noon on Tuesday. The car was coming from Pal Road and moving towards AIIMS.⚠️Horrific Video : At least 3 people dead and 8 injured in a car accident in #Jodhpur near AIIMS.Audi Driver Hits Scooty and Bike Rider pic.twitter.com/qYjBbWWkHkPolice said the person driving the car was identified as Amit Nagar. A case for culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been registered under the Indian Penal Code.“The driver is a businessman from Jodhpur and he recently bought the car. The accused has claimed that his feet got stuck between the accelerator and the brake and therefore, he was not able to control the car,” said station house officer of Choupasni Housing Board police station, Likhma Ram.Nagar surrendered to the police soon after. His medical test did not show any presence of alcohol in his blood, he added.Noor Mohammad said the man who died in the accident was identified as Mukesh. Of the eight injured, three were commuters and rest were those people who were in the hutments, he added. The injured have been admitted to AIIMS.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who was in Jodhpur, visited the injured and announced ₹2 lakh for the family of those killed, ₹1 lakh for seriously injured and ₹50,000 for other injured.On October 16, a 30-year-old man was killed and three others sustained injuries when a speeding car, allegedly driven by the 17-year-old son of a circle inspector in Jodhpur, hit multiple vehicles in Jodhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foot-stuck-between-pedals-raj-bizman-seen-on-video-ramming-2-wheelers-1-dies-101636477448144.html
10-11-2021||India||CBI moves Centre to invoke Official Secrets Act in Naval leak case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has approached the Centre for its approval on invoking stringent Official Secrets Act (OSA) in the Naval leak case involving a serving Commander and two retired Navy officers, people familiar with the development said on Tuesday.They said the investigation has suggested that certain classified information was leaked by the accused persons, which makes it a fit case under OSA.In this particular case, Union defence and law ministries are likely to examine the matter based on the available investigation details whether the Navy officers can be charged under the Colonial-era law or not. The OSA attracts imprisonment up to 14 years where the offence is committed in relation to any work of defence, arsenal, naval, military or air force establishment or station.“Once the government gives a go-ahead, OSA will be invoked in the case,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.Last Tuesday, the central agency had filed a charge sheet against six accused in the case – including Randeep Singh, retired Commodore; Satwinder Jeet Singh, retired Commander and serving Navy Commander, Ajit Kumar Pandey, posted at Western Naval Command headquarters, under prevention of corruption act and criminal conspiracy.Randeep Singh and SJ Singh were arrested on September 3, when the espionage racket came to the light. The agency had recovered ₹2 crore cash from Randeep Singh during a raid at that time.It was initially alleged that confidential information about the upgrade of Russian-origin Kilo-class submarines was leaked by accused persons. However, as reported by HT last week, the CBI probe has revealed that information in at least three more Navy projects may have been compromised.A CBI document, reviewed by HT, has claimed that retired and serving Navy officials conspired to share “secret information of internal files for processing and passing of tender related to procurement and maintenance in different Indian Naval offices with the favoured firms/companies”.It claims that SJ Singh, who was previously posted at the Directorate of Submarine Acquisition (DSMAQ), New Delhi, and took voluntary retirement from Navy on July 31 this year, “was leaking out internal information regarding operations/procurement from various Navy offices to Randeep Singh”.CBI adds that Randeep Singh acted as a middleman in the case.According to the CBI document, in August this year, “Randeep Singh asked for the main report of a meeting held in Navy office regarding the procurement of three Hulls”, to which SJ Singh affirmed to contact concerned Navy official and asked for illegal gratification.It adds that a hard copy of the screenshot of the main report of the meeting held at the Navy office was handed over by SJ Singh to Randeep Singh at the latter’s residence.The agency has already questioned several persons in the case and further investigation into the leak of information on other projects is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-moves-centre-to-invoke-official-secrets-act-in-naval-leak-case-101636476129543.html
10-11-2021||India||'Will also reduce VAT charged on fuel', Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot announces||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced on Tuesday that his government will follow in on the footsteps of many other states and reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) levied on fuel.While addressing a programme at a village in Jodhpur, Gehlot told reporters that "When all states have reduced the prices, we would also have to reduce it.""Our government will also provide relief to people by reducing VAT on petrol and diesel in the state," he added.The Gehlot administration had been under intense pressure to reduce VAT charged on fuel after it came under repeated attacks of the opposition after Punjab, another Congress-ruled state, had done so.Punjab government’s advertisement claiming fuel prices in the state were lower than the neighbouring states of Delhi, Haryana, and Rajasthan had added to the criticism, reported PTI.The Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab government had announced a reduction in petrol and diesel prices by ₹10 per litre and ₹5 per litre respectively, effective from November 7 midnight.Gehlot’s announcement comes hours after the Congress veteran urged Centre to further slash excise duty, citing fund crunch caused by the Covid pandemic. "Now, they have provided a meagre relief," he said, adding that the Centre should further reduce excise duty by ₹10 on petrol and ₹15 on diesel.Gehlot also accused the Centre of "looting" people by levying massive taxes on fuel. "Increasing excise duty excessively first and then reducing it and simultaneously creating a competitive environment among states to reduce VAT is against the spirit of cooperative federalism," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-also-reduce-vat-charged-on-fuel-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-announces-101636475288183.html
10-11-2021||India||NSA Doval and counterparts from Tajikistan, Uzbekistan discuss Afghanistan||National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and his counterparts from Tajikistan and Uzbekistan on Tuesday assessed the situation in Afghanistan, including the threat of terrorism and the need for humanitarian aid, ahead of a meeting of top regional security officials.On Wednesday, Doval will chair the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan, which will be attended by the NSAs and secretaries of security councils of seven regional countries, including Iran and Russia. India is looking to the meeting to help forge a joint approach for tackling security threats emanating from Afghanistan in the aftermath of the Taliban takeover. At his bilateral meeting with Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda, secretary of Tajikistan’s security council, Doval had a detailed exchange of views on the situation in Afghanistan and both sides expressed concern at a sharp increase in terrorist threats, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.There was a “significant convergence” in assessments by India and Tajikistan, and the Tajik side highlighted the gravity of the situation in Afghanistan. The two sides also discussed the looming humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, the people said.Doval and Mahmudzoda also discussed bilateral matters such as deepening cooperation in defence, border management and border infrastructure development.Afghanistan was the focus of discussions at a subsequent bilateral meeting between Doval and Victor Makhmudov, secretary of Uzbekistan’s security council, and both sides agreed the future of the war-torn country must be decided by the Afghan people.The two sides felt the legitimacy of any government in Afghanistan was important for its international recognition, the people said.The Indian and Uzbek sides emphasised the need for Afghanistan’s neighbours to ensure unhindered access for humanitarian aid meant for the Afghan people. In an apparent reference to the role being played by Pakistan, the two sides further agreed that neighbouring countries must play a constructive role in Afghanistan, the people said.Tajikistan has taken a tougher stance towards the Taliban set up in Kabul and pushed for the creation of an inclusive government with representation for Afghanistan’s Tajik minority, while the political leadership of Uzbekistan has shown a greater willingness to work with the Taliban, albeit without recognising the interim administration formed by the militant group.The Delhi Regional Security Dialogue, the first such meeting on Afghanistan to be chaired by India, is being attended by Iran’s Supreme National Security Council secretary Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s Security Council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and NSAs or security council secretaries of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Doval will also hold bilateral meetings on Wednesday with Patrushev, Shamkhani and Karim Massimov, chairman of Kazakhstan’s National Security Committee.The dialogue is expected to focus on tackling threats and challenges such as terrorism within Afghanistan and across its borders, radicalisation, cross-border movements, drug trafficking, and the danger posed by vast amounts of military gear left behind in Afghanistan by US troops. The security officials will also discuss the issue of providing humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. Though Pakistan and China were invited to the dialogue, both countries decided to skip the meeting. Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf said he wouldn’t attend the meet because of differences with India, while the Chinese side attributed its decision to “scheduling reasons”.In a separate development, the Taliban acting foreign minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi, will travel to Pakistan with a high-level delegation on Wednesday. Muttaqi is set to meet Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, and Taliban spokesman Abdul Qahar Balkhi said the delegation will discuss enhancing ties, economic matters, transit issues, refugees and expanding facilities for the movement of people.On November 6, Muttaqi met Wang Yu, the Chinese ambassador to Afghanistan, and discussed bilateral ties and trade. In response to a request from Muttaqi, Wang pledged to facilitate visa services for Afghan traders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-doval-and-counterparts-from-tajikistan-uzbekistan-discuss-afghanistan-situation-101636473250108.html
10-11-2021||India||Taliban must seek legitimacy within Afghanistan before international recognition||On the eve of the Delhi Afghanistan conference, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval met his Tajik and Uzbek counterparts and concurred that the Taliban regime in Kabul should first seek internal legitimacy within the country before international recognition.While China and Pakistan have decided to stay away from the Delhi dialogue so that India is kept out of Afghanistan affairs, the NSA dialogue today clearly indicates that Central Asian Republics also want the Taliban to seek recognition from Loya Jirga (tribal council) and the religious council in Afghanistan before getting recognised by the international community. The Delhi conference is not against the Taliban as it recognises the Sunni Pashtun force as a contender of power in Kabul but it must have the trust of the people of Afghanistanncluding Shia Hazaras, Uzbeks, Tajiks, and most importantly the women of the country.Pakistan is not attending the Delhi conference as it sees India as a spoiler, China has “scheduling issues” but the fact is Pakistan is hosting a troika conference on Afghanistan with China, Russia, the US, Taliban participating in it. It is quite evident that Pakistan and its principal backer China do not want India, which has been part of the humongous humanitarian effort in that country for the past two decades, anywhere in the picture as it eats into their “strategic space.”Doval exchanged views with the Tajik counterpart on Afghanistan, with significant convergence of assessments.They also expressed concerns regarding the sharp rise in terrorist threats emanating from Afghanistan after the Taliban took over the war-torn country in mid-August and announced an interim government in early September. The Tajik side, which has been witnessing the influx of refugees and officials in the previous Afghan government, highlighted the gravity of the situation in Afghanistan.The looming humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan was also discussed.Apart from the crisis within Afghanistan, discussions on deepening cooperation in areas like defence, border management and border infrastructure development also took place.During the meeting with the Uzbek NSA Victor Makhmudov, Afghanistan remained the major focus of discussion and both sides agreed that the future of Afghanistan must be decided by the people of Afghanistan themselves. The two top security advisers shared the view that the legitimacy of any Afghan government within Afghanistan was “important before the issue of its international recognition.”As Pakistan has been acting as a major impediment in humanitarian access to Afghanistan, they stressed the need for Afghanistan’s neighbours to ensure unhindered access to humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. They agreed that neighbouring states must play a constructive role in Afghanistan. During the bilateral meet, the NSA highlighted the need for long term economic development of Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-must-seek-legitimacy-within-afghanistan-before-international-recognition-101636471623535.html
10-11-2021||India||China built village in area held by PLA for decades, say officials||A new Chinese village, which has emerged as a symbol of Beijing’s assertiveness in disputed border areas with India in the eastern sector, has been built in an area held by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) for more than six decades, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.The Indian Army has been aware of the village’s existence in a disputed border area along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh for more than a year, but the village was thrust into the limelight again after being cited in a US defence department report last week.It is located along the disputed border in upper Subansiri district.“It has been built by China in an area that was occupied by the PLA after overrunning an Assam Rifles post in 1959 in an operation known as Longju incident along the frontier in Arunachal Pradesh,” said one of the officials cited above.The incident took place a few months after the 14th Dalai Lama fled Tibet, crossed into India in March 1959 and was later granted political asylum by New Delhi.“It was at Longju in the Subansiri frontier division that the first armed clash took place between the PLA (2nd Company of 1st Regiment of Shannan Military Sub Command) and personnel of 9 Assam Rifles occupying the Indian post at Longju on August 25, 1959, which resulted in two Indian casualties,” according to a journal published by think tank United Service Institution of India in 2014.It added that Assam Rifles did not reoccupy Longju and instead set up a post at Maja, 10 km south of Longju, on August 29, 1959. The article in the journal was headlined ‘1962 War - The Unknown Battles: Operations in Subansiri and Siang Frontier Division.’Highlighting Chinese attempts to continue pressing its claims at the LAC, the US defence department report pointed to a large 100-home civilian village China has constructed “inside disputed territory” between Tibet and Arunachal Pradesh.“The Chinese have, for years, maintained an army post in the region and the various constructions undertaken by the Chinese have not happened in a short time,” said a second official.It is true that this area (where the village has come up) has been under the control of the PLA since 1959, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“However, Chinese claims here have not been accepted by India. Constructing villages and settling civilians in disputed areas is one way by which China could reinforce and strengthen its claims,” Hooda warned.Some experts, including General Hooda, also view the setting up of the Chinese village in the context a 2005 agreement between India and China on political parameters and guiding principles for the settlement of the India-China boundary question.Article VII of that pact says, “In reaching a boundary settlement, the two sides shall safeguard due interests of their settled populations in the border areas.”Last month, Eastern Army Commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande flagged concerns about the “dual-use” of villages being set up by China in forward areas, and said the army was factoring in the development in its operational planning.The PLA has intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh after a lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector. It has ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers to forward areas to supervise the military activities in the eastern sector, as previously reported by HT.The sectors across which the Indian Army has detected increased PLA activities include Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La - areas of high historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector - and countermeasures have been taken to boost India’s readiness to handle any contingency,India and China have hardened their stance on the LAC in Ladakh, and also in the eastern sector, going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies amid the ongoing border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-built-village-in-area-held-by-pla-for-decades-say-officials-101636469887998.html
10-11-2021||India||Manipur Guv can’t ‘sit over’ EC's opinion: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday expressed its displeasure at delay by the Manipur Governor in deciding on the disqualification of 12 MLAs of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in Manipur for allegedly holding office of profit in contravention of the law. “Governor cannot sit over an opinion indefinitely. There has to be a decision. He must decide one way or the other,” observed a bench, headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, as it heard a petition by Congress MLA DD Thaisii. La Ganesan is the current Governor of Manipur, although he was named to the post only in August. The controversy predates him. Senior counsel Kapil Sibal, representing Thaisii, complained that even after the Election Commission submitted its recommendation to the Governor in January , the constitutional head of the state is yet to decide on the plea for disqualifying the 12 MLAs, some of whom are ministers in the state cabinet. Sibal argued that the Governor is obligated under Article 192 of the Constitution to take a decision on questions as to disqualifications of members of the assembly after obtaining the opinion of the Election Commission.The bench, which included justices BR Gavai and BV Nagarathna, agreed with Sibal: “You are right. He (Governor) cannot skip the decision. There has to be a decision.” Sibal pointed out that the term of the assembly is ending soon and the endeavour seems to render the petition infructuous by not taking a call. “The Election Commission gave its opinion to the Governor way back in January. We don’t know what has the Governor done after receiving this opinion. We are entitled to know how the constitutional functionaries in the country are acting,” added the senior counsel. At this, the bench observed that it was earlier of the opinion that the Election Commission has been “dragging its feet” by not submitting the opinion to the Governor but the situation is different since the Governor is in receipt of this report for almost 10 months. Appearing for the Election Commission, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan submitted that Article 192 makes the opinion of the apex poll panel binding on the Governor, whose decision can also be challenged only on very limited grounds.To this, the bench cited a case relating to commutation of punishment of a convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case where the Tamil Nadu Governor was not taking a decision on the state government’s recommendation to remit the sentence of convict AG Perarivalan. “We passed an innocuous order and the Governor did take a decision soon thereafter. We did not have to give any direction there. But here we are again faced with a situation where the Governor has not taken a decision,” rued the bench. The counsel for the Manipur government requested for an adjournment, saying solicitor general Tushar Mehta was to appear for the state but he was arguing before a different bench. “You cannot hoodwink the court like this by taking adjournments. They say that the term of the assembly is getting over in a month or so. You cannot render the petition infructuous by taking adjournments,” retorted the bench. The court decided to take up the matter after around an hour but the S-G remained unavailable, following which the case was adjourned to Thursday for passing orders. “If we have to pass any order, we will need somebody from the respondent to be here. Let somebody be here so that directions can be passed,” the bench told Sibal. It also asked Sibal to serve a copy of the plea on the secretary of the Manipur Governor to apprise him of the developments in the apex court. The tenure of 60 members Manipur Legislative Assembly is scheduled to end on March 19, 2022. After the election in 2017, a coalition of the BJP, National People’s Party, Naga People’s Front and Lok Janshakti Party formed the government, with N Biren Singh becoming Chief Minister. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the ruling Congress won 28 seats in the 60 member House. The BJP got 21 seats. With the support of the splinter parties, Biren formed the coalition government. Since then, there have been floor crossings, resignations and disqualifications. The Congress claims it will have a clear-cut majority if these 12 MLAs stand disqualified.These 12 MLAs were appointed as parliamentary secretaries in March 2017, giving them the status of a minister apart from other financial benefits and perks. By a judgment in September 2020, the Manipur high court quashed these appointments after declaring the law on appointment of parliamentary secretary as unconstitutional. The HC decision prompted the Manipur Congress to approach the Governor for disqualifying these 12 MLAs for holding the office of profit. The Governor then sought the Election Commission’s view on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-guv-can-t-sit-over-opinion-given-by-ec-on-disqualification-of-12-bjp-mlas-sc-101636462147212.html
10-11-2021||India||Hindi-Mizo barrier: CM Zoramthanga wants CS replaced||Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga has written to Union home minister Amit Shah requesting that he replace the state’s new chief secretary, Renu Sharma, as she does not know Mizo and his ministers do not understand Hindi. The letter was written on October 29.Sharma, an Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer from the 1988 batch, took charge on November 2. People familiar with the matter said Zoramthanga was unhappy with the Centre’s choice for the post. They added he wanted additional chief secretary JC Ramthanga, a Manipur cadre IAS officer from the 1989 batch, to be named as the chief secretary and even forwarded his name to the Central government. The people said Zoramthanga was expecting the Centre to agree to his demand.Istead, the Centre appointed Sharma, who was earlier in charge of the Chandni Chowk Redevelopment Project in Delhi, on October 28.In his letter, Zoramthanga said none of his Cabinet ministers understands Hindi. “Some of them even have problem with the English language,” he wrote in the letter, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT. “With such background, a chief secretary without the knowledge of a working standard Mizo language will never be an effective and efficient chief secretary,” he added. Zoramthanga said the Centre has previously never appointed a chief secretary who did not have a working knowledge of the Mizo language. He added that in other states, a person who does not have knowledge of a state’s basic language is never appointed to the post of chief secretary.Zoramthanga pointed out in his letter that his Mizo National Front has been a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) from the beginning while parties in other states have changed alliances. “I am the only one in the northeast states who has been a faithful partner of NDA from the beginning... I, therefore, believe that I deserve a special favour and consideration for the faithful friendship with NDA.”Zoramthanga said if his proposal of having a chief secretary with working knowledge of Mizo is denied, the Congress and other opposition parties will mock him for faithfully serving the NDA. He “earnestly requested” Shah to modify the earlier order of naming Sharma and make Ramthanga the chief secretary.Officers in the chief minister’s office did not provide more details when contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/my-ministers-don-t-know-hindi-replace-chief-secretary-mizoram-cm-writes-to-amit-shah-101636456266670.html
10-11-2021||India||Barbs fly between Oppn, govt in fresh Rafale row||The political row over the Rafale deal escalated on Tuesday, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government of irregularities in its attempted deal to purchasethe fighter jets in 2012, and the principal opposition party alleging a “cover up” by the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government when the deal was finally sealed and executed in 2016.French journal Mediapart on Sunday published alleged fake invoices for payments between 2004-2013, saying they enabled French aircraft maker Dassault Aviation to pay at least €7.5 million in kickbacks to a middleman to help it secure the deal. The UPA was in power then, and the deal referred to is the original one signed by the previous government with Dassault.Citing claims of a French media report on “commissions” being paid during the UPA rule, the BJP said the Indian National Congress should be renamed “I Need Commission” party.“The documents say Dassault, which was been described as D, paid €7.5 million or ₹65 crore as a commission to a middleman for 36 Rafale aircraft. This happened during 2007-12,” said BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. The BJP leader referred to the alleged middleman in the deal, Sushen Gupta, and added that he was also involved in the AgustaWestland corrupt deal for VVIP choppers. “It is too much of a coincidence and too much of a coincidence is a conspiracy.”He said the Congress misled the country ahead of the 2019 general elections by insinuating the BJP was responsible for irregularities in the deal. “During the UPA tenure, there was a deal within every deal.”Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera hit back, saying an “operation cover-up” was on by the government to bury the corruption, kickback, and collusion in the deal. He called the “Rafale scam” the biggest in the history of free India. Khera said that Mediapart revealed a “dubious nexus” between the government, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The Congress focussed on a second claim by Mediapart that Indian investigative agencies were aware of these kickbacks at least as early as 2018 -- when the current NDA regime was in place -- but chose not to probe the charges. The report added that the deal involved offshore companies, dubious contracts, and false invoices. Mediapart said detectives from CBI and ED have had proof since October 2018 that Dassault paid commissions to Gupta.“Were the anti-corruption clauses deleted to escape responsibility from bribery and commission to be paid in the Rafale deal? Why was the deletion of anti-corruption clauses approved by the Prime Minister and the Modi government in September 2016, despite the defence ministry’s insistence upon including it in the inter-governmental agreement in July 2015,” Khera asked. “Is this the reason that CBI-ED refused to probe the corruption in Rafale deal since October 11, 2018, till date?” he asked.India’s decision to sign an $8.7 billion government-to-government deal with France to buy 36 Rafale warplanes made by Dassault was announced in April 2015, with an agreement signed a little over a year later. This replaced the previous Congress-led UPA government’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL).Mediapart has published several reports on alleged irregularities in the Rafale deal.Five months ago, it reported that a French judge was appointed to head a probe into suspected “corruption and favouritism” in the deal. In a report in April, the journal said that it was in possession of documents that showed Dassault and its industrial partner Thales, a defence electronics firm, paid “middleman” Gupta several million euros in “secret commissions” in connection with the deal. HT could not reach Gupta for a response.In another April report, Mediapart claimed that Dassault paid €1 million to Gupta for manufacturing 50 replica models of Rafale jets, even though the planemaker provided inspectors of French anti-corruption agency Agence Française Anticorruption no proof that these models were made.HT has not reviewed any of the documents cited by Mediapart.Khera accused the government of undermining national security, jeopardising the interest of the armed forces, and causing a huge loss to the exchequer. He questioned why there was no investigation against Gupta.Patra said the Congress should clarify the alleged irregularities when the UPA was in power. “For 10 years, the IAF (Indian Air Force) was deprived of fighter aircraft. There were negotiations without conclusion... now we know the negotiation was about the commission, not the aircraft.”Rahul Gandhi later chose to address his party colleagues through a tweet on the issue, asking them not to stop or be afraid of fighting against the “corrupt” central government. “When the truth is with you in every step, then what is there to worry about? My Congress colleagues - keep fighting like this against the corrupt central government. Don’t stop, don’t get tired, don’t be afraid,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag “#RafaleScam”.Patra also referred to a Supreme Court verdict saying it saw nothing wrong in the current deal and the government’s auditor Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s (CAG) conclusion the same year that India had not overpaid for the jets.The Supreme Court heard a public interest case on the deal and, in November 2019, said it saw nothing wrong in it. In a February 2019 report, the CAG said India had not overpaid for the jets.Patra said if the Congress felt the BJP government was not investigating the scams, then it should go to court. “[It should] ask why [the government] is not carrying out investigations against the Gandhi family…,” he said in response to a question on why the investigation was not being carried out. “...They are trying to tease us and whenever investigations were carried out, they screamed vendetta.”The Opposition, led by the Congress, has previously claimed that the price at which India was buying Rafale aircraft was ₹1,670 crore for each, three times the initial bid of ₹526 crore by the company when the UPA was trying to buy the aircraft. It also claimed the previous deal included a technology transfer agreement with HAL.The government has said that its deal includes several specific ready-to-fly security enhancements,and that it cannot disclose the details of the price because of a confidentiality agreement with France, and the strategic reason of not showing its hand to India’s enemies. The government submitted details of the price of the jets in a sealed envelope to the Supreme Court, and the court said it would not get into the pricing issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-accuses-previous-congress-led-govt-of-irregularities-in-rafale-jets-deal-101636452486888.html
10-11-2021||India||Govt employees no longer bound to fly by Air India||The Centre will end Air India’s monopoly over flying millions of government employees after its privatisation, although large part of the employees’ ticketing requirements will continue to be handled by three state-owned companies. The companies will likely earn agency commissions and ticketing charges from the huge pool of government employees, estimated to run into a few million. On November 2, department of investment and public asset management secretary Tuhin Kanta Panda said it would no longer be mandatory for government employees to travel by Air India after its privatisation. Air India, too, has stopped offering ministries credit for the purchase of air tickets, prompting the finance ministry to ask all ministries to clear the airlines’ dues.According to an RTI query that was replied in October this year, the Centre’s total dues to Air India stood at ₹300 crore for both VVIP flights and travel by officials. ₹34 crore was due for VVIP flights, and ₹269 crore for tickets of officials. The old system required government employees to book with the former national carrier in sectors it serviced. “For other places, where there were no Air India [flights] or its subsidiaries, we had to take prior permission for buying tickets,” said a senior government official, who didn’t wish to be named.That’s changed now, but three state-owned firms Balmer Lawrie, Ashoka Travels and Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will continue to handle all ticket bookings for government employees. Balmer Lawrie, a company under the petroleum ministry, provides logistics support and a host of other business while Ashoka Travels and Tours Ltd is a subsidiary of India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC). The third entity, IRCTC operates a travel portal, and provides ticket booking and catering for Indian Railways. Both IRCTC and Balmer Lawrie are listed companies. Also Read: Air India Boeing pilots warn of mass protest on non-payment of arrearsIndia has eight airlines in various sectors apart from some regional carriers primarily focused on a few routes under the government’s Udaan scheme. A circular of the Lok Sabha secretariat dated November 5, said, “All the officers are thereby requested to purchase air tickets in cash from Air India/Indian Airlines counter or from three agents, i.e. Balmer Lawrie and Co. Ashoka Travels and Tours Ltd and IRCTC, authorised by the ministry of finance for the official journeys to be performed.” The Lok Sabha circular, citing the General Finance Rules, also told officials that all air ticket bills must be submitted within the stipulated period. “Henceforth, no request to honour the TA/DA claim after the stipulated time limit shall be entertained in any case,” it added. Air India operates a ticket counter inside Parliament to cater to MPs.The Union government sold the ailing Air India to Tata Sons last month. Tata Sons bought the national carrier for ₹18,000 crore in a deal that will no longer see hefty bailout packages for the carrier that was widely seen as a burden on the exchequer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-employees-no-longer-bound-to-fly-air-india-101636428424600.html
