11-11-2021||India||Bihar to get 426 MW additional power from NTPC||Bihar will get 426 Megawatts (MW) additional electricity as a unit each from the NTPC’s Barh super thermal power plant (STPP) and the Bharatiya Rail Bijlee Company Limited (BRBCL) at Aurangabad as they will begin commercial operations shortly, NTPC officials said. The additional power will take Bihar’s average daily scheduled allocation beyond 5,000 MW from Central sectors, the officials said. At present, it gets around 4,575 MW power. The commercial operation of the 660 MW unit I of the NTPC Barh plant will begin from Friday. The trial run of this unit was successfully done on October 30. Bihar will get 401 MW power share from this unit, while the remaining 40% power will be shared among beneficiary states like Odisha, Jharkhand and Sikkim. This is the third unit of the Barh project to begin commercial operation. At present, units 4 and 5 of 660 MW each are in commercial operation. With this, the total generation capacity of NTPC Barh will go up to 1,980 MW. “The erection, testing and optimisation activities of the remaining two 660MW units of Barh are in advance stage and likely to be commissioned in the next financial year,” said NTPC spokesperson Vishwanath Chandan. The NTPC also completed a successful trial run of its 250 MW fourth and final unit of the BRBCL plant on November 10. It is yet to announce the date for commencement of commercial operation. Bihar will get 25 MW power from this unit while the remaining 90% will go to the railways, said the officials quoted above. A 250 MW unit 9 of NTPC’s Barauni thermal power station (BTPS) also began commercial operation from November 1. The NTPC eastern region-1 has an installed power generation capacity of 9,960 MW across eight projects in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, while another 4,490 MW is under construction, according to a communiqué issued by the company. The NTPC group has a present installed capacity of 67,657.5 MW across 74 power stations, including 31 renewable and hydro projects. The group has over 16 gigawatts (GW) of capacity under-construction, including 5 GW of renewable energy projects, said the communiqué. “The commercial operation of third unit of the Barh plant is a major milestone. It reflects the conviction and dedication of team NTPC Barh towards the completion of Barh plant despite testing times,” said SN Tripathi, executive director and head of project, NTPC-Barh. “The NTPC is proud of team Barh, which has delivered the third unit with utmost dedication after having worked continuously under unprecedented challenging times during lockdown and the COVID-19 restrictions. Our team Barh has worked diligently for long hours, together with associates, to ensure that all modifications and other related activities are done properly and successfully,” said Praveen Saxena, regional executive director, NTPC, eastern region 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-to-get-426-mw-additional-power-from-ntpc-101636654541807.html
11-11-2021||India||No evasion of duty on iron ore pellets: Centre to Supreme Court||Export of iron ore pellets are legal and export duty cannot be evaded by private firms when the levy has been fixed at zero, the Union government has submitted in the Supreme Court while seeking dismissal of two public interest litigations (PILs) that have alleged a scam in the overseas trade. Submitting its affidavit before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, the Union ministry of commerce and industry emphasised that export of iron ore subheading minerals, value-added products, including iron ore pellets and derivatives, are neither prohibited nor restricted under the foreign trade policy. “Further, the export of iron ore pellets is not required to be canalized through state trading enterprises (STEs) under the prevailing rules. Therefore, the position is clear that iron ore pellets are not listed in either of the three regulated entities (prohibited, restricted or through STEs), which also clearly shows that as per foreign trade policy, trade-in iron ore pellets are free,” said the affidavit. It pointed out that iron ore pellets have been subject to export duty from time to time and there was a duty of 5% on its export between January 2014 and January 2016. “Imposing export duty or removing it on any class of commodity is a policy decision and such decisions have been taken by the Government of India from time to time. The rate of the export or import duty on a product or commodity is based on various factors which are taken into account keeping in mind the avowed objective of boosting international trade and commerce, particularly exports which are essential for earning foreign exchange” stated the government. The affidavit called the charge of evasion of duty “misleading”, saying that there was no export duty on iron ore pellets between 2011 and January 2014 when a decision was taken to impose a levy of 5%. “Similarly, after January 2016 there is no export duty on iron ore pellets. The imposition of export duty on any commodity or class of commodities is a public policy decision and such decisions have been taken by the Government of India from time to time,” it added. Advocate petitioner ML Sharma and NGO Common Cause have filed separate PILs in the top court, alleging duty evasion by several private firms in exporting iron ore in the form of pellets. The petitions have contended that a 30% export duty has been levied to discourage the export of iron ore, but companies are exporting iron ore in the form of pellets to avoid the duty. Further, the pleas claimed that the companies used the wrong Harmonized System (HS) code to evade the lawful levy of 30%, and alleged that the governmental authorities acted in cahoots, leading to a severe loss of public money. Sharma’s petition has demanded an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into such exports while making 61 iron exporting firms, including Essar Steel and Jindal Steel & Power, as parties to his plea. On Thursday, both the petitions came up for hearing but had to be adjourned to November 26 since the government’s affidavit was not received by the petitioners. The affidavit, reviewed by HT, has also drawn a the distinction between iron ore lumps and fines, and iron ore pellets, saying they were allotted different HS codes because the former was a by-product while the latter was a manufactured product. According to the government, the petitioners have tried to mislead the top court by mixing up the two in making accusations of evasion duty in exports. “The petitioner is intentionally misleading the honourable court by saying that export of iron ore fines public lumps about 64%-72% Fe (iron) is being done in the guise of pellets,” added the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-evasion-of-duty-on-iron-ore-pellets-centre-to-supreme-court-101636654299826.html
11-11-2021||India||Terrorist shot dead in Kulgam encounter: J&K police||A terrorist was killed in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district during an encounter on Thursday, police said.Police said that on a specific information joint troopers of Army’s 9 Rashtriya Rifles, Police and CRPF launched an operation at Chawalgam village. Defence spokesperson said that joint operation was launched in Chawalgam, Kulgam Thursday afternoon, based on specific inputs.The operation soon turned into an encounter which was still underway as more than couple militants are hiding in a house that has been encircled by the troops.  “As the cordon was laid and contact established. Terrorists opened fire forcing Security Forces to retaliate.Firefight ensued. The operation is in progress,” said the defence spokesperson.A senior police officer said that one terrorist has been killed in the operation. “We have reports two to three militants at the encounter spot.”A police official said the identity and group affiliation of the slain ultra was being ascertained.The Jammu & Kashmir Police said they “neutralised” 17 terrorists in 10 encounters in the Valley in October. Some of these terrorists were allegedly either involved or were collaborators in the civilian killings. The slain terrorists included two Lashkar-e-Taiba-linked district commanders who were allegedly involved in the civilian killings.Meanwhile, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has decided to send additional troops to Kashmir in the wake targeted terror attacks that left 13 civilians dead in the region since October, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday. Five companies – approximately 500 personnel – will be rushed to the Valley for deployment mainly in Srinagar city in addition to 25 companies of the force sent last month, people said.Last month, Union home minister Amit Shah visited Jammu and Kashmir, first time after the revocation of Article 370, to review the security situation amid a wave of targeted terrorist attacks on civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-shot-dead-in-kulgam-encounter-jkpolice-101636653879969.html
11-11-2021||India||List of 96 countries that recognise Indian vaccine certificates to grow: MEA||NEW DELHI: India has agreements with 96 countries for mutual recognition of vaccination certificates for individuals vaccinated with nationally recognised or World Health Organization (WHO)-recognised Covid-19 vaccines and the list is set to grow following the global health body’s approval for Covaxin. The indigenously developed and manufactured Covaxin was accorded emergency use listing (EUL) by WHO on November 3. Covaxin and Covishield, the Indian variant of the AstraZeneca vaccine, are the two main jabs used in the country’s immunisation programme.“We feel that this should ease international travel of those vaccinated with Covaxin. Many countries recognise WHO-approved vaccines. Now, with Covaxin joining this list, that should become automatic,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing. “Some countries had issued individual orders for individual vaccines, and they perhaps need to issue separate orders for Covaxin. We are taking up this matter with those countries,” he said. Certain countries also accorded national regulatory clearance to Covaxin even before the vaccine’s clearance by WHO, he pointed out.According to the external affairs ministry’s website, there are 96 countries in the “Category A” list, which includes countries “with which government of India has agreement for mutual recognition [of] vaccination certificate for individuals fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO-recognised Covid-19 vaccines and those exempting Indian citizens fully vaccinated with nationally recognised or WHO-recognised vaccines”.The list includes the US, the UK, Australia, Bangladesh, Egypt, the Netherlands, France, Germany and Russia. Fully vaccinated citizens of these 96 countries can enter India without quarantine, Bagchi said.Responding to a question on India’s “Vaccine Maitri” initiative, Bagchi said the country resumed overseas supplies of Covid-19 vaccines while keeping domestic requirements in mind. Some shipments of vaccines have taken place, and others were in the pipeline, including through the WHO-backed COVAX facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-96-countries-that-recognise-indian-vaccine-certificates-to-grow-mea-101636653099618.html
11-11-2021||India||Now, two Zika cases reported in Lucknow||Two people in Lucknow tested positive for Zika virus on Thursday, taking the total case tally across Uttar Pradesh to 111, the state health department said.Following the two new cases in the state capital, the third district in UP to report Zika, the state health department conducted contact tracing and a primary containment exercise, it said.The samples of Zika virus patients in Lucknow were tested at King George’s Medical University here.“Both the patients (in Lucknow) are stable and have no symptoms. We have taken samples of close contacts and got fogging and anti-larva spray done in the vicinity of their homes. More sampling will be done,” said Dr KP Tripathi, the official in charge of vector-borne disease control in Lucknow.One patient is a 30-year-old man residing in the Hussainganj area of Lucknow. The other is a 24-year-old woman from the Krishnanagar area on Kanpur Road in the state capital. The man had a fever for one day. Their samples were taken during random testing. “We have isolated both the patients and also asked their family members to remain at home. The neighbours in a 50-metre area have been educated about preventive measures. Tomorrow (Friday) morning, we will further check people in a 100-metre area and fogging will be repeated during the night,” said Dr Tripathi.Health department teams are tracing fever cases around the homes of the two patients. People have been asked to report any fever cases to the health department. Lucknow reported over 1100 dengue cases this year, around 700 of them since September 1.The first case of Zika virus infection in Uttar Pradesh was detected when an Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer tested positive in Kanpur on October 23, after which the Union health ministry had sent a high-level multidisciplinary team. Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of an infected Aedes species of mosquito named Aedes aegypti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-two-zika-cases-reported-in-lucknow-101636652559677.html
11-11-2021||India||'Congress responsible for partition': Owaisi amid 'Jinnah' row||All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday said the Partition did not happen due to Muslims but because of Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of Pakistan, as he challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Samajwadi Party leaders who “don't read” to prove otherwise.Owaisi also held the Congress responsible for the Partition which divided the country into two independent dominions –  India and Pakistan –  in 1947.“I challenge people of RSS, BJP & SP who don't read. Partition didn't happen due to Muslims but due to Jinnah. At that time,only those Muslims could vote who were influential,nawabs or degree holders. Congress & leaders of that time were responsible for partition,” news agency ANI quoted Owaisi as saying while addressing an event in Uttar Pradesh.Owaisi's remark came a day after the Samajwadi Party's ally in Uttar Pradesh –  Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party –  stoked a controversy after the party's chief said there would have been “no partition” had Mohammed Ali Jinnah been made the first Prime Minister of India."Had Jinnah been made the first Prime Minister of India, the country's partition wouldn't have happened. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is responsible for India's partition and not Jinnah. The state of dispute was created by the Sangh itself," SBSP chief OP Rajbhar said in Varanasi on Wednesday.Also read | BJP, SP trying to give communal colour to UP polls, says MayawatiThe Samajwadi Party and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party entered into an alliance ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due early next year.Earlier, Akhilesh Yadav, the Samajwadi party supremo, made headlines for speaking about Jinnah in the same breath as Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru as freedom fighters."Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and (Muhammad Ali) Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped (India) get freedom and never backed away from any struggle," Yadav said on Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's 146th birth anniversary on October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-responsible-for-partition-owaisi-amid-jinnah-row-101636649100976.html
11-11-2021||India||After Kanpur and Kannauj, Zika cases detected in Lucknow, 2 test positive||Lucknow became the third district in Uttar Pradesh to report Zika virus cases as two people tested positive in the city after which the health department carried out contact tracing and a primary containment exercise.Till date, 111 Zika virus cases have been reported in Uttar Pradesh this year – 108 in Kanpur, one in Kannauj and now two in Lucknow. The samples of Zika virus patients in Lucknow were tested at King George’s Medical University.“Both the patients (in Lucknow) are stable and have no symptoms. We have taken samples of close contacts and got fogging and anti-larva spray done in the vicinity of their homes. More sampling will be done,” said Dr KP Tripathi, the official in-charge of vector borne disease control in Lucknow.One patient is a 30-year-old man residing in the Hussainganj area of Lucknow. The other is a 24-year-old woman from the Krishnanagar area on Kanpur Road in the state capital. The man had fever for one day. Their samples were taken for tests under random sampling.“We have isolated both the patients and also asked their family members to remain at home. The neighbours in a 50-metre area have been educated about preventive measures. On Friday morning, we will further check people in a 100-metre area and fogging will be repeated during the night,” said Dr Tripathi.Health department teams are tracing fever cases around the homes of the two patients. People have been asked to report any fever cases to the health department.Lucknow has reported over 1100 dengue cases this year, over 700 of them since September 1.The first case of Zika virus infection in Uttar Pradesh was detected when an Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer tested positive in Kanpur on October 23 after which the Union health ministry had sent a high-level multi-disciplinary team to the city.Zika is a mosquito-borne virus that spreads through the bite of an infected Aedes species of mosquito named Aedes Aegypti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-kanpur-and-kannauj-zika-cases-detected-in-lucknow-2-test-positive-101636651179702.html
11-11-2021||India||Another actor-turned-politician quits Bengal BJP; selection process draws flak||Seven months after she was inducted by the Bharatiya Janata Party and fielded in the March-April Bengal assembly polls against Trinamool Congress secretary general Partha Chatterjee, who won, popular Bengali actor Shrabanti Chatterjee announced on Twitter on Thursday that she was quitting the party.Her decision instantly triggered a debate in the Bengal BJP, with several leaders questioning the induction of actors prior to the polls. Before the elections -- in which the BJP secured only 77 of the state’s 294 assembly seats against a target of 200 -- more than a dozen television and movie personalities with no political background joined the saffron camp. The TMC, which started the trend before 2011, also fielded several actors and artists but ended the race with 213 seats. The only actor who brought success to the BJP is Hiranmay Chattopadhyay, popularly known as Hiran, who wrested the Kharagpur Sadar seat. “Severing all ties with the BJP, the party for which I fought the last state elections. Reason being their lack of initiative and sincerity to further the cause of Bengal...,” tweeted Chatterjee. She was not seen in any BJP programme after the poll results were announced on May 2. She lost from Behala West by 50,884 votes while the TMC leader recorded his fifth consecutive victory from the seat since 2001. With TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh claiming that more celebrities who had joined the BJP will follow suit “because the party’s organisation in Bengal is collapsing,” the state’s BJP leaders expressed doubts about the pre-poll inductions.Many accused the party’s central leaders such as national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya in whose presence Chatterjee joined the BJP in March. Head of the BJP’s national information and technology cell, Amit Malviya, and the then state president Dilip Ghosh were also present that day. Vijayvargiya and Malviya were put in charge of Bengal during the polls. Vijayvargiya has not visited Bengal since May. The most vocal among the critics is former BJP state president Tathagata Roy, a retired technocrat who earlier served as Governor of Tripura and Meghalaya. “I didn’t even know that Shrabanti was still in the BJP. This is good riddance. The party is in this position today because of leaders like Vijayvargiya. They are answerable for random induction of these actors. A huge sum of money was given to each of them towards election expenditure. I will not reveal the amount,” Roy, who has raised his voice against a section of central and state BJP leaders in recent months, said. Vijayvargiya could not be contacted despite efforts. The celebrities are not the only ones who are a cause of worry for the state BJP leaders. Though the BJP captured 77 seats, its tally in the assembly has now effectively come down to 70. Five BJP legislators have joined the TMC since June although none have resigned from the party yet. After wresting the Santipur and Dinhata seats from the BJP last month and retaining Samserganj and Jangipur in September, the ruling party now officially controls 217 of Bengal’s 294 constituencies. The BJP also has many TMC turncoats who could not win seats. Among them, Rajib Banerjee, a former minister, returned to the ruling party on October 31. “I am repentant and ashamed. I was made to believe that BJP would usher in development and progress. I do not want people to make the same mistake and regret,” he said while switching allegiance for the second time in 10 months. “We don’t want anyone to leave. Shrabanti can return if she wants to. However, it is time to review the selection process,” Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said on Thursday. BJP’s state president Sukanta Majumdar said the actor’s exit was of no consequence as she was a not an organiser or mass leader. “Several people who came to the BJP from other fields are facing professional crisis because they are not being hired. Rudranil Ghosh, despite being a proficient actor, has no work since one year,” said Majumdar, indirectly hinting at the TMC’s influence over the local movie industry. “This is a baseless allegation. People in our industry are not hired because of their political background,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and actor Nusrat Jahan. Ghosh, who unsuccessfully contested the Bhawanipore seat in south Kolkata in the March-April polls, was not available for his reaction. Bengal BJP leaders said several popular actors such as Shrabanti Chatterjee, Payel Sarkar, Tanushree Chakraborty and Yash Dasgupta distanced themselves from the party after failing to win seats. Two actors, Rupa Bhattacharjee and Anindya Banerjee, left in August. Former actor Joy Banerjee, who joined the BJP years ago and was a member of the state committee, had quit earlier this week. BJP’s biggest loss was the exit of Babul Supriyo. The Bollywood singer-turned politician, who won the Asansol Lok Sabha seat twice and served as Union minister of state for two terms, joined the TMC last month. Only two actor-turned-politicians, who joined the BJP in 2015, have risen in the hierarchy. They are Roopa Ganguly and Locket Chatterjee. Ganguly, who became nationally famous after playing the role of Draupadi in the television series Mahabharat in the 1980s, is now a Rajya Sabha member. She also won national awards for her movies. Chatterjee represents the Hooghly Lok Sabha seat. Both earlier headed the state Mahila Morcha, the BJP women’s wing. BJP Lok Sabha member and state vice-president Arjun Singh feels that high expectations drive actors. “Most people who come from the movie industry expect instant success and get disillusioned when their expectations are not met. These people thought we would come to power and now they want to leave. We must review the method of selecting people,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-actor-turned-politician-quits-bengal-bjp-selection-process-draws-flak-101636648360621.html
11-11-2021||India||‘Shouldn’t stop political party from campaigning’: SC orders Tripura on TMC plea||NEW DELHI: No political party should be prevented from campaigning and pursuing its electoral rights, said the Supreme Court on Thursday as it directed the Tripura government to make all arrangements to maintain law and order to allow all political parties in the fray to have an unimpeded right to campaign peacefully ahead of the ensuing municipal elections in the state.The order came on a petition filed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) led by Mamata Banerjee that is contesting elections for one municipal corporation seat, 13 municipal council and 6 Nagar Panchayat seats to be held on November 25. Tripura is presently ruled by Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP).The TMC complained that incidents of violence have been reported against the political party in the state since August, and now the party was prevented from holding rallies and mass contact programmes by the police on the ground of possible mischief by opposition parties.Dealing with the issue, a bench headed by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud issued notice and said, “Since the election process has commenced, it is the bounden obligation of the respondents (state government and police) to ensure that no political party which is in the fray is prevented from pursuing its electoral rights in accordance with law and from campaigning in a peaceful and orderly manner.”Posting the matter for November 25, the bench also comprising of justices Surya Kant and Vikram Nath said, “We direct the respondents, by way of an ad-interim order (passed without hearing the other side), to duly consider the grievance so that appropriate arrangements are made to ensure the maintenance of law and order in a manner that would further the unimpeded right of political participation in the course of the ensuing municipal elections.”Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Sushmita Dev, who recently quit the Congress to join Trinamool Congress, was also a petitioner in the plea filed by the political party.Senior advocate Gopal Shankararnaraynan appearing for the two petitioners informed the court that in September, the police denied them permission to hold a massive rally and now less than two weeks were left for the elections. He further stated that the party members and workers associated with MP Sushmita Dev apprehended a threat to their lives.The court directed the superintendents of police concerned who are party to the petition to ensure protection to TMC workers having regard to the threat perception and take necessary action for the maintenance and provision of security.The court held, “Necessary arrangements shall be put into place and appropriate action taken by the Secretary to the Department of Home Affairs of the Government of Tripura as well as by the Director-General of Police, together with the law enforcement machinery of the State to enforce and comply with this order.”By the next date of hearing, the court directed the state government to file an affidavit detailing steps taken pursuant to the Court order to ensure the ensuing municipal polls remain free and fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shouldnt-stop-political-party-from-campaigning-sc-orders-tripura-on-tmc-plea-101636648359343.html
11-11-2021||India||To ensure 100% coverage, Assam govt to begin door-to-door vaccination drive||The Assam government will undertake a door-to-door campaign to ensure 100% coverage of the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, between November 22 and 27.The state has so far vaccinated more people than the others; in terms of first dose coverage the state’s figures of 79% correspond to the national average. On Thursday, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who is in Delhi, said that a special drive will be conducted across all 42,000 polling booths in the state between November 22 and 27 where healthcare workers will visit each household to inoculate those left behind. “The vaccination will be carried out on November 22 and 23, then the entire paperwork will be done; by November 29 we will have certificates issued by a gazetted officer on the first dose coverage and in the next three months a similar drive will be carried out for the second dose coverage. By February we will have certificates for the second dose as well,” he said.The CM and the legislators will be assigned districts where they will visit polling booths as part of the vaccination drive. “I will be visiting one of the polling booths, all the other MLAs will also be assigned districts in constituencies other than the one which they represent,” Sarma said. On whether the government has come across cases of vaccine hesitancy, the chief minister said more or less all communities have been forthcoming, only some pregnant women have shown reluctance to take the jab. The authorities have already cleared pregnant women for getting the jab. Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week launched the month-long Har Ghar Dastak or knock on every door campaign to carry out a special drive to focus on people who have not been vaccinated so far.In a meeting with chief ministers the Prime Minister also referred to countering vaccine hesitancy by roping in religious leaders. He made a specific mention of his meeting with Pope Francis in Vatican City and emphasised how religious heads could play a significant role in addressing vaccine hesitancy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-ensure-100-coverage-assam-govt-to-begin-door-to-door-vaccination-drive-101636645527312.html
11-11-2021||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad disagrees with Khurshid's comparison of Hindutva with jihadist Islam, calls it ‘exaggeration’||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Thursday called the comparison, made by his party colleague Salman Khurshid, between “robust version” of Hindutva and jihadist Islam of ISIS and Boko Haram “factually wrong and exaggeration”. Salman Khurshid’s new book titled Sunrise over Ayodhya sparked controversy after a paragraph making such a comparison was shared on social media.In his book on Ayodhya verdict, the former Union minister has opined that classical Hinduism was being pushed aside by a “robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years.” ISIS and Boko Haram are the dreaded terrorist groups that aim to establish a Caliphate and impose their harsher interpretation of Sharia law."We may not agree with Hindutva as a political ideology but comparing it with ISIS and jihadist Islam is factually wrong and exaggeration," ANI quoted Ghulam Nabi Azad as saying.Like no one killed Jessica, nobody demolished Babri Masjid: Chidambaram at Salman Khurshid's book launch eventTwo Delhi lawyers have filed complaints with the Delhi Police against Salman Khurshid for allegedly defaming Hindutva. One of the lawyers, Vivek Garg, said in the complaint that the comparison “reflects the true mindset of Congress as they try to legitimise the radical elements of ISIS by creating an artificial equivalence with Hindus.” Another complaint called the statement “quite aggravating and defamatory” for the whole Hindu community.Speaking at the book launch on Wednesday, Congress leader P Chidambaram said that the developments after the Ayodhya verdict took a “predictable course” as all accused were acquitted “within a year or so.”“So like no one killed Jessica, nobody demolished Babri Masjid," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghulam-nabi-azad-disagrees-with-khurshid-s-comparison-of-hindutva-with-jihadist-islam-calls-it-exaggeration-101636644651296.html
11-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: India expects Pakistan to allow 1,500 pilgrims to visit for Gurupurab, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India said on Thursday it expects Pakistan to allow a visit this month by a group of 1,500 pilgrims on the occasion of Gurupurab or birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, following the denial of permission for visits by two other groups earlier this year. Read moreThe Centre on Thursday issued revised guidelines for international passengers arriving in India. According to the new guidelines, children below the age of five are exempted from both pre-and-post-arrival testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. Read moreEver since Virat Kohli announced that he would step down as India's T20I captain after the T20 World Cup, it was only a matter of time before Rohit Sharma was announced as his successor. Read moreActor Kangana Ranaut has landed in a soup once again. At a recent event, Kangana spoke about India and its fight for independence and her comments did not sit well with many. Read moreDiabetes can change a lot in our body and one of the changes that women suffering from type 2 diabetes might notice is irregular periods. They might make you irritable or low, but our periods can tell a lot about our overall health. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-india-expects-pakistan-to-allow-1-500-pilgrims-to-visit-for-gurupurab-and-all-the-latest-news-101636643340583.html
11-11-2021||India||Humanitarian aid for Afghanistan being held up by lack of unimpeded access: India||India on Thursday underscored the importance of urgently providing humanitarian aid to the people of Afghanistan but acknowledged, without directly naming Pakistan that efforts are being held up due to the lack of unimpeded access. The deteriorating socio-economic situation in Afghanistan and the need to provide urgent humanitarian aid to the Afghan people was a key part of the declaration issued after a regional security conference hosted by India on Wednesday. The meet was joined by top security officials of seven countries, including Iran and Russia. India’s efforts to provide relief materials to the Afghan people in recent weeks, including an offer to supply 50,000 tonnes of wheat, have been held up by Pakistan’s refusal to allow the use of its territory for transporting the aid. The Delhi Regional Security Dialogue, which was attended by the security tsars of Iran, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, held detailed discussions on the “very serious humanitarian situation in Afghanistan”, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. Several other multilateral meetings too had sought unimpeded and unhindered access for humanitarian assistance providers, he told a regular news briefing. “We have been looking at possibilities, but there have been difficulties due to lack of unimpeded access,” Bagchi said, without naming Pakistan or giving details. The situation on the ground “has become very difficult over the last few months since the transition” in Afghanistan, he added, referring to Taliban takeover in Kabul in August. Pakistan, Bagchi said, was invited to the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue and its decision “not to participate in such an important meeting reflects their attitude towards the issue of Afghanistan”. China too was invited but couldn’t attend for scheduling reasons, he said. Bagchi said the regional conference had achieved consensus on many issues, and this was reflected in the Delhi Declaration issued after the meeting. The top security officials of the eight countries had discussed ways to counter terrorism emanating from Afghanistan, how to bring in an inclusive governance system and ways to meet humanitarian needs. “India’s support to the people of Afghanistan is very clear. It is a people-led interaction and involvement with that country. We have been extending support for many years for the people of Afghanistan,” he said. During both the regional conference and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval’s meetings with his regional counterparts, “there was clearly concern over the looming humanitarian situation”, Bagchi said. All regional countries were on the same page on the humanitarian situation and “their determination to see that assistance is provided”, he said. “I hope this joint call by so many national security heads would spur movement on the ground,” he added. A UN assessment conducted last month stated that the shocks of drought, conflict, Covid-19 and an economic crisis have left more than half Afghanistan’s population facing a record level of acute hunger. It found that more than one-in-two Afghans will face “emergency levels of acute food insecurity” from November through March, requiring an urgent global response to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humanitarian-aid-for-afghanistan-being-held-up-by-lack-of-unimpeded-access-india-101636643368341.html
11-11-2021||India||Newly-wed Bangladeshi couple crossed border for a better life; arrested: Cop||SILCHAR: A young couple who allegedly crossed over from Bangladesh a few days earlier in search of better opportunities in India was arrested by the Assam police on Tuesday, Karimganj district police chief said on Thursday.The couple, identified as Mohammed Naim Uddin, 24, and his wife, Sabnur Ansari, 19, are residents of Bangladesh’s Kishoreganj, a district in Dhaka division.The couple was travelling in a bus from Tripura capital Agartala that was stopped for routine checking soon after it crossed the inter-state border into Assam. Police said they did not have any identification papers on them and were detained.During their initial questioning at the Bazarichara police station, the couple told the police that they crossed into Tripura a few days back and were on their way to Guwahati for the final leg of their journey to West Bengal’s Murshidabad 1,200km away where they hoped to make a fresh start; find themselves jobs or maybe, even start a small business.“They said they got married recently and were looking for better opportunities. They decided to move to India so that they both get themselves jobs, or start some business,” Karimganj superintendent of police (SP) Padmanabh Baruah said.Karimganj and Cachar districts of Assam also share a border with Bangladesh but local police officers said this part of the border, also guarded by the Border Security Force like the rest of the Indio-Bangladesh wasn’t porous.Baruah said the couple has been booked under the Foreigners Act under provisions that outlaws foreigners from entering the country illegally.Police officers said 10 Bangladeshi nationals who illegally entered the country from neighbouring Tripura and were headed to south India were intercepted by the Assam police over the last month.Baruah said the district police was still investigating the couple’s version and will look into all possible angles. “In other cases too, we have heard similar stories,” he said.The police officer said the couple has spoken of organised gangs that help them cross the Bangladesh border and take the bus out of Tripura. “These cases are increasing and we are going to strengthen the checking procedure at inter-state border check posts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newlywed-bangladeshi-couple-crossed-border-for-a-better-life-arrested-cop-101636643367012.html
11-11-2021||India||Centre takes steps to curb blending of 'inferior quality' imported tea with premium Indian teas||The Tea board of India took a major step to curb the blending of teas of inferior qualities with teas of Indian origin from Darjeeling, Kangra, Assam (Orthodox) and Nilgiri (Orthodox). Registered buyers have been directed to avoid blending imported tea of inferior quality with teas from these regions.“In view of teas of inferior qualities being imported & blended with teas from Darjeeling, Kangra, Assam (Orthodox) & Nilgiri (Orthodox), it's directed that henceforth no registered buyers of teas shall blend any ported tea with teas aforementioned regions from today,” a notice released by the board says."All importers have been directed to ensure that the origin of imported tea is mentioned in all their sale invoices and not to pass off imported tea as teas of Indian origin," the commerce ministry said. The board warned that failure to abide by these instructions “will invite action as deemed fit”.Besides this, manufacturers of Darjeeling tea have been directed not to purchase green leaf from the outside GI (geographical indication) area. Darjeeling Tea, along with Kangra Paintings, Tirupati Laddu, Nagpur Orange and Kashmir Pashmina have registered GIs, to convey an assurance of quality and distinctiveness that is typical of its area of origin.The chairman of Tea Board of India, PK Bezboruah, had earlier raised an alarm over cheap imported tea from Nepal, Vietnam, Indonesia being blended with homegrown teas, which brings down the quality and the price of domestic teas. Data collected by the board showed that tea imports increased by 34 per cent during January-August this year compared to the same time last year.The commerce ministry has started conducting surprise checks to ensure registered buyers abide by their orders. "Surprise check of three units in Siliguri was conducted on November 11, and samples were drawn for testing," the ministry said.A majority of the blended teas currently available in the market is actually for re-exports, since custom duty is not charged on tea imports meant for re-exports, however, a certain percentage also gets absorbed in the domestic market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-takes-steps-to-curb-blending-of-inferior-quality-imported-tea-with-premium-indian-teas-101636641178737.html
11-11-2021||India||Centre revises guidelines for international passengers arriving in India. Check details||The Centre on Thursday issued revised guidelines for international passengers arriving in India. According to the new guidelines, children below the age of five are exempted from both pre-and-post-arrival testing for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. However, if they are found symptomatic for coronavirus infections on arrival or during their home quarantine period, they shall undergo testing and be treated according to laid down protocol, news agency PTI reported citing the guidelines.Notably, the existing guidelines were reviewed in view of ramped-up Covid-19 vaccination coverage across the globe and the changing nature of the pandemic, the Union ministry of health and family welfare outlined.Also read | Centre revises guidelines for international passengers arriving in India. Check detailsThe document also underlined the need to monitor the continuously changing nature of virus and evolution of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern, even as it highlighted that global trajectory of Covid-19 pandemic is declining with certain regional variations.>This standard operating procedure shall be valid from November 12 till further orders, the ministry said.>At least 15 days must have elapsed since completion of Covid-19 vaccination schedule.>If travellers are fully vaccinated and coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of WHO approved Covid-19 vaccines, they shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine. However, they shall self monitor their health for 14 days' post arrival.>For travellers who are partially or not vaccinated, they will need to submit a sample for post-arrival Covid-19 test at the point of arrival after which they will be allowed to leave the airport. Other measures they will need to adhere to include home quarantine for seven days, re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India and if negative, further self monitor of their health for next seven days.>Travellers under home quarantine or self-health monitoring, if develop signs and symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 or test positive for Covid-19 on re-testing, they will immediately self isolate and report to their nearest health facility or call national helpline number 1075 or state helpline number.>It is mandatory to ensure physical distancing and thermal screening during deboarding on arrival.>The self-declaration form filled online shall be shown to the airport health staff.>The passengers found to be symptomatic during screening shall be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility according to health protocol. If tested positive, their contacts shall be identified and managed according to laid down protocol.>Contacts of the suspect case are the co-passengers seated in the same row, three rows in front and three rows behind along with identified cabin crew.>Also, all the community contacts of those travellers who have tested positive (during home quarantine period) would be subjected to quarantine for 14 days and tested as per ICMR protocol , the guidelines stated.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-revises-guidelines-for-international-passengers-arriving-in-india-check-details-101636640536858.html
11-11-2021||India||Over 94% people given first dose Covid-19 vaccine, aiming 100% immunisation by Feb 2022: Assam CM||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday said that around 94% to 95% of the eligible population in the state has been vaccinated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and the state would achieve 100% first dose coverage by the end of November. Sarma also said at that pace, the state can fully vaccinate its population by February next year.“First dose vaccination is around 94-95% (completed). We will complete the first dose this month and go from village to village to verify whether 100% vaccination has been done. If we complete the first dose this month, we will complete the second dose in February,” news agency ANI quoted the CM as saying.Also read | Centre, states discuss ways to bolster ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ Covid vaccination program, as 38% population fully vaccinatedNotably, India has set itself the target of vaccinating 100% of its eligible population by the end of December 2021, a deadline that is two months ahead of Sarma’s estimates. As of date, 79% of the eligible adult population in India have been administered at least one dose of the vaccine while 38% have been immunised fully against the disease, Union health ministry said earlier in the day.The remarks from Sarma came on the day Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya met with health ministers of states and Union territories (UT) and discussed the measures to strengthen the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door vaccination campaign.Several new suggestions were made during the meeting, the Union health ministry said in a statement. From roping in children to be ambassadors of the vaccination program to running vaccination centres at bus stations, railway stations to ramp up vaccination coverage, several measures were discussed during the review meeting.As of 8.20pm on Wednesday (November 10), 29,490,198 doses of the vaccine, comprising 20,359,823 first doses and 9,130,375 second doses, have been administered in Assam, a state health department bulletin showed. Also 263 new Covid cases and one related death on Wednesday, took the state’s tally to 613,061 and the death toll reached 6,035. The state also has 1,932 active cases of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-94-people-given-first-dose-covid-19-vaccine-aiming-100-immunisation-by-feb-2022-assam-cm-101636639747348.html
11-11-2021||India||India hopes Pakistan will allow 1,500 pilgrims to visit for Gurupurab||India said on Thursday it expects Pakistan to allow a visit this month by a group of 1,500 pilgrims on the occasion of Gurupurab or birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, following the denial of permission for visits by two other groups earlier this year. “In view of the significance of Gurupurab and sentiments associated with it, it has been decided that a jatha of around 1,500 pilgrims will visit Pakistan from November 17-26 via the Attari-Wagah integrated check post (ICP),” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing. He noted that Pakistan had denied permission for visits by Indian Sikh pilgrims twice in June this year – on the occasion of the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev and on the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh – even though both were covered under the 1974 bilateral protocol on visits to religious shrines. “We hope that the [visit by the] forthcoming jatha...does take place,” Bagchi said. Referring to the cross-border Kartarpur Corridor, which was opened in 2019 to allow Indian citizens visa-free access to the gurdwara at Kartarpur in Pakistan where Guru Nanak spent the last years of his life, Bagchi said movement through the corridor was suspended in March 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Land travel between India and Pakistan is since being conducted on a limited scale through the Attari-Wagah integrated check post in coordination with the Pakistani side. Either side follows its extant rules and health guidelines,” he said. The planned visit by the 1,500 pilgrims for Gurupurab is covered under the 1974 bilateral protocol. The pilgrims are scheduled to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Gurdwara Panja Sahib, Gurdwara Dera Sahib, Gurdwara Nankana Sahib, Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib and Gurdwara Sachha Sauda. Visits by pilgrims from both sides have been hit by a downturn in bilateral relations over the past few years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hopes-pakistan-will-allow-visit-by-1-500-pilgrims-for-gurupurab-101636640066760.html
11-11-2021||India||In Bengal’s Malda district, 40 injured after being attacked by pack of foxes||Nearly 40 villagers were injured in Malda district of north Bengal after a pack of foxes allegedly attacked them on Thursday morning. The villagers killed two foxes after the incident. Locals recounted that a pack of around 20 foxes attacked villagers at Hardamnagar early on Thursday morning. The injured villagers have been admitted to Harishchandrapur Rural Hospital for vaccination and treatment. “We haven’t seen so many foxes in our village earlier. This morning suddenly 20-odd foxes attacked many villagers-completely unprovoked. We have no idea where the animals came from,” said Bani Chowdhury, a resident of Hardamnagar. After the villagers raised an alarm the animals were chased away. However, two of the foxes were beaten to death. “Around 40 people have been injured. We have set up a special camp for the treatment of the injured villagers. They have been administered vaccines and medicine. The injury of around 15 villagers is very serious. We may have to shift them to Chanchol Hospital,” said Dr Choton Mondal, medical officer of Harishchandrapur Rural Hospital. An officer of the Harishchandrapur police station said that there is a wooded area near the village. The animals may have come from there. “We have informed the forest officials. The animals could have strayed into the village for food,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-bengal-s-malda-district-40-injured-after-being-attacked-by-pack-of-foxes-101636639046834.html
11-11-2021||India||Covid-19's Delta continues to be main 'variant of concern', others negligible: INSACOG||The Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) on Thursday emphasised that Delta variant of coronavirus infection (Covid-19) continues to be the main variant of concern in India. The consortium also said that other variants of interest or concern are now negligible in sequencing data from India, reported news agency PTI."Delta, including B.1.617.2 (AY) and AY.x sublineages, continues to be the main VOC globally. As per the latest WHO update, Delta has outcompeted other variants in most countries and there is now declining prevalence of other variants among SARS-CoV-2 sequences submitted to publicly available datasets or reported to WHO," the INSACOG said, underlining there is no change in the global scenario as well.Also read | Centre, states discuss ways to bolster ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ Covid vaccination program, as 38% population fully vaccinatedINSACOG is a consortium of 28 national laboratories and was set up in December 2020 to monitor the genomic variations in Sars-CoV-2, the Covid-19 causing virus. It functions under the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The consortium added Delta (B.1.617.2 and AY.x) continues to be the main variant of concern (VOC). "No new VOI or VOC are noted and other VOC and VOI other than Delta are now negligible in sequencing data from India," it said.The first cases of the Delta variant first came to light in India in October last year. The variant is also generally blamed for the explosive rise in Covid-19 cases across the country, during the second wave of the pandemic in April and May, when the cases peaked at over 3,00,000/daily.Meanwhile, India reported 13,091 fresh Covid-19 infections on Thursday, 14.17% higher than Wednesday when the country recorded 11,466 cases in a span of 24 hours. The fresh cases took the cumulative number of total infections to 3,44,01,670, the health ministry figures showed.At least 340 people succumbed to the viral disease in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 462,189. The active Covid-19 cases in India now stand at 138,556, the lowest in the past 266 days, the health ministry further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19s-delta-continues-to-be-main-variant-of-concern-others-negligible-insacog-101636633495432.html
11-11-2021||India||India has not accepted China's illegal occupation or unjustified claims: MEA||The ministry of external affairs on Thursday said India has neither accepted the illegal occupation of Indian territory by China nor China's unjustified claims. "China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas, including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over decades. India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims," ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.New Delhi has always conveyed strong protest to such activities via diplomatic means and will continue to do so in future, the ministry said adding that the government has also stepped up border infrastructure, including the construction of roads, bridges which have provided much-needed connectivity to the local population along the border.‘Shows their attitude’: India criticises Pakistan's decision to skip NSA-level Summit on Afghanistan"The government is committed to the objective of creating infrastructure along border areas for improvement of livelihood, including in Arunachal Pradesh. The government keeps a constant watch on developments having bearing on India's security and takes all measures to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity," he said.The MEA statement comes after a Pentagon report claimed that China has built a village along the Line of Actual Control in the Arunachal Pradesh sector.China built village in area held by PLA for decades, say officials"Beginning in May 2020, PLA launched incursions into customarily Indian-controlled territory across the border and has concentrated troops at several standoff locations along LAC. In addition, a substantial reserve force from Tiben and Xinjiang military districts were deployed to the interior of western China to provide a rapid response," the Pentagon report said.The report said that this new village built last year is in a disputed area along the Tsari river. "Sometimes in 2020, the PRC built a large 100-home civilian village inside disputed territory between the PRC's Tibet Autonomous Region and India's Arunachal Pradesh state in the eastern sector of the LAC. These and other infrastructure development efforts along the India-China border have been a source of consternation in the Indian government and media," the Pentagon report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-not-accepted-china-s-illegal-occupation-or-unjustified-claims-mea-101636635595142.html
11-11-2021||India||‘Shows their attitude’: India criticises Pakistan's decision to skip NSA-level Summit on Afghanistan||India on Thursday criticised Pakistan’s decision to not attend Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan, saying it shows Islamabad’s attitude regarding the crisis in the war-torn country. In an apparent reference to Pakistan, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular press briefing that there have been difficulties in providing humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan due to a lack of unimpeded access.The spokesperson highlighted that India has been extending support to Afghanistan for many years but the situation on the ground has become “very difficult” over the last few months.“One of the key elements which we've seen in previous meetings was the need for unimpeded, unhindered access for humanitarian assistance providers...There have been difficulties due to lack of unimpeded access,” Bagchi added.He said that the “very serious humanitarian situation” in Afghanistan was discussed at length during the meeting of NSAs of eight regional countries, including India, Russia, and Iran.Also Read | India has not accepted China's illegal occupation or unjustified claims: MEAPakistan and China were invited for an NSA-level summit on the Afghanistan issue but they chose not to attend citing different reasons. While Pakistan NSA Moeed Yusuf declined the invitation saying India was being a “spoiler” in the region, China cited “scheduling” problems to skip the important meet where countries pledged to combat terrorism emanating from Afghanistan soil and called for an inclusive government in Kabul.Pakistan has long been accused of supporting the Taliban in their fight against the West-backed Afghan government, which fell on August 15, by providing financial and military resources, a claim Islamabad has repeatedly denied.“Pakistan was invited, they did not come. It shows their attitude over Afghanistan issue if they did not come to such important meetings,” Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shows-their-attitude-india-criticises-pakistan-s-decision-to-skip-nsa-level-summit-on-afghanistan-101636635375390.html
11-11-2021||India||Inspector Rajeshwari: Chennai cop wins hearts after saving unconscious man, carries him on shoulders amid rain||A Chennai police woman won several hearts on Thursday after a video of her carrying an unconscious man on her shoulders to be sent to a nearby hospital went viral on social media platforms. Along with the people, the cop was also lauded by the top police officials and some political leaders.The video, which garnered widespread attention on micro blogging site Twitter earlier in the day, showed TP Chatram police inspector Rajeshwari carrying an unconscious man on her shoulders to an auto rickshaw for him to be sent to a nearby hospital for treatment, amid the waterlogged roads and rains.#WATCH | Chennai, Tamil Nadu: TP Chatram Police Station's Inspector Rajeshwari carries an unconscious man, on her shoulders, to an autorickshaw in a bid to rush him to a nearby hospital.Chennai is facing waterlogging due to incessant rainfall here.(Video Source: Police staff) pic.twitter.com/zrMInTqH9fActor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan said that police inspector Rajeshwari's sense of duty to carry and run for saving an unconscious man's life was awe-inspiring. “Her courage and service are commendable. Hearty congratulations to the exemplary officer,” he tweeted.சாலையோரம் விழுந்து கிடந்தவரின் உயிரைக் காக்க தூக்கிக்கொண்டு ஓடும் காவல்துறை ஆய்வாளர் ராஜேஸ்வரியின் கடமையுணர்ச்சி பிரமிப்பூட்டுகிறது.அவரது வீரமும், சேவையும் போற்றுதலுக்குரியவை. முன்னுதாரண அதிகாரிக்கு என் மனமார்ந்த வாழ்த்துக்கள்.Further, few other men, local residents, could also be seen with her. She carried the man to the auto rickshaw herself and also directed a few other men to accompany the unconscious man. However, that was not the only act which won her appreciation. After she helped the man inside the auto rickshaw, she also told the auto driver and the other men who accompanied him that the person who needed medical help should be saved at all costs.Also read | At least 14 dead in Tamil Nadu rain; Chennai airport suspends arrivals“Run, run, run… you should save him somehow,” she was heard telling the auto driver. Many Twitter users applauded the cop’s intent to save the man’s life and her efforts.Meanwhile, Rajeshwari also later confirmed that the man has been admitted in a hospital and doctors there had assured there was no cause for concern regarding his life.Watch | Cop rescues unconscious man, Marina beach flooded: Rain fury in Chennai“I gave first aid after which I carried him. An auto came there, we sent him to hospital. I visited the hospital, his mother was there. I assured them to not worry and that the police department will support them. Doctor said that treatment is on and there is nothing to worry,” news agency ANI quoted the official as saying.“Inspector Rajeshwari has done excellent work. She herself lifted an unconscious man who was fighting for life and sent him to a hospital. Treatment is on, he's alright. She has been an excellent officer. All the kudos go to her,” ANI quoted Chennai police commissioner Shankar Jiwal as saying. Tamil Nadu's director general of police Sylendra Babu also lauded the inspector, the state police forces said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inspector-rajeshwari-chennai-cop-wins-hearts-after-saving-unconscious-man-carries-him-on-shoulders-amid-rain-101636634503615.html
11-11-2021||India||Wishing PM Modi, LK Advani on birthdays doesn't make me 'sanghi': Shashi Tharoor||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Thursday took to Twitter and said he is appalled by the vicious backlash he received for extending birthday greetings to veteran BJP leader LK Advani. The Thiruvananthapuram MP said the trolling on social media will not be able to deter him from practising what he calls civility in political discourse and he will continue wishing LK Advani and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on their birthdays."I am frankly appalled by the vicious backlash against my birthday greetings to LK Advaniji. Has civility disappeared entirely from our political discourse? Gandhiji taught us to respect and honour the humanity in our political opponents. It seems that now makes me a Sanghi sympathiser!" Tharoor tweeted. So yes, I intend to continue to wish LK Advani & @narendramodi well on their birthdays, while opposing what they stand for politically. My 40 years of writing makes clear what I believe in. Only those who haven’t read me would call me a Sanghi. My values won’t be discarded 4them."So yes, I intend to continue to wish LK Advani and Narendra Modi well on their birthdays, while opposing what they stand for politically. My 40 years of writing makes clear what I believe in. Only those who haven’t read me would call me a Sanghi. My values won’t be discarded for them," the Congress leader tweeted.Invoking Mahatma Gandhi's principle, Tharoor said Gandhiji taught to fight the sin and love the sinner. "Ahimsa is 'a positive state of love, of doing good even to the evildoer'. While good and evil are Gandhian terms I can’t easily use (most human beings are shades of both), I deplore intolerance on either side," he wrote.On November 8, the Congress leader wished LK Advani on his birthday and wrote, "Warm wishes for a fine human being, a gentleman in politics, a leader of wide reading and great courtesy." Social media users trolled Shashi Tharoor and asked whether he would have wished Hitler too on his birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wishing-pm-modi-lk-advani-on-birthdays-doesn-t-make-me-sanghi-shashi-tharoor-101636634166192.html
11-11-2021||India||Samajwadi Party to contest all 70 seats in Uttarakhand assembly for 2022 polls||After the Bahujan Samaj Party, Uttarakhand Kranti Dal and Aam Aadmi Party, the Samajwadi Party has also announced that it will contest all 70 assembly segments in the upcoming assembly elections due early next year.The party has started taking feedback from its workers and district unit office bearers to shortlist probable and deserving candidates. According to Uttarakhand state in-charge and national spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary, the Samajwadi Party will position itself as a viable, reliable and development-oriented political option for the voters in the hill state. The Samajwadi Party is currently focussing on party workers, booth management, membership drives and is also organising district headquarters, tehsil, block and panchayat level meetings. In both Kumaon and Garhwal divisions, the SP in the coming days will hold conventions and chalk out poll strategy with senior party leaders and organisational office bearers to address the party workers. Citing resentment among voters against the BJP-led Central and state government, Chaudhary said in the name of double engine governance, the BJP had misled the people, failing to usher in development despite having a five-year term in the hill state. “What has BJP done for Uttarakhand, apart from changing 3 chief ministers in four and half years? Mahakumbh fake testing scam, factionalism within the party, differences among cabinet ministers and legislators, corruption and lucrative poll announcements by current CM Pushkar Singh Dhami are some of them. Just less than five months are left but CM Dhami is making announcements which will leave the state exchequer in debt,” said Chaudhary, who is a former UP cabinet minister. On the Samajwadi Party’s election focus, BJP district president Jaypal Singh Chauhan said that in Uttar Pradesh, the Samajwadi party is afraid of CM Yogi Adityanath while in Uttarakhand it is afraid of Pushkar Singh Dhami owing to his popularity, corruption-free governance and mass appeal of both the CMs. “Even if they get 70 deserving candidates it will be a herculean task to win a single assembly seat. In the past 21 years of state formation with four assembly elections held so far, they haven’t won a single seat. So, claims are easy to make. But the fact is, Samajwadi party has no base in the state,” said the BJP district president. Congress state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana said voters have already made up their mind to bring Congress back to power in Uttarakhand. “There is no scope of any other party becoming a political option for voters barring Congress in the state,” he said. Apart from the BJP and Congress, other parties like Bahujan Samaj Party, Uttarakhand Kranti Dal, Aam Aadmi Party and Lok Jan Shakti Party had also earlier announced that their candidates will contest on all 70 assembly segments in the next election. Uttarakhand Kranti Dal president Kashi Singh Airi has said that already his party has mobilised its workers in both the Kumaon and Garhwal division of the state. This means UKD will also field its candidates in the plains of Udham Singh Nagar, Haridwar and Dehradun. The Bahujan Samaj Party on the other hand has decided to contest independently in the 2022 assembly elections without entering into any alliance. BSP state unit president Naresh Gautam said that in both UP and Uttarakhand there is anti-incumbency and voters realise that only the BSP can provide a strong, secular and development-oriented government. The Aam Aadmi Party has also announced that it will contest all the assembly segments in the hill state. Rashtriya Lok Dal national secretary and Uttarakhand in-charge Braham Singh Baliyan said that the party has a major chance of making an entry and finding a foothold in the hill state so it is preparing to contest all seventy seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samajwadi-party-to-contest-all-70-seats-in-uttarakhand-assembly-for-2022-polls-101636633346282.html
11-11-2021||India||'I welcome ED': Nawab Malik says he is not scared of probe into Waqf Board||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Thursday said he welcomes the Enforcement Directorate's action in connection with Pune Waqf Board's alleged land scam case as the minorities ministry under which the Waqf Board falls has already started a clean-up action. "News reports are claiming that now Nawab Malik will be in trouble as ED has taken up some cases pertaining to his ministry. I want to say ED is more than welcome and we will cooperate with them in every possible way. But if there is a campaign to threaten me or to malign my image because of the fight that we have started against central agencies, then I would say Maharashtra government, Maharashtra ministers, leaders do not get scared by central agencies," Nawab Malik said in a press conference.'Torture, financial loss': Nawab Malik's son-in-law sends legal notice to Fadnavis, demands ₹5 cr damagesThere has been no raid in the Waqf Board office as well, Nawab Malik said. "The agency can only clarify whether Devendra Fadnavis made the complaint or not. I only came to know that there have been some raids and that television channels are saying Nawab Malik is in trouble," the minister said.Seven places in Pune and one place in Aurangabad were raided by the Enforcement Directorate officials in connection with the Pune Waqf Board land scam case involving irregularities to the tune of ₹10 crore. The raids started on Thursday morning after an Enforcement Case Information Report was registered by the ED zone 2 office of the agency.Giving details of the alleged scam, Nawab Malik said action has already been taken by his ministry against the scam. An FIR was filed and five people were arrested in connection with the case. Three people have got bail, the minister added."After I took charge of the department, Waqf Board has the full freedom to work according to the act. Also for the first time in the history of Maharashtra, 10 members of the Waqf Board have been appointed. It is for the first time that Maharashtra has a full-fledged Waqf Board. We also have a permanent CEO of the Board now," the minister said.Nawab Malik is up in arms against Narcotics Control Bureau following the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in a drugs case. Early this year, Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan was also arrested in a drug case by the central agency.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-welcome-ed-nawab-malik-says-he-is-not-scared-of-action-against-waqf-board-101636631127980.html
11-11-2021||India||CBI files charge sheets against six persons for posts targeting Andhra HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed separate charge sheets against six persons who were arrested a few weeks ago for allegedly making derogatory posts on social media targeting the Andhra Pradesh high court’s judges.The officials said in a statement that charge sheets were filed against Sridhar Reddy Avuthu, Jalagam Venkata Satyanarayana, Guda Sridhar Reddy, Sreenath Suswaram, Kishore Kumar Darisa and Sudduluri Ajay Amruth. The accused, currently in judicial custody, will be produced before a court soon. The CBI had earlier arrested five other accused individuals and had filed separate charge sheets against them. The CBI said in its statement that it was investigating three more such cases. The YouTube channel of one of the accused has been blocked. Two of the three accused are out of the country and the CBI said arrest warrants have been issued. The CBI also said it gathered information about the accused who are abroad by issuing blue notice through the Interpol.The accused were learnt to have intentionally targeted the state’s judiciary and made derogatory posts against judges in connection with some verdicts delivered by judges of the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-charge-sheets-against-six-persons-for-posts-targeting-andhra-hc-101636629987827.html
11-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amruta Fadnavis sends legal notice to Nawab Malik and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Unconditional apology or…': Devendra Fadnavis wife sends legal notice to NCP leader Nawab MalikFormer Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ wife has sent a legal notice to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik for “tarnishing the image of her family”. Read MoreBSF jurisdiction: Amarinder asks Punjab govt not to politicise national securityRejecting the Punjab government resolution moved in the Vidhan Sabha on Thursday against the Centre’s move to extend the operational jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km. Read MoreTripura reports highest number of dengue cases in five yearsTripura has reported the highest number of dengue cases in five years since 2017 - at least 255 - across five of the state’s eight districts even as the disease has caused no death so far. Read More'He can be Hardik Pandya's back-up': Laxman names India youngster who can be groomed into a future 'utility all-rounder'With the BCCI announcing a 16-member T20I squad for India which will face New Zealand in three matches later this month, former batter VVS Laxman welcomed the changes. Read MoreShilpa Shetty tells paparazzi 'lelo bhai' at airport as she returns from Himachal Pradesh, Raj Kundra is missing againActor Shilpa Shetty, who was in Himachal Pradesh for a few days, flew back to Mumbai on Thursday afternoon. Read MoreWorld Diabetes Day: How to prevent, manage type 2 diabetes to protect your heartIn response to growing concerns about the health and economic threat posed by diabetes, World Diabetes Day was established in 1991 by the International Diabetes Federation. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amruta-fadnavis-sends-legal-notice-to-nawab-malik-and-all-the-latest-news-101636628561059.html
11-11-2021||India||Goods train derails in Uttar Pradesh’s Badlapur; no injuries reported||At least 20 wagons of an empty goods train derailed along the Jaunpur-Sultanpur railway track near Ghatampur village in Uttar Pradesh’s Badlapur on Thursday and disrupted railway traffic, officials said.The train was on its way to Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Nagar (Mughalsarai) from Sultanpur. It derailed as it crossed the Srikrishnanagar railway station around 7:57am.Railway officials and a police team immediately rushed to the accident scene to find out the cause of the derailment and to ensure the resumption of railway traffic. The driver, his team, and the guard of the train managed to escape unhurt.A railway official said that the efforts were to clear the track for the resumption of the traffic on it.Additional railway divisional manager (Varanasi) Ravi Chaturvedi said that some trains were diverted to other routes. He added that the work to clear the track was going on at a war-footing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goods-train-derails-in-uttar-pradesh-s-badlapur-no-injuries-reported-101636628665168.html
11-11-2021||India||Tripura reports highest number of dengue cases in five years||Tripura has reported the highest number of dengue cases in five years since 2017 - at least 255 - across five of the state’s eight districts even as the disease has caused no death so far, a health official said on Thursday.“Nearly 70% of the total cases have been detected in Gomati (76) and Unakoti (56) districts through screening. After visiting the infected areas, we found almost 95% of people infected are rubber garden workers,” said state surveillance officer Deep Debbarma. He added 27 cases were reported from the Sepahijala district and one case each from North and South districts.A second health official said 127 cases were detected in 2017, 100 in 2018, 109 in 2019 and 24 in 2020.“We have already done fogging. Awareness campaigns about the disease have started. We advise people who develop severe body pain along with fever to visit their nearest health centre and get themselves tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-reports-highest-number-of-dengue-cases-in-five-years-101636628125219.html
11-11-2021||India||'Unconditional apology or…': Devendra Fadnavis wife sends legal notice to NCP leader Nawab Malik||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ wife has sent a legal notice to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik for “tarnishing the image of her family” through his alleged defamatory tweets. Posting the copy of the legal notice on Twitter, Amruta Fadnavis warned Malik to either delete the tweets in 48 hours with an “unconditional apology or face action”.The NCP leader, currently a minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, had accused Fadnavis and his wife of having close links with an alleged drug dealer, Jaydeep Rana. Malik had shared pictures of Amruta and Rana together at an event. Amruta has defended the photographs saying those were clicked during an organised in Mumbai for the conservation of rivers and Rana was hired by the creative team of the organisers.“The said event was organised by activists who has formed a social group under the name of 'River March' with an initiative to save the rivers of Mumbai...It is stated that Mr. Jaideep Rana was hired by the creative team of 'River March' and our client or her family had no association with him,” the notice reads.Amruta's lawyers alleged that Nawab Malik “consciously and selectively” shared those pictures which “reflects your malafide intentions to tarnish” her image.Also Read | 'Torture, financial loss': Nawab Malik's son-in-law sends legal notice to Fadnavis, demands ₹5 cr damagesThe legal notice was sent a day after Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan, now on bail in a drug-related case, sent a similar notice to Devendra Fadnavis for “mental torture, agony, financial loss and injury” inflicted to his reputation because of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader’s statement on a television channel.The allegations and counter-allegations were made after Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan, was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in the drugs-on-cruise case. Aryan Khan was later granted bail by the Bombay High Court. Malik initially targeted NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, who was leading the drugs-on-cruise case investigation, accusing the officer of running an extortion racket and forging caste documents to get into Indian Revenue Services (IRS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unconditional-apology-or-devendra-fadnavis-wife-sends-legal-notice-to-ncp-leader-nawab-malik-101636625217627.html
11-11-2021||India||Complaint filed against Kangana Ranaut for 'India got real freedom in 2014' comment||National executive chairman of the Aam Aadmi Party Preethi Menon has filed a complaint with the Mumbai Police seeking an FIR against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for her seditious remarks at a conclave where she was a guest speaker. The Bollywood actor's comments on the freedom movement have stirred a row as she said Congress is an extension of the British rule and India attained her 'real freedom' in 2014, apparently referring to the BJP coming to power in 2014. What India got in 1947 was 'bheek' (alms), the actor said."The RSS could never accept the fact that their British masters were forced to leave in 1947. Their slavery knew no bounds. No wonder they didn't hoist the tricolour for half a century. The return of slavery in 2014 was their 'independence'. Kangana Ranaut is just one of them," Congress's Gaurav Pandhi tweeted. Submitted an application to @MumbaiPolice requesting action on Kangana Ranaut for her seditious and inflammatory statements on @TimesNow, under sections 504, 505 and 124A. Hope to see some action @CPMumbaiPolice @DGPMaharashtra pic.twitter.com/9WxFXJFnEnBJP MP Varun Gandhi took strong exception to the comment and asked whether it is madness or treason. "Insulting the sacrifice of Mahatma Gandhi sometimes, respecting his killer sometimes, and now the disdain for the sacrifices of Mangal Pandey, Rani Laxmibai, Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and lakhs of freedom fighters. Should I call this thinking madness or treason?" Gandhi tweeted.
11-11-2021||India||BJP’s performance in bye-elections prompted govt to restore MPLADS: Congress MP||Congress Member of Parliament (MP) Manickam Tagore has said the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) performance in the bye-elections held last month prompted the government to restore the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) on Wednesday.“Prior to the bye-poll results, they were not ready to revive the scheme, but suddenly after the BJP lost in Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka and Rajasthan, they realised something is wrong. The bye-poll loss was a wake-up call.”Tagore said the scheme is not a favour to the public. “But unwantedly they stopped this scheme that was in favour of the public,” he said. He added the government should increase the amount paid under the scheme.Annadurai CN, a Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam lawmaker, welcomed the decision but added the money granted under the scheme is insufficient. “There is a lot of work that needs to be done.”Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy said suspending the fund was a bad move and its restoration was long overdue.Tagore and Roy were among the vocal opponents of the suspension of the scheme in April last year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The funds were diverted to the finance ministry to deal with the pandemic.The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the restoration of the scheme for the remaining part of the financial year till 2025-26, which will have a financial implication of ₹17,417 crore.Under the scheme, each MP will get ₹2 crore in one instalment for development activities for the remainder of 2021-22 and annually ₹5 crore thereafter. A Lok Sabha MP can use the fund in her constituency. Rajya Sabha members can fund any project in a state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-performance-in-bye-elections-prompted-govt-to-restore-mplads-congress-mp-101636624465134.html
11-11-2021||India||With eye on Uttar Pradesh elections, Amit Shah to visit Varanasi tomorrow||Union home minister Amit Shah will arrive in Varanasi on Friday for a two-day visit to eastern Uttar Pradesh in view of the assembly elections in the state due early next year, said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Navratan Rathi.He is expected to hold a meeting with BJP office-bearers. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his deputy, Keshav Prasad Maurya, will be among those who are due to attend the meeting. Shah will separately meet BJP social media volunteers and the booth presidents. He will also take feedback about the performance of the lawmakers from the region.Also Read: Amit Shah to visit Pune in role as cooperation minister on Nov 26On Saturday, Shah will lay the foundation stone of a university in Azamgarh, a stronghold of opposition Samajwadi Party, and address a public meeting.Kaushal Kishore Mishra, a political science professor at Banaras Hindu University, said people in Azamgarh have been demanding the university since the mid-70s.Eastern Uttar Pradesh sends 61 lawmakers to the 403-member state assembly. In 2017, the BJP won 34 of the seats as it swept to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-eye-on-uttar-pradesh-elections-amit-shah-to-visit-varanasi-tomorrow-101636623684641.html
11-11-2021||India||Centre, states discuss ways to bolster ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ Covid vaccination program, as 38% population fully vaccinated||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday discussed various measures with the states and Union territories to strengthen the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaign. He called upon the states, UTs to work together to ensure that all eligible people in the country are covered under the national immunisation drive.“Lets us ensure collectively through collaborative and multi-stakeholder efforts that no eligible citizen is left without the ‘Suraksha Kawachh’ of Covid-19 vaccine in the country. Let us reach each corner and household across the country and motivate people to take both the doses under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Har Ghar Dastak campaign,” Mandaviya said during the meeting.The door-to-door vaccine campaign was initially launched earlier this month for a period of one month with a special focus on second dose vaccinations. Also, people who have not been administered the first dose, would also be vaccinated during the campaign, the Union health ministry had said earlier.
11-11-2021||India||'Version of Hindutva similar to ISIS': Complaints filed against Salman Khurshid over new book on Ayodhya||Veteran Congress leader Salman Khurshid's new book of Ayodhya has kicked up a storm as he has reportedly compared a robust version of Hindutva similar to ISIS and Boko Haram. Two Delhi lawyers Vivek Garg and Vineet Jindal have filed complaints with the Delhi Police against Salman Khurshid for allegedly defaming Hindutva.The book titled 'Sunrise Over Ayodhya' is on the Supreme Court verdict on the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute. The book launch event was held on Wednesday and was attended by Congress leaders P Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh among others."Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years," a chapter of the book titled 'The Saffron Sky' reads. Congress’s Salman Khurshid in his new book writes that Hindutva is similar to the jihadist Islamist groups like ISIS and Biko Haram.What else can we expect from someone whose party coined the term Saffron terror just to draw equivalence with Islamic jihad, to get Muslim votes? pic.twitter.com/3OikNQJ3qtIn the complaint, Vivek Garg said, "This reflects the true mindset of Congress as they try to legitimise the radical elements of ISIS by creating an artificial equivalence with Hindus. His statement printed in his book is itself self-explanatory and clearly discloses his commission of the cognizable offence. The language, intention of the said book authored by the alleged accused, is an open case of sedition, conspiracy to wage the war against India, promoting enmity between Hindus-Muslims, etc.""The contents of the statement made by the accused claim Hinduism to be equivalent to ISIS and Boko haram, which are terrorist groups. It is a quite aggravating and defamatory statement for the whole Hindu community and also questions their values and virtues about society. The equivalence of Hinduism to ISIS and Boko haram is perceived as a negative ideology Hindus have been following and Hinduism is violent, inhuman and oppressive," Jindal's complaint read.Speaking at the book launch, Digvijaya Singh on Wednesday said it is unfortunate that Hindutva and Hinduism have become synonymous. "Savarkar wasn't religious. He even asked why the cow is considered 'maata' and he had no problem in consuming beef. He brought 'Hindutva' word to establish Hindu identity which caused confusion in people," Digvijaya Singh said.Reacting to the controversy that his statement on Hindutva has kicked up, Khurshid said he praised Hinduism and Sanatan Dharma in his book. Hindutva is different from Hinduism, the writer has said.Madhya Pradesh minister Narottam Mishra said Salman Khurshid must have published the book to purposely create a controversy.  “They support politics of appeasement. Congress leaders and the Gandhi family are supporters of 'Tukde-Tukde' gang. They want the country to be divided on the basis of castes,” Mishra said. 
11-11-2021||India||PM Modi, other leaders condole demise of VHP's Anand Shankar Pandya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders condoled the demise of former Vice President of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Anand Shankar Pandya. Expressing sorrow on Pandya's demise, the Prime Minister said he was passionate about India's growth."Shri Anand Shankar Pandya Ji was a prolific author and public intellectual who wrote extensively on history, public policy and spirituality. He was passionate about India's growth. He was active in the VHP and worked selflessly towards social service. Saddened by his demise," PM Modi said.Shri Anand Shankar Pandya Ji was a prolific author and public intellectual who wrote extensively on history, public policy and spirituality. He was passionate about India’s growth. He was active in the VHP and worked selflessly towards social service. Saddened by his demise."My mind goes back to the many interactions I had with Shri Anand Shankar Pandya ji. It was a delight to hear from him several anecdotes of his interactions with great freedom fighters and insights on issues. Spoke to his family and expressed condolences on his demise. Om Shanti," he said in subsequent tweet.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Jagat Prakash Nadda said Pandya's contribution is inspiring."It is very sad to hear about the passing away of former Vice President of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Anand Shankar Pandya. His contribution as a thinker, thinker and writer who selflessly devoted his entire life to the service of the nation is inspiring. My deepest sympathies to their families. Om Shanti," Nadda said in a tweet.Uttar Pradesh chief minjsiter Yogi Adityanath said he is extremelt saddened by Pandya's demise."The death of famous writer Shri Anand Shankar Pandya ji, former vice-president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, is extremely sad. His dedication towards social welfare with selflessness throughout life will always be a guide for us. May Lord Shri Ram grant the departed soul a place at his feet," Adityanath said on Koo.Pandya has written a number of books and was involved in social service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-other-leaders-condole-demise-of-vhp-s-anand-shankar-pandya-101636616298568.html
11-11-2021||India||‘Fear of getting captured as POWs shouldn’t be held against women’||Padmavathy Bandopadhyay, the first woman Indian Air Force (IAF) officer promoted to the Air Marshal rank who was decorated with the fourth-highest civilian award Padma Shri on Tuesday, has said women should also be allowed in combat roles as they have been allowed to join the National Defence Academy (NDA). She said the fear of being captured as prisoners of war (POW) should not be held against women.A third of the candidates appearing for the NDA examination on November 14 for entry into the premier joint services training institution are women, HT reported on October 30. A Supreme Court order on August 18 made women eligible to join NDA, which was a male preserve for almost seven decades. Women were allowed to serve in select branches of the army, IAF and navy as short-service commission officers three decades earlier. Front-line combat roles were off-limits to women until the government approved a 2015 IAF plan to induct them into the fighter stream. Warships, tanks, and combat positions in the infantry are still no-go zones for women. Navy has women as pilots and observers onboard its maritime reconnaissance aircraft, which is a combat role.Bandopadhyay, 77, who retired in 2005, said if women work hard and prove themselves, then nobody can stop them. “If I can do it, then anybody can do it. Whether you are a man or woman, all challenges that come your way need to be accepted. We are not posted in Delhi, Bangalore, Mumbai, or any of those big cities. We are in the periphery.”Also Read: ‘Feels like winning war,’ says one of 39 women Army officers who got permanent commissionBandopadhyay said women should not be afraid of tough field postings. She added there were three types of people that existed in the armed forces. Bandopadhyay said the first were the ones who “mollycoddled” women, the second thought they could do nothing and were useless, and the third accepted them and encouraged them to do better. She added this has stopped, and women are treated like any other officers.Bandopadhyay said when officers were held captive and mutilated during the Kargil war, did people talk about it? “Are they not human beings?” she said when asked about POW argument to keep women away from combat roles. “...both men and women can be held as POWs...everyone has to be prepared for it because it may or may not happen.”Bandopadhyay said comparisons between the opportunities women get in the American and Israeli militaries with India were not valid. “We are culturally different from these nations. Incorporating women in the force will take time but the move towards this has been made by allowing women cadets to join the NDA from 2023.”Bandopadhyay, a recipient of Param Vishisht Seva, Ati Vishisht, and Vishisht Seva medals who joined the IAF in 1968, was the second woman to be promoted to a three-star rank. She was also the first Indian woman to conduct scientific research at the North Pole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fear-of-getting-captured-as-pows-shouldn-t-be-held-against-women-padma-awardee-101636616664276.html
11-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bengali actor-turned-politician Srabanti Chatterjee quits BJP and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bengali actor-turned-politician Srabanti Chatterjee cuts ‘all ties’ with BJPBengali actor Srabanti Chatterjee, who joined the BJP earlier this year, on Thursday said that she was severing all ties with the party. Expressing her displeasure with the party's functioning in West Bengal, the actor said that the BJP has shown a “lack of initiative and sincerity” towards the welfare of the state, due to which she has taken the decision to quit the party. Read moreKangana says India got ‘real freedom' in 2014. Varun Gandhi says, ‘Madness?’Reacting to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's comment that India got true freedom in 2014, BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday exclaimed that whether he should call this idea 'madness' or 'treason'. The video of Kangana Ranaut has now gone viral on social media as several celebrities have strongly criticised what Kangana said. Read moreWhy Malala cut a cake at her wedding. Husband Asser Malik explainsMalala's husband Pakistan Cricket Board official Asser Malik has posted a photo of their Nikah where the new couple can be seen cutting a cake. Asser explained that it was the tradition of the cricket team to do a victory cake cutting. Read moreT20 World Cup: Battles aplenty, on and off fieldAfter the news of boardroom bonhomie—Australia have agreed to tour Pakistan next year after a 24-year-gap—comes the on-field face-off. Not an inch will be given on the field of course, as both teams look to rise above their own imperfections and go one step closer to the trophy in the semi-finals on Thursday in Dubai. Read moreZoya Akhtar announces The Archies, rumoured debut project of Suhana Khan, Khushi Kapoor and Agastya NandaZoya Akhtar is set to bring the Archie Comics to life in a new musical drama set in the 1960s. The official Instagram account of Netflix India announced the project but did not reveal any details about the cast. Read moreThings you should avoid doing post meals as per AyurvedaThere are certain things that Ayurveda doesn't recommend you to do immediately after having lunch, breakfast or dinner. As per the ancient medicine system, drinking water after meals or going to bed right after dinner is not a good idea and can burden your digestive system. Read moreYezdi's first bike in India is likely to be the Roadking ADVYezdi is all set for revival in the Indian market as officially revealed on Wednesday. While Jawa Motorcycles has announced Yezdi's independent operations, the latter has also launched its own dedicated social media platforms. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengali-actor-turned-politician-srabanti-chatterjee-quits-bjp-and-all-the-latest-news-101636614541205.html
11-11-2021||India||National Education Day: 10 things to know about Abul Kalam Azad||Every year, November 11 is celebrated as National education day, which commemorates the birth anniversary of independent India’s first education minister, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad.In 2008, the ministry of human resource development decided to celebrate Azad’s birthday as National Education Day. Educational institutions across India mark the event with seminars, essay-writing, workshops etc to highlight the importance of education.However, Maulana abul Kalam Azad had not only been India’s first education minister but also played an important role in the country’s freedom struggle.Here are 10 things to know about himSeveral political leaders paid tributes to Maulana Abul Kalam Azad on his birth anniversary.“Tributes to Maulana Abul Kalam Azad on his Jayanti. A pathbreaking thinker and intellectual, his role in the freedom struggle is inspiring. He was passionate about the education sector and worked to further brotherhood in society,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.“Tributes to the first education minister of independent India Bharat Ratna Maulana Abul Kalam Azad on his birth anniversary. Happy National Education Day,” Union minister Nitin Gadkari posted on Koo.“Tributes to freedom fighter and country’s first education minister Maulana Abul Kalam Azad on his birth anniversary. We reiterate our resolve to bring the light of education to every child,” Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-education-day-10-things-to-know-about-abul-kalam-azad-101636608753488.html
11-11-2021||India||Kangana says India got ‘real freedom' in 2014. Varun Gandhi says, ‘Madness?’||Reacting to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's comment that India got true freedom in 2014, BJP MP Varun Gandhi on Thursday exclaimed that whether he should call this idea 'madness' or 'treason'. The video of Kangana Ranaut has now gone viral on social media as several celebrities have strongly criticised what Kangana said. कभी महात्मा गांधी जी के त्याग और तपस्या का अपमान, कभी उनके हत्यारे का सम्मान, और अब शहीद मंगल पाण्डेय से लेकर रानी लक्ष्मीबाई, भगत सिंह, चंद्रशेखर आज़ाद, नेताजी सुभाष चंद्र बोस और लाखों स्वतंत्रता सेनानियों की कुर्बानियों का तिरस्कार। इस सोच को मैं पागलपन कहूँ या फिर देशद्रोह? pic.twitter.com/Gxb3xXMi2ZTaking part in the annual summit of a national media network, guest speaker Kangana talked about India's freedom struggle. “Woh azaadi nahi thi, woh bheek thi. Aur jo azaadi mili hai woh 2014 mai mili hai (That wasn’t freedom, those were alms. We got real freedom in 2014.)”"Sometimes an insult to the sacrifice and penance of Mahatma Gandhi, something showing respect to his killer and now this disdain for the sacrifices of millions of freedom fighters starting from Mangal Pandey to Rani Laxmibai, Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad, Netaji and more. Should I call this thought process madness or treason," Varun Gandhi who has become vocal against his own party tweeted sharing the viral video.
11-11-2021||India||Chennai: Marina beach flooded after heavy rain, check latest updates||Heavy rains continued to lash Chennai and its nearby areas on Thursday morning, affecting vehicular movement and causing waterlogging in the city. The popular Marina beach, which runs from near the Fort St George area in the north to the Foreshore Estate in the south, flooded over after the heavy downpour which was a result of a cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal. Several other areas like Nungambakkam, Sterling road, KMC Hospital road also remained waterlogged due to the incessant rain.Visuals posted by the ANI news agency on Thursday showed Marina Beach, which is usually one of the most crowded beaches in the country, flooding due to the heavy rains.#WATCH Chennai's popular Marina beach flooded due to heavy downpour as a result of cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal#TamilNadu pic.twitter.com/L6N4iIhj1uHere are the latest updates regarding the heavy rain in Chennai:1. Eleven subways in Chennai and several roads have been closed due to waterlogging. The Kodambakkam area of Chennai even witnessed trees being uprooted with water-logging due to heavy rainfall and wind. Traffic has been diverted and at least four trees were uprooted.2. Reservoirs in Chembarambakkam, Redhills, Cholavaram, Poondi, and Veeranam reached their maximum capacity and water was being discharged from them this morning.3. The office of Divisional Railway Manager of Southern Railway, Chennai on Thursday said that the majority of the services from MAS to Tiruvallur had been suspended due to waterlogging of tracks at Avadi and Ambattur.4 . The Chennai Divisional Railway Manager has announced new emergency helplines. If commuters have any questions about the departure and arrival of trains they can contact the toll-free numbers 25330952 and 25330953. An additional mobile number 8300052104 has also been provided for the benefit of the passengers.Name of the subways closed due to waterlogging:1. Vyasarpadi Subway2. Ganeshapuram Subway3. Ajaxs Subway4. Gangu Reddy Subway5. Madley Subway6. Duraiswamy Subway7. Palavanthangal Subway8. Tambaram Subway9. Aranganathan Subway10. Villivakkam Subway11. Kakhan Bridge Subway (two-wheeler and auto)Road Closed:1. KK Nagar - Raja Mannar Salai2. Mylapore - Sivaswamy Salai3. EVR Salai - Gandhi Irwin to Nair Point4. Sembeium - Jawahar Nagar5. Peravallur - 70 feet road6. Pulianthope - Dr Ambedkar Road, Pulianthope high road, Perambur Barracks Road, Tower Clock7. Vyasarpadi - Mullai Nagar Bridge||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-marina-beach-flooded-after-heavy-rain-check-latest-updates-101636608535204.html
11-11-2021||India||Chennai threatened by cyclone circulation: Areas to avoid and other advisories||Chennai, battered by incessant rain, is expected to receive more downpour as a depression in the Bay of Bengal is hurtling towards Tamil Nadu coast. The India Meteorological Department's (IMD) regional centre has said that it will cross the coast between north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh on Thursday evening.Districts in northern Tamil Nadu including Chennai, Kancheepuram and Villpuram are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, S Balachandran said.In the morning, the depression was centred around 170km southeast of Chennai.In the wake of the cyclonic circulation, the IMD has issued advisories for the people of Chennai and other cities.Advisory for general public: Over a two-day period, the regions will experience "strong surface winds" of up to 60kmph. "People should not venture out unnecessarily," said Balachandran, adding that the IMD is constantly monitoring the situation.Areas to avoid: The IMD has issued a red alert (warning for extremely heavy rainfall) for Chennai and northern Tamil Nadu on November 11. In Chennai, heavy rainfall was recorded on Wednesday in Ennore Port, Nugambakkam, Sterling road, KMC Hospital Road, MRC Nagar and Taramani, leading to reduced visibility and waterlogging in some locations. Apart from areas in Chennai, six other neighbouring districts are also expected to receive heavy rainfall and the local authorities have advised people to avoid those area of plan their travel accordingly.Warning for fishermen: The IMD has advised fishermen to not venture into southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, Gulf of Mannar and along and off Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts on November 11.Train services suspended: The office of Divisional Railway Manager of Southern Railway in Chennai said on Thursday that the majority of the services from MAS to Tiruvallur had been suspended due to waterlogging of tracks at Avadi and Ambattur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-threatened-by-cyclone-circulation-areas-to-avoid-and-other-advisories-101636610479994.html
11-11-2021||India||Heavy rains, strong winds lash flood-hit Chennai||Heavy rains and strong winds lashed flood-hit Chennai overnight with the city’s Nungambakkam station recording 140.5mm of rainfall until 5.30am on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department said that extremely heavy rainfall occurred in isolated places in Tamil Nadu’s Nagapattinam, Thiruvarur, and Karaikal from 8.30am on Wednesday over the next 24 hours.The heavy rains have been caused by a depression over southwest Bay of Bengal which moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 21kmph early Thursday and lay centred at 5.30am about 170km east-southeast of Chennai and 170km east of Puducherry. “It is very likely to continue to move west-northwestwards and cross north Tamil Nadu and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts around Chennai by November 11 evening,” said the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC).See photos: Incessant rain in Chennai causes waterlogging, IMD issues red alert for November 11A wind warning at 6.45am was also issued for the next six hours in Chennai and its adjoining districts due to the influence of the depression. “Surface winds will be strong with a wind speed around 40 with gusting to 45 kilometres per hour over Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during next six hours,” said head of RMC (Chennai) S Balachandran.Eleven subways in Chennai and several roads have been closed due to waterlogging. Traffic has been diverted and at least four trees were uprooted. Reservoirs in Chembarambakkam, Redhills, Cholavaram, Poondi, and Veeranam reached their maximum capacity and water was being discharged from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-strong-winds-lash-flood-hit-chennai-101636610003935.html
11-11-2021||India||LED TVs, refrigerators: Maharashtra's Chandrapur offers vaccination incentives||In a bid to encourage more and more people to get inoculated against Covid-19, the Chandrapur Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra has announced a vaccination bumper lucky draw, with lucrative prizes ranging from LED TVs, refrigerators to washing machines.Citizens who come to the civic-run vaccination centres to get their jabs from November 12 to 24 will get a chance to win these prizes, according to a release issued by the municipal corporation on Wednesday evening.The decision to offer the incentives to citizens was taken during a review meeting held under the chairmanship of Mayor Rakhi Sanjay Kancharlawar.After the meeting, civic commissioner Rajesh Mohite and other officials appealed to people to go to their nearest civic-run inoculation centre and get vaccinated.Those who take the jabs between November 12 and 24, will be eligible to participate in the lucky draw, which offers a refrigerator, washing machine and LED television set as first, second and third prizes, respectively. Besides, 10 citizens will get mixer-grinders as consolation prizes, according to the civic body. So far, 1,93,581 citizens have got their first dose of vaccine in Chandrapur city, while 99,620 have received both the doses, the release said.The number of vaccinations is still low compared to the total number of eligible persons in the city, it said. The civic body's health department has set up vaccination facilities at 21 centres here and all eligible people should get vaccinated at the earliest, the mayor said. The civic body in its release also said it has decided that hawkers, essential service providers and shop-keepers will have to show their vaccination certificates, of having taken at least one dose, or else they would not be allowed to enter the city's markets. The government has directed to achieve the target of cent per cent vaccination in the city. Hence, every establishment should plan to get its employees inoculated and even other eligible members of the general public should get their jabs before November 30, Mohite said.It is mandatory for every service provider, including vendors and vegetable sellers, and those who come in frequent contact with the public to get vaccinated, he said. People should also carry the vaccination certificate with them and produce it whenever required, he added.On Wednesday, three new Covid-19 cases were reported in Chandrapur district, while there was no fatality due to the viral infection, as per the district information office.So far, 88,823 cases and 1,542 deaths have been reported in the district since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/led-tvs-refrigerators-maharashtra-s-chandrapur-offers-vaccination-incentives-101636607979060.html
11-11-2021||India||With 13,091 infections, India's daily Covid-19 tally sees slight jump; 340 new deaths||India's daily Covid-19 tally saw a slight rise on Thursday as the number of infections rose to 13,091. It was 14.17% higher than Wednesday when the country recorded 11,466 cases in a span of 24 hours, according to the data published on the Union health ministry's website. The cumulative number of total infections has now reached 3,44,01,670, the health ministry figures showed.The number of related daily fatalities saw a slight dip as 340 people succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The death toll now stands at 462,189. The count of active Covid-19 cases in India saw a fall and now stands at 138,556, the lowest in the last 266 days, the health ministry further said. Currently, the active cases constitute 0.40 per cent of the country's total positive cases. It is the lowest since March 2020.As many as 13,878 people were cured of the infection in the last 24 hours and the total number of recoveries since the beginning of the pandemic now stands to 3,37,87,047. Consequently, India’s recovery rate stands at 98.25%.The weekly positivity rate was 1.18%; it has remained less than two per cent for the last 48 days now, according to the health ministry. The daily positivity rate was reported to 1.10 per cent and was below 2 per cent for last 38 days now.The country has conducted more than 61.99 crore (61,99,02,064) cumulative tests so far, out of which 11,89,470 tests were conducted in a single day.On the vaccination front, the total number of doses administered till Wednesday evening has reached above 110 crore (1,10,23,34,225), the ministry also informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-13-091-infections-india-s-daily-covid-19-tally-sees-slight-jump-101636606809893.html
11-11-2021||India||'Torture, financial loss': Nawab Malik's son-in-law sends legal notice to Fadnavis, demands ₹5 cr damages||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan who was arrested in a drug-related case early this year and is now out on bail has sent a legal notice to BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, demanding ₹5 crore damages for 'mental torture, agony, financial loss and injury' inflicted to his reputation because of Fadnavis' statement on a television channel.According to the legal notice, shared on Twitter by Nawab Malik and his daughter Nilofer Malik Khan, Fadnavis accused Sameer Khan of possessing drugs, while the investigation into the case is still going on. "The chargesheet filed by the Narcotics Control Bureau does not support even a single allegation levied by you. The Panchnama dated 14/01/2021 clearly says that the house was searched and no contraband/suspicious substance was found in my client's house or under his possession. But from which source you obtained such false, frivolous and baseless report is better known to you," the legal notice for defamation said.Commenting on the legal notice, Nawab Malik said, “My daughter has sent a legal notice to former CM and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis over his allegation that drugs were found at our residence. We will file a defemination case against Fadnavis if he will not apologise to us.” False accusations ruin lives. Before one accuses or condemns they must know what they are talking about. This defamation notice is for the false claims & statements which Mr. @Dev_Fadnavis has put on my family. We will not back down. pic.twitter.com/xsQYcgDhMbThe notice comes at a time when Devendra Fadnavis and Nawab Malik are throwing brickbats at the other in the aftermath of the arrest of Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in a drugs case. While Nawab Malik has accused Fadnavis of shielding fake currency racket, Fadnavis claimed Nawam Malik and his family members were involved in questionable land deals.Amid the ongoing war of words which is getting murkier with new accusations every day, Nawab Malik's daughter recently wrote an open letter recounting how she and her children struggled after Sameer Khan's arrest."False accusations ruin lives. Before one accuses or condemns, they must know what they are talking about. This defamation notice is for the false claims and statements which Devendra Fadnavis has put on my family. We will not back down," Nilofer tweeted.The Sameer Khan case is now being probed by the special investigation team of the Narcotics Control Bureau, which is also looking into the Aryan Khan case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/torture-financial-loss-nawab-malik-s-son-in-law-sends-legal-notice-to-fadnavis-demands-rs-5-cr-damages-101636606627794.html
11-11-2021||India||Heavy rain continues in Chennai, few trains services suspended: Top updates||Heavy rains continued to lash Chennai and nearby areas on Thursday, causing waterlogging and affecting vehicular movement in Tamil Nadu’s capital. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in Chennai along with Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram and Thiruvallur districts of the state.Till now, 12 people have lost their lives due to rain-related incidents in Tamil Nadu. The well-marked low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal has concentrated into a depression and is likely to cross north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coasts near Chennai by Thursday evening.“Depression over southwest Bay of Bengal about 170 km east-southeast of Chennai and 170 km east of Puducherry. Continue to move west-northwestwards and cross north Tamil Nadu & adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts around Chennai by the evening of November 11, 2021,” The IMD said in its bulletin.Here are the latest updates:> Waterlogging has been reported in many parts of Chennai including Nungambakkam, Sterling road, KMC Hospital.> The Kodambakkam area in the city also reported uprooting of trees besides waterlogging.> The office of the Divisional Railway Manager of Southern Railway informed on Thursday that only a few train services are currently suspended from Chennai Central towards Tiruvallur and Arakkonam. “Work is underway to bring the train services back to normal,” the office of the DRM tweeted.> Earlier, a majority of the train services were suspended in Chennai because of waterlogging of tracks at Avadi and Ambattur. The DRM had advised people to plan their travel accordingly.> Meanwhile, the IMD has predicted moderate rainfall in other parts of Tamil Nadu including Vellore, Ranipet, Thiruvannamalai and Thenkasi districts.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-continues-in-chennai-few-trains-services-suspended-top-updates-101636602799112.html
11-11-2021||India||Depression likely to dump heavy rain in coastal Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh||Heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is expected in parts of coastal and interior Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka on Thursday and Friday due to a depression in the Bay of Bengal. On Thursday morning, the depression was centred around 170km southeast of Chennai. It is likely to cross the coastal stretches of northern Tamil Nadu and southern Andhra Pradesh - including Chennai - by Thursday evening, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Over a two-day period, the regions will experience wind speeds of up to 60kmph. The low pressure system will generally make conditions in the Bay of Bengal rough, with fishermen having been advised not to venture out in the waters off the coasts of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh on November 11, according to the IMD bulletin. The IMD has also said that heavy rains from the depression may reduce visibility, and cause waterlogging and traffic jams, with vulnerable structures likely to be damaged. Heavy rainfall was recorded at weather stations across Chennai. Ennore port reported 12cm of rainfall till Thursday morning, Nugambakkam received 11.4cm, MRC Nagar received 11.5cm, and Taramani received 10.3cm. Regions across Tamil Nadu received heavier rainfall on Wednesday, with Nagapattinam reporting more than 23cm of rainfall and Thiruvarur 20cm. Also, the IMD forecast says minimum temperatures in northwest India and Madhya Pradesh will start dropping by 2-3 degrees Celsius after 48 hours, while Gujarat will see its temperatures go up by 2-3 degrees Celsius over the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/depression-likely-to-dump-heavy-rain-in-coastal-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-101636602983666.html
11-11-2021||India||Devotees offer 'Usha Arghya' to Sun on last day of Chhath Puja||Devotees across the country broke their 36-hour long fast with "Usha Arghya" (prayers to the rising sun) on Thursday, marking the conclusion of four-day-long Chhath Puja festival. During this, the devotees make offerings to Sun God while standing in knee-deep water.In Delhi, hundreds of people gathered at the banks of various ghats to offer prayers. Artificial ponds were also established in the city to perform the puja in view of the Covid-19 restrictions.The Delhi government also set up vaccination camps near a Chhath Puja ghat for those who have not yet taken the jab against the viral pathogen. "The camp has been organised for those who have not taken the vaccine or whose second dose is due. Around 8,000 people are offering prayers here," news agency ANI quoted SDM Sharat Kumar, as saying.The Chhath Puja is a widely popular festival in India and is celebrated across the country. The festival is mainly celebrated by purvanchalis belonging to Bihar, Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand settled in Delhi.During the festival, worshippers offer 'Arghya' to the Sun god. As per the rituals, the women of the family observe fast and pray for the better health and prosperity of the family.The ancient Hindu festival is dedicated to Lord Surya (Sun God) and his sister Chhathi Maiya and it is celebrated on the sixth day of the month of Kartik. This year it began on November 8 with Nahay Khay.Devotees also distribute the prasad of thekua, seasonal fruits, dry fruits and chawal laddoo to the family members and friends as part of the celebrations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/devotees-offer-usha-arghya-to-sun-on-last-day-of-chhath-puja-101636601298327.html
11-11-2021||India||ED provisionally attaches assets of former telecom department official||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has provisionally attached assets worth ₹6.32 crore of Somyendra Nath Banerjee, a former deputy director-general (new technology), department of telecommunications, and his associates in connection with an agency probe into his alleged disproportionate assets.“The attached assets are in the form of one office premises, two vacant plots of land, one three-storeyed commercial building along with plant and machinery of a running company, balance lying in 47 accounts, two vehicles, shares held in Demat accounts, and two Demand Drafts,” ED said in a statement.The ED probe is based on a case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation alleging Banerjee amassed properties beyond his known sources of income and possessed disproportionate assets of ₹7.58 crore.Also Read: Court rejects ED’s plea of ‘urgently’ questioning Vaze in crime branch’s custodyIt has been found that from April 2005 to June 2013, Banerjee allegedly acquired cash through corrupt practices and by abusing his official capacity.Officials said the cash was allegedly diverted to the companies floated by Banerjee and to purchase shares and properties in his name or the names of his family members and their companies.“The part amount of the said ill-gotten money has also been used for investment in another company effectively controlled by him or his family members. Accordingly, proceeds of crime have been quantified at ₹7.58 crore,” the ED said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-provisionally-attaches-assets-of-former-telecom-department-official-101636601424154.html
11-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Priyanka Gandhi to launch ‘padayatra’ in Lucknow today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Eye on UP polls, Priyanka Gandhi to launch ‘padayatra’ in Lucknow todayCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will on Thursday take out a ‘padyatra’ (foot march) across various parts of Lucknow as part of the grand old party's ‘Pragati Yatra’ launched last month in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh. Read moreCentral trade unions set to launch protests against monetisation pipelineTen central trade unions will be conducting a series of protests starting Thursday, ahead of their planned two-day nationwide strike during the Budget session of Parliament. Read morePunjab politics: Akalis, farmers clash in Ferozepur during Harsimrat’s visitActivists of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) accused other of opening fire during a clash in Ferozepur during Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal’s visit on Wednesday. Read moreFrance has entered the 5th wave of Covid-19, warns ministerFrance is experiencing the beginning of the fifth wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the country's health minister Olivier Veran said on Wednesday, triggering fresh worries for those who were hoping to see an imminent end to the infection. Read moreJimmy Neesham didn't move an inch when New Zealand dugout celebrated wildly after reaching final. Here's whyJimmy Neesham is one of the very few New Zealand cricketers who is very active on social media. That he has a quirky sense of humour makes him one of the most popular ones too. Read moreJonas Brothers Family Roast: Nick Jonas sets the record straight as Pete Davidson mocks his acting career, watch teaserA promo for the Jonas Brothers Family Roast, which will see celebrities and stand-up comics poke fun at singers Nick Jonas, Joe Jonas and Kevin Jonas, has dropped online. Read moreRicha Chadha, in boxing mode, is ‘the girl your mama warned you about’Richa Chadha is in preparation mode now. The actor is indulged in her new fitness routine and that is boxing. According to her words, boxing is great exercise for two reasons – it makes for a good workout and also helps in getting rid of the extra stress. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-priyanka-gandhi-to-launch-padayatra-in-lucknow-today-101636600333191.html
11-11-2021||India||Maoists kill police informer in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada||Suspected Maoists killed a police informer in the Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh’s Left-wing insurgency-hit Bastar region, police said on Wednesday.Dantewada police superintendent Abhishek Pallava said that Umesh Markam was killed on Tuesday night when he was returning from his native Tetam village.“A small action team of the Katekalyan area committee of Maoists attacked Markam with sharp-edged weapons. Markam died on the spot,” Pallava said in a statement.Police cited the preliminary probe and added a group of Maoists led by Pradeep, an area committee member of the rebels, attacked Markam. A police team rushed to the scene on Wednesday and sent his body for postmortem.“Markam helped the security forces in setting up a police camp last year in Tetam village. Subsequently, he started working as ’gopniya sainik (secret informer)’ with the police,” Pallava said.The informers are appointed at the district police level for helping in anti-Maoist operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-kill-police-informer-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-101636600823686.html
11-11-2021||India||Amit Shah in Varanasi on Nov 12, may discuss UP polls strategy with BJP workers||Union home minister Amit hah is expected to visit Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi on November 12 to attend Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan. The meeting is significant in view of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh as he is considered as the architect of the BJP's turnaround in the state.The party, which had been relegated to fourth position in the 2012 polls, stormed to victory in 2017, winning 312 seats with a vote share of 39.67 per cent. This time, the party is seeking to retain power.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, Shah will also meet Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and discuss preparations for next year's elections.The home minister has two scheduled visits to Varanasi this month - one from November 12 to 13 and the other one from November 19 to 21, according to Livehindustan.In the recently-held national executive committee meeting, chief minister Yogi Adityanath was given due importance which points to the BJP's electoral strategy, according to Livehindustan. The party has now geared up for elections in India's largest state and leaders have been deployed to look after different aspects of the BJP's election campaign, Livehindustan reported.The entire UP poll campaign is being governed by the BJP's central leadership, with Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan in key position. Party's vice president Radha Mohan Singh is supervising the co-ordination efforts between the central and state unit.The next elections are expected to be held in Uttar Pradesh between February and March next year to elect 403 members of the state's legislative assembly. The Election Commission of India (ECI) is likely to announce the schedule in January.The term of the current assembly elected in 2017 will expire on May 14, 2022.In 2014, the BJP had registered a historic win in 71 out of Uttar Pradesh's 80 Lok Sabha seats. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP won 62 of the state's 80 parliamentary constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-varanasi-on-nov-12-may-discuss-up-polls-strategy-with-bjp-workers-101636599439770.html
11-11-2021||India||NCPCR writes to CBFC over screening of films showing same-sex relationships||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has written to the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) asking whether eight movies depicting same-sex relationships have obtained certification to be screened for children.The movies by directors Salim Shekh, Manish Chowdhury, Saptarshi Ray, and Avijit Marjit are to be screened by a partner organisation of the Unicef, Prayasam, to promote inclusiveness. After media reports about the screening, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo sought the CBFC’s confirmation whether these movies have been certified and also the category of the certification.Also Read: NCPCR asks NCERT to rectify ‘anomalies’ in genderneutral teacher training manualKanoongo has also written to Unicef India representative Yasumasa Kimura seeking the “mandate under which the movies have been selected to be screened for minors”.The movies are set to premiere on December 3 at the 8th Bad and Beautiful World Film Festival at Kalanjali Art Space in Kolkata.The movies explore different aspects of same-sex relationships, from the reconciliation of the father with his gay son to the trials of a male escort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-writes-to-cbfc-over-screening-of-films-showing-same-sex-relationships-101636600104042.html
11-11-2021||India||Central trade unions set to launch protests against monetisation pipeline||Ten central trade unions will be conducting a series of protests starting Thursday, ahead of their planned two-day nationwide strike during the Budget session of Parliament. The trade unions intending to hold the protests include the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), the Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), the Centre for Indian Trade Unions (Citu), and the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC). The demonstrations and strikes are aimed at protesting the central government's decisions to fully or partially privatise the public sector units (PSUs) and the effect these moves will have on the working class in the country. However, the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), the labour union affiliated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), will not be participating in the protests.According to a joint statement issued by the protesting trade unions, the demonstrations against the central government's disinvestment policy intend to make people aware of the “dangerous effects” of the move. The national convention of trade unions, which is to be held on Thursday, is the first in a series of demonstrations to reach out to the citizens of the nation, the unions said, adding that this will be followed by state-level conventions and protests all over India.As per a media report citing the statement issued by the trade unions, Thursday's national convention will be “followed by a two-day countrywide general strike during the Budget Session in 2022.” Meanwhile, November 26 has been fixed as the nationwide protest day, since the date marks the anniversary of the National General Strike of trade unions and the ‘Kisan March’ (farmers' foot march) to Delhi.The national monetisation pipeline (NMP), against which the 10 trade unions are protesting, is a scheme introduced by the central government to raise as much as $81 billion by leasing out state-owned infrastructure assets over the next four years. According to the Union ministry of finance, the NMP will help fund new capital expenditure without putting pressure on government finances. However, the trade unions call the plan a “destructive” and “nefarious design” to hand over public infrastructural assets to private hands at little to no cost.The unions had also marked protests against the monetisation pipeline policy earlier on October 7, when they alleged that the move announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is merely a scheme to hand government assets to private hands “virtually free”.Meanwhile, according to the government vision, NMP is envisaged to serve as a medium-term roadmap for identifying potential monetisation-ready projects, across various infrastructure sectors. The NMP has been prepared after insights, feedback, and experiences consolidated through multi-stakeholder consultations undertaken by Niti Aayog, the finance ministry, and the infrastructure line ministries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-trade-unions-set-to-launch-protests-against-monetisation-pipeline-101636595628388.html
11-11-2021||India||Indore businessmen to offer services only to fully vaccinated people||In a novel initiative, various associations have come together in Madhya Pradesh's Indore to help the administration achieve 100 per cent Covid-19 vaccination. The milk supplying organisations, salons, restaurants and bars have announced that they will offer their services only to those customers who are fully vaccinated.The novel campaign will begin from November 30. The customers entering the premises will have to present complete vaccination certificate."Till now, 9.49 lakh people haven't taken their second dose. Yesterday, we called different associations and they all themselves decided to ensure strictness. They've given November 30 as the deadline; after that, they'll offer services after seeing Covid-19 vaccination certificate only," Indore district magistrate Manish Singh said on Wednesday."These different associations will motivate and make people aware regarding vaccination," he added.He further informed that banks, colleges and hospitals have also joined the initiative and will not allow those who are not fully vaccinated.As per the Union health ministry, a total of 7,21,94,819 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in Madhya Pradesh so far wherein 5,00,19,724 were first doses. Only 2,21,75,095 second doses have been administered in the state till now.The administration in Maharashtra's Aurangabad has also taken a similar initiative. In an order, district collector Sunil Chavan directed fair price shops, gas agencies and petrol pumps to check the Covid vaccination certificates of customers.According to the order, only to those citizens having taken at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19 will be able to get groceries from ration shops, cylinder from gas agencies and fuel from petrol pumps.If the order is not followed, the administration will take action against the people concerned under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, said Chavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indore-businessmen-to-offer-services-only-to-fully-vaccinated-people-101636597375286.html
11-11-2021||India||IMD issues orange alert for 8 districts of Kerala warning of heavy rainfall||A heavy rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning is expected in Kerala on Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In its weather bulletin, the IMD has also issued an orange alert for eight districts of the state, indicating extremely heavy rain.These districts are Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur. Meanwhile, five others - Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kasaragod - are put on yellow alert.During this time, the wind speed is expected to reach 40-50 kmph over the Kerala coast. Those who reside in the hilly areas are urged to be vigilant for possible landslides.There are three types of alerts - red, orange and yellow - that are issued by the IMD after analysing the weather conditions. The red alert is issued when there is an expectation of torrential rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours. Orange alert denotes very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm of rain.A yellow alert means heavy rainfall between 6 to 11 cm.In view of the rain prediction, fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea in the state, the IMD also warned in a statement.This comes after a brief pause in the monsoon. In October, the southern state was ravaged by heavy downpour and subsequent landslides in the south-central districts. This has also led to the loss of 42 lives and six people going missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-8-districts-of-kerala-warning-of-heavy-rainfall-101636596491322.html
11-11-2021||India||India deployed around 3,000 police officers in 24 UN peacekeeping operations||India has paid tribute to all women and men peacekeepers, including the 14 police officers who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty, said the country's Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN, R Ravindra.Speaking at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) meeting on the contribution of United Nations Police to Women, Peace, and Security (WPS) Agenda, India said that it deployed about 3,000 police officers in around 24 UN peacekeeping operations.India remains an active participant in UN deliberations on women empowerment and gender mainstreaming issues, supports the secretary general's call to action for accelerated implementation of the WPS agenda in “Action for Peacekeeping (A4P)” and “A4P priorities”, the deputy permanent representative to the UN said.“Indian women Police officer Shakti Devi, who was deployed in the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, was awarded the International Female Police Peacekeeper Award in 2014 for her contribution in the creation of a Women's Police Council in Herat,” Ravindra said.He added that more targeted actions are needed to identify and address the structural problems that prevent increased numbers of uniformed women.India also highlighted the need to improve barracks facilities and related working conditions; provide equal opportunities for women, and implement a zero-tolerance policy towards sexual harassment and abuse to create a safe working environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-deployed-around-3-000-police-officers-in-24-un-peacekeeping-operations-101636594415300.html
11-11-2021||India||Padma Shri goes to ex-Pak soldier who helped India liberate Bangladesh. Here's his story||When President Ram Nath Kovind conferred the Padma awards, among the highest civilian honours in India, one of the recipients was Lt Col Qazi Sajjad Ali Zahir - a former Pakistani soldier who risked his life by crossing over to India and helping liberate Bangladesh in the 1971 war. Although Lt Colonel Zahir's name went by largely under the radar all those years ago (owing to the confidential nature of military business), he was thrown into the spotlight this week when stepping onto the podium to receive the Padma Shri, a recognition of his contributions to the Indian intelligence and subsequently, the Bangladesh freedom movement.President Kovind presents Padma Shri to Lt Col Quazi Sajjad Ali Zahir (Retd.) for Public Affairs. He is an independent researcher and author on the Bangladesh Liberation War. He joined the War of Liberation and participated in many battles alongside the Indian Army. pic.twitter.com/xhuCupSCtoThat Lt Col Qazi Sajjad Ali Zahir risked his life to help India and the nascent Bangladesh is no understatement. As a 20-year-old officer posted in Sialkot, Lt Col Zahir crossed over to neighbouring India at the height of the Pakistani army's atrocities and human rights violations in Bangladesh (erstwhile East Pakistan).His troubles did not end even after he arrived in India, where he was naturally suspected of being a Pakistani spy and grilled by the border security force and later by senior officers of the Indian Army in Pathankot. However, after Lt Col Zahir presented a bunch of confidential documents of the Pakistani Army to back up his cause, he was sent to a safe house in Delhi, from where the Indian intelligence coordinated with him. Later, the former Pakistani soldier moved to Bangladesh, where he trained the Mukti Bahini (freedom fighters) in guerilla warfare to take on Pakistani forces.In fact, Lt Col Zahir's is a name that Pakistan continues to hate even today. According to the ex-military man, there's a death sentence pending in his name in Pakistan for the past 50 years. In Bangladesh, however, Lt Col Zahir has been honoured with gallantry medals such as the Bir Protik and the country's highest civilian honour, the Swadhinata Padak. Now India, too, has recognised his contributions to the military history of the subcontinent and conferred on him the Padma Shri.The Padma Awards are the highest civilian honours of India announced annually ahead of Republic Day. However, the award-giving ceremony was affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic this year.The Padma Awards are given in three categories: Padma Vibhushan (for exceptional and distinguished service), Padma Bhushan (distinguished service of higher-order) and Padma Shri (distinguished service). The award seeks to recognise achievements in all fields of activities or disciplines where an element of public service is involved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-shri-goes-to-ex-pak-soldier-who-helped-india-liberate-bangladesh-here-s-his-story-101636591175843.html
11-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Mandaviya to meet health ministers of states, UTs to push for door-to-door vaccination||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a meeting with health ministers of all the states and the union territories on Thursday to push for 'har ghar dastak campaign' against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Under this campaign, the central government is aiming to ensure vaccination of all adults who have not received their first dose of the Covid jab yet or are overdue for their second dose.The virtual interaction is the continuation of the November 3 meeting that was held between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and health officials of more than 45 districts across 12 states with sluggish vaccination pace. During that meeting, the Prime Minister had hailed the hard work done by healthcare workers but warned against laxity. "The progress made so far is due to your hard work. Every member of administration, ASHA workers worked a lot. They walked for miles and took vaccination to remote locations. But if we become lax after one billion (doses), a new crisis can come," PM Modi had said.The central government had launched the month-long 'Har Ghar Dastak' campaign on November 2, to take the vaccination drive house-to-house to ensure maximum inoculation.According to the data by the Union health ministry, around 79.2 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, while more than 37 per cent of the country's around 94 crore adult population has been administered both the doses.The top five states which have administered the highest number of doses include Uttar Pradesh. It is followed by Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-mandaviya-to-meet-health-ministers-of-states-uts-to-push-for-door-to-door-vaccination-101636591485108.html
11-11-2021||India||Cabinet gives nod to restore MPLADS||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved restoration of the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for the remaining part of the current financial year till 2025-26, which will have a total fina-ncial implication of ₹17,417.00 crore.The MPLAD scheme was temporarily put on hold in April last year, after the outbreak of Covid-19, and the funds were placed with the finance ministry to deal with the pandemic.Addressing reporters here, information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said the Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to restore the scheme for the remaining part of financial year 2021-22. The scheme will continue till 2025-26.Under the scheme, each MP will get ₹2 crore in one instalment for development activities for the remainder of 2021-22 and annually ₹5 crore, in two instalments of ₹2.5 crore each, thereafter, he added.“During Covid-19, a decision had been taken by the Cabinet that for two years, 2020-21 to 2021-22, MPLAD scheme money will be used in the fight against the pandemic. And all parliamentarians had also enthusiastically given their consent to contribute in the fight against Covid,” Thakur said.“I am glad to share with you that in view of the improvement in economic scenario, the way economic recovery has taken place and we have seen growth in various sectors as well, a decision has been taken to restore the MPLAD Scheme for the remainder of the fiscal 2021-22,” he added.In a notification issued separately, the Centre said that as the country was now on the road to economic recovery and “the scheme continues to be beneficial for the creation of durable community assets, in fulfilling the aspirations of locally felt needs of the community, in skill development and creation of jobs across the country, thereby helpful in achieving the objective of Atmanirbhar Bharat”, a decision has been taken to restore the Parliamentarians’ access to the funds.“The objective of the scheme is to enable MPs to recommend works of developmental nature with emphasis on the creation of durable community assets in the areas of drinking water, primary education, public health, sanitation and roads, etc. primarily in their Constituencies,” the notification added.Several MPs belonging to opposition parties had sought the restoration of MPLAD funds during debates in Parliament. While a Lok Sabha MP can use the fund in his or her constituency, Rajya Sabha members can fund any project in the state.Meanwhile, the government has decided to set up 10 tribal museums across the country to mark Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas on November 15.“The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime MinisterNarendra Modi, today approved declaration of 15th November as Janjatiya Gaurav Divas dedicated to the memory of brave tribal freedom fighters so that coming generations could know about their sacrifices about the country,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-gives-nod-to-restore-mplads-101636576928369.html
11-11-2021||India||Tribunals cannot just be avenues for post-retirement jobs: SC||Tribunals cannot just be avenues for post-retirement jobs and must be subjected to some kind of performance assessment the Supreme Court said on Wednesday while fretting over the shortage of manpower and lack of infrastructure in consumers courts across the country. A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh underscored that tribunals were created to ease the life of the common man but that various problems plaguing them have compelled the top court to intervene repeatedly and pass orders on appointments and infrastructure that the Centre and state governments should have created on their own.“They (tribunals) cannot just be avenues for post-retirement jobs. Some kind of performance assessment is required. There should be a mechanism to know how they are functioning,” the bench told Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, who appeared for the Union government in the matter registered suo motu (on its own motion) by the top court on the alleged “inaction of the government” in appointing members of the consumer courts and providing such fora with adequate infrastructure. “What we are trying to do here is to improve the life of the people...to make sure the (Consumer Protection) Act works and its objective is not defeated...Ideally, states should do this themselves. We never had to intervene if things were working properly,” the bench added. Lamenting the absence of a legislative impact study before the new consumer protection law was passed, the court told Lekhi that proper research should have been done on the social, economic and institutional impact before replacing the 1986 consumer protection law with the 2019 law, which was brought into force in July 2020.Lekhi conceded that no formal study was carried out before the new law was notified and that a legislative impact study has been done after the court’s August 11 order in this regard. “This is whole problem with all legislations. The whole principle of having a legislative impact study is that you research beforehand so that you can assess some of the problems and they can be dealt with before a law is brought into force,” retorted the bench. The court further cited the colossal problem of pending cases, with almost 20% of pending litigation pertaining only to dishonoured cheques under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act.“The law on Section 138 proved to be a disaster. No legislative impact assessment was done there as well. The manpower required to handle this kind of litigation is not there. After the first hearing in a cheque bounce cases, the next date given is at least after 10 months. And the cases just keep growing,” pointed out the bench. At this, Lekhi said that he acknowledges the problem and that he has submitted the impact study on the new consumer protection law for the court’s consideration. Recording Lekhi’s submission, the bench asked the ASG and senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, to jointly examine the legislative impact assessment report and make their suggestions to ensure the law works properly and there is adequate infrastructure to support its working. During the hearing, the court also warned states that it would impose a penalty of ₹2 lakh each on them for not complying with its August order on filing status reports with respect to infrastructure and vacancies in state and district consumer commissions. The court will take up the matter next after three weeks. On October 22, the bench reproached the Union government for creating an “imbroglio” over functioning of the tribunals and making “citizens suffer in the bargain”, observing the Centre should abolish all tribunals if the judiciary is compelled to make appointments in these bodies to keep them alive. The bench called it “very unfortunate” that the Supreme Court is being called on to fill vacancies in tribunals, which is the primary job of the government that has framed legislations and rules for these forums.It had also referred to the August 11 order laying down a timeline of eight weeks for filling up around 800 vacancies in consumer courts across the country, adding the schedule shall be strictly adhered to by the Centre and states.On August 11, the court issued a string of directives to the Centre and states to speed up the process of appointments and the upgradation of infrastructure of consumer courts. “Don’t create hopes when you are unwilling to fulfil aspirations. If you raise hopes that consumers will get their disputes redressed, you have to have adequate number of people to deal with the cases coming up... We can’t leave consumers and citizens to your mercy if you aren’t willing to perform,” it said then.The 2019 consumer protection law has broadened the meaning of “consumer”, allowing people to file a complaint from their place of residence; brought e-commerce platforms within the fold of the law; provided for time-bound redressal; made celebrity-endorsers liable; and enhanced the monetary jurisdiction of consumer courts at all levels.Under the new law, a district forum can decide a consumer dispute up to ₹1 crore as against ₹20 lakh under the old law. Similarly, pecuniary jurisdiction of a state commission has been enhanced from ₹1 crore to ₹10 crore, and a national commission can now decide disputes over and above ₹10 crore.According to a report submitted by the central government in the Supreme Court, there are more than 2.5 lakh cases pending across all levels of consumer courts, and a large number of pendency has arisen after the 2019 Act was brought into force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribunals-cannot-just-be-avenues-for-post-retirement-jobs-sc-101636572322046.html
11-11-2021||India||Infants shifted after ventilator catches fire in Assam hospital||The alertness and timely action by doctors and staff members of Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH) in Dibrugarh helped avert a tragedy after one ventilator at an intensive care unit (ICU) of a pediatric ward caught fire on Wednesday.According to hospital authorities, the incident happened around 6:30 pm when the ventilator unit caught fire due to a short circuit. The baby in the unit was immediately moved out and as a safety measure, all 10 other newborns were shifted to another part of the hospital. “As it was an ICU unit, doctors and staff took immediate action and the fire was doused. The baby in the particular unit and all other babies of the ICU are safe and there’s no cause of any worry,” Dr Sanjeev Kakati, principal-cum-chief superintendent of AMCH, told HT over phone. Asked whether the ventilator unit that caught fire was part of supplies from the PM Cares Fund, Dr Kakati said that since the hospital has received several such units over the course of the past one-and-half years from various sources, it would be difficult to verify its origin. “There’s no certainty whether the short circuit took place due to a problem in the machine or due to some issues in wiring. As a safety measure, we have ordered an electrical audit of the entire hospital, which will be conducted on Thursday,” Dr Kakati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infants-shifted-after-ventilator-catches-fire-in-assam-hospital-101636572141850.html
11-11-2021||India||Fadnavis-Malik war of words continues||On Day 2 of the political slugfest between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik, the latter accused the former of allowing a fake currency racket to flourish in Maharashtra after the 2016 demonetisation, when currency notes of ₹500 and ₹1000 ceased to be legal tender.Malik on Wednesday also accused Fadnavis, who was the chief minister at the time, of shielding underworld criminals.On Tuesday, Fadnavis had accused Malik of buying property from two people, one of whom has links with the underworld while the other is convicted in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts that killed 257 people. Malik had responded stating that the property deals were above board and that he would reveal how Fadnavis “held the city hostage” during his tenure as CM of Maharshtra.In a press conference on Wednesday, Malik said that while fake notes were seized in other states after demonetisation, there was not a single such instance in Maharashtra.On October 8, 2017, the Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized fake notes worth ₹14.56 crore from the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) in Mumbai, Malik said.“But Fadnavis helped sweep the case under the carpet. The seized amount was later shown with a value of ₹8.8 lakh,” Malik alleged, questioning why the case was not handed over to the National Investigation Agency.Fadnavis chose not to directly respond to the allegations. He tweeted a quote by British author George Bernard Shaw: “I learned long ago, Never to wrestle with a pig, You get dirty. And Besides, The pig likes it!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavismalik-war-of-words-continues-101636571961222.html
11-11-2021||India||Karnataka is BJP’s gateway to South India: Bommai||Asserting that Karnataka is the BJP’s gateway to south India, state chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said the saffron party has made an impact in all southern states except Kerala where it needs to work “differently”.The party has high hopes in Telangana, while in other states it has made an impact irrespective of election outcome, he said at a meet organized by a TV channel. Asked about BJP’s prospects in South India, Bommai said, “South is hope for BJP...Karnataka is a gateway. Hopes are much more in Telangana. In Tamil Nadu, we have made an impact even though we have lost (elections). “Kerala is one state where there is political lag and where we have worked hard. We have been working hard, but we have to work differently,” he said.Noting that many BJP leaders have worked very hard for the last 30 years to spread the saffron colour in South, Bommai said the government in Karnataka has not come by chance. It has come by hard work for so many years on different fronts.Several leaders like B S Yediyurappa and Anant Kumar have worked hard in Karnataka. Similarly, BJP leaders have been working hard in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, irrespective of election results, he said.“I am sure when the time comes for change, the choice will be for BJP,” Bommai asserted. Asked if reservation in private jobs for locals is a way forward or a short term political appeasement, he said economics and social conditioning go together. “There has been a lot of talk about this. But what I feel is that in a democratic set up, if the major population is not taken along then the democracy will not work for a long time. Therefore opportunity has to be created to the classes which have been deprived of. In that aspect, reservation is one big tool to see that opportunities are created,” he said.Bommai further said a good economist or a good administrator has to ride two horses -- one of efficiency and the other equity -- in the same direction and same speed. “So, we have to balance -- equity and efficiency,” he said, adding that movers and shakers of the economy are people at the bottom of the pyramid. Bommai answered in the affirmative when asked if the legacy of his father and former chief minister S R Bommai and predecessor Yediyurappa was weighing heavily on him. “... Because people start comparing immediately as they don’t even give time. The very first day, they want me to behave like my father and BSY,” he said, adding that there is “pressure” to perform better. Bommai, however, said he converts this pressure into an opportunity to get the best out of himself and then from his people with the experience he has gained working under five chief ministers. Asked how he was managing the reins of Karnataka government in the middle of the term, Bommai said all major policies and programmes envisaged during BSY time are continuing. “I took over during the period when Covid-19 was on the way out. I had to prepare the state to take off its economic activity without wasting much time and instill confidence in people to be part of the economic activity. That challenge was new to me. I concentrated on that and we are doing well on that,” he said.Bommai also said he wants to leave his legacy as “a common man chief minister by the people and for the people” who has uplifted the life of last person in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-is-bjp-s-gateway-to-south-india-bommai-101636571903611.html
11-11-2021||India||Rainfall likely in Bengaluru, parts of Karnataka, says Met dept||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru on Wednesday said that rains would continue across several regions of Karnataka.“Isolated to widespread very light to light rains likely over SIK (south interior Karnataka) districts and isolated to scattered very light to light rains likely over Malnad and coastal Karnataka regions and dry weather very likely to prevail over NIK (north interior Karnataka) region,” according to a statement from the state disaster management authorities. The forecast is until Thursday morning.Rains are also expected in Bengaluru city which has suffered a significant damage in recent weeks due to heavy and unseasonal downpour, inundating entire neighbourhoods across India’s IT capital.“Widespread very light to light rains likely over BBMP (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike) area. Forecast for next 2 days (ending at 08:30 am of 13.11.2021). Widespread light to moderate rains with isolated places heavy rains likely,” according to the disaster management authoritiesThe poor quality of civic infrastructure, rapid and unplanned expansion, lack of long-term vision and emphasis on short-term fixes among other issues have compounded the problems for Bengaluru and its ability to deal with downpours.The rains have claimed at least 21 lives across Karnataka in the month of October.The death toll in neighbouring Tamil Nadu continues to rise as heavy downpour is expected to continue across the south-east coast of the country.The low pressure area over Bay of Bengal is likely to concentrate into a depression, affecting the southern parts of Andhra Pradesh and parts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai. At least 12 people are reported to have died in Tamil Nadu, ANI reported, quoting the state’s Revenue and Disaster Management Minister KKSSR Ramachandran,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rainfall-likely-in-bengaluru-parts-of-karnataka-says-met-dept-101636571902071.html
11-11-2021||India||Pending railway projects to be fast-tracked, says Karnataka minister||Karnataka infrastructure development minister V Somanna on Wednesday said that the state will fast-track railway projects that are languishing since 2007, in a time-bound manner.He said, the cost of most of these projects have almost doubled “Since 2007, nine railway projects that were launched have not been completed.....after discussion, as the cost has also gone up, putting a burden on both state and central government, we have decided to fast-track these projects. Within 15-20 days, land acquisition and other hurdles will be cleared in a time bound manner,” Somanna said.“The state government is in talks with Indian Railways authorities. They were being laggard. We have sent across whatever message we had to and work will speed up from tomorrow,” he added.The minister on Wednesday reviewed the infrastructure development department and held discussions with railway officials regarding the languishing projects.Of the nine railway projects cleared since 2007, at least four have seen their total cost go up.According to Somanna, the cost of the Tumakuru-Rayadurg line has gone up from ₹479 crore to ₹2,432 crore, Ginigera-Raichur from ₹1,350 crore to ₹2,565 crore, Bagalkot-Kudachi from ₹816 crore to ₹1,525 crore and Tumakuru-Chitradurga-Davangere from ₹1,801 crore to ₹2,161 crore.Karnataka has a 50 per cent share in the cost of these projects.Other than these four, the other railway projects that have been languishing and will be expedited are Munirabad-Mehaboobanagar; Gadag-Wadi; Shivamogga-Shikaripura-Ranebennur; Chikkamagaluru-Belur; Belur-Hassan and Dharwad- Belagavi (which is yet to start).Noting that about 56 pending railway over bridges and under bridges (ROB/RUB) are languishing in various places, including Bengaluru, Tumakuru among others, Somanna said after discussions, it has been decided to give some shape to this.“The state government is releasing our share of funds. Once the Centre releases its share at the earliest, minor land-related issues that were being used as an excuse for the delay will be resolved,” he said.The aim is to finish all these projects in this financial year as much as possible, he said, adding that “We will review them once every month.” Further stating that the work on new airports at Shivamogga, Vijayapura, Hassan, Raichur and Karwar are on track, the Minister said, the Shivamogga airport will be commissioned before 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pending-railway-projects-to-be-fast-tracked-says-karnataka-minister-101636571843566.html
11-11-2021||India||Karnataka CM in Delhi to discuss water disputes, may meet PM Modi today||Karnataka chief minister Basvaraj Bommai landed in Delhi on Wednesday and is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday.“I have asked for time with the Prime Minister and I may get it tomorrow,” Bommai said in Bengaluru on Wednesday, just before he departed for Delhi.The chief minister said that he would meet union ministers to discuss several issues concerning Karnataka including the interstate water disputes.“Mostly it is to discuss the interstate water disputes. Will also discuss the case of Krishna and Cauvery with the lawyers and check the progress of these cases,” he said.The visit to Delhi comes at a time when Karnataka has been piling pressure on the Centre to provide requisite clearances for the contentious Mekedatu project.Mekedatu, which literally means Goat’s crossing in English, is situated around 100 kms from Bengaluru in Ramanagara district and evokes deep-rooted emotions in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka.The long-winding legal battles have been used as a political currency in the past as well as an active tool to deflect attention away from other issues both sides of the border and irrespective of the party in power.The Cauvery river basin originates in Karnataka and flows through Tamil Nadu and Puducherry before it enters the Bay of Bengal. Of the total catchment area of 81,155 square kilometers, 34,273 kilometers is in Karnataka, 44,016 square kms in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and about 2,866 sq kms in Kerala.Karnataka has maintained that the Mekedatu balancing reservoir-cum-drinking water project is to generate 400 MW of power and additionally utilise 4.75 tmcft of water for drinking and domestic needs in the state and particularly Bengaluru.The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, soon after it came to power in 2013, announced the construction of the project which would cost ₹5912 crore to help use the excess water to quench the thirst of surrounding districts, including Bengaluru.Then Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalitha wrote to the union government not to give the project an environment clearance as it would disrupt the natural flow of water from the upper riparian state.The Congress in Karnataka has announced to carry out a Padayatra or a march from Mekedatu to Benglauru in the first half of December, demanding clearances and immediate commencement of work on the project.The BJP has termed Congress’s march as “politica” while the latter has termed the Bommai government to “lack political will” as the two national parties trade charges over the project.Bommai has also been under pressure after the BJP suffered a blow in the October 30 bypolls as it lost Hanagal, in the chief minister’s home district of Haveri, to the Congress.Bommai said that the much delayed cabinet expansion in Karnataka is not on the agenda and that he is unsure if it will come up when he meets the party’s leadership in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-in-delhi-to-discuss-water-disputes-may-meet-pm-modi-today-101636571842009.html
11-11-2021||India||Karnataka’s cybersecurity policy likely by next month, says IT minister||The Karnataka government is likely to release its cybersecurity policy by the end of December, according to the information technology minister, arming the state with key infrastructure and software to deal with rising complexities in the online space.The government had announced to frame a cybersecurity policy a year ago. The state government is also readying a data centre policy.“The IT department of the state will provide the necessary policy framework to protect its growing technology ecosystem as well as individuals,” said Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for information technology, biotechnology, science & technology, higher education, skill development, entrepreneurship and livelihood.“This space (online and technology) is expanding. We have to look at the applications and implications of this. Rights have to be protected from hackers and we also train individuals on how to protect themselves,” Narayan told Hindustan Times.Unveiling of the policy comes at a time when there has been a steep increase in cyber crimes across the country, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic which forced higher dependence on online solutions due to extended periods of lockdowns across India.Bengaluru, India’s technology capital and startup hub, had the highest number of cyber crimes (cases under IT Act) in 2020, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau in September.Bengaluru recorded 8,892 such cases in 2020, which was several times more than the other five biggest urban centres in the country, including Delhi, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai, data shows.Narayan said that there is no existing policy around data and information security and a framework is needed as hackers continue attacks on organisations and individuals.“As we grow (in technology), hackers too are growing,” Narayan said.According to IT research and advisory firm, Gartner, enterprise information security and risk management end user spending is expected to rise 9.5% to total $2.08 billion this year.“Rapid adoption of cloud has led to growth in the enterprise information security and risk management end user spending in India is expected to rise 9.5% annually to total $2.08 billion in 2021,” according to the latest forecast from research firm Gartner.The policy by the Basvaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government comes even as the chief minister has been accused to be part of a several thousand crore Bitcoin scandal.Congress leader Siddaramaiah has accused that a hacker was used to purchase Bitcoins worth over ₹2,000 crore and has levelled allegations against the chief minister, the BJP state president, and some senior officials.Cyber security policy would also help police officials work better and more effectively with social media platforms, which have become crucial in investigations, and improve chances of prosecution.There have been several instances where the crimes have remained unsolved or the police being forced to take longer time as there is no necessary framework or infrastructure to reach out or use advanced tools to crack the case.Narayan said that all necessary software will be provided to the police to help with their investigation.“This (policy) was for a long time coming, not just because the number of cyber crimes in Karnataka are at an all-time high, but also Karnataka being the IT hub of the world, the state of Karnataka needs to take a leadership role in recognizing the essential role that a state cybersecurity policy plays,” said Jatinder Pal Singh, the director of cybersecurity at Informatica.He added that the increasing adoption of ‘internet of things’ or IOT makes lives easier but adds to the risk component of organisations and individuals.“With the ever expanding sphere of internet of things, basically every home device is now connected and in effect becomes both an attack vector as well as a target of a cyber attack,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakas-cybersecurity-policy-likely-by-next-month-says-it-minister-101636571783652.html
11-11-2021||India||Books on Mahatma, Naoroji’s life among six shortlisted for NIF prize||Books on topics such as Mahatma Gandhi as muse of Indian artists, non-combatants in the Indian Army who participated in World War I, the BJP before Narendra Modi, Naxalism, Emergency, and Dadabhai Naoroji’s life have made it to the shortlist of this year’s Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay NIF Book Prize.The New India Foundation (NIF) announced the shortlist for the fourth edition of the prize here on Wednesday.The six books are: “The Death Script: Dreams and Delusions in Naxal Country” by Ashutosh Bhardwaj (HarperCollins), “India’s First Dictatorship: The Emergency, 1975-77” by Christophe Jaffrelot and Pratinav Anil (HarperCollins), Dinyar Patel’s “Naoroji: Pioneer of Indian Nationalism” (Harvard University Press), “Gandhi in the Gallery: The Art of Disobedience” by Sumathi Ramaswamy (Roli Books), “The Coolie’s Great War: Indian Labour in a Global Conflict 1914-1921” by Radhika Singha (HarperCollins) and Vinay Sitapati’s “Jugalbandi: The BJP Before Modi” (Penguin Random House).The winner will be announced on December 1.The jury termed the shortlist an “intellectual feast of non-fiction reading”.It said: “We hear that Covid has created many challenges for the publishing industry, but our book prize jury didn’t confront any consequences. Narrowing down to the six-book shortlist from our longlist of 12 books was very hard because so many of the books captured unique and diverse angles of modern India.” This year’s jury includes political scientist Niraja Gopal Jayal (chair), entrepreneurs Nandan Nilekani and Manish Sabharwal; and historians Srinath Raghavan and Nayanjot Lahiri.Instituted in 2018, the prize carries a cash award of ₹15 lakh and a citation, and celebrates non-fiction literature published in the previous calendar year by emerging writers of all nationalities in modern and contemporary India.The prize is named after Chattopadhyay, who contributed significantly to the freedom struggle, to the women’s movement, to refugee rehabilitation and to the renewal of Indian theatre and handicrafts.Last year, the prize was jointly awarded to Amit Ahuja and Jairam Ramesh. In 2019, it was given to Ornit Shani and in 2018 to Milan Vaishnav.“This year’s longlist of 12 extraordinary books covered a variety of themes and subjects showcasing some of the finest non-fiction writing about the world’s largest democracy. The six books shortlisted from this outstanding list of works are those that combine strong research with compelling writing in weaving together unique perspectives that resonated with the NIF jury,” the NIF said in a statement.“Highly-researched and eminently readable, the six books comprise creative and conscious insights into the history of India as it has emerged today: its diversity, difference, heterogeneity, and the very idea of the nation-state itself. Each of these books offers a valuable understanding of the country’s complex past through the lens of the present moment in potentially opening up avenues to address the future,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/books-on-mahatma-naoroji-s-life-among-six-shortlisted-for-nif-prize-101636571782203.html
11-11-2021||India||Karntaka: Political slugfest over Bitcoin case escalates||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that the BJP was protecting the hacker involved in the cryptocurrency case. Talking to the media, Congress legislator and former information technology minister Priyank Kharge alleged that the BJP government had taken thousands of crores kickbacks in the Bitcoin scandal involving hacker Srikrishna alias Sriki. “This government is very systematically trying to cover up the bitcoin scam. All the BJP senior leadership is involved, their children are involved as well as senior officials. This is a scandal of thousands of crores. They have got kickbacks from drugs, transfers, investments, and even bribes through this method,” Priyank Kharge told reporters. He went on to add that hacker Srikrishna was important for the BJP since he was key to the scandal. “Sriki is BJP’s prized possession. Like the Hindi saying that raja ki jaan thothe mein hai, he (Sriki) is their thotha (The King’s heart is in the parrot, Sriki is their parrot),” said Kharge.Srikrishna was arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on November 18, 2020, in a drug peddling case. He had bought drugs from international dealers using bitcoins on the dark web. In the interrogation that followed, CCB found that the software engineer was also involved in a series of online crimes. He hacked into websites to steal their data and locked the owners out of it. He would then demand payment in bitcoins to unlock the websites. He also confessed to creating ‘mirror’ sites, or fake payment portals that mimicked real ones, to steal credit or debit card information to steal money. He confessed to stealing ₹11.5 crore from the e-procurement cell of the Karnataka e-governance centre, apart from hacking into some Bitcoin exchanges. Kharge asked the government to make the letter written by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on the issue public. “Bitcoin, cryptocurrency, there will be a digital footprint. It is difficult to trace but not impossible,” he added. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah too joined the attack. On Wednesday the veteran Congress leader tweeted: “Bitcoin, whoever is involved, whether it is Congress, BJP or JD(S), we have to book them. Let them share their names. I never say anything without evidence,” Siddaramaiah said. “We are not trying to blackmail anyone. I am getting suspicious of the way Basavaraj Bommai is talking. He is talking like he is involved. I never alleged that Basavaraj Bommai is involved,” he added. Responding to the allegation, chief minister Bommai said that the Congress leaders were commenting without any knowledge of the case. “Ask poor Priyank Kharge to get full information first and then talk. There are names of Congress leaders and he should worry about that,” Bommai said on Wednesday. Bommai said that Sriki was first arrested in 2018 when Congress was in power. “Please remember who was in power at the time (Congress). The case was registered in Cubbon park station and five to six arrests were made. But Sriki was given an opportunity for anticipatory bail. Even after that, he could have been probed. He was involved in a brawl recently and he could have been brought in for questioning…. in 2020, we (the BJP government) started a war on drugs and he (Sriki) was caught that trying to buy drugs from the dark web in other countries and selling it here,” he added. Meanwhile, a court in Bengaluru on Wednesday granted conditional bail to alleged hacker Sriki alias Srikrishna in a case related to a hotel brawl. Srikrishna who was granted bail in the hacking cases earlier this year was arrested again by Bengaluru police on Sunday after he got into an argument with the staff of a five star hotel in Bengaluru. Later police found that the hacker was under the influence of drugs and he was taken into custody. He was fined ₹4,500 for consuming drugs and was released on conditional bail with ₹25,000 as surety. Srikrishna refused to comment on the case. “I have nothing to say, man. Please stop. There is nothing to say about this. This is just nuisance and bogus,” he told reporters in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karntakapolitical-slugfest-over-bitcoin-case-escalates-101636571721821.html
11-11-2021||India||Gujarat riots: No case made out of Zakia Jafri’s complaint, SIT tells SC||A Special Investigation Team (SIT), which gave a clean chit to 64 people in the 2002 Gujarat communal riots, on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that a probe into allegations of a larger conspiracy was thoroughly examined after which the agency came to the conclusion that there was no material to take it forward.The SIT made the submission while referring to a complaint filed by Zakia Jafri, widow of slain Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, who challenged the clean chit. In her complaint, Zakia accused the state government then led by chief minister Narendra Modi and police of being complicit in not preventing the riots.Appearing for the SIT, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said: “After the SIT was constituted by the Supreme Court to probe the Gujarat riots cases, an order was passed in September 2011 in which the court wanted the SIT to examine all aspects of her complaint. The SIT concluded that there was no reason in the complaint to take the matter further and add to the existing number of accused facing trial in the riots cases. That was a closure in a sense.” Questioning the SIT’s conclusion, Zafri’s counsel and senior advocate Kapil Sibal said: “The most damaging fact is that the SIT ignored the sting operation conducted by Tehelka as extra-judicial confession when the same was authenticated by the CBI and used as evidence to prosecute the accused in the trial related to Naroda Patiya case,” he said. The bench told Sibal: “Individual role and evidence is not relevant. Tell us what the SIT failed to do procedurally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-riots-no-case-made-out-of-zakia-jafri-s-complaint-sit-tells-sc-101636571481875.html
11-11-2021||India||Mullaperiyar reservoir: Kerala cancels tree-felling nod extended to TN||The Kerala government on Wednesday cancelled an order granting permission to Tamil Nadu for felling 15 trees downstream of Baby Dam at Mullaperiyar reservoir, with the state cabinet taking a decision to this effect.The development comes in the wake of the ruling CPI(M)-LDF facing flak, mainly from Opposition Congress over the issue after Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin earlier thanked his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan for his government allowing felling of the trees. As the move drew criticism in the state, the Kerala government later froze the order.Since the November 5 order issued by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and the Chief Wildlife Warden was “not legally binding”, it was decided by the Cabinet to cancel it, a statement issued by the government said on Wednesday. An official who prepared the order could face action, sources said.Besides that, the Cabinet also decided to set up a three-tier committee to provide the state government with the necessary views and advice to take quick and accurate decisions on issues related to inter-state river water disputes, it added.Official sources said the government has also decided to take disciplinary action against chief wildlife warden Bennichan Thomas, who allegedly prepared the tree felling order and indicated he may be suspended from service.The Congress-led UDF welcomed the government move to cancel the tree-felling order, with the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly V D Satheesan claiming it was an outcome of their questioning the state government’s decision.The Vijayan government was under attack from the opposition Congress-led bloc in the state Assembly for its controversial order granting permission to cut the trees.It had staged a walkout in the assembly earlier in the day over the issue.Incidentally, on Tuesday, the Tamil Nadu government had released a copy of the “Proceedings of the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala,” giving an order allowing it to fell 15 trees.While Tamil Nadu had sought nod for removal of 23 trees, permission was granted for clearing 15, which was also later frozen. Kerala and Tamil Nadu have been at loggerheads over the century-old dam, with the former insisting the reservoir is not safe, and wants a new one in its place while its neighbour has been maintaining it was strong.Tamil Nadu Minister Duraimurugan had said last week that his government wants to carry out strengthening work in Baby dam and finally raise the water level in the reservoir to 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mullaperiyar-reservoir-kerala-cancels-tree-felling-nod-extended-to-tn-101636571363195.html
11-11-2021||India||Vijayan warns of action against people obstructing film shooting||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday warned of stern action against those disrupting film shootings in the state in the wake of recent confrontation between Malayalam actor Joju George and some Congress workers during a road block protest in Kochi over the increase in fuel prices.Replying to a submission by actor-turned-legislator Mukesh on the issue in the state Assembly, he said obstructing film shootings was not just the issue of restricting freedom of expression but also a matter of civil liberty.“No matter who makes such attempts, no mercy will be shown.. Such people will be dealt with severely. The entire state will support such an act (by the government). That’s the tradition of this land,” he said.Referring to alleged protests against a film, the CM said there was outcry from certain quarters not to allow the shooting of films of a particular actor.It could not be viewed as an isolated incident, he said adding that the news reports in this regard indicate that there was a conscious decision behind the act.“The government will ensure civil liberties, democracy and rule of law in the state. We cannot remain idle as organised mobs try to disrupt work of art,” he said.Vijayan also said those who barge into film sets and unleash violence had a fascist mindset and the actions of such criminals could not be tolerated for no reasons.There were media reports that certain Congress leaders and activists had decided not to allow shooting of films of actor Joju.The award-winning actor-producer has been facing stiff opposition from the Congress party after he questioned the blocking of a busy National Highway in Kochi as part of its agitation against fuel price hike last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijayan-warns-of-action-against-people-obstructing-film-shooting-101636571361981.html
11-11-2021||India||Telangana collector opts for government hospital for childbirth||A district collector in Telangana set an example by admitting his wife to a government hospital in a rural area, where she delivered a baby boy on Wednesday.At a time when even the middle class people are hesitant to go to government hospitals, Anudeep Durishetty, collector of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, admitted his pregnant wife Madhavi to the government hospital at Bhadrachalam, a temple town on the borders of Andhra and Chhattisgarh.In the early hours of Wednesday, Madhavi underwent C-section surgery and gave birth to the baby boy. Senior gynaecologists Surapaneni Srikranti and Bhargavi with the support of anaesthetist Devika performed the surgery.“Both the mother and child are healthy. Neonatologist Dr Y S Rajasekhar Reddy examined the infant and gave the necessary medication,” a senior resident doctor of the hospital said on condition of anonymity.Durishetty, a 2018-batch IAS officer from Metpalli town of Jagitial district of Telangana, was the all-India No. 1 ranker in the UPSC civil services examination of that year. He was allotted Telangana cadre and served as assistant collector of the same district before being elevated as the district collector.While Durishetty was not available for his comment, Bhadrachalam area hospital deputy superintendent M Ramakrishna told Hindustan Times that such an initiative taken by the head of the district administration will go a long way in instilling the confidence of the common man in government hospitals.“The IAS officer could have taken his wife to any big hospital in Hyderabad. But he wanted to prove that our hospital is no inferior to any corporate hospital. In fact, even before getting admitted to the hospital, Madhavi had been regularly visiting our hospital for periodical check-ups and consultation with the doctors,” he said.Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao, who was allotted the portfolio of medical and health on Tuesday night, expressed happiness over the Bhadradri-Kothagudem collector choosing a government hospital for his wife’s delivery.“Warmest congratulations to @Collector_BDD & his wife. I hope both the mother & the child are doing well. It gives us immense pride to see how under the able leadership of CM KCR garu, state medical infrastructure has proven to be the first choice of people,” Harish Rao tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-collector-opts-for-government-hospital-for-childbirth-101636571303083.html
11-11-2021||India||TRS to hold stir against Centre over ‘refusal’ to buy paddy from Telangana||Stepping up its attack on BJP and the NDA government at the Centre, the ruling TRS in Telangana on Wednesday said it would organise state-wide protests from next Friday against the Centre’s alleged refusal to buy paddy from the state’s farmers.TRS Working President K T Rama Rao asked the party leaders to hold dharnas after obtaining permission from District Collectors as the model code of conduct is in force for the MLC elections.The TRS’ decision to organise protests came amid an ongoing war of words between the party and BJP over paddy procurement and reducing VAT on petrol and diesel.TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who sought procurement of all the paddy grown in the state by the Centre, had said on November 7 that his party would raise the issue in Parliament, besides holding dharnas in districts. The BJP, meanwhile, called for protests on Thursday, demanding that the TRS government immediately procure the paddy grown in the rainy season.Observing that the Centre was willing to procure paddy from Telangana, the party said in a release that it would question the TRS government over why it was not taking up procurement.The Centre had written to the state in August that it was ready to procure 60 lakh metric tonnes of paddy grown in the rainy season.But the state government troubled farmers by not procuring it and was trying to blame the Centre for it, the release said.Slamming state BJP leaders who announced agitational programmes against the TRS government for discouraging farmers not to go for paddy cultivation this Rabi season, Rao had alleged it was the Centre which is not willing to procure paddy from the state.Stating that the BJP had no moral right to ask states to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel, Rao had demanded that the NDA government remove the cess on petroleum products.Rao had also said he would cut the tongues of BJP leaders if they don’t refrain from using bad language to criticise him.Hitting out at Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Rao had alleged the saffron party leader is resorting to cheap talk and looking for political gain out of farmers.State Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar said in Karimnagar on Wednesday that the Centre should buy the ‘Yasangi’ (summer) season paddy crop in Telangana. Protests would be held in Karimnagar district on Friday in support of the demand, he said.The Centre has indicated in a letter that it would not buy parboiled rice in the summer crop season, he said in a release.BJP leader and Union Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy alleged on Wednesday that Rao is spreading untruths about petroleum prices.In a tweet, he said that Rao had blamed the NDA government for the increase in fuel prices despite international crude prices not going up. The prices go up only if they rise globally, he said.The Centre decreased the prices now as things have improved, Reddy said.He said on Tuesday that 600 lakh metric tons of rice was procured across the country during 2020-21 kharif marketing season. Out of that, 94 lakh metric tons was procured in Telangana which was the second highest, he said.It shows the Modi government’s sincerity towards the Telangana farmers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-to-hold-stir-against-centre-over-refusal-to-buy-paddy-from-telangana-101636571301982.html
11-11-2021||India||Telangana: Jagan’s sister Sharmila halts 4,000km march over MLC election||YSR Telangana party president Y S Sharmila, who has been on a marathon 4,000-km long padayatra (foot march) in Telangana for the last three weeks, announced a break from the trip on Wednesday following the enforcement of the model code of conduct by the Election Commission for next month’s elections to the state legislative council. She has covered over 300km so far.Speaking to reporters at Kondapalakagudem village of Nalgonda district, Sharmila said she was halting her padayatra, respecting the rules mandated by the EC. “It is only a pause, and I shall resume the padayatra soon after the model code of conduct comes to an end,” she said.The EC on Tuesday announced that no political rallies, public meetings and padayatras would be allowed in the districts where elections to 12 vacancies in the state legislative council under local bodies’ quota would be held on December 10. The results are out on December 14, and the model code of conduct will end on December 16.Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, said she had completed 21 days in her padayatra, covering six assembly constituencies – Chevella, Maheshwaram, Shamshabad, Ibrahimpatnam, Devarakonda and Munugode. “I have covered 150 villages during this period, and the response from the people has been tremendous. The people are pouring out their grievances at every village. Thousands of people have joined hands with us and walked with me,” she said.She alleged that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government has not been able to address the basic needs of the people. “Many of the projects started during the YS Rajasekhar Reddy regime are yet to be completed. In many villages, old people are not getting pensions, and women are not getting loans,” she said.Sharmila announced that she would take up a 72-hour long fast in Hyderabad from Friday demanding that the K Chandrasekhar Rao government purchase every grain of paddy cultivated in the state instead of throwing the blame on the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telanganajagans-sister-sharmila-halts-4-000km-march-over-mlc-election-101636571243069.html
11-11-2021||India||Faulty weather forecast system worsened Chennai’s rain woes||A failure in weather system to forecast the 210 mm rain that lashed Chennai in the intervening night of November 6 and 7 caught authorities unprepared for one of the city’s heaviest rain spells, officials said on Wednesday.Those privy to functioning of the regional weather department said Chennai’s weather radar, which helps with “nowcasts” (forecasting weather for short term up to six hours), has aged and data on upper air has been lacking that is crucial for making weather forecasts (for longer periods).“We have rectified the radar this (Wednesday) morning,” said a Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) official, who did not wish to be named. “We haven’t been able to use it till now.”The RMC is currently relying on satellite data feeding it with numerical weather models for forecasts.CPI (MP) from Madurai S Venkatesan spoke to union earth sciences secretary M Ravichandran who informed him that repair work was ongoing at Chennai Meteorological Department’s radar near Chennai Port Trust and it will be operational soon.Ravichandran had ordered an enquiry into the malfunctioning radar during the current north east monsoon. The RMC is currently providing rain forecasts with the help of radars from Sriharikota and Karaikal, he said.“Radars are very reliable to give specific forecasts but it has aged and stopped working in Chennai so it was also not being operated continuously. It generally runs non-stop,” said a meteorological expert, who did not wish to be identified.“So no rainfall warning was given to Chennai. There has been a failure in giving a correct forecast. They only predicted rainfall from Sunday (November 7) onwards. The rain was caused by an upper air circulation and it unexpectedly moved in-land. If a day’s warning was given, we could have been better prepared.”India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) bulletin on November 6 forecast very heavy rainfall in north coastal Tamil Nadu which includes around 14 districts and issued an orange alert (the second highest warning which means to “be prepared”) and a red (highest warning meaning “take action”) alert was issued only on Sunday.“It is correct that this spell of rain could not be predicted by the numerical weather data model,” the expert quoted above said. “Any model will can errors. But observations are important. If you don’t have the correct observations the forecast will not be very good. satellite data gives a lot of information. But upper air circulation data gives more accuracy.”An instrument called radiosonde or GPS sonde observations are the primary source of upper air data which uses parameters such as winds, pressure, humidity, temperature to accurately predict changes. This instrument isn’t available for Chennai, the RMC official quoted above said.“Even if radiosonde data is not available still we can get satellite data but that works on algorithms as an input for numerical weather prediction,” says former IMD deputy director YEA Raj. “Whereas radiosonde is actual data, satellite data can be checked for accuracy only with data generated from radiosonde.”IMD has issued another red alert for Chennai until November 11. It forecast very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rain at isolated places over Chennai and delta districts such as Cuddalore, Villupuram, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Puducherry and Karaikal.Chennai registered 23.7 mm of rainfall on Wednesday up to 15.30 pm. Coastal districts Nagapattinam and Karaikal, where rains pounded on the intervening night between November 9 and 10, receive with 245 mm and 272 mm rainfall, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/faulty-weather-forecast-system-worsened-chennai-s-rain-woes-101636571241829.html
11-11-2021||India||Ayushman Bharat: Centre begins work to digitise health records||The union health ministry has started the registration of all government medical facilities and doctors under the Ayushman Bharat- Digital Health Mission (ABDHM), a process that involves the digitisation of their information , including health records. In a letter dated November 9 addressed to the directors of all government hospitals in the country, and to the secretaries of all government departments, Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan and chief executive officer of National Health Authority, RS Sharma, wrote that the government of India has decided all its health facilities shall take part in the mission, and laid down steps that need to be followed in coming weeks.The mission was launched by the Prime Minister on September 27. However, experts say the major challenge for the mission will remain convincing private health care providers to come on board as it is voluntary for them to share information for this digital repository.The National Health Authority, which supervises the running of Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna, the government’s health insurance scheme, is also is tasked with implementing ABDHM. The health facilities to be registered under ABDHM include, apart from government hospitals, government-run clinics, laboratories, pharmacies and radiology centres across the country. The ABDHM web portal (https://abdm.gov.in/) has separate verticals for the registration of professionals and facilities under different categories that people can access to register.In addition to registering the facilities on the “Health Facility Registry” and the doctors (“full-time or part-time”) in the “Healthcare Professionals Registry”, the hospitals and facilities have also been asked to digitize their health records and told to “procure and install a Health/Hospital Information Management System”, according to the letter. The letter asks that all this “may be started at the earliest”. The Health Management Information System (HMIS) is a government-to-government web-based monitoring information system that has been put in place by the health ministry, to monitor the National Health Mission and other health programmes, besides providing key inputs for policy formulation and appropriate programme interventions. The system was launched in October 2008, and currently, around 200,000 health facilities (across all states/UTs) are uploading facility-wise service delivery data on a monthly basis, training data on quarterly basis and infrastructure related data on an annual basis on the HMIS web portal, according to the National Health Mission website. Among the challenges faced in adopting the system is the need for trained manpower to handle the software. “There will of course be challenges as it is commonly seen when anything of that scale is getting implemented; we saw that even during the implementation of Aadhar, but it won’t be anything that cannot be addressed. It depends on the way you design the network and protocols under which data exchange happens. It’s more of a technical issue but nothing major,” cyber policy analyst Subimal Bhattacharjee said. Experts wondered how the government plans to encourage private hospitals and facilities to do the same. Even though India has more private hospitals than public ones, only about 10,478 of the 23,306 hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme are private ones. The health insurance scheme was launched in 2018.“The Ayushman Bharat scheme is a classic example of how private health facilities can be successfully roped in to offer treatment. Health care facilities are unevenly distributed and there are many private hospitals in the periphery that are equipped to treat in terms of infrastructure, and can be made use of,” Dr MC Misra, former director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, said.A health ministry official said the government is aware of the challenge, and aims to engage with the private sector. “We plan to have constant dialogue and engagement with the private sector that includes both private hospitals and doctors. We will also engage with their associations to create awareness,” added this person on condition of anonymity. Girdhar Gyani, director general of the Association of Healthcare Providers (India), association of hospitals, said, “We have had discussions with government representatives on the matter and more discussions will happen going forward, for sure. The hospitals are willing to participate, even if there may be some concerns, and we hopefully will find a solution to those soon. It sounds like a good initiative and will help patients to better access health care facilities, especially in remote areas where health care delivery services are unevenly distributed. Let us see how the discussions go.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayushman-bharat-centre-begins-work-to-digitise-health-records-101636571182022.html
11-11-2021||India||NSA Doval talks defence ties with Iran Kazakhstan, Russia counterparts||India’s National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval discussed the situation in Afghanistan and bilateral security cooperation with his counterparts from Iran, Kazakhstan and Russia on the margins of a regional security meeting on Wednesday. Doval met Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov and Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev after the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan. The three bilateral meetings were substantive and there were detailed discussions on Afghanistan and on bilateral relations, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Doval and Patrushev discussed future high-level exchanges, defence cooperation and deepening interaction between the national security councils of India and Russia, the people said. This was Patrushev’s second visit to India since the Taliban assumed power in Afghanistan in mid-August. A statement issued by the Russian side said Doval and Patrushev had discussed plans for further India-Russia cooperation in security and touched upon a “number of regional problems”. It added, “Special attention was paid to cooperation on various information security issues.” At the meeting with Shamkhani, the two sides discussed the situation in Afghanistan, bilateral trade and the current state of India-Iran relations. Iran had hosted the two previous meetings of the regional security dialogue on Afghanistan and Doval and Shamkhani discussed ways to carry forward the process. Discussions between Doval and his Kazakh counterpart focused on Afghanistan, and practical steps for enhancing connectivity and trade routes between the two countries. The NSAs and security council chiefs of the seven countries that attended the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan had a “very substantive exchange” during a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The people said Modi shared India’s perspective on Afghanistan with the security officials. The people also said the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue had exceeded India’s expectations, as the foreign security officials easily arrived at a complete consensus that enabled the issuance of the joint Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan. The declaration said the eight countries were committed to combat terrorism emanating from Afghanistan. The foreign delegations appreciated the opportunity to engage in frank and open discussions on Afghanistan, the people said. Since this is the only dialogue at the level of NSAs, there was unanimity on the need to continue with this mechanism and have regular consultations, the people added. The people also said there was an “extraordinary degree of convergence” in assessments of the situation in Afghanistan by the eight countries and the principal challenges in the war-torn country and the region. These challenges include the security situation, heightened risk of terrorism and an impending humanitarian crisis. The security officials pointed to the need to provide humanitarian aid and emphasised that land and air routes should be made available and no one should impede the process of providing assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsa-doval-talks-defence-ties-with-iran-kazakhstan-russia-counterparts-101636569026637.html
11-11-2021||India||Ayodhya verdict has become right as both sides have accepted it: Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said that only because both the sides accepted the Supreme Court verdict on Ayodhya, it became a right judgement and not the other way around.After launching party colleague Salman Khurshid’s book “Sunrise over Ayodhya - Nationhood in our Times”, he termed the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992 as a “terrible wrong” that debased our Constitution.Party colleague Digvijaya Singh said in the country’s history, vandalism and destruction of temples happened even before the advent of Islam, but an atmosphere has been created where it has been told that such acts came with Muslim rulers and that is why they are responsible for it. Singh also alleged that LK Advani’s ‘Rath Yatra’ was not to unite society, but to divide it and wherever he went, he sowed the seeds of hatred and created that atmosphere of sectarianism in the country.He further alleged that Veer Sarvarkar was not a religious man as he questioned the cow being called “mata” and also consumed beef.Chidambaram lamented that even after 75 years of independence one has to conclude that nobody demolished Babri Masjid as everyone who was accused in the case were acquitted within a year of the Supreme Court verdict.“That story started in 1992 and came to a completely unexpected end on the 9th November 2019, exactly two years ago. The jurisprudential faces of this judgement is extremely narrow, it is a very thin ledge, but due to the passage of time what the author points out is all sides have accepted it.“Because both sides have accepted it, it is become the right judgement, not the other way around. It’s not a right judgement, which both sides have accepted. Because both sides have accepted it, it has become the right judgement,” the former finance minister said.Chidambaram said Khurshid did not want to rock the boat or stir the hornet’s nest and he understood his reluctance to do so.Quoting Singh, Chidambaram said he spoke about truth and reconciliation with emphasis on reconciliation. Nelson Mandela also promised truth and reconciliation, but first the truth must be told and then there can be reconciliation. “The truth was that what happened on December 6, 1992 was a terrible wrong. It was an incident that debased our Constitution, that defied the Supreme Court and created, what appeared to be at that time, an unbridgable chasm between two communities. It was wrong, terribly wrong and I would say 100 times that it will always be a terrible wrong,” he said.Chidambaram lamented that everyday there are occurrences that empty a bit of the soul of our Constitution, yet no one in high authority is willing to stand up and speak for this grave debasement and denigration of our Constitution. He also lamented even while lynchings are happening in the country, no one in authority speaks against it.The Congress leader said words and practices have acquired a new meaning today as whatever Gandhi ji thought was ‘Ram Rajya’ is no longer the ‘Ram Rajya’ as understood by many of fellow Indians.He also said that what Panditji thought about secularism is certainly not the way secularism is understood by many millions of fellow citizens.“Secularism has moved away from acceptance to tolerance and from tolerance to an uneasy co-existence. Secularism has moved away from community living to living apart, to living in ghettos. Secularism has moved away from having friends from all communities and all religions,” he said, adding that words have acquired a new meaning and unless we recognise what has happened to our country in the last 15-20 years, we would not be true to what we believe India should be.“Today we live in a world where lynching is not condemned by anyone in authority, certainly not the prime minister and certainly not the Home minister,” Chidambaram said.Singh said the Ram Janmabhoomi dispute was there since 1858 but the VHP, Bajrang Dal and the RSS never made it an issue. It was after they were restricted to two seats in 1984 they decided to make it a national issue because Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s Gandhian socialism had failed and they took to hardcore religious fundamentalism, he claimed. “L K Advani’s Rath Yatra was not to unite society, but to divide it. Wherever he went, he sow the seeds of hatred. Advani’s rath yatra created that atmosphere of sectarianism in our country,” he said.“’Hindutva has nothing to do with Hindu religion. Savarkar was not a religious man. He had even said why is the cow considered ‘maata’ (mother) and had no problems in consuming beef. He brought in the ‘Hindutva’ word to establish Hindu identity that caused confusion in people and that was propagated by the RSS,” he also said.Besides its legal implications, Singh said Khurshid in this book has also talked about the implications of this on society and that path of reconciliation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhya-verdict-has-become-right-as-both-sides-have-accepted-itchidambaram-101636569024503.html
11-11-2021||India||Same-sex movies: Child rights panel seeks clarification from CBFC||The National Commission of Child Rights has written to the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) seeking a clarification on whether eight movies depicting same-sex relationships had obtained certification to be screened at schools in the state of West Bengal, as the educational spaces open up post the Covid-19 pandemic.The movies, by young directors Salim Shekh, Manish Chowdhury, Saptarshi Ray, Salim Shekh and Avijit Marjit, were slated to be screened by Prayasam, a partner organisation of UNICEF, to promote inclusiveness. After media reports, Priyank Kanoongo, the chairperson of NCPCR, took note of the decision. He has sought CBFC’s confirmation that the movies have been certified and also sought the category of certification.Kanoongo has also written to UNICEF India representative Yasumasa Kimura seeking the “mandate under which the movies have been selected to be screened for minors”. The movies will premiere on December 3 at the 8th Bad and Beautiful World Film Festival at Kalanjali Art Space in Kolkata. The movies explore different aspects of same-sex relationships, from the reconciliation of the father with his gay son to the trials of a male escort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samesex-movies-child-rights-panel-seeks-clarification-from-cbfc-101636569022805.html
11-11-2021||India||Farm fires at a record high; FIRs by 2 NCR states: Nil||At least 50,000 instances of farm fires have been recorded since October 1 in two National Capital Region (NCR) states, but not a single police case has been registered over any of them in Punjab – where most of the incidents have been recorded – and Uttar Pradesh.Till November 9, there were 49,273 farm fires seen in Punjab alone. In UP, this number was 2,172. In both these states, the enforcement of a ban against burning crop residue first slackened last year, and has now virtually ceased with no FIR (first information report with police) being registered. This has correlated with a spike in the number of such incidents compared to recordings in 2018 and 2019.The second-highest numbers of farm fires are typically reported from Haryana -- this year, 6,929farm fires were recorded till November 9. Haryana Police officials said they have not yet collated information from districts on how many FIRs have been registered, seeking more time to provide the data. But data from one district, Karnal, showed that 70 FIRs were lodged.The main reasons why officials are going easy on enforcement are the farm protests and upcoming elections -- Punjab and UP are due to go to polls early next year.“We are now mute spectators. There is clear direction not to register any FIR against any farmer. The government does not want to anger farmers, who are a significant vote bank. Already, the farmers have been protesting,” said a deputy commissioner in Punjab, asking not to be named.In Punjab, the number of FIRs registered in 2019 was 1,737, which fell to 48 in 2020. This year, the number is zero.The official quoted above added that last year too, the administration went easy since farmers had begun protesting the Union government’s new farm laws in August 2020. That protest continues.Farmers are being issued challans for Environment Compensation fines at the rate of ₹1,500 per acre, but that too has remained only on paper since no recoveries are being made.Farm fires contribute some of the largest share of ultra-fine PM2.5 pollutants that choke the NCR region in the pre-winter weeks every year. This year, the number of farm fires has reached a new high for this late in November -- incidents usually begin to come down after November 7 but data accessed by HT show the number of fires on November 8 and 9 were the highest for these two dates since 2012, the earliest year for which data is available.Attempts to tackle the problem have failed, with challenges spanning deep-rooted issues pertaining to farm equipment, economics and, lately, politics. In 2019, the Supreme Court formally ordered a ban, which states have implemented using section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.The lack of action appears to correlate with a rise in incidents in recent years. In 2018 and 2019, till November 9, the total number of farm fires in Punjab and Haryana was below 50,000, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Suomi-National Polar-orbiting Partnership (Suomi-NPP) mission. In 2019, the year the ban was announced, it was the lowest since 2012 at 41,706.But in 2020, this number shot up to 65,753 in the October 1-November 9 period. This year, it stands at 56,202, and many experts warn that the process has simply been delayed because of an extended monsoon.Farmer unions have said that they need more financial incentive to stop burning paddy stubble, which is a cheap and quick way to clear their fields in the short window between harvesting of summer crops (which includes paddy) and the sowing of winter crops (most popularly, wheat).“Our demand is very simple. With rise in diesel prices and other farm machinery items, the in-situ and ex-situ management of paddy straw has become very expensive. Farmers are not able to spend ₹3,000- ₹5,000 extra to handle straw. Farmers are already under financial stress, if government wants that farmers should handle straw, they must provide ₹5,000 per acre as incentive for handling straw. Otherwise unions will continue to oppose any penal action,” said Jagtar Singh, a leader of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan).Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) nodal officer Samita, who goes by her first name only, said the agency only reports farm fires to respective districts, and action is left to the district administration and other concerned departments. “We are daily sending report to deputy commissioners who have to initiate action as per the roles defined by Punjab government,” she said.In Uttar Pradesh, experts from the pollution control board said they have recorded a roughly 18% increase in farm fires this year compared to 2020 in the month of November. VK Singh, the chief environmental engineer of UP Pollution Control Board, said most agricultural fires were reported from Saharanpur, Meerut, Baghpat, Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Hapur, Etawah, Mainpuri, Unnao, Maharajganj, Bahraich and Gonda districts.“West UP districts have more concentration of farm fires as compared to east UP districts,” Singh said.In UP, too, the enforcement of the ban has gradually collapsed. In 2020, more than 2,000 FIRs were registered over stubble burning by local administrations. In 2019, the number of FIRs was around 3,200. However, majority of these FIRs were later taken back by the district administration as anger over the farm laws began to spread last year.A farmer in a UP district echoed concerns voiced by the BKU representative quoted above.“The use of special combines and spraying of enzyme solution to remove stubble cost us more. Farmers with large landholdings may be able to afford them, but small farmers like us don’t have any option apart from burning it,” said Sarwajeet Singh, a farmer of the Kalan area of Shahajahanpur district in western UP.The Delhi government has been pushing states and the Union government to nudge other states and farmers to use what is known as the Pusa decomposer, a microbial bio-enzyme that can decompose crop residues, including stubble from paddy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-fires-at-a-record-high-firs-by-2-ncr-states-nil-101636568841070.html
11-11-2021||India||‘Official who threw out ₹20 lakh cash arrested, has ₹14.9 crore assets’: Odisha vigilance||BHUBANESWAR: A 53-year-old deputy manager with the state-run Odisha State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Limited was arrested by vigilance officials on Wednesday on charges of amassing disproportionate assets of ₹14.87 crore, people aware of the development said.A senior vigilance official said they suspected the deputy manager, identified as Pratap Samal, allegedly owned at least 25 plots, and three buildings including a 5-storey building in Bhubaneswar. The official had bank deposits of ₹1.61 crore and paid an annual insurance premium of nearly ₹57.72 lakh.Samal and his wife Sasmita couldn’t explain the source of the assets, the official claimed. She has been charged with abetting her husband.“This is the highest-ever seizure of disproportionate assets by a state government official,” a second vigilance official said, underlining that the ₹14.87 crore figure was the acquisition value of the assets as is the norm for disproportionate assets cases, and not the market value which would be much higher.Director Vigilance Yeshwant Jethwa said his officials are committed to taking stronger actions against corruption in the coming days.“We have a proficient pool of skilled Investigators, a legal team comprising legal advisors, counsels, a financial wing with CAs (chartered accountants), banking officers for an in-depth analysis of financial transactions, a technical wing comprising civil engineers for valuation of properties. We are going to use the latest technology for investigations,” said Jethwa.The previous record for disproportionate assets unearthed by vigilance officials in Odisha was associated with former Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Kant Pathak. When he was raided in November last, officials allegedly found assets worth ₹9.35 crore.When vigilance officials raided Pratap Samal’s house on Tuesday, he allegedly pushed a carton packed with bundles of currency notes from his roof to his neighbour’s house in Bhubaneswar’s IRC village. But the vigilance officials saw him and brought back the carton.Officials counted currency notes totalling ₹20 lakh. Another ₹18 lakh was found in his house.Samal, who did a diploma in civil engineering, joined the corporation set up in 1980 to construct buildings for the police, as a junior engineer in August 1988. He was promoted to the rank of deputy manager in 2013, and drew a monthly salary of ₹71,000 last month, a vigilance official said.Last year, Odisha topped the states in lodging disproportionate assets cases against corrupt government officials. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, 93 such cases were registered by Odisha in 2020 followed by Gujarat with 37 cases, and Tamil Nadu with 21 cases. The NCRB report said disproportionate assets amounting to ₹123.92 crore were seized in Odisha, up from ₹62.83 crore assets seized by the vigilance department from government employees in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/official-who-threw-out-rs-20-lakh-cash-arrested-has-rs-14-9-crore-assets-101636568601724.html
11-11-2021||India||Top court seeks report from Centre on Tihar reforms within 3 weeks||Absence of prompt action by the Centre to install jammers and body scanners at Tihar Central Jail, over a month after a secret report submitted by the Delhi Police chief to the Supreme Court disclosed serious security lapses at the jail, made the apex court remark on Wednesday that a “sorry state of affairs” exists at Tihar. The Court called for a report from the Union Home Secretary in three weeks providing an action plan to fill the gaps pointed out by the Delhi Police Commissioner in his report that the Court had forwarded to the Centre last month.A bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “We had recently read about deaths and suicides at Tihar Jail. It is a sorry state of affairs. The Centre cannot wait till something happens. You have to do something immediately.”The directions by the Court came in a pending proceeding related to completion of the Unitech housing projects since the arrest of former Unitech promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra facing probe by the Delhi Police, Serious Fraud Investigation Office and the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) for cheating homebuyers and laundering their money to offshore shell companies.On October 6, the Court directed the two brothers to be removed from Tihar Jail and be lodged at separate jails in Mumbai after the ED disclosed their clandestine operations from jail and how Tihar officials were complicit in allowing the accused to launder money, influence witnesses and tamper with the probe.A confidential report prepared by Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana named the jail officials involved and proposed 23 action points needing immediate consideration of the Centre for enhanced prison management at Tihar. Some of these recommendations related to installation of jammers and body scanners. According to the ED, the Chandra brothers had access to the jail telephone and communicated to their staff through the mobile phones of certain jail officials. The Court ordered immediate suspension of the jail officials and directed a formal case to be registered.Appearing for the Delhi Police, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj told the Court that pursuant to directions issued by Court, a FIR was registered on October 12 against 37 people which included 32 jail officials. However, he had no information on whether the named jail officials had been suspended as the jail came under the administration of the Delhi government.Even on the action taken on Asthana’s report, the ASG said that since the report had multiple recommendations, the same was under consideration of the Union Home Ministry. The Court said, “We find that neither any action plan nor any information has been provided by Centre on the steps taken,” and went on to direct the Union Home Secretary to take necessary steps in this regard and place an affidavit before the Court in three weeks detailing the action taken on the reforms suggested for enhanced prison management.The Court on October 6 while ordering suspension of the complicit jail officials said, “We direct the Ministry of Home Affairs to respond to the suggestions contained in the report of the Commissioner of Police so that remedial steps can be taken immediately, in terms of the report and in view of violation of the Jail Manual, for enhanced prison management.”A report prepared by Joint Director, SFIO filed on November 8 was also shared with the Court in a sealed cover on Wednesday detailing the progress of investigation into the web of companies operated by Chandra brothers following the ED revelation of having attached crime proceeds worth ₹7638 crore. The Court directed the latest SFIO report to be shared with ED and directed both agencies to submit updated status reports on investigation against Unitech and the Chandra brothers in four weeks. The Chandra brothers are facing prosecution since 2015 in separate cases accusing them of cheating homebuyers of 74 Unitech housing projects. A forensic audit ordered by the Supreme Court in 2018 revealed that the former Unitech promoters had siphoned off ₹1749 crore to foreign countries. The audit report prepared by M/s Grant Thornton India concluded that Chandra brothers collected more than ₹14,200 crore from nearly 30,000 homebuyers in their 74 residential projects. It was the claim of Unitech that they had spent close to ₹26,000 crore in the projects, much beyond what they received from homebuyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-seeks-report-from-centre-on-tihar-reforms-within-3-weeks-101636568481843.html
11-11-2021||India||India, 7 countries call for an inclusive govt in Afghanistan||Eight countries from the region, including India, Iran and Russia, pledged on Wednesday to combat terrorism emanating from Afghanistan and called for an open and inclusive government in Kabul with representation from all sections of Afghan society. In an apparent reference to Pakistan’s backing for the Taliban, a declaration issued at the conclusion of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan – which was attended by top security officials from the eight countries – emphasised respect for Afghanistan’s sovereignty and non-interference in its internal affairs. The security officials pitched for collective efforts to counter extremism, radicalisation, separatism and drug trafficking in the region. The meeting, chaired by India’s national security adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, was attended by Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and the security council heads of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. “We all have been keenly watching the developments in [Afghanistan]. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan, but also for its neighbours and the region,” Doval said in televised remarks. “This is a time for close consultations amongst us, greater cooperation, interaction and coordination among the regional countries,” he said. This was the first regional meeting on Afghanistan convened by India since Kabul fell to the Taliban on August 15. However, the dialogue was the continuation of a mechanism whereby Iran hosted two meetings in 2018 and 2019. Pakistan and China were invited to the meeting but chose not to participate. Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf said last week he wouldn’t attend because India was being a “spoiler” in the region, while the Chinese side cited scheduling problems. The Delhi Declaration on Afghanistan, issued after the meeting, said the eight countries are committed to “combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, including its financing, the dismantling of terrorist infrastructure and countering radicalisation, to ensure that Afghanistan would never become a safe haven for global terrorism”. It said that “Afghanistan’s territory should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing any terrorist acts”. The declaration stressed the need to form “an open and truly inclusive government that represents the will of all the people of Afghanistan and has representation from all sections of their society, including major ethno-political forces in the country”. The inclusion of all sections of Afghan society in the administrative and political structure is “imperative for the successful national reconciliation process”, it said. The eight countries said they backed a peaceful, secure and stable Afghanistan while emphasising “respect for sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity and non-interference in its internal affairs”. They expressed concern at the suffering of the Afghan people because of the security situation and condemned terror attacks in Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul. The declaration emphasised the protection of the rights of women, children and minorities, and expressed concern at the deteriorating socio-economic and humanitarian situation. In this context, the declaration highlighted the need to provide urgent humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. While pointing to the UN’s “central role” in Afghanistan, the eight countries said humanitarian assistance should be provided in an “unimpeded, direct and assured manner”, and distributed in a non-discriminatory manner to all sections of Afghan society. The representatives of the eight countries, in brief opening statements, pushed for collective efforts to cope with threats such as terrorism and drug trafficking emanating from Afghanistan, and to provide humanitarian aid to Afghans before the onset of winter. Shamkhani referred to the challenges of terrorism and a refugee crisis, and said: “The solution comes only through the formation of an inclusive government with the participation of all ethnic groups.” Patrushev noted the proliferation of dialogue mechanisms on Afghanistan, including the Moscow Format and Turkic Council, and said it was important that these forums do not duplicate work but complement each other. Kazakhstan’s national security committee chairman Karim Massimov said his country is closely monitoring threats from Afghanistan. “With the Taliban movement coming to power, the situation inside the country remains complicated. There are many obstacles to form an effective government system,” he said. “Terrorist organisations are intensifying their activities. We are strongly concerned with the operations of the Central Asian fighters,” he added.Tajikistan’s security council secretary Nasrullo Rahmatjon Mahmudzoda said his country is concerned about developments following the Taliban takeover because it has a long border with Afghanistan. “The current situation creates extra risk and possibility for growth of drug trafficking, terrorism and criminality. The situation on the Tajik-Afghan border remains complicated currently under the influence of many negative factors,” he said. The security officials also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the dialogue. The meeting in Delhi coincided with the Taliban foreign minister, Amir Khan Muttaqi, beginning a three-day visit to Pakistan. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid expressed optimism over meetings on Afghanistan held in Islamabad, Moscow, Tehran and New Delhi. “We are optimistic because the whole region needs stability and security in Afghanistan...the meetings...pave the way to understanding, and they are hopefully in the benefit of Afghanistan,” Mujahid said. China’s special envoy for Afghanistan Yue Xiaoyong will attend a meeting of the “extended troika” to be hosted by Pakistan on November 11. The meet will also be attended by the senior envoys of the US and Russia. Muttaqi’s delegation is expected to meet senior officials of all four countries while in Islamabad. Pakistan’s security establishment, with its close ties to the Taliban and the Haqqani Network, has gained influence in Kabul since August. At the same time, the Taliban are looking towards China for investments following the withdrawal of Western assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-7-countries-call-for-an-inclusive-govt-in-afghanistan-101636568241073.html
11-11-2021||India||Flooded again, Chennai seeks succour amid the chaos||On Sunday, at 5am, 67-year-old VS Jayaraman, made a phone call to the T Nagar MLA, J Karunanithi, and the city’s fire and rescue department. His home in Chennai’s T Nagar had ankle deep water, and his furniture was floating in it. Water was everywhere, but there was not a drop to drink -- pipes and taps were all running dry. His 96-year-old mother needed to be physically lifted to an apartment on a higher floor. Submerged under the water were the apartment’s electrical boxes, and therefore no power could be turned on for fear of electrocution.
11-11-2021||India||Armed forces need to stay prepared given the situation at borders: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said the armed forces need to stay prepared to respond to any contingency at short notice, given the volatile situation on India’s borders. Singh’s comments came while addressing the Indian Air Force’s top brass at the opening day of the three-day bi-annual commanders’ conference. The remarks come at a time when India and China have hardened their stance on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, and also in the eastern sector, with increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies. The two countries have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh for over 18 months. Singh lauded IAF for its high level of preparedness and ability to respond to any situation at short notice. The minister also said enhancing jointness was essential and joint structures should be evolved after closely examining various options. He said inputs from all stake holders would be taken into consideration. “Expounding on theaterisation, he mentioned that enhancing jointness is essential and the structure should be evolved after closely examining various options, and inputs from all stakeholders would be taken into consideration,” the IAF said in a statementThe commanders of the IAF will carry out a comprehensive review of India’s security challenges along the borders with China and Pakistan at the conference from November 10-12.Addressing the commanders, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari stressed on the need to develop multi-domain capability to give a “swift and befitting response” to any misadventures by India’s adversaries. The air chief also highlighted the need for joint training with the army and the navy for synergised application of combat power in future conflicts. The department of military affairs (DMA), headed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, has asked the three services to expedite their ongoing studies on the creation of threatre commands, and submit comprehensive reports within six months. The deadline for submitting the reports has been advanced from September 2022 to April 2022. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations --- two land-centric theatres, an air defence command and a maritime theatre command.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-forces-need-to-stay-prepared-given-the-situation-at-borders-rajnath-singh-101636566561850.html
11-11-2021||India||In our better interest, says Taliban on India-led regional meet on Afghanistan||The Taliban regime in Kabul on Wednesday said the first regional meeting on Afghanistan convened by India was in its “better interest” and reiterated its stated policy that “its land will not be used against any country”.In an audio statement released hours after the Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan chaired by National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval wrapped up its deliberations, the Taliban regime’s spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid said: “Though we are not present in this conference, we firmly believe that this conference is in the better interest of Afghanistan as the entire region is considerate of the current Afghan situation and the participating countries also must be thoughtful of improving and safeguarding the security situation in Afghanistan and helping the current government to ensure security in the country on its own”.The meeting, chaired by the Indian NSA, was attended by Iran’s supreme national security council secretary, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Russia’s security council secretary Nikolai Patrushev, and the security council heads of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The security officials also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the dialogue.Wednesday’s meeting is the first regional meeting on Afghanistan convened by India after August 15 when the Taliban took control of the country.A participant in Wednesday’s deliberations stressed that the regional meeting brought out a lot of convergence in views apart from the “excellent optics and dynamics”. “I think a highly successful conference,” the official said.The Taliban statement that followed also reiterated that it has been looking to deepen mutual cooperation with countries in the region. “We do not have any objection or anxiety with the conference being held in India and we are hopeful that positive outcomes of this conference will be utilized and implemented,” Mujahid said.NSA Ajit Doval later also held meetings with his counterparts from Iran, Kazakhstan and Russia after Wednesday’s meeting to discuss the situation in bilateral security cooperation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-our-better-interest-says-taliban-on-india-led-regional-meet-on-afghanistan-101636563776535.html
11-11-2021||India||Globalisation and its discontents, in Haryana||From January 15, 2022, a law giving 75% reservation for local residents in private sector jobs will come into effect in Haryana. To be sure, the policy will only apply to jobs where the monthly salary is up to ₹30,000. The announcement has already triggered a rethink among IT companies currently located in the state, said a Business Standard report published on November 9. The policy appears to be an example of myopic populism, which could ultimately harm the economic prospects of the state. However, simply classifying it as that does not take into account the context behind the political economy of such decisions. Haryana is not the only state to implement or consider bringing such laws. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh are other states that have brought in such laws. Here are four charts that explain the political rationale behind them.Gurugram, the symbol of aspirations and exclusion in HaryanaIn 2002, Joseph Sitglitz (he received the Nobel Prize in economics in 2001) wrote a book called Globalization and Its Discontents. The book drew on Sitglitz’s experience as the chairman of the council of advisers to US President Bill Clinton and his term as the chief economist of the World Bank, and questioned the then entrenched dogma about the efficacy of Washington Consensus policies in promoting growth and well-being. Two decades since Stiglitz wrote his book, the discontent vis-a-vis globalisation has percolated from policy debates to the real world. Protectionism and populism are increasingly dominating politics across the world as it becomes clear that only a fraction of people have gained from the policies of globalisation. Gurugram is one of the best-case studies of this phenomenon.If one were to make a list of things that capture the transformation economic reforms have brought about in India, the city of Gurgaon or Gurugram, as it is known now, will probably be in the top five. What was a small town in the Aravalli foothills is now the abode of corporate India, especially companies in new-age sectors such as IT services, finance, and now startups. The rapid expansion of the corporate footprint has also led to an explosion in the white-collar workforce in the city. Most of this high-skilled workforce has come from outside the city, even the state, and in some cases outside India.While Gurugram’s growth did bring some capital gains for the local residents – land prices shot up as private builders started acquiring land for real estate development – those gains were skewed in favour of the landed elite and are mostly over now.For the average Haryanvi, Gurugram is both a symbol of aspiration and exclusion. There are far too few high-paying salaried jobs in the rest of the state compared to Gurugram, and the ones in Gurugram aren’t available to many locals. This gap is even bigger if one looks at the status of workers in rural Haryana. It is this aspiration and sense of exclusion which the policy is seeking to address by reserving private sector jobs for locals.
11-11-2021||India||Taslima Nasreen 'shocked' that Malala married a Pakistani, says ‘Taliban are happy’||Bangladeshi author Taslima Nasreen said she is shocked to learn about activist Malala Yousafzai's wedding to Pakistan Cricket Board official Asser Malik. "Quite shocked to learn Malala married a Pakistani guy. She is only 24. I thought she went to Oxford University for study, she would fall in love with a handsome progressive English man at Oxford and then think of marrying not before the age of 30. But..," the author tweeted.As the author was trolled for her view and as social media users told her that it is wrong to assume that all Pakistan men are regressive, the author put out another tweet. This time on Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan. "Imran Khan was the most progressive free-thinking man from Pakistan. He fell in love with a Jewish girl. Then what? Then he made her convert to Islam, defended religious fanatics, divorced and married again, divorced again & finally ended up with a burqawali ghost. Toxic masculinity!" Taslima wrote. Quite shocked to learn Malala married a Pakistani guy. She is only 24. I thought she went to Oxford university for study, she would fall in love with a handsome progressive English man at Oxford and then think of marrying not before the age of 30. But..In several other tweets, Taslima put forward her opinion and said "some misogynist Taliban" are happy with Malala because "she married a Muslim, a Pakistani and she married when she is very young".
11-11-2021||India||‘Won’t leave Kashmir’: Bizman after staff shot dead in terror attack||A Kashmiri Pandit businessman, who is believed to be the target of a terrorist attack that left his salesman dead in Srinagar earlier this week, said he will not leave the Valley and remain here despite opposition from his family. Sandeep Mawa, who runs a dry fruit shop at Bohri Kadal, also claimed that he escaped the attack on Monday as he left his shop early due to a prior intelligence input. His salesman, Mohammad Ibrahim Khan, was shot dead instead.“Making us run away and killing... is the policy. They (terrorists) are nobody’s friends,” the44-year-old said. “There is fear and my family, including my father, have been wanting to relocate. But how is running away a solution? For how long will we keep running? This has to stop somewhere. If a mistake has been committed by one, you cannot punish the others,” he added. It was in 1990 that the Mawas relocated to Delhi after the businessman’s father, Roshan Lal Mawa, was shot dead by terrorists. The family returned to Kashmir in 2019, after 28 years, and restarted their wholesale dry fruit business. Mawa said that on Monday, he was warned by police of a possible attack on him, following which he left his shop and returned home early. Hours later, terrorists mistook his salesman for the businessman and opened fire at him outside the shop. Khan died on the spot. “During the day, police informed me of an imminent attack and I left but my vehicle was left behind. In the evening, when Ibrahim opened my vehicle, he was fired upon. They mistook him for me,” Mawa said. The businessman, who lives with his father, mother, wife and two children, said he was also provided with personal security officers. A day later, a little-known organisation, Muslim Janbaaz Force, claimed responsibility for the attack on the businessman but later issued a corrigendum saying they had mistakenly killed his salesman.Khan is survived by his wife and two children.“Khan was like a brother to me. He always stayed with me... in Delhi, Bengaluru and even Jammu. It is unfortunate that he lost his life. We are trying to get a government job for his daughter or son,” Mawa said. Khan family quotes if we can get pleaseWhile Zoheb Tanveer, police superintendent (north), refused to comment on the matter, inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar did not respond to a message sent by this reporter. The Mawas were among the bulk of Kashmiri Pandits who left the Valley after an insurgency erupted in the region in 1989. In 2016, the then state government had said that over 154,080 people migrated from the Valley in 1990.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/businessman-believed-to-be-actual-target-of-attack-vows-not-to-leave-kashmir-101636544000467.html
11-11-2021||India||No groceries, fuel for those not vaccinated, says Aurangabad administration||The Aurangabad district administration has ordered ration shops, gas agencies and petrol pumps to supply groceries and fuel only to people who have taken at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, a move meant to ramp up vaccination in the Marathwada district.Earlier this month, the District Collector had ordered that people who had not taken a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine will not be allowed entry at historic sites and monuments in Aurangabad, after the vaccination figures in the region were found to be low.Aurangabad District Collector Sunil Chavan in the order issued on Tuesday directed authorities of fair price shops, gas agencies and petrol pumps to check the vaccination certificates of customers. According to the order, only those citizens having taken at least one dose of the vaccine for Covid-19 will be able to get groceries from ration shops, gas cylinders from agencies and fuel from petrol pumps.If the order is not followed, the administration will take action against the people concerned, under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, Chavan said.In Aurangabad, about 55 per cent of the eligible population in the district have been inoculated so far, compared to 74 per cent in the state. This has put the district in the 26th place in terms of vaccination among 36 districts in Maharashtra.The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation has also started checking vaccination certificates of people coming to government and private offices. The Municipal Corporation has directed all petrol pumps to check Covid-19 vaccination certificates of all customers from November 30.Maharashtra has about seven million doses pending from the October stock with the state government likely to get over 20 million Covid-19 doses from the Centre for its vaccination drive. The state has also registered lowering demand as a section of the population has shown hesitancy for the second dose after the second wave of Covid-19 infections waned.Though there has been a steady supply of the vaccine the demand for it has gone down drastically since October mainly due to two factors including the mandatory 84 days gap between two doses and the declining number of Covid-19 cases.To increase the vaccination rate, the Aurangabad Zilla Parishad has decided to extend the inoculation process to the evening, another official said.“Many people work in agricultural fields from morning to evening. Hence, to facilitate their inoculation, the Zilla Parishad will undertake vaccination from 5 pm to 8 pm in the district,” the Zilla Parishad’s health officer Sudhakar Shekle said.The first such drive was organised on Tuesday in Kaygaon village, located on the Aurangabad-Ahmednagar district border, and 100 doses of vaccines were given to residents, he said.Public announcements were also being made to create awareness about the importance of vaccination, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-groceries-fuel-for-those-not-vaccinated-says-aurangabad-administration-101636543580218.html
11-11-2021||India||3.8m students to participate in National Achievement Survey||Around 3.8 million students from 1, 23,000 schools in 733 districts across 36 states and Union territories will participate in the National Achievement Survey (NAS) 2021 on Friday. The survey, which assesses the competencies developed by the students at the grade levels of third, fifth, and eighth, is conducted every three years.The survey was last conducted in 2017 and was scheduled to take place in 2020. However, due to the Covid-19 situation, it was postponed until this year.This is the first time when private schools have been included in the NAS for grades 3,5 and 8. Earlier, private schools were included for the class 10 NAS that is being conducted separately.Officials said the survey will be very crucial to assess the impact of the pandemic on the learning levels among students. “(The survey) will help to assess the learning interruptions and new learnings during the COVID pandemic and help to take remedial measures,” the Union education ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. It added National Council of Educational Research and Training has done the instrument development, testing, finalisation of the test items, sampling of the schools, etc.The Central Board of Secondary Education will conduct the test in the sampled schools in collaboration with the respective states and territories. “NAS 2021 will cover the entire spectrum of schools...”For students of classes third and fifth, the NAS will cover language, mathematics, and environmental studies. For those in class eight, it will be include language, mathematics, science, and social science.“The Test would be conducted in 22 mediums of instruction covering Assamese, Bengali, English, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi, Mizo, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, Urdu, Bodo, Garo, Khasi, Konkani, Nepali, Bhutia, and Lepcha,” the statement said.Also Read: Delhi Police arrests 3 for buying imported marijuana over dark net using bitcoinThe NAS 2017 report released in 2018 highlighted issues including how learning levels for mathematics were progressively lower among government school students as they progressed from class to class. The ministry later drafted some interventions based on the survey findings.“This year the findings would be more crucial in the backdrop of the pandemic. It will help to formulate better strategies to bridge the learning gap among students and to address the issues faced by them,” an official said.To ensure fair conduct of the survey, 1,82,488 field investigators, 1,23,729 observers, 733 district-level coordinators, and district nodal officers separately and 36 state nodal officers in each state and territory have been appointed. “Also, 1,500 board representatives have been appointed in the districts for monitoring overall functioning and ensuring fair conduct of the Survey. All the personnel have been provided extensive training regarding their roles and responsibilities,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/38m-students-to-participate-in-national-achievement-survey-101636537699905.html
11-11-2021||India||Fadnavis' wife has one word for Nawab Malik amid BJP-NCP slugfest||With the drugs-on-cruise case involving Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan turning into a slugfest between the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and the BJP, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis's wife Amruta Fadnavis has recently described NCB leader and Maharashtra minister as 'spoilt'. In a tweet, the banker who is not new to controversies, Amruta Fadnavis wrote Nawab Malik is 'spoilt'. बिगड़े नवाब ने-प्रेस कॉन्फ़्रेन्स पर प्रेस कॉन्फ़्रेन्स,प्रेस कॉन्फ़्रेन्स पर प्रेस कॉन्फ़्रेन्स,प्रेस कॉन्फ़्रेन्स पर प्रेस कॉन्फ़्रेन्स बुलाई-लेकिन हर बार झूठ और मक्कारी की ही बाते हमे सुनाई,लक्ष्य इनका एक ही है,मेरे भई-बचाना है इन्हें अपना जमाई और काली कमाई!#NawabMalik"The spoilt Nawab is holding press conference after press conference... but every time he has only lies to offer. The target is only to safeguard 'jamai and kaali kamai' (son-in-law and black money),'" Amruta tweeted.What started as a war of words by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik who targetted the Narcotics Control Bureau and its Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede has now turned into a full-blown political war between Devendra Fadnavis and Nawab Malik dropping 'bombs' against each other every day.Fadnavis on Tuesday alleged Nawab Malik, his family members of two convicts of the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts were involved in a dubious land deal. Nawab Malik, on the other hand, said while fake notes were seized in other states after demonetisation on November 8 2016, there was not a single such instance in Maharashtra as Fadnavis swept the case under the carpet. Malik also said that Sameer Wankhede at that time was the joint director of the DRI. चलो आज BJP और ड्रग्स पेडलर के रिश्तों पे चर्चा करते है pic.twitter.com/FVjbOQ8jvfNawab Malik had earlier tweeted a photo of Amruta Fadnavis with alleged drug peddler Jaideep Rana.In a press meet on Wednesday, Nawab Malik alleged Fadnavis appointed people with criminal background when he was the chief minister. Fro example, the NCP minister said one Munna Yadav from Nagpur was made the chairman of the Maharashtra Construction Workers Welfare Board despite criminal charges like murder registered against him. Malik alleged that Fadnavis also sheltered an individual whose second wife was a Bangladeshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fadnavis-wife-has-one-word-for-nawab-malik-amid-bjp-ncp-slugfest-101636535608583.html
11-11-2021||India||Special court gives rhea access to bank accounts after a year||A special court has allowed a plea by Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty, seeking access to her bank accounts which were frozen after she was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drugs case filed in relation to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death last year. The court, in a recent order, also allowed another plea for return of the actress’ electronic gadgets seized during the course of investigation last year. Rhea and her brother, Showik, along with at least two dozen others, were arrested by the NCB on September 8, 2020 on charges of facilitating procurement of drugs for consumption for Rajput, who was found dead at his apartment in Mumbai on June 14, 2020. The Chakraborty siblings have been on bail since October last year. In her first application, pertaining to her bank accounts, Rhea alleged that she needed access to her bank accounts for fulfilling various tax liabilities and to support her as well as her brother’s lifestyle. Having her accounts frozen for over 10 months caused her prejudice, she added. The actress’ counsel Satish Maneshinde argued that the NCB case will take time for disposal and it was not necessary to keep the accounts frozen. Opposing the plea, NCB’s counsel and special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said a probe into the financial transactions was underway and providing its access to the actress could hamper the investigation.The court, however, observed that the investigating officer in the case said that he had left a decision on the matter to the discretion of the court, and allowed the de-freezing of accounts subject to conditions.“From the reply of the officer, it appears that there is no strong objection from the respondent side for unfreezing the bank account and FDs (fixed deposits) of the applicant,” the court said in its order.In such circumstances, she is entitled to unfreezing the bank account and FDs subject to conditions, it added. The court directed the actress to give an undertaking supported by an affidavit stating that during the pendency and conclusion of the trial, she will make the balance amount, as shown on September 16, 2020, available for necessary orders.The court separately ordered that the electronic gadgets seized be returned after due verification and identification upon executing a bond of ₹1 lakh.Sarpande said a laboratory, where Chakraborty’s seized phone and laptop were sent for forensic analysis, has returned the items and the investigating officer in the case has informed her that she can collect them.While granting her relief in the drugs case last year, the Bombay high court observed that Rhea was “not part of the chain of drug dealers”, and “she ha[d] not forwarded the drugs allegedly procured by her to somebody else to earn monetary or other benefits”.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), on orders of Supreme Court, is separately probing abetment to suicide charges against Rhea, as alleged by Rajput’s family. The Enforcement Directorate and NCB are investigating different aspects of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sushant-singh-case-rhea-chakraborty-s-accounts-to-be-unfrozen-101636535179898.html
11-11-2021||India||CPWD invites pre-qualification bids for 'executive enclave'||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has invited pre-qualification bids for the construction and maintenance of the executive enclave, which will include the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), India House, Cabinet Secretariat, and National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS), as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. The ₹1,171 crore project will be completed within 24 months from the date of handing over of the site, as per the bid document.The executive enclave is the fifth segment of the Centre’s ambitious ₹13,500 crore redevelopment project.According to the bid document, the PMO, Cabinet secretariat, and NSCS secretariat will be four-storeyed buildings (ground plus three and basement). India House, a double-storeyed building (ground plus one and basement), will be used for high-level meetings with foreign dignitaries.The total built-up area will be approximately 87,915 sqm, including the basement area of approximately 20,879 sqm. “The existing structures on plot number 36/38 are to be demolished before the start of new construction,” says the document.Construction companies that will qualify for the pre-qualification bid, which will be opened on November 24, will be allowed to participate in the financial bid. As per the tender document, the firm that will get the contract will be responsible for the maintenance of the enclave for five years.“The Enclave will be designed to improve potency and functioning through carefully planned formation of different departments with supporting facilities, this will ensure prime security and excellent interconnectivity within the Enclave and with other offices in Central Vista. Relocating these departments will also ensure efficient security protocols for VIPs and VVIPs without disturbing daily movement of the public in and around the Central Vista,” says the bid document available on the CPWD’s website.Also Read: 8 nations call for joint efforts to tackle terrorism emanating from AfghanistanLast week, Jharkhand-based Kamladityya Construction Pvt Ltd emerged as the lowest bidder for the construction of the Vice President’s enclave. CPWD officials said that the process to award the work will be completed soon. The construction work of the new Parliament building and redevelopment of central vista avenue is moving at a fast pace. The new House is likely to be ready before the winter session next year. The revamp of the avenue will be completed by December this year.Last month, the CPWD awarded the work for the construction of the first three buildings of the proposed Common Central Secretariat (a set of 10 buildings that will house all the 51 central ministries) to Larsen and Toubro (L&T) Ltd. The construction and infrastructure major was the lowest bidder for the ₹3,254-crore project. L&T’s bid ( ₹3,141.99) was 3.47% less than the government’s estimated cost.The three buildings will come up where Indira Gandhi Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) was earlier located. Earlier this year, IGNCA was temporarily relocated to the renovated Janpath Hotel. A new IGNCA complex will be constructed at Jamnagar House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpwd-invites-pre-qualification-bids-for-executive-enclave-101636525819323.html
11-11-2021||India||Was called peddler's wife; kids lost friends: Open letter of Nawab Malik's daughter||Amid the ongoing drugs controversy involving political bigwigs of Maharashtra and Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede, minister Nawab Malik's daughter Nilofer Malik Khan wrote an open letter narrating the trauma her family went through when her husband Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB in a drugs case.In an open letter shared from her Twitter account which is followed by Nawab Malik, Nilofer recounted those 'nerve wracking' 15 hours when Sameer was summoned for questioning and Nilofer, in an emotional state, smashed her hand into the window pane, causing it to fall on her foot for which she had to get "250 stitches". "It was only after 12 at night when I received a call from Sameer that he was made to sign an arrest memo and that they were arresting him," she wrote. It was January 12, this year.Sameer Wankhede not completely out of picture, will assist in Aryan Khan case An Open Letter From The Wife Of An Innocent: THE BEGINNING#OpenLetter #SameeeKhan #NiloferMalikKhan #SameerWankhede #JusticeForSameer #WeWontBackDown #justiceoverinjustice #nawabmaliksameer pic.twitter.com/CEyVwSGiydNilofer spent the night at her parents' place and the following morning, she got a call from NCB officers for searching their house. "By the time I got there, they had already barged into our office since the guard had a spare key. After tossing our belongings around and thoroughly checking both the place, they found nothing, absolutely nothing," she wrote."We were ostracised by society, the media ran a vicious and biased trial against us where we were declared criminals without knowing our side of the story. My kids have been put through an ordeal no one should go through. They lost their friends, people were wary of even speaking to us. We were shunned overnight and terms like ‘peddlers’, 'peddler's wife', ‘drug traffickers’ were thrown at us," Nilofer wrote.Nilofer wrote that she will continue posting over the next few days offering glimpses of the torture that she had to bear.With Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik training his gun at the NCB and its Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede, the arrest of Malik's son-in-law has been raked up as NCB officials said the minister has been attacking the central agency because of his personal interest.Nawab Malik's son-in-law got bail in September after spending eight months in prison in the drugs case which he claimed were herbal cigarettes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/was-called-peddler-s-wife-kids-lost-friends-open-letter-of-nawab-malik-s-daughter-101636210331810.html
