12-11-2021||India||Odisha man gets 14 years jail for repeated rape of 11-yr-old orphan in 2014||BHUBANESWAR: A 57-year-old Odisha man who repeatedly raped a young orphan living on a railway platform in Cuttack was sentenced to 14 years in jail on Friday. The girl was 11 when she was rescued by a non-profit in November 2014.Special judge, Cuttack, Subas Kumar Behari convicted Ajay Samal under section 376(2)(1)(n) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that relates to the repeated rape of a female and section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso) that relates to aggravated penetrative sexual assault.Judge Behari, the designated judge for Pocso cases, also imposed a ₹10,000 fine and ordered the District Legal Service Authority of Cuttack to pay a ₹5 lakh in compensation to the girl, who is now 18 years old.Special public prosecutor Ramesh Mohanty said the girl had taken shelter at the platform after the death of her parents. It was here that Samal accosted her and offered to marry the child. “When the girl refused, he forcibly made her drink liquor and raped her several times. When the victim protested, Samal threatened her to kill and drive her out from the railway station,” said Mohanty.After the case came to light, NGO Childline lodged a case with Mahila police station in November 2014 which led to Samal’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-man-gets-14-years-jail-for-repeated-rape-of-11-yr-old-orphan-in-2014-101636741005104.html
12-11-2021||India||Underweight kids: 12 districts show positive improvement over 5 years||PUNE Niti Aayog has congratulated the state government’s Integrated Child Development Scheme, as 12 of 36 districts in the state have shown a positive improvement in the number of underweight children in the past five years. These districts showed a decline in the prevalence of underweight children under 5-years of age between 2015-16 and 2019-20. Osmanabad, chosen as the aspirational district, led the way with a 12% decline. The percentage of underweight children went down from 44.5% to 32.5% across all districts in Maharashtra.Rubal Agarwal, commissioner, Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) said, “Osmanabad was one of the aspirational districts and due to our extra efforts on the same, as per the rules laid down by the central government for the aspirational district, we focused on that one district and took multiple steps like recruitment of staff, monitoring, nutritional schemes and now eventually, the district has given us some positive results. We are also working on bringing down the number of underweight kids in other districts as well.”As per the report prepared by ICDS as of June 2020, the top 12 districts which are doing well include Sangli, Osmanabad, Pune, Raigad, Buldhana, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Solapur, Akola, Mumbai city, Latur and Washim, while the districts that reported the highest number of underweight children are Nandurbar, Palghar, Yavatmal, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Nanded, Parbhani, Amravati, Mumbai suburban and Wardha. The state average is 16.34% of underweight children and 4.% of severely underweight children under the age of six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/underweight-kids-12-districts-show-positive-improvement-over-5-years-101636740467458.html
12-11-2021||India||Right commission takes note of UP custodial death||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken note of the custodial death of a 22-year-old in Kasganj, official familiar with development said on Saturday. The 22-year-old, identified as Altaf, was called for interrogation at the Kasganj police station in an abduction case and died on Tuesday evening, with his family members alleging that he was killed by police personnel. But the police claimed that Altaf, who was accused of eloping with a minor Hindu girl, had strangulated himself using a string from his jacket hood in the washroom of the police lock-up.The latest development comes after an RTI activist from Rampur, Danish Khan, filed a complaint with the NHRC on the matter.“The NHRC will investigate the incident that took place on Tuesday in Sadar Kotwali police station of Kasganj, before issuing notice in regard to a complaint lodged on Wednesday and registered on Thursday by NHRC as per the procedure prescribed,” stated Danish Khan. “The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) registered the case within 18 hours of filing of the complaint and will investigate the case on its merits before choosing to issue notices if deemed fit,” he said. Khan has challenged the police theory that Altaf, accused in a case of kidnapping, had committed suicide by hanging himself from the tap in the toilet of Sadar Kotwali police station of Kasganj on Tuesday. “Altaf was a man with a height of five and a half feet, so how could he commit suicide by hanging himself from a tap which was merely 2 feet above the ground, that too by using string from his jacket hood?” questioned Khan. “The circumstances show that Altaf was taken to the police station on the night of Monday, November 8 and was given third-degree torture by police and allegedly strangulated to death on Tuesday morning,” alleged Danish in his complaint to NHRC. The complaint lodged by Danish Khan with diary no. 18490/IN/2021 was registered on Thursday by NHRC under file No.333810/24/7/2021-AD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-commission-takes-note-of-up-custodial-death-101636740286619.html
12-11-2021||India||Two cops injured in Maharashtra as protest turns violent||Two policemen were injured after incidents of stone-pelting by the mob during protests against recent violence in Tripura were reported in Nashik, Amravati and Nanded districts of Maharashtra on Friday, the police said.In Nanded, stones were pelted at police vans and two police personnel sustained injuries at Deglur Naka and Shivaji Nagar. Protestors were also seen torching shops and police vehicles in Malegaon and Amravati, following which the riot squad was called in to quell the protests. Shambhuraj Desai, minister of state for home, said that the police was directed to take strict action against the people responsible for instigating the violence. “I have spoken to senior police officials and have asked them to take strict action against people behind the violence. We have alerted the police administration against anti-social elements. The situation is under control,” he said.In Malegaon, a communally sensitive town in Nashik district, protestors, many of whom were Muslim, the police said, had gathered to protest against the treatment of the community in Tripura, where on October 26, a mosque, few houses and shops were reportedly vandalised by members of the right-wing group, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, during a rally.In Amravati, over 8,000 people gathered outside the district collector’s office to submit a memorandum demanding that atrocities against the minority community should be stopped, the PTI reported. When people were leaving after submitting the memorandum, stone-pelting took place at three places between Chitra Chowk and Cotton Market, a police official told PTI.In Amravati’s Kotwali police station, First Information Reports (FIR) has been lodged, naming hundreds of protesters. “No permission was given to the protest rally. We are registering a case against the protesters and action would be taken accordingly,” said Vikram Sali, DCP, Amravati.The protests that took place in other parts of the state, including Hingoli and Bhiwandi, stayed peaceful. Religious and political outfits had called for a peaceful bandh — to shut local establishments and shops — on Friday, following which memorandums were to be submitted to the district collectors of the various districts. The call was supported by the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Samajwadi Party in Bhiwandi.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in opposition in the state, has demanded strict action. “Banking on the alleged incidents in Tripura, the protests staged in various parts of the state took a violent turn. The state government needs to take immediate steps to keep the situation under control,” the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-cops-injured-in-maharashtra-as-protest-turns-violent-101636739327990.html
12-11-2021||India||Railways back to pre-Covid fares||Under pressure from passengers over hike in fares, the Railways on Friday issued an order to discontinue the ‘special’ tag for mail and express trains and revert to pre-pandemic ticket prices with immediate effect.Since the coronavirus-triggered lockdown was eased, the Railways has been running only special trains. It started with long-distance trains and now, even short-distance passenger services are being run as special trains with “slightly higher fares” to “discourage people from avoidable travels”.In a letter to the zonal railways on Friday, the Railway Board said trains will now be operated with their regular numbers and fares will revert to normal pre-Covid prices.Ticket prices of special trains and holiday special trains are marginally higher.“In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, all regular mail/express trains were being operated as MSPC (mail/express special) and HSP (holiday special). It has now been decided that the MSPC and HSP train services, included in the Working Time Table, 2021, shall be operated with regular numbers and with fares as applicable for the concerned classes of travel and type of train, as per the extant guidelines.“This issues with the concurrence of Passenger Marketing Directorate of Railway Board,” the order dated November 12 said.The order, however, did not specify when the zonal railways are required to revert to their pre-Covid regular services.“The zonal railways have been instructed. While the order is with immediate effect, the process will take a day or two,” a senior official said.“With this more than 1,700 trains will be restored in the next few days. The first digit will now not be zero as was in the case of special trains,” another official said.Officials, however, said curbs introduced in view of Covid such as temporary restrictions on concessions, bed rolls and meal services would continue to be in effect.With the operation of special trains and no concessions, the Railways’ revenue too has seen a substantial growth. The transporter registered an increase of 113 per cent in earnings from the passenger segment during the second quarter of 2021-2022 as compared to the first||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-back-to-pre-covid-fares-101636739326783.html
12-11-2021||India||Jal Jeevan Mission: 12 Leh villages get tap water connection||New Delhi: The town of Leh, perched in the northern Himalayas at an elevation of 11,562 feet, is unforgiving, despite being a tourist haven with soaring mountains, colourful monasteries, and eternal poplars. Much of the Ladakh region, where the town is located, remains snowbound. The winds are freezing. Cell phone connectivity is patchy. But government engineers and contractors have managed to connect 12 of the region’s 60 villages with 24x7 piped water connection in the cold desert under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission, defying odds that have often left Leh behind in terms of modern infrastructure. The Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) scheme aims to connect every rural household in the country with a functional tapped water connection by 2024. Over 120 million households in India lacked access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world in absolute numbers, according to a UN Water report in 2014. India has 189 million rural households, according to Census data, and the race to reach piped water to every household is on. As on November 10, nearly 84.7 million households have been provided with a functioning tapped water supply source. This is 44% of total rural households. The expanding network of piped drinking water is critical for health. Poor quality water is the main cause of diseases such as diarrhoea, the third leading cause of childhood mortality in the country, according to researchers Subitha Lakshminarayanan and Ramakrishnan Jayalakshmy, who work at Puduchery’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College, respectively.Some regions such as Leh in the Union territory of Ladakh, stood out for their harsh terrain and geographical hurdles in the national programme to provided piped water. Besides, the region witnesses heightened military watch because of a simmering border dispute with China. In one such remote village called Dipling, ferrying men and equipment to locate a sustainable water source and lay the pipeline network was an arduous task as there was no motorable road, people involved in the project said. “Air sorties were used to move labour, engineers and equipment to this village,” says Bharat Lal, the additional secretary in the ministry of Jal Shakti, which oversees the programme. Along with high density polyethylene pipes, high-tech gadgets to locate water sources were also transported through air. Most villages lacked electricity, without which providing functional piped water supply is impossible since running motor equipment and monitoring sensors require power. Engineers in Leh built solar power units to solve the problem. “Solar power units mean the piped water facilities in the region are zero-carbon infrastructure. This makes it totally green,” district magistrate Skrikant Suse said. Villages along the Line of Actual Control along the India-China border are being covered on a priority, officials said. Of Leh’s 24,767 households, 5,425 households now have tapped water. The Union budget allotted ₹10,001 crore in 2019-20 for the national rural drinking water mission. In 2020-21, ₹11,500 crore was provided. The Union budget 2021-22 took this up to ₹50,000 crore for the mission. Overall, experts say a key challenge for the programme is to maintain sustainability of water supply sources. In previous attempts to provide drinking water supply, villages connected with water sources fell back to “no-water” status after a few years due to non-availability of water. Maintaining sustainability will require work on different aspects altogether. These include groundwater recharge, water conservation and, critically, cutting down the overuse of water in agriculture, which hogs 90% of available supply, mainly because farming isn’t efficient. “India has to bring down its farm water use to optimal levels for greater sustainability of groundwater, the most important source of water for human consumption,” says Alok Nath, a former water specialist at the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jal-jeevan-mission-12-leh-villages-get-tap-water-connection-101636739325381.html
12-11-2021||India||Amit Shah reviews preparations for UP assembly polls in Varanasi||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday reviewed the preparations for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections by chairing a meeting with the party’s assembly in-charges and district presidents in Varanasi. Shah is on a two-day visit to eastern UP. Soon after landing at the Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport in Varanasi on Friday, he went to the Lanka area of the city and paid floral tribute at a statue of Benaras Hindu University (BHU) founder Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya at BHU Gate on the latter’s death anniversary.Later, he reached the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre, Varanasi, where he addressed a meeting of BJP assembly constituency in-charges, district presidents and district in-charges.BJP assembly constituency in-charges from all 403 assembly constituencies of UP attended the meeting.Uttar Pradesh BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, who was present at the meeting, said Amit Shah, who gave the victory mantra in 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections, has set a target of 300 plus seats for the 2022 UP assembly polls and informed the constituency in-charges about their responsibilities in detail.Singh also said Shah told the party workers that if the booth is won, the UP election is won.Elaborating further, Singh said Modi and Yogi had given governance free from corruption and fear. “The Ram temple is being built. The Kashi Vishwanath Corridor is almost ready. The state is on the path of all-round development under the BJP government,” he added.After the meeting, Shah tweeted, “I reviewed the preparations for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh by holding a meeting with the assembly in-charges in Varanasi.”Union education minister and the BJP’s UP election in-charge Dharmendra Pradhan tweeted, “Uttar Pradesh, once counted among the BIMARU states, has emerged as an example for the entire country in the difficult times of Coronavirus. We have full confidence that the people of Uttar Pradesh will press the lotus button in UP assembly elections 2022 and strengthen the foundation of giving the blessings of public opinion to Modi ji again in 2024.”Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Anurag Thakur, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, state in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal and state co-organisation general secretary Karmveer Singh also addressed the meeting.According to a BJP leader, Shah asked the party workers to start preparations in full swing for the assembly polls next year. Those aware of the matter said that the strategy for the upcoming assembly elections was chalked out at the meeting. After the meeting, Shah stayed overnight in Varanasi.He will participate in the Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan (All India Official Language Conference) scheduled at TFC at 10am on Saturday (November 13) and leave for Azamgarh by air at 12.15 pm the same day.He will also lay the foundation stone of a state university in Azamgarh on Saturday in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and address a public meeting there.The university will come up on 52-acre land which has been acquired for the purpose.After coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP government had assured the local people that a university would be set up in Azamgarh, considered to be a stronghold of the Samajwadi Party.Shah will also go to Basti from Azamgarh where he will address a meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reviews-preparations-for-up-assembly-polls-in-varanasi-101636739085048.html
12-11-2021||India||Tablighi Jamaat row: Delhi HC asks how providing refuge during lockdown an offence||The Delhi high court on Friday wanted to know if there was any offence in housing foreign nationals during a nationwide lockdown. The court’s question came in response to a hearing of petitions seeking quashing of cases against those who hosted Tablighi Jamaat attendees.Justice Mukta Gupta asked the Delhi police what offence was committed by Indian nationals who provided shelter to foreigners following the congregation as no bar was impose on persons residing at any particular place by the government. The court gave time to the Delhi police to respond to its queries when its counsel sought time to file a detailed status report, PTI report said.The judge further said the Jamaat attendees sought refuge before the lockdown was imposed in the wake of the pandemic and there were no allegations of them violating the orders restricting movement.“Suddenly when the lockdown is imposed, where does one go after that? What is the offence committed?... Is there any bar on Madhya Pradesh residents to stay in Delhi in any mosque, temple or gurudwara? They can stay wherever they want. Was there a notice that everybody will throw out whosoever was staying (with them)?” the judge said.“I have brought out the point. You will tell me where is the violation when there is no question of changing places at that time. I can understand they went out, that they violated the (lockdown) notification. When lockdown was imposed, there was no bar on anyone residing,” the court said.While some of the pleas for quashing of FIRs are by individuals who had provided shelter to the foreigners who had attended the event and could not travel owing to the subsequent pandemic-induced lockdown, others are by people like managing committee members or caretakers of different mosques who have been accused of providing housing facilities in masjids.FIRs were registered for the alleged commission of offences under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection) and other offences under the Indian Penal Code.Earlier, the court had asked Delhi Police to file a status report indicating the role of each accused and as well as the duration of their stay and whether the housing facility was given after or before the prohibitory orders issued by the authorities in view of the pandemic.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tablighi-jamaat-hc-wants-to-how-providing-refuge-during-lockdown-an-offence-101636735760153.html
12-11-2021||India||Amit Shah to chair Southern Zonal Council meet in Tirupati on Sunday||Union home minister Amit Shah will chair the 29th meeting of the Southern Zonal Council, comprising Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, and Union Territories of Puducherry, Lakshadweep, and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, in Tirupati on Sunday. During the meeting, officials will discuss a broad range of issues, including boundary disputes, security, and infrastructure-related matters like road, transport, industries, water and power, a statement by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said on Friday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has stressed the need to leverage cooperative and competitive federalism to achieve all-round growth. The home minister has given impetus to this vision of cooperative federalism to empower states and promote a better understanding between the Centre and states in policy framework, the statement said. The zonal councils provide a platform to foster such collaboration through a structured mechanism for dialogue and discussion continuously on the issues affecting two or more states or the Centre and states, in the spirit that strong states make a strong nation, it said. Shah has emphasized on using the platform of zonal council for dispute resolving and promoting cooperative federalism. Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy is the vice-chairman and the host. Other chief ministers from the states in the zone along with two ministers each are the members. The zonal councils take up issues involving the Centre and states and one or many states falling in the zone. The zonal councils, thus, provide a forum for resolving disputes and irritants between the Centre and the states and among many states in the zone. They discuss a broad range of issues which include boundary-related disputes, security, infrastructure-related matters like road, transport, industries, water, and power, matters on forests and environment, housing, education, food security, tourism and transport among others. Five zonal councils were set up in 1957 under Section 15-22 of the States Re-organization Act, 1956. The Union home minister is the chairman of each of these zonal councils and chief ministers of the host state (to be chosen by rotation every year) is the vice-chairman. Two more ministers from each state are nominated as members by the governor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-chair-southern-zonal-council-meet-in-tirupati-on-sunday-101636735425160.html
12-11-2021||India||'Some do politics, others write': Salman Khurshid says new book about unity||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid on Friday said whoever was indulging in politics over his new book 'Sunrise Over Ayodhya', it was out of fear that certain truths would come out.Stating that his book was about unity between Hindus and Muslims and about creating an awareness that the Supreme Court verdict on Ayodhya was a good one.When about the political row over his latest book, while some indulged in politics, others wrote books. “Whoever wants to politicise, they will do and whoever wants to write a book, will write. My book is for Hindu-Muslim unity. And making them understand that SC verdict (on Ayodhya) is a good verdict, the former Union minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.#WATCH | Whoever wants to politicise, will do & whoever wants to write a book, will write. My book is for Hindu-Muslim unity, & making them understand that SC verdict (on Ayodhya) is a good verdict: Congress' Salman Khurshid on political row over his book 'Sunrise Over Ayodhya' pic.twitter.com/hFLj7qgsd9“Come, let’s unite and reject all those who misuse religion,” he further said.Also read | Seeking legal opinion to ban Khurshid’s book: MP ministerThe saffron camp has strongly reacted to Khurshid’s book in which he which he has compared Hindutva to jihadist Islamic terror groups like Boko Haram and ISIS.In a chapter titled 'The Saffron Sky', the Congress leader has written, "Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years."Also read | On Rahul's Hindutva analogy, BJP says ‘pathological hate’Two advocates have already filed complaints with police against the contents of the book, while several BJP leaders have sought action against Khurshid.The 354-page book that Khurshid said analysed the juridical history and consequences of the long-standing Ayodhya dispute was released on Wednesday in the presence of senior Congress leaders like P Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/some-does-politics-others-write-salman-khurshid-says-new-book-about-unity-101636734116313.html
12-11-2021||India||SC cancels retest for 2 NEET aspirants, feels sorry over goof-up by invigilator||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday set aside a Bombay High Court verdict directing re-examination for two candidates who appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) candidates, even as it offered sympathies to the two candidates who lost precious time during the examination due to a mix-up of their test booklets by the invigilators.“We sympathise with the cause of the two students but we find it difficult to direct re-examination for them alone as ordered by the Bombay high court,” the bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai said as it set aside the high court’s October 20 ruling directing the National Testing Agency (NTA) to conduct a re-examination within two weeks.The high court verdict was already stayed by the Supreme Court on October 28 to allow the NTA to declare the results. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts the NEET exam for admission to undergraduate medical courses, earlier approached the Supreme Court challenging the high court direction to hold re-examination for the two candidates before the announcement of final results.“Due to loss of time, the respondents (candidates) could not answer all questions and we also appreciate the mental state of mind of young students while giving the examination….We feel sorry but we can’t do anything,” the bench said.The NEET-UG examination was conducted on September 12.The two candidates Vaishnavi Vijay Bhopale and Abhishek Shivaji Kapse had approached the high court stating that the invigilator accidentally dropped some test booklets while distribution and this resulted in their OMR sheets not corresponding to the Test booklet code. Under the NEET rules, this amounted to negative marking and the candidates lost precious time of the examination and ended up writing examination under stress.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta appearing for NTA informed the court that the concerns of the candidates were taken care of by the authorities as they were not given any negative marking despite the mismatch between OMR sheets and test booklets. However, he urged the court to set aside high court order as following the high court’s order, another petition was filed by a candidate seeking re-examination.Mehta said, “We have to work through invigilators and in future, there can be mistakes. If there is an order for re-examination, it will be an unending exercise as nearly 16 lakh students attempted this examination this year.”In its appeal before the top court, NTA through advocate Rupesh Kumar accepted the mistake of the invigilators but stated that the high court order restraining them from declaring results will hamper the admission process for undergraduate medical and dental courses.Although the Bombay high court held that its order shall not be treated as a precedent, the NTA apprehended that for future years, similar incidents could lead to cases in courts by students demanding re-examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-cancels-retest-for-2-neet-aspirants-feels-sorry-over-goof-up-by-invigilator-101636733805097.html
12-11-2021||India||Violence in parts of Maharashtra during protest rallies, home minister calls for peace||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said incidents of stone pelting were reported from parts of the state on Friday during protests against the recent violence in Tripura. Police said two of their officials were injured in the clashes.Patil said rallies taken out by Muslims in Nanded, Malegaon, Amaravati and some other places turned violent with the mob resorting to stone pelting. Stating that the situation was under control at the moment, the home minister called for peace and urged people belonging to all communities to maintain harmony.“Muslims across the state had taken out a protest march today against the violence in Tripura. During this, stone pelting was done in Nanded, Malegaon, Amaravati and some other places. I appeal to all Hindus and Muslims to maintain peace,” Patil was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“I'm personally monitoring it through senior police officers. If someone is found guilty, they would not be spared. We need to maintain social harmony, I appeal to all. I also appeal to police to control the situation with restraint and maintain peace,” he further said.A police officer said over eight thousand people gathered outside the district collector's office in Amravati city to submit a memorandum demanding that atrocities against the minority community should be stopped.When people were leaving after submitting the memorandum, stone-pelting took place at three places between Chitra Chowk and Cotton Market, the official said.In Nanded, stones were pelted at police vans and two police personnel sustained injuries, he said. The situation was under control at all these places and FIRs were being registered, he added.Nashik SP Sachin Patil said the situation was peaceful in Malegaon, a communally sensitive area, at the moment. “Regular patrolling has begun. I'd like to tell people to not spread rumours otherwise action will be taken,” he added.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-in-parts-of-maharashtra-during-rallies-home-minister-calls-for-peace-101636732891658.html
12-11-2021||India||Covid special trains to be restored as regular timetabled trains||The ministry of railways on Friday announced its decision to discontinue Covid-19 special trains as fresh infections have shown a sustained decline in the country. According to a circular issued by the Railway Board, the ministry has decided to restore the number, fare and categorisation of regular timetabled trains which are presently operating as Mail/Express Special and Holiday Special due to the Covid-19 pandemic."Ministry of Railways have decided that all regular Time Tabled Trains which are presently operating as MSPC % HSP train services, including in the working Times Table, 2021, shall be operated with regular number and with fare and categorisation as applicable," the circular reads.The Board said that Railways will neither collect any difference in the fare on the tickets already booked in advance, nor any refund will be allowed.It requested CRIS to make necessary changes in the software for train bookings and other railways-related services and asked each zonal railway to ensure necessary arrangements to make details available to all concerned staff well in advance."Second class of such trains shall continue to run as reserved except any relaxation permitted in special case," the circular said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-special-trains-to-be-restored-as-regular-timetabled-trains-101636732409810.html
12-11-2021||India||Former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati, 2 others get life term in gang-rape case||A special Lucknow court on Friday awarded life imprisonment to former Uttar Pradesh minister Gayatri Prajapati, and two others, Ashish Shukla and Ashok Tewari, in a gang-rape case, besides imposing a fine of ₹2 lakh each on the three convicted people. Special judge (MP/MLA court) Pawan Kumar Rai had convicted Prajapati, Shukla and Tewari on November 10 on charges of gang-raping a Chitrakoot-based woman and under sections of the POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act for attempting to rape her minor daughter. The court had absolved four others — Vikas Varma, Amrendra Singh “Pintu”, Chandrapal and Rupeshwar “Rupesh” — of all charges due to lack of evidence.All the three accused were present in court on Friday when the quantum of punishment was pronounced. On February 18, 2017, the woman from Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh had lodged an FIR against Prajapati and his six associates for allegedly gang-raping her and attempting to rape her 17-year-old daughter at his official residence in Gautampalli, Lucknow, when he was the mining minister and part of the Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh between 2015 and 2016.It was on the Supreme Court’s order that the Lucknow police had booked the former minister for rape and other serious charges, including sections of the POCSO Act. Prajapati was in jail since March 15, 2017. A Supreme Court bench headed by Justice AK Sikri on February 17, 2017, had ordered the Uttar Pradesh police to conduct an inquiry and submit an action taken report to the court in a sealed cover within eight weeks.The Supreme Court order had come on a petition filed by the survivor.Prajapati was sacked by then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav from his cabinet in 2016 during the family feud in the Samajwadi Party. He was later reinstated. The survivor’s lawyer had alleged in the Supreme Court that the woman was repeatedly raped between October 2014 and July 2016. The woman lodged a complaint only when the minister tried to outrage the modesty of her minor daughter, the survivor’s lawyer said. The survivor had complained that she was also raped when she met the former minister in 2013 for a mining contract. She also stated that Prajapati took obscene photos of her and raped her multiple times for three years by threatening to make the pictures public.When the BJP formed the government in the state, it constituted a SIT in May 2017 to probe the charges against the former minister. Prajapati is also facing a probe for irregularities in his ministry during his tenure as mining minister in the previous Samajwadi Party government. TIMELINE OF THE CASE:2013: The woman met Gayatri Prajapati at Ram Ghat, Chitrakoot, during Ganga Aarti. 2014 to 2016: She was raped multiple times.October 17, 2016: Survivor filed a complaint about gang rape with DGP, Uttar Pradesh Police.After no action was taken on her complaint, the survivor moved the Supreme Court seeking a FIR against the accused.February 17, 2017: Supreme Court orders UP Police to lodge FIR .July 18, 2017: Charges framed against Gayatri Prajapati, Ashok Tewari, Ashish Shukla and others.November 10, 2021: Special judge (MP/MLA) court convicts Gayatri Prajapati, Ashok Tewari and Ashish Shukla.The court acquits Vikas Varma, Amrendra Singh “Pintu”, Chandrapal and Rupeshwar “Rupesh” — of all charges due to lack of evidence. November 12, 2021: Court awards life imprisonment to Gayatri Prajapati, Ashok Tewari and Ashish Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-up-minister-gayatri-prajapati-2-others-get-life-term-in-gang-rape-case-101636731464591.html
12-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Court calls murder in Delhi riots case calculated attack and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi riots: Court calls murder calculated attack, says witness hid behind drainA Delhi court on Friday framed charges of murder, rioting and criminal conspiracy against four accused in the alleged killing of a man during the riots in northeast Delhi last year. Read moreNIA arrests 2 terror operatives in J&K over civilian attacksThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday arrested two persons named in the recent attacks in Jammu and Kashmir in which multiple civilians and police personnel were killed. Read morePartial lunar eclipse on November 19, longest in nearly 600 yearsA partial lunar eclipse will occur on November 19, which be the last this year, and will be visible in western Africa, western Europe, North America, South America, Asia, Australia, the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean as well as some parts on India. Read more25 states, UTs cut VAT on petrol, diesel after Centre's request. These haven'tAs many as 25 states and Union territories have reduced Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to provide relief to consumers. The decision of states and UTs to cut VAT on petrol and diesel followed the Centre's announcement to significantly reduce central excise duty on these fuels on Diwali eve. Read more'Better all-rounder than Hardik': Jaydev Unadkat's cryptic tweet leaves Twitter buzzing, some fans compare him to PandyaSaurashtra skipper Jaydev Unadkat has been ignored the BCCI and the selectors, yet again. The left-arm pacer, who has been a constant performer in the domestic circuit, was neither included in the India ‘A’ side for their upcoming tour of South Africa, nor for India's T20I or Tests squads for the home series against New Zealand. Read moreKBC 13: Kapil Sharma calls Sonu Sood ‘first copy’ of Amitabh Bachchan, offers IT dept contactKapil Sharma and Sonu Sood are appearing on Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 on Friday. While the clips so far have teased fun and laughter, a new video features Amitabh Bachchan asking Kapil and Sonu to repeat lines from the host's movies but it doesn't pan out as planned. Read more‘Not Hinduism, but Hindutva about beating…': Rahul Gandhi; BJP sees redCongress MP Rahul Gandhi has kicked up a fresh political storm amid an ongoing row over Hindutva by claiming that Hinduism and Hindutva are two different concepts. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-court-calls-murder-in-delhi-riots-case-calculated-attack-and-all-the-latest-news-101636729303218.html
12-11-2021||India||On Rahul's Hindutva analogy, BJP says ‘pathological hate’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra on Friday said the Congress leadership had a "pathological hatred" for Hinduism and it was at the behest of senior party MP Rahul Gandhi that other veterans like Salman Khurshid, Shashi Tharoor and P Chidambaram targeted the religion.The BJP spokesperson’s latest attack came hours after Gandhi drew a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva and spoke about how the latter was being used by the saffron camp, namely the BJP’s ideological founder the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), to spread hate.According to a PTI report, Patra said the former Congress president had a history of making critical comments about Hinduism and its culture. “It is in the character of the Congress and the Gandhi family to attack Hinduism at every opportunity,” he said.Also read | 'Exaggerated to him, not to me': Salman Khurshid on Ghulam Nabi Azad's take on HindutvaThe BJP leader further said that Congress leaders could use terms like ‘Hindu Pakistan’, ‘Hindu Taliban’ and ‘saffron terror’ only at the behest of Gandhi, whom he called the headmaster of the experimental lab."What they say is not a coincidence but an experiment. And the headmaster of this experimental lab is Rahul Gandhi.... There is a pathological hatred for Hinduism among Congress leaders, and they get traction for this from the Gandhi family," he said.Patra's attack came a day after the ruling party slammed the grand old party over Khurshid’s comparison of Hindutva with jihadist Islamis terror groups such as ISIS and Boko Haram in his latest book. He said it was clear that Khurshid also endorsed what Gandhi had been saying, Patra said, adding people of India would never forgive the Congress.Patra said seeking apology from Gandhi would be irrelevant as the latter had violated constitutional tenets with his remarks that spread "hate" in society.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-rahul-s-hindutva-analogy-bjp-says-pathological-hate-101636730561935.html
12-11-2021||India||Delhi riots: Court calls murder calculated attack, says witness hid behind drain||A Delhi court on Friday framed charges of murder, rioting and criminal conspiracy against four accused in the alleged killing of a man during the riots in northeast Delhi last year. The court said it was a “calculated attack”.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat further said a key witness in the case hid behind a wall behind a drain and saw the entire murder through the gap in the wall.The four men -- Anwar Hussain, Kasim, Shahrukh, and Khalid Ansari -- have been accused of mercilessly beating a man named Deepak to death near Ambedkar College on February 25, 2020. He died due to hemorrhagic shock, as per the post mortem report.The judge said, “By the manner of their mobilisation and intent as construed from their conduct, the said unlawful assembly can be said to have conducted itself for riots and other offences like murder of deceased Deepak, in prosecution of their common object. The conspiracy is also writ large by the calculated attack on the victim by the unlawful assembly."He said the most important witness in the case was one Sunil Kumar, who gave a complete picture of the incident and how the deceased was killed by the “armed Muslim mob consisting of accused persons”.According to the court, Sunil had seen, “on February 25, one Muslim unlawful assembly coming from Kardampuri Pulia and shouting Allah Ho Akbar was trying to cross the Pulia Gokulpur. The said armed unlawful assembly caught hold of Deepak who was mercilessly beaten.” He told the court that he hid behind a wall behind the drain and saw the entire murder through the gap in the wall. The eyewitness also identified all the four accused persons by their names.“Thus... the prosecution has been able to satisfy the Court that an unlawful assembly, including accused persons in the prosecution of their common object, had committed riots and hit the deceased Deepak with a deadly weapon causing his death,” the court said.The court framed charges under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 302 (murder), read with sections 149 (unlawful assembly), and 120­B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Delhi witnessed one of the worst communal clashes in its northeast region in February 2020, as massive violence was unleashed between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those protesting against it. The clashes left at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-riots-court-calls-murder-calculated-attack-says-witness-hid-behind-drain-101636725713307.html
12-11-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut’s alms remark ‘biggest misuse of freedom’, says BJP leader||A leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday slammed Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut over her ‘bheek’ remark on India’s independence and demanded judicial action against her.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor took to Twitter on Thursday and wrote that Kangana's statements are the biggest misuse of freedom and an “insult to the sacrifice” of freedom fighters.Taking to Twitter, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that Kangana’s statements are an “insult to the sacrifice” of freedom fighters.“Being the son of a freedom fighter and coming from a family of freedom fighters, I find Kangana Ranaut’s remarks that India’s freedom was alms (bheeks) as the biggest misuse of freedom… I wish the judicial system of India takes cognisance,” he tweeted in Hindi on Thursday.एक स्वतंत्रता सैनानी पिता का पुत्र होने एवं स्वतंत्रता सेनानियों के परिवार से आने का कारण #KangnaRanaut के द्वारा भारत की आजादी को भीख मे मिली आजादी कहना मुझे आजादी का सबसे बड़ा दुरुपयोग एवं स्वतंत्रता सेनानियों के त्याग का अपमान लगता है।काश भारत की न्याय व्यवस्था संज्ञान ले।The national award-winning actor, who received her Padma Shri earlier this week, kicked up the latest row while participating in the annual summit of a leading media network.Speaking about India’s freedom struggle, Kangana said, “Woh azaadi nahi thi, woh bheek thi. Aur jo azaadi mili hai woh 2014 mai mili hai (That was not freedom, those were alms. We got real freedom in 2014.)”The Narendra Modi-led NDA government came to power at the Centre in 2014.Besides a strong backlash from the Congress and other opposition parties, a number of BJP leaders, including MP Varun Gandhi, have hit out at Kangana. Tweeting a video of the event, Gandhi asked if the thought process of the actor be considered “madness or treason”.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has submitted a complaint to the Mumbai Police demanding a case be lodged against Kangana.Also Read | Kangana Ranaut reacts to uproar over her ‘India got freedom in 2014’ comment, Varun Gandhi's tweet: ‘Jaa aur ro ab’Meanwhile, the All India Mahila Congress has written to President Ram Nath Kovind calling for the recall of her Padma Shri. A similar demand has been made by the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), with the Shiv Sena saying Modi and BJP president JP Nadda must express their “Mann ki Baat” on Kangana's statements and withdraw the state awards given to her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-s-bheek-remark-biggest-misuse-of-freedom-says-bjp-leader-101636726031801.html
12-11-2021||India||Army agrees to grant PC to 72 women officers, spared contempt proceedings by top court||The Supreme Court on Friday spared the Army of contempt proceedings after it beat a hasty retreat on its decision to deny permanent commission to 72 women short service commission officers and agreed to grant permanent commission to all the officers who had qualified on merit and had no disciplinary or vigilance clearance pending against them.Out of the 72 women officers, 36 had filed contempt petitions in the top court that were taken up for hearing by a bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna. These petitions were filed alleging that the Army was indulging in contempt of SC’s March 25 order by which it was held that all women short service commission officers (WSSCO) who qualify with 60% merit, are medically fit and have disciplinary and vigilance clearance are to be granted PC. 514 WSSCOs qualified on the 60% benchmark of which 442 secured PC while 72 were denied by the Selection Board that met in September 2020. One officer opted for premature release, leaving only 71 officers.On Friday, the Ministry of Defence presented an affidavit filed by Military Secretary to the Court stating that out of 36 officers, 21 had been granted permanent commission (PC) upon review and letters in this regard were issued to them on October 29. The case of one officer was under consideration for PC on a separate ground leaving a remainder of 14 who were under the rejected list. Of these, three were found to be medically unfit while in the case of 11 officers, there were serious objections raised.“If the service records of the relevant period of these 11 officers is to be taken as the basis, it raises question marks on their continuation in the force which is a relevant consideration adopted by Army to deny them,” said Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain appearing for the Centre. The 11 officers had cleared the benchmark of 60% merit and were medically fit as well, thus being eligible for PC ility laid down in the Supreme Court’s March judgment and were found to be medically fit as well.The Court wished to know if these officers secured disciplinary and vigilance clearance as well to which ASG replied, “As of today, they have those clearances, but there are some weak points against them pertaining to the relevant period.”The Court remarked, “Army may be supreme in its own authority, but the Constitutional court is supreme in its own jurisdiction. We gave you a long rope and put you on guard that if you go beyond our order (of March), you will invite trouble. We are going to record a finding holding Army guilty of contempt.”To prevent this eventuality, ASG Jain along with senior advocate R Balasubramanian appearing for the Army took an hour’s concession from the Court to discuss with top authorities in the Army and Government on this issue. The bench stated, “You cannot get behind our judgment and seek review of our orders. Our directions are very clear. Do not deny these people on some remarks made at some point in the past.”Returning with instructions in the afternoon, ASG Jain told the Court that the 11 officers shall be granted PC within 10 days and all similarly placed WSSCOs who have not approached the Court in contempt petitions will also be given similar consideration. The Court accepted the fair stand of the Army and recorded the statement, granting three weeks’ time to consider grant of PC to the remaining similarly-placed officers.ASG Jain said, “The Army officers are keen to see this matter attains finality today. We will consider them with open heart and open mind.” Balasubramanian, who too played a crucial part in convincing the Army officers to arrive at a consensus, said, “Army is being thrown apart by this litigation. We want to bring an end to these proceedings.” He further pointed out that the Court should state in the order that in peculiar facts of this case as otherwise, it will open a flood of litigations by male short service commission officers who have been denied in the past on similar grounds.The Court disposed the contempt petitions and directed the Army authorities to deal with the complaints of two WSSCOs – Akansha Shrivastava and Himalini Pant – denied PC on medical grounds within a month. The accomplishment of these two officers was mentioned in the March judgment as an ode to the services rendered by the women officers in Army. Senor advocate V Mohana appearing for the two officers said that one officer was shown in low medical category at the relevant period due to her pregnancy while the other officer was being stopped for not producing medical documents of the relevant period.The bench told Centre, “It is not that she is unfit but that she was pregnant.” However, the Court reiterated, “By way of abundant caution, it is clarified, those officers who have disciplinary and vigilance clearance as of present will be eligible for grant of PC subject to other conditions mentioned in paragraph 120 of our judgment.” This paragraph required WSSCOs to be medically fit at the relevant assessment period.The women SSC officers had secured their right to permanent commission and command positions in non-combat streams at par with male officers after a prolonged legal battle culminating in the Supreme Court order on February 17, 2020. Later, the women officers again came to Court complaining against the whimsical standards on merit, medical fitness applied by Selection Board to deny them their due. This resulted in the March judgment. In June, Centre moved an application for clarification of the judgment stating that the 72 officers denied PC faced serious issues of discipline, disobedience of orders, lapses in government procurement, forging medical documents, poor work ethics, lack of professionalism, un-officer like conduct and poor performance in courses. The Court refused to entertain this application in August and directed Army to comply with the March judgment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-agrees-to-grant-pc-to-72-women-officers-spared-contempt-proceedings-by-top-court-101636726664772.html
12-11-2021||India||NIA arrests 2 terror operatives in J&K over attacks on civilians, security forces||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday arrested two persons named in the recent attacks in Jammu and Kashmir in which multiple civilians and police personnel were killed. Both the arrested men, Rashid Muzaffar Ganaie and Nasir Mir, hail from Sopore town in the Valley.In a statement, the NIA said a preliminary probe revealed the accused are “terror associates” of various organisations and have been offering “logistical and material support” to terrorists.With the latest arrests, the NIA has so far taken 27 people in its custody in the case filed on October 10 pertaining to the killings of at least 11 migrants and security personnel. “These terrorists and cadres have affected several terrorist acts… unleashing a reign of terror in the valley of Kashmir, thereby, challenging the writ of the state,” the statement read.Also Read | J&K Police form team to probe constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani’s deathThe arrested cadres belong to outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Al Badr and similar others like the Resistance Front (TRF) and People Against Fascist Forces (PAFF).Further investigation into the case continues, the NIA statement said.This comes after the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on Monday arrested a terrorist during an operation in Pulwama district. The CRPF said two hand grenades were seized from the man, identified as Sarwir Ahmed Mir (21), a resident of Pulwama. Last month, 11 civilians, most of them hailing from Bihar and/or minority communities, were gunned down by the militants. Official figures suggest more than 30 civilians have been killed by terrorists this year.A constable Tawseef Ahmad Wani (29) and a salesman Ibrahim Khan were killed in the last one week. While Wani was killed outside his residence on Sunday Khan, who worked for a businessman, Roshan Lal Mawa, was gunned down on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-2-terror-operatives-in-j-k-over-civilian-attacks-101636724717006.html
12-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 13, 1969 —CWC expels PM Indira Gandhi from Congress, elect new leader, CPP told||New Delhi- The inevitable has happened. The simmering crisis in the Congress Party today (November 12) exploded into an open trial of strength between the two groups as the Congress Working Committee took the drastic and unprecedented step of expelling Prime Minister Indira Gandhi from the primary membership of the organization. After meeting for three hours, 11 of the 21 members of the Working Committee, including party President S. Nijalingappa, called for an immediate meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party to elect a new leader. Mrs. Gandhi’s group of 10 boycotted the meeting. The expulsion of Mrs. Gandhi, who has been a member of the Congress for nearly three decades just two days before the birth anniversary of her father, Mr. Jawaharlal Nehru, followed rejection by Mr. Niialingappa’s group of the unity proposals evolved by Chief Ministers following a desperate bid to prevent a split in the party. The Prime Minister and her supporters refused to heed the Working Committee’s directive. After a meeting at her house they rejected the resolution as “illegal and invalid” and insisted that Mrs. Gandhi continued to be a member of the party as well as leader of the Congress Parliamentary Party so long as she continued to enjoy the support of the majority of its members.Within hours of the announcement of her expulsion which sent groups of student demonstrators shouting pro-Mrs. Gandhi slogans around the city, hundreds of baton-carrying policemen were posted outside the residences of Mr. Nijalingappa and his supporters in the Working Committee to provide them adequate security. PM backed Reacting with anger to the CWC’s decision - 167 Congress MPs, said to constitute the bulk of the party members now in the Capital, gathered at the rival AICC headquarters and pledged their support to Mrs Gandhi to save “democracy and socialism’ and called upon “democratic and progressive forces” to fight reaction. Two of them Mr M. V. Krishnappa and Mr Randhir Singh Chandhary, gave notice to the Congress Parliamentary Party office seeking the expulsion of Mr Morarji Desai, Mr S. K. Patil, Mr S. N. Mishrg and seven others from the party for contravening the constitution and acting against its declared policies.This will come up at the meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party convened by Mrs Gandhi tomorrow for securing a vote of confidence. Acting on Congress President’s instructions, Mr S. N. Mishra, deputy leader of the Parliamentary Party from the Rajya Sabha, announced cancellation of the meeting scheduled for tomorrow. Mr Nijalingappa’s supporters among them Mr Kamaraj and Mr Morarji Desai, will boycott tomorrow’s meeting convened by the Prime Minister.The Working Committee itself acknowledged that it was the “saddest moment” in the history of the 84-year old organisation which had spear-headed the movement for independence and ruled at the Centre uninterruptedly since 1947. The charges Another resolution said that the CWC was “regretfully obliged to remove Mrs Gandhi from the party for her “patent and grave” acts of indiscipline.While the ACC general secretary, Mr Sadiq Ali, had claimed that the resolutions were passed unanimously, another source said that there had been no voting and that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister C. B. Gupta had expressed himself against it. The Working Committee’s action has been criticized by a large number of Congressmen but supported by some.The charges listed by the Working Committee against Mrs Gandhi were (1) Opposing the party nominee for the Presidency.(2) Launching a signature campaign for ousting Congress President Nijalingappa and using pressure tactics to obtain signatures on the requisition. (3) Questioning the authority of the “legally constituted ‘ Working Committee and refusing to abide by its decisions(4) Constantly denigrating the organisation,(5) Sponsoring a rival Working Committee and a rival AlCC in violation of the party constitution.(6) Trying to divide Congressmen among those who, are her supporters and those who are not. (7) Her basic and overriding desire to concentrate all power in her hands, all of which “spell grave danger” to the democratic functioning of the Congress.As regards the Prime Mintster’s contention that there is greater need for harmony between the parliamentary wing .and the Congress organisation, the resolution said the word “harmony is a misnomer for dominance and the desire to capture the Congress machinery first at the top level and then at other levels.”Unhappy eventsBy another resolution, the Committee referred to the continuous chain of unhappy events since the Bangalore AICC causing anxiety and pain to millions of Congressmen. The Working Committee chose “between Mrs Gandhi and everything that the Congress stood for, and it has rightly decided in favour of the latter.It asked Congressmen not to falter and remain loyal to the organisation. This was clearly meant for the Prime Minister’s, supporters, who are organising , a rival AICC meeting. It ended with the declaration: “Le? Act the I future historians say of us that, I in the hour of peril both to the Congress and the nation we wavered and faltered in our loyalty to the great organisation to which we all have the honour to belong.” The first indication of the Working Committee’s decision came from Mr S. K. Patil, who while coming out of the meeting remarked: “It is not suspension. It is expulsion.” The AICC , General Secretary, Mr Sadia Ali, said both the resolutions were passed “unanimously.” Those who attended the meeting besides Mr Nijalingappa were Mr Sadia Alf. Mr P. Venkatasubbiah. Mr Morarji Desai, Mr S. K. Patil, Mr Atulya Ghosh, Mr K. Kamataj. Mr Hitendra Desai, Mr C. B. Gupta, Mr K. C. Abraham and Dr Ram Subagh Singh. The Chif Ministers had already abandoned their unity efforts after a meeting at U.P. Nivas which continued till the small hours of the morning. CM’s FormulaAccording to Mr Sukhadia, the proposal envisage: (1) The general AICC meeting agenda will include a review of the Faridabad Working Committee resolution on organisational elections and a decision by the AICC on the future course of action in this matter. (2) In view of the above, the requisitioned meeting of the AICC will be given up and no step shall be taken either at the organisational level or at the parliamentary level which is likely to adversely affect the unity of the party.(3) Charges against the Prime Minister contained in the letter of Oct. 28. Nov. 2 and Nov. 3 shall be withdrawn.(4) There shall be mutual discussion between the two sides to smoothen out difficulties and remove misunderstanding.Mr Sukhadia said this formula emerged as the most acceptable one even though three of the Chief minister- of Uttar Pradesh, Mysore and Gujarat-had some reservations regarding the third point in the proposal. The formula was put to the Congress President and his colleagues through Mr C. B. Gupta with an earnest appeal that this proposal be accepted by both the sides. “Unfortunately this has been turned down by the Congress President and his colleagues.” Mr Sukhadia added: “Our only satisfaction is that we tried our best to avoid a crisis.” He said the formula emerged after protracted meetings yesterday and fresh constitutions today to resolve the crisis in the party. He drew a parallel between the demand for withdrawal of the ‘ charge-sheet and the exoneration of Mr Nijalingappa of the charges I against him at the Aug. 28 Working Committee meeting which adopted the “unity” resolution. Although Mr C. B. Gupta appreciated the point, he could not persuade his colleagues in the Working Committee to accept it.Mr Nijalingappa, however, explained that the demand, for the withdrawal of the charge-sheet was not part of the Chief Ministers’ formula as originally brought to the Working Committee in the morning. The Committee had already approved of the formula as thought by Mr Hitendra Desai and Mr C. B. Gupta when a telephone call was received asking addition of the demand for withdrawal of the charge-sheet against, Mrs Gandhi and later also, of the Prime Minister’s letter to Mr Nijalingappa in reply. He declined to identify the caller. According to Mr Nijalingappa, instead of having unity on paper the need was for the two sides to have a heart o-heart talk and to remove the various prejudices. If the charge-sheet was withdrawn, there was nothing to discuss although the formula referred to mutual discussions between the two sides.He said the letter did not contain any charges against Mrs Gandhi. But they were only “complaints” listed chronologically about what had happened in the recent months. He parried a question whether the withdrawal of the charges and the counter-charges would not have been in keeping with his assertion of goodwill. He did not think that the CWC decision would affect the stability of the State Governments. “What about stability at the Centre?” Mr Nijalingappa replied: “We shall wait and see.”Mr Gupta and Mr Hitendra Desai came out of the Working Committee meeting and made a dash to U.P. Nivas where some Congress Chief Ministers were in session and apprised them of the Working Committee’s view. The unity efforts were thereupon abandoned. Mr Gupta and Mr Desai returned to the Working Committee meeting to inform the Nijalingappa group that the unity move was finally off. To demonstrate its support for the stand taken by Mr Nijalingappa, the Working Committee made some changes in the draft resolution and said it was “grateful” to the Congress President for his letter to the Prime Minister dated Oct. 28. The ‘ Committee endorsed “what has been said in that letter because it puts the case of the Working Committee in its proper sequence and perspective.“ The hard-liners were tho first to emerge from the meeting. Mr C. B. Gupta, who was involved in the unity efforts, was the last to leave. He looked visibly depressed and was helped out by an aide. Mr K. C. Abraham was standing behind the door as newsmen made a beeline for the AICC Secretary to snatch copies of the resolutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-13-1969-cwc-expels-pm-indira-gandhi-from-congress-elect-new-leader-cpp-told-101636724984662.html
12-11-2021||India||Amit Shah to be on 3-day visit to Andhra Pradesh from tomorrow||Union home minister Amit Shah will be on a three-day visit to Andhra Pradesh from Saturday. Shah will chair the 29th Southern Zonal Council meeting to be held at the temple town of Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district on Sunday.The home minister will land at the Tirupati International Airport on Saturday evening and will make a night halt in the pilgrim town. He will be received by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and his cabinet colleagues, besides senior officials.On Sunday morning, the Union home minister will travel to Venkatachalam in Nellore district, where he will take part in a programme being organised by Vice President of India M Venkaiah Naidu.Shah will visit Akshra Vidyalayam and Soma vocational training centres being run by the Swarnabharati Trust at Venkatachalam, promoted by the Vice President’s daughter Deepa. He will reach the trust headquarters, where he would attend the 20th anniversary celebrations of the trust till noon.After lunch along with the Vice-President at the trust premises, Shah will leave for Tirupati to take part in the Southern Zonal Council meeting to be held at Hotel Taj from 3 pm to 7 pm.Later, he will travel to Tirumala, where he would again make a night halt. On Monday morning, he will have a darshan of Lord Venkateshwara, before returning to New Delhi via Tirupati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-be-on-3-day-visit-to-andhra-pradesh-from-tomorrow-101636723484139.html
12-11-2021||India||13 students of veterinary college in Kerala’s Wayanad test positive for Norovirus||Thirteen students of a veterinary college in Wayanad in north Kerala tested positive for the rare norovirus, the state health department said on Friday adding the outbreak was being contained locally. Norovirus is a highly contagious virus which usually spreads through stale food and water. The main symptoms for the disease are diarrohea, vomiting and stomach pain, medical experts said adding that it is a treatable disease. Veterinary college authorities said the infection was found in 13 students living outside the hostel and their samples had been sent to the NIV centre in Alappuzha which later confirmed the presence of the rare virus in the samples. State health minister Veena George who rushed to the district later chaired a meeting and asked health officials to take strict measures to contain it locally. “Everything is under control now. We have contained it locally. Some students started showing early symptoms ten days back and later more complained and we sent their samples to the NIV lab in Alappuzha,” said the minister adding that no fresh cases were reported after this. District health officials said a large-scale chlorination drive is underway and asked people to take fresh food and maintain proper hygiene. There is no cause for any concern but everyone should be cautious, they said asking people to wash their hands frequently to prevent the food-borne disease. Fruits and vegetables should be rinsed thoroughly and red meat and shellfish should be cooked and then consumed, they advised. The Norovirus infection was detected at a time when Kerala is struggling with mounting Covid-19 cases. For more than six months, the state topped the Covid-19 charts of the country. On Thursday Kerala had reported 7,224 cases and 47 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-students-of-veterinary-college-in-kerala-s-wayanad-test-positive-for-norovirus-101636720903868.html
12-11-2021||India||Top Maoist leader Prashant Bose alias Kishan Da arrested: Jharkhand police||Top Maoist leader Prashant Bose alias Kishan Da, who was carrying a reward of ₹1 crore on his head, has been arrested, Jharkhand police said on Friday.Officers said he was being taken to Ranchi for further interrogation along with his wife, Sheela Marandi, another senior Maoist leader.Kishan Da, wanted in several criminal cases, is said to be among the top rung leaders in the hierarchy of the rebel outfit and used to head the Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI) before it merged with the CPI-ML (People’s War) to form the CPI (Maoist) in 2004. He was heading the eastern regional bureau of the extremist outfit and was in charge of its activities in states like Jharkhand, Bengal, Bihar and Odisha. Marandi, meanwhile, was reportedly the only woman member of the decision-making body central committee (CC) of the CPI (Maoist).According to some reports, the senior ultras were held on Thursday based on intelligence inputs. Several states had put a bounty on Bose's whereabouts and arrest.  Bose, who hails from West Bengal, was believed to have been operating from Saranda forests, news agency PTI quoted an officer as saying.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-maoist-leader-prashant-bose-alias-kishan-da-arrested-jharkhand-police-101636717574621.html
12-11-2021||India||Norovirus confirmed in Kerala’s Wayanad. Here’s what you need to know||Kerala health minister Veena George on Friday asked people to be vigilant and issued guidelines after norovirus, a highly contagious stomach bug that causes a range of symptoms, was confirmed in the state’s Wayanad district.Norovirus, an animal-borne disease transmitted through contaminated water and food, was reported in as many as 13 students of a veterinary college in Pookode near Vythiri in Wayanad district two weeks ago."Currently there is no cause for concern but everyone should be vigilant. Activities including super chlorination are underway. Drinking water sources need to be ensured to be hygienic," Veena George said."With proper prevention and treatment, the disease can be cured quickly. Therefore, everyone should be aware of the disease and its means of prevention," she added.What is norovirus?Norovirus causes gastrointestinal illness, including inflammation of the lining of the stomach and intestines, severe vomiting and diarrhoea.Norovirus does not significantly affect healthy people but it can be serious in young children, the elderly and people with comorbidities.Norovirus is easily transmitted through close contact with people who have been infected, or by touching contaminated surfaces. It can also be spread by eating food that has been prepared or handled by someone with the stomach bug. The virus is spread through the excrement and vomit of an infected person.What are the symptoms of norovirus?Diarrhoea, abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, a high temperature, headache and body aches are some of the common symptoms of norovirus.Experts say acute vomiting and diarrhoea can lead to dehydration and further complications.What are the guidelines to prevent norovirus?The Kerala health ministry's guidelines say those infected with norovirus should rest at home, drink oral rehydration solutions (ORS) and boiled water.People should wash their hands thoroughly with soap and water before eating and after using the toilet. “Those who interact with animals should pay special attention," the health ministry's guidelines read.The guidelines said that drinking water sources, wells and storage tanks must be chlorinated with bleaching powder. People must use chlorinated water for domestic use and drink only boiled water, it added.Fruits and vegetables should be thoroughly washed before eating. According to the guidelines, sea fish and shellfish such as crab and mussels must only be eaten after they are well cooked. It added that stale and exposed foods must be avoided.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/norovirus-confirmed-in-kerala-s-wayanad-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-101636717225374.html
12-11-2021||India||2018 Kerala floods: CAG report points to flaws in state’s preparedness||A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report has pointed out flaws, including failure in issuing mandatory alerts when the situation deteriorated, in Kerala’s flood preparedness and dam management during the 2018 deluge that left over 480 people dead. It added that most flaws were yet to be addressed. The findings of the government auditor have prompted demands from the opposition Congress for a probe.The report was tabled in the state assembly on Thursday and said there was a lack of real-time data on rainfall, water levels in important dams, and poor communication. “Communication infrastructure was non-functional in some areas including dam sites and government offices during or subsequent to the 2018 floods,” it said. It added the Kerala Water Policy 2008 was not updated in accordance with the National Water Policy.The report said 7,000-odd works for immediate repair and restoration of damages after the 2018 floods were approved under the State Disaster Response Fund. But it added only 18% of the work was completed even after three years. “The responsible authorities failed to issue mandatory alerts or warning when the rain situation deteriorated in 2018.”Also Read: Chennai deluge: Stories of hardship come flooding backThe report said no flood hazard map was available in the state. It added the flood susceptibility map also was not in conformation with the Central Water Commission criteria. “Siltation studies also found significant levels of siltation in many dams and works were very slow.”The report said that only six rain gauges were in place instead of 32 and highlighted unauthorised construction and mining in hilly terrains. It added no periodic capacity surveys or sedimentation studies were done for dams.The report comes as the state has faced flash floods and landslides for three years. In August 2019, 48 people died after a portion of a hill came down in Malappuram following heavy rains and flash floods. A year later, 74 people were killed in the Idukki district after a landslide followed by a flash flood in August 2020. In October, 42 people died after flash floods and landslides hit Kottayam and Idukki districts.The state government faced criticism over how water was released from dams simultaneously in 2018. E Sreedharan, who has since joined the Bharatiya Janata Party, was among those who moved the high court for a probe into the lapses.Congress sought the probe into the CAG findings saying the government, which is bound to protect lives and property, endangered the lives of people due to its inept handling. V D Satheesan, the leader of the Opposition, said it was a grave error on the part of the government and responsibility should be fixed.“The CAG has pointed out serious errors in flood management policies. The government even failed to constitute a probe after the deaths of many people. Even after the tragedy, the government’s track records show it is least bothered,” he said. He added the state’s floods plains have not been demarcated and flood zoning legislation was not done.M M Mani, who was the power minister in 2018, rejected most of the findings and suspected a political angle to the report. “In 2018, the state received the highest rainfall of the century. Some areas in Idukki received over 300 mm of rainfall in just two days. There is no mention of heavy rainfall in the report. It is easy to blame without understanding the ground situation,” he said. He added the government averted dam failures due to its effective handling. Dam expert James Wilson, who is a former member of the Mullaperiyar Dam Cell, cited changing rain patterns and threats of climate crisis while calling for the need to have experts’ teams for every day dam to monitor the situation. “We need a real-time decision. And we have to expedite dam and river-basin-related works and repairs on war footing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2018-kerala-floods-cag-report-points-to-flaws-in-state-s-preparedness-101636717063682.html
12-11-2021||India||Tiger found dead on railway tracks near Nallamala forest range in Andhra’s Kurnool||A tiger was found dead on the railway tracks near Nallamala forests close to Nandyal town in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district in the early hours of Friday, forest officials said.The incident took place at Tunnel No. 1 near Chelama railway station on the Nandyal-Giddalur route. Acting on a tip-off by the locals, forest officials rushed to the spot and recovered the body.“Prima facie, it has been established that it was an accidental death. The tiger appears to have been run over by a speeding goods train. The forest officials of Nandyal range have taken the body to the veterinary hospital for post mortem,” Giddalur divisional forest officer G Sateesh said.A retired forest official of Kurnool district, who preferred anonymity, said the Nandyal-Guntur railway route passing through Nallamala forests has been very dangerous for wild animals.“This is not the first time that a tiger has been run over by a train. In April 2019, too, a tiger came under the wheels of a speeding train. Many other animals including monkeys, panthers and bears met with accidents in the last few years,” he said.Nandyal forest division comprises Gundla Bramheswaram wildlife sanctuary, which is home to tigers. The stretch between Gundla Bramheswaram and Vonitimitta in Kadapa district was identified as a tiger corridor witnessing frequent movement of tigers.“The only way to prevent such accidents on the route is to avoid operating trains during the night and reduce the speed of the trains,” the retired official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tiger-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-near-nallamala-forest-range-in-andhra-s-kurnool-101636716408215.html
12-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre assures of permanent commission for women Army officers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre assures of permanent commission for women Army officers as SC warns of contemptThe central government on Friday said it will roll out the permanent commission option for all eligible women Army officers after the Supreme Court warned the forces of contempt. Read more.Sonepat murders: Prime suspects behind killings of wrestler, her brother heldTwo prime suspects in the murder of 22-year-old university-level wrestler Nisha Dahiya, and her brother, Suraj Dahiya, 18, have been apprehended, the Delhi Police said on Friday. Read more.MVA allies say revoke national awards given to Kangana, ask PM to clarifyThe allies of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over actor Kangana Ranaut’s controversial statement on India’s independence. Read more.Covid-19: Bahrain approves emergency use of India's CovaxinBahrain has become the latest country to approve Covaxin, the made-in-India vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the country’s National Health Regulatory Authority (NHRA) has given its permission for the emergency use of the jab, the Indian embassy announced on Friday. Read more.Congress MP writes to Facebook India head over company’s partisan policiesCongress Member of Parliament Gaurav Gogoi has written a letter to Facebook India head Ajit Mohan expressing his “vehement disdain and alarm” over the company’s partisan policies towards the removal of hate speech and inauthentic accounts. Read more.‘God of Cricket’: Tendulkar leaves fans amazed with exact prediction of Finch's dismissal by Shaheen during semisBatting legend Sachin Tendulkar, who is fondly called the ‘god of cricket’ by his fans, produced another masterclass to bedazzle his admirers. Read more.Red Notice movie review: Dwayne Johnson, Ryan Reynolds, Gal Gadot have made Race 4 with ₹1480 croreWith so much double-crossing, random teaming up, scheming and backstabbing around every corner, it’s a shock Gal Gadot doesn’t spontaneously break into a performance of Zara Zara Touch Me at any point in Red Notice. Read more.Is your child a picky eater? Here's what to doEating a balanced diet with proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins is important for children from the age of 1, yet when it comes to the practicality of filling their plate with all food groups, many parents find themselves struggling because of the children's reluctance to have certain foods. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-on-permanent-commission-for-women-army-officers-101636713689681.html
12-11-2021||India||Congress hits out at BJP, AAP for ‘incompetence’ in managing pollution in NCR||The Congress on Friday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for their “incompetence” in managing the worsening pollution in the National Capital Region and triggered a war of words.Pollution levels rose sharply on Thursday as winds died down, pushing the air quality index (AQI) back into the “severe” category. The AQI was at 411 at 4 pm on Thursday. By 10 pm, it rose to 431with average PM10 and PM2.5 pollutant levels nearing the emergency threshold.“The capital of the country is not only in the grips speechwriters and advertisements but also in the grips of pollution. The capital of the country is suffocating- responsible for this is the BJP and the advertising campaigner AAP,” Congress said in a tweet. “BJP-AAP should quit making counter-accusations and allegations, and instead should find a solution.”AAP leader and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai asked the Congress to stop meddling and focus on Punjab that the latter rules and where stubble burning contributes to the pollution in the region. “This (stubble burning) is causing heightened amounts of pollution in Delhi.” He added the Delhi government was taking measures to control pollution through multiple campaigns.BJP spokesman Tom Vadakkan blamed AAP for the pollution. “Pollution is an ongoing issue in Delhi. The problem is that they (AAP) are not a proactive government; they are a pro-publicity government,” Vadakkan said. “AAP only does publicity stunts like giving free water and electricity… They can blame Haryana and Punjab for the pollution, but the truth is that they do not want to take responsibility for their city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-hits-out-at-bjp-aap-for-incompetence-in-managing-pollution-in-ncr-101636715623829.html
12-11-2021||India||Kasganj custodial death: Report sought from UP govt, says nat'l minorities panel chief||The National Commission for Minorities has sought a report from the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh and director general of police on the custodial death of a Muslim youth in Kasganj district.The commission’s head, Sardar Iqbal Singh Lalpura, said once a report came in, a team would visit the place and ensure no injustice was meted out to anyone based on his caste or religion.“We have asked for a report from the UP government -- from the chief secretary and DGP. Once we get the report, we'll visit the place and see that no injustice is done to anyone on the basis of his caste and religion,” Lalpura was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Kasganj custodial death case: Victim’s father accuses cops of intimidationA 22-year-old man, Altaf, who had been called for questioning at Kasganj police station for having “eloped” with a minor Hindu girl, died in custody on Tuesday. While his family members alleged he was killed by staff on duty, police have claimed Altaf had died by suicide.Police said the youth strangulated himself using a string from his jacket hood in the washroom of the police lock-up. However, five policemen were suspended for negligence in the wake of the incident.Meanwhile, his father Chand Mian said he was threatened by officials that his son’s body will not be handed over to him if he spoke against the police. He said had not willingly affixed his thumbprint to a document saying his son was depressed and died by suicide.“I did what I was told to do by the police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kasganj-custodial-death-nat-l-minorities-panel-says-report-sought-from-up-govt-101636714012728.html
12-11-2021||India||Covid-19: Bahrain approves emergency use of India's Covaxin||Bahrain has become the latest country to approve Covaxin, the made-in-India vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as the country’s National Health Regulatory Authority (NHRA) has given its permission for the emergency use of the jab, the Indian embassy announced on Friday. The approval is line with the Bahrain government’s guidelines, under which travellers, who have taken a Covid-19 vaccine approved either by it or the World Health Organization (WHO), will not be required to quarantine upon arrival.Also Read | WHO gives Covaxin its stamp of approval“Accordingly, passengers travelling from India to Bahrain, having valid Covid vaccination certificates issued in India with a scannable QR code, for vaccines approved by WHO, or by the Kingdom of Bahrain, will be exempted from mandatory 10 days quarantine as well as pre-arrival negative RTPCR certificate,” the embassy said on November 6, three days after the jab, developed by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, received emergency use listing (EUL) from the global health body. Bahrain’s National Health Regulatory Authority @NHRABahrain approves the emergency use of the India’s indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccination, COVAXIN by Bharat Biotech. #Covaxin https://t.co/7F3h2NYwjc pic.twitter.com/Fi0xtqbI0aAccording to a press release by the NHRA, Covaxin was granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) on November 11. In Bahrain, it will be used to vaccinate those aged 18 years and above, the same age group for which the vaccine is being used in India, the release noted.In recent days, Covaxin has been recognised by several countries including the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, among others. Now approved by the WHO, the number of countries to recognise the shot is expected to rise in the coming days. Also, in yet another shot in the arm for Bharat Biotech, medical journal The Lancet has peer-reviewed and published data from Covaxin's Phase-3 clinical trials, corroborating the vaccine manufacturer's statement from June that the jab has a 77.8 per cent efficacy against mild symptomatic cases and 93 per cent against severe symptomatic cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-bahrain-approves-emergency-use-of-india-s-covaxin-101636710022583.html
12-11-2021||India||15 films vie for golden peacock award as Goa hosts IFFI this month||Fifteen films, including Simon Franco’s Charlotte and Shirin Neshat and Shoja Azari’s Land of Dreams, will vie for the top awards as Goa will host the 52nd edition of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) from November 20-28. The golden peacock award, earmarked for the best film at the festival, carries a cash prize of ₹40 lakh, to be shared equally by the producer and the director.The best director’s award will bag the silver peacock award, which carries a cash prize of ₹15 lakh.The IFFI jury comprises renowned Iranian filmmaker Rakhshān Banietemad along with British film producer Stephen Woolley, Colombian filmmaker Ciro Guerra, Sri Lankan filmmaker Vimukthi Jayasundara and the host nation’s producer-director Nila Madhab Panda. Also Read: NCPCR writes to CBFC over screening of films showing same-sex relationshipsThe films include Any Day Now by Hamy Ramezan, which narrates the story of 13-year-old Ramin Mehdipour and his Iranian family who reside in a refugee centre in Finland. The line-up also includes Charlotte, which tells the story of a forgotten movie star (Ángela Molina), who learns that the director who made her famous will be filming his last film in Paraguay. She sets out on an unusual journey in search of something more than just getting the lead role.The film Interglade, by Radu Muntean, captures the story of three friends on an a driving trip into villages down mountain roads.Land of Dreams is a movie about Simin, an Iranian woman on a journey to discover what it means to be a free American. Other films include Nikhil Mahajan’s Marathi movie Godavari, Masakazu Kaneko’s Ring Wandering, and Saving One Who Was Dead by Václav Kadrnka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-films-vie-for-golden-peacock-award-as-goa-hosts-iffi-this-month-101636711903386.html
12-11-2021||India||Centre assures of permanent commission for women Army officers as SC warns of contempt||The central government on Friday said it will roll out the permanent commission option for all eligible women Army officers after the Supreme Court warned the forces of contempt.An ANI report said the Centre further informed the apex court that it will take a decision within 10 days regarding the 11 women officers in the Army who had moved the SC regarding permanent commission.After SC cautioned Army of contempt, Centre assures it'll roll out Permanent Commission option to all eligible women Army officers.Centre tell SC that swift decision will be made within 10 days with regard to 11 women Army officers who approached SC for Permanent Commission. pic.twitter.com/HhikP1lBeWAn SC bench, comprising justices DY Chandrachud and AS Bopanna, was hearing a petition filed by the 11 officers who alleged the Army of non-compliance of the apex court’s orders. The officers said the Army was denying them permanent commission despite fulfilling the eligibility criteria as mentioned by the top court.Also read | Welcome women candidates with sense of fair play, professionalism: Army chiefAccording to a LiveLaw report, additional solicitor general of India Sanjay Jain said the court’s orders will be duly implemented and all the aggrieved women officers will be granted permanent commission subject to limitations stated in the previous judgement.The court said if any officer was found unsuitable for permanent commission, the same would have to be communicated specifying the reason for rejection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-assures-of-permanent-commission-for-women-army-officers-post-sc-s-warning-101636710430193.html
12-11-2021||India||Congress MP writes to Facebook India head over company’s partisan policies||Congress Member of Parliament Gaurav Gogoi has written a letter to Facebook India head Ajit Mohan expressing his “vehement disdain and alarm” over the company’s partisan policies towards the removal of hate speech and inauthentic accounts.The letter comes weeks after Facebook whistleblower Frances Haugen told US lawmakers that social media fuels division, harms children, and urgently needs to be regulated. Haugen testified after leaking internal research documents to authorities and The Wall Street Journal. The documents reference to research and findings of Facebook’s researchers. Among those, some related to India, referencing what they said were fear-mongering and dehumanising content promoted by Facebook accounts purportedly believed to be either run by or associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ideological fountainhead of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Gogoi referred to “the recent revelations made by former employees of Facebook” regarding internal policies and action taken relating to the moderation of content. “Considering the pivotal role Facebook plays today in disseminating information and shaping public opinion, such allegations if true are likely to have an adverse public impact,” said the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.Another former Facebook employee Sophie Zhang earlier highlighted the company’s partisan policy in removing inauthentic accounts ahead of the 2020 Delhi elections. She has also expressed willingness to testify before the Indian Parliament.Gogoi, who is also a member of the joint parliamentary committee set up in 2019 to look into the Personal Data Protection Bill that is expected to have implications for social media companies, said Facebook needs to make a “conscious effort to protect its users”.“It is particularly noteworthy that Ms Haugen worked on the company’s election interference team and expressed her displeasure towards the company’s lack of openness regarding the potential harm it was causing in that sphere, in addition to others. This exposes that in events where there is a conflict of interest between the of young individuals along with the failure of the company to address these flaws good of the people and the profitable/favourable outcomes for the company, Facebook has been choosing the latter.” He added they are cognizant that Facebook’s business model does involve the collection of data of its users and its subsequent processing. He asked what action will the company take to rectify the “mistakes”. “Despite Facebook situating itself as a pioneer for transparency and reiterating its mission to tackle misinformation and hate, it is disappointing to witness the company suppress information and key aspects of internal research from the public and its users based on convenience.”There was no immediate response from Mohan or Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-writes-to-facebook-india-head-over-company-s-partisan-policies-101636710524484.html
12-11-2021||India||‘Whether we like it or not’: Rahul Gandhi says Congress' ideology overshadowed by BJP-RSS||The ‘loving’ ideology of the Congress is alive and vibrant, but has been overshadowed by the ‘hateful’ ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday, as he virtually addressed the launch of the party’s digital media campaign for its upcoming Jan Jagran Abhiyan, which will be launched across the country on November 14. “Today, whether we like it or not, the hateful ideology of the RSS and BJP has overshadowed the loving, affectionate and nationalistic ideology of the Congress party. Our ideology is alive, vibrant, but it has been overshadowed,” Gandhi, a vocal critic of the ruling BJP and its ideological mentor RSS, said, according to news agency ANI.
12-11-2021||India||Aryan Khan appears before NCB to mark weekly presence as per bail conditions||On the day of his birthday, Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan on Friday reached the office of the Narcotics Control Bureau in Mumbai to mark his weekly presence, as mandated by the bail conditions of the Bombay high court. Last week too, Aryan came to the NCB office, though he skipped the summons of the special investigation team of the central agency which is now probing the case, citing 'slight fever'.Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, the three accused of the case who got bail on the same day, have been given some conditions for their bail. One of them is marking their presence at the Mumbai office every week on Friday at a stipulated time. They are also supposed to cooperate with the agency in the ongoing investigation which has now been shifted to a Delhi team.Last week, the SIT summoned Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Achit Kumar for interrogation. Arbaaz and Achit were quizzed for over 9 hours. But Aryan skipped the session owing to health conditions, reports said.In its order, the high court had said that Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, his co-accused who were also released on bail, will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. Besides, they have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence.It has been reported that Shah Rukh's manager Pooja Dadlani has also not joined the Mumbai police's investigation as yet. An SIT of the Mumbai Police is looking into the extortion allegations levelled against the NCB and Pooja Dadlani is a key witness in this case as according to the allegations, the demand for money was made to Pooja Dadlani and apparently she paid ₹50 lakh for Aryan's release when Aryan was detained on October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aryan-khan-appears-before-ncb-to-mark-weekly-presence-as-per-bail-conditions-101636705284267.html
12-11-2021||India||India is on a march, will be one of the leading nations when it turns 100: Doval||India will usher in a new era as it paces towards the 100th year of Independence and will be known for its “many achievements and many accomplishments” as one of the leading nations across the world, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval said on Friday."It will be a different India at that time. India is on the march and you will see that you will be leading these police forces at a time when it will bring India which has got a new place in the international arena," Doval told young Indian Police Service (IPS) officers in Hyderabad.The NSA was speaking at the passing out parade of the 73rd batch of IPS probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA).The quintessence of democracy does not lie in the ballot box but it lies in the laws which are made by the people who are elected by or are elected through those ballot boxes, Doval said.“You are the ones who are the enforcers of those laws. Laws are not as good as they are made. Laws are as good as they are executed and implemented and service the people are going to get out of them,” he said.“The implementation of those laws are important. No nation can be built where rule of law has failed. People cannot feel safe and secure where law enforcers are weak, corrupt, partisan," he maintained.Police have to work closely with other organisations for which they require a mental attitude together to serve the nation, he said.Wars have ceased to become an effective instrument giving their political and military objective even as they are unaffordable, uncertain about their outcome, he said, adding it is the civil society that can be subverted, divided and manipulated "to hurt the interest of the nation," Doval said."If internal security fails, no country can be great. If people are not secure, people are not safe, they cannot rise to the potential and probably the country will never grow," he further said.He also said that police forces have a greater role in border management besides maintaining law and order. He said maintaining law and order in every part of the 32 lakh sq km of India is also the responsibility of police forces. Doval said, “India's sovereignty goes as far as the last police station's jurisdiction from the coastal areas to the border areas.”"…Not only the policing about which you have been trained very well. But it will extend. You will be responsible for the border management of this country. Fifteen-thousand km of the border, most of it has got these peculiar problems of its own," he added."There is a border in Pakistan with China or Myanmar or Bangladesh. We have got different types of security-related issues which are manned by the police and the central police organisations which are manning these borders," Doval said.The Hyderabad-based Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy trains officers of the Indian Police Service, selected through the Civil Services Examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-on-a-march-will-be-one-of-the-leading-nations-when-it-turns-100-doval-101636704913953.html
12-11-2021||India||Ashram 3 controversy: Bajrang Dal leader got bail within 24 hours after arrest||Bajrang Dal leader Sushil Sudele, a murder convict out on bail since 2015, and six others got bail within 24 hours after their arrest for allegedly vandalising the sets of web series Ashram 3 on October 24.Sudele and six others created ruckus on the sets and smeared ink on filmmaker Prakash Jha. They also roughed up crew members while seeking the change of the name of the series. The mob chased the crew. Jha did not file any complaint. But Bhopal Police registered a case on its own and booked seven including Sudele, Jeevan Sharma, Abhijeet, Dilip, Karan, Shrawan Batham, and Sunil Soni under section 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code. All the sections are bailable.Deputy inspector general Irshad Wali said, “Sudele and six accused got bail on October 26... as per Supreme Court order under which the bail should be given to the accused booked under offences for which prescribed punishment is seven years or less.”Also Read: ‘Stop comedian’s show or we will’: VHP’s ultimatum to Chhattisgarh govtA Bhopal court in 2014 sentenced Sudele to 14-year imprisonment for conspiracy in the murder of travel agency owner Bhagchand. According to the charge sheet, Sudele extorted money and Bhagchand exposed him in 2011. On February 5, 2011, Sudele, another Bajrang Dal leader Rajkumar Chaurasiya and four others attacked Bhagchand with canes and rods. Bhagchand succumbed to his injuries four days later. In September 2015, Sudele and Rajkumar were released on bail.The opposition Congress accused the state government of patronising the goons and criminals. “Why police did not seek cancellation of his bail. Police registered the case under the weaker section. These Bajrang Dal goons have the clear support of home minister Narottam Mishra and police,” said Congress leader JP Dhanopia. “This incident cleared all the doubts.”Mishra supported the attack and said the filmmaker should change the name of the series. He said the government will introduce a law for filmmakers mandating prior permission for scripts on controversial topics.Despite repeated attempts, Mishra could not be contacted for his comments.BJP leader Rajneesh Agrawal said, “It is a matter of law. The efforts of police should be appreciated for taking suo moto action but Congress leaders have now made this a habit to target government and police without any reason.”Sudele said after he got bail in 2015, he was never booked for any other case. “Even on October 24, it was Bajrang Dal activists who lost control after some bouncers misbehaved with them. I was not present at the time when an activist threw ink and vandalised the sets. I went there to give a statement to the media. I did not have any direct connection to this case so there is no reason for cancelling my bail.”Bajrang Dal is the youth wing of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the ruling Bharatiya Janata party’s ideological fountainhead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashram-3-controversy-bajrang-dal-leader-got-bail-within-24-hours-after-arrest-101636704103060.html
12-11-2021||India||Salman Khurshid row: Madhya Pradesh minister vows to get book banned||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra on Friday vowed to ban the latest book by senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid amid outrage over his alleged comparison of Hindutva with the jihadist Islam of terrorist groups such as the Islamic State and Boko Haram."I will consult law experts in Madhya Pradesh and get this book banned in the state," news agency ANI quoted the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader as saying.A row broke out on Thursday after two Delhi lawyers Vivek Garg and Vineet Jindal filed complaints with the Delhi Police against Khurshid for allegedly defaming Hindutva in his latest book titled 'Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times.'According to lawyer Garg, Khurshid has written, "Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years."According to the complaint, Khurshid made the remarks in a chapter called 'The Saffron Sky' on page 113. The book by the former Union minister on the Ayodhya verdict was released on Wednesday.The BJP has also attacked the author over the same and said that Khurshid has "not only hurt Hindus but also the soul of India." BJP leader Gaurav Bhatia on Thursday also addressed a conference to launch a scathing attack on the Congress veteran.Condemning the purported remarks in the book, Bhatia claimed that the Congress party's "ideology and principle is to spread hatred against the Hindu community and to ill-treat the Hindus." He also alleged that the Congress party is "weaving a web against Hindus."Bhatia further questioned Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi over their silence on the issue. "If you remain silent, then it will be clear that your ideology is also against the Hindus," he said.The BJP is now demanding the removal of Khurshid from the Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salman-khurshid-row-madhya-pradesh-minister-vows-to-get-book-banned-101636703242927.html
12-11-2021||India||'Those who chant Jai Shri Ram are not all saints': Congress leader Rashid Alvi's statement sparks row||Amid controversy over Salman Khurshid's observation on Hindutva in his new book on Ayodhya verdict, a video of Congress leader Rashid Alvi purportedly saying that 'not all people who chant Jai Shri Ram are saints' has gone viral. BJP's Amit Malviya shared the video of the senior Congress leader addressing a gathering and tweeted, "After Salman Khurshid, now Congress leader Rashid Alvi is saying those who chant Jai Shri Ram are demons. How much poison does Congress have towards the devotees of Ram!" सलमान ख़ुर्शीद के बाद अब कांग्रेस के नेता राशिद अल्वी जय श्री राम कहने वालों को निशाचर (राक्षस) बता रहे हैं।राम भक्तों के प्रति कांग्रेस के विचारों में कितना ज़हर घुला हुआ है। pic.twitter.com/kHG3vXSpDWRashid Alvi said when Hanuman went to bring sanjeevani booti for Laxman, a demon in the form of a saint chanted Jai Shri Ram to divert him. It is in this context that the Congress leader warned that not all who chant 'Jai Shri Ram' are saints, some are demons."Laxman's situation was deteriorating.. and it was believed that sanjeevani booti was effective only before the sunrise. Otherwise, it was difficult to save the life. Hanumanji was entrusted with the responsibility of bringing sanjeevani booti from the Himalayas. Ravan sent a demon in the form of a saint to waste Hanumanji's time so that he could not not bring sanjeevani before sunrise..."The rakshas was chanting Jai Shri Ram.. Nowadays, many people chant this. Hanumanji descended because he was a devotee. The demon wanted to waste his time and asked Hanumanji to take a dip in Manasarovar as without taking a bath, no one should chant Jai Shri Ram. Today however people chant Jai Shri Ram without taking bath. A crocodile who was an apsara and turned into a crocodile by some curse then caught Hanumanji's feet. Taking the form of the apsara, she told Hanuman that the 'saint' chanting Jai Shri Ram is actually a rakshas," the Congress leader said."What I want to tell you as I conclude my speech is that today also there are many people chanting Jai Shri Ram. They are not all saints, they are demons. Be wary of them," the Congress leader said.The comment comes at a time when veteran Congress leader Salman Khurshid has compared Hindutva with ISIS and Boko Haram in his new book on Supreme Court's Ayodhya verdict. "Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years," the controversial passage reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-who-chant-jai-shri-ram-are-not-all-saints-congress-leader-rashid-alvi-s-statement-sparks-row-101636701856471.html
12-11-2021||India||Rains continue to lash Bengaluru, temperatures drop||Rains continued across several parts of Bengaluru on Friday as cloudy and damp conditions prevailed across India’s technology capital. Light to moderately heavy rains continued for over 24 hours across Bengaluru. Similar conditions are expected to continue for the next couple of days, the IMD said. “Generally cloudy sky. Few spells of rain are very likely. Maximum and minimum temperatures very likely to be around 20 and 17 degrees Celsius respectively,” the Indian Meteorological Department-Bengaluru said in its forecast for the next 24 hours. The depression-like conditions in Bengaluru continue. In neighbouring Tamil Nadu, several parts remained inundated due to heavy downpour, bringing life and livelihood in the metropolitan city to a standstill. Bengaluru received a maximum of 19 mm of rain, the IMD said. Monitoring stations near the Bengaluru International airport recorded 10.4 mm of rain while it was around 15.6 mm near Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) area, according to the observations recorded by the IMD at 8.30 am on Friday.Bengaluru and several parts of Karnataka have been at the receiving end of unseasonal rains all through October and November. The persistent rains led to waterlogging in several localities of Bengaluru, there were reports of power outages in several neighbourhoods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-continue-to-lash-bengaluru-temperature-drop-101636702184942.html
12-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: BSF fatally shoots 2 alleged Bangladeshi cattle smugglers in Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Two alleged Bangladeshi cattle smugglers shot dead in Bengal’s Cooch Behar: BSFThe Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday said it shot dead two alleged Bangladeshi cattle smugglers in West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district. Read moreLancet publication marks safety and efficacy of Covaxin, says Bharat Biotech“Bharat Biotech's Phase-3 data published in the Lancet, one of the highest impact factors in the field of medicine,” the Hyderabad-based firm said on Twitter. Read moreAjinkya Rahane to lead India in first Test vs New Zealand, rested Virat Kohli to be back from second TestAjinkya Rahane was named as the captain of India for the first Test against New Zealand as Virat Kohli was rested. Read morePorsche Taycan electric sports car races into India. Price, specs, other detailsPorsche Taycan EV has finally touched down in India and was officially launched on Friday at a starting price of ₹1.50 crore. Read moreKBC 13: Can you answer this 50 lakh question that Jayshreeba Gohil couldn't?Jayshreeba Gohil, who hails from Bhuj won a prize money of Rs. 25 lakh on Kaun Banega Crorepati 13. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bsf-fatally-shoots-2-alleged-bangladeshi-cattle-smugglers-in-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news-101636697260803.html
12-11-2021||India||ED takes possession of Nagpur’s Empress Mall in bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday took possession of Nagpur’s Empress Mall, worth ₹483 crores, which is linked to the bank fraud case by the Tayal Group of companies, officials said. According to the agency, the Mall was constructed on commercially diverted land of 270,374 square feet. “ED initiated a money-laundering investigation on the basis of three FIRs of the Central Bureau of Investigation, BS&FC, Mumbai against three different companies of Tayal Group of Companies… for alleged cheating and fraudulently availing loans to the amount of ₹524 crores from Bank of India and Andhra Bank,” the agency said in a statement.Upon investigation of the money trails for ascertaining and identifying the proceeds of crime, “Empress Mall at Nagpur was provisionally attached under the provisions of PMLA, 2002, which was subsequently confirmed by the adjudicating authorities,” the press release issued by the ED read. Furthermore, it stated, “A prosecution complaint under Section 44/45 of the PMLA, 2002 has been filed before the Special Court under PMLA, Mumbai and the Hon’ble court has already taken cognizance of the money laundering offence on 22.01.2021.”On Wednesday, the ED provisionally attached assets worth ₹6.32 crores of Somyendra Nath Banerjee, former deputy director-general (new technology), department of telecommunications, and his associates, in connection with an agency probe into his alleged disproportionate assets.The ED probe is based on a case registered by the CBI alleging Banerjee amassed properties beyond his known sources of income and possessed disproportionate assets worth ₹7.58 crore. It has been found that from April 2005 to June 2013, Banerjee allegedly acquired cash through corrupt practices and by abusing his official capacity.Officials said the cash was allegedly diverted to the companies floated by Banerjee and to purchase shares and properties in his name or the names of his family members and their companies.Further investigation is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-takes-possession-of-nagpur-s-empress-mall-in-bank-fraud-case-101636701103994.html
12-11-2021||India||'Looks like Kangana Ranaut took heavy dose of...': Nawab Malik on ‘freedom in 2014' row||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Friday condemned Kangana Ranaut's statement that India got real freedom in 2014 and said it seems the Bollywood actor is on a heavy dose of Malana cream, news agency ANI reported. "We strongly condemn actress Kangana Ranaut's statement that India got freedom in 2014. She insulted freedom fighters. The Centre must take back the Padma Shri from Kangana and arrest her," the minister said. "Looks like Kangana Ranaut took a heavy dose of Malana Cream (a particular variety of hashish which grows specifically in HP) before making such a statement," Maharastra Minister Nawab Malik added while reacting to actress' statement that 'India got freedom in 2014'Talking about India's freedom movement, Kangana has recently said that India got its actual freedom in 2014, apparently referring to Narendra Modi becoming the prime minister. Answering a question on Veer Savarkar, Kangana said the Congress is an extension of the British. The actor said the country got 'bheek' in 1947 and the real freedom came in 2014.As the comment stirred a major controversy with politicians, Bollywood celebrities slamming Kangana, the actor defended her statement and said, "Even though I clearly mentioned that 1857 freedom fight was the first revolution that was curbed… which led to more atrocities and cruelties from the British and almost a century was given to us in Gandhi's begging bowl… Jaa aur ro ab (Go cry some more)."Cutting across political parties, Kangana's comment has drawn flak. While the Congress demanded a recall of Kangana's Padma Shri, BJP MP Varun Gandhi exclaimed whether it is madness or treason. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said being a son of a freedom fighter, he found Kangana's comment as the biggest misuse of freedom (of speech).The Aam Aadmi Party has already submitted a complaint to the Mumbai Police asking it to register a case against the Bollywood actor for his seditious remark.The arrest of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in a drugs case has become a political controversy with the NCP criticising the role of central agency NCB and the BJP defending the central agency. Earlier, Kangana Ranaut comment on the issue of Aryan Khan as she said, "Now all Mafia Pappu coming to Aaryan Khan’s defence…. We make mistakes but we mustn’t glorify them … I trust this will give him perspective and also make him realise consequences of his actions…. Hopefully, it can evolve him and make him better and bigger. It’s good not to gossip about someone when they vulnerable but it’s criminal to make them feel that they did no wrong."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looks-like-kangana-ranaut-took-heavy-dose-of-nawab-malik-on-freedom-in-2014-row-101636697531171.html
12-11-2021||India||‘These will expand scope of investment’: PM Modi launches RBI's customer-centric initiatives||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched two customer-centric initiatives of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), also lauding the central bank and various financial institutions for what he said was their ‘admirable’ work during the Covid-19 pandemic. The two schemes--RBI Retail Direct Scheme and RBI-Integrated Ombudsman Scheme--will further expand the scope of investment for investors in the country, he said.Listing more benefits of the two plans, PM Modi said that these will make access to capital markets easier and more secure for investors. “With the RBI Retail Direct Scheme, small investors now have a medium through which they can safely invest in government securities. The Integrated Ombudsman Scheme has led to the ‘One Nation, One Ombudsman system’ taking shape in the country,” Prime Minister Modi said.Talking about various reforms undertaken by his government since 2014, when he first became Prime Minister, PM Modi said that during this period, emphasis was given to recovery and resolution. He added, “In the last seven years, non-performing assets were recognised with transparency and public sector banks were recapitalised. To further strengthen this sector, co-operative banks were brought under the purview of the RBI.”He then stressed that the needs of the country, and those of the citizens, should always be kept at the forefront. “We should continuously strengthen the faith of the investors. I am fully confident that the RBI will continue to strengthen India's new identity as a sensitive and investor-friendly destination,” PM Modi remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-will-expand-scope-of-investment-pm-modi-launches-rbi-s-customer-centric-initiatives-101636696381777.html
12-11-2021||India||Fatigue, complications more likely in diabetics who get Covid-19: Study||Diabetics, who contracted Covid-19, were likely to experience more fatigue compared to those who did not. And those with high fatigue are likely to have higher inflammatory markers during the course of the infection as well as increased blood sugar levels afterwards. They also experience lower handgrip strength, according to a study by researchers from Fortis C-Doc in collaboration with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences and Diabetes Foundation.Fatigue is the most common symptom that patients who have recovered from Covid-19 experience.“Fatigue is a predominant and very debilitating factor, present afterwards in both hospitalized and non-hospitalised Covid patients. Fatigue and associated symptoms decrease quality of life and interfere with normal working capacity. The study shows diabetes complicates the course of Covid-19 and influences long Covid-19,” said Dr Anoop Misra, director of diabetes and endocrinology, Fortis C-DOC.Also Read: Lancet publication marks safety and efficacy of Covaxin, says Bharat Biotech“In addition, diabetes poses challenges in the recovery of patients. It is imperative, therefore, for chronic diabetic patients to follow a healthy lifestyle, adhere to treatment guidelines and go for regular health checks.”Those with high fatigue score of more than four are likely to experience the symptoms and hence their recovery and rehabilitation will need careful attention to nutrition, glycaemic control, and a graduated physical activity protocol, according to the study recently published in the journal Diabetes & Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research & Reviews.The study compared the level of fatigue among 52 persons with type 2 or adult-onset diabetes, who had a history of Covid-19, and 56 persons with type 2 diabetes but no history of Covid-19.“This new important study re-emphasizes that management of diabetes should be sustained and more stringent during a pandemic. Blood glucose and blood pressure should be optimal and more aggressive glycemic management is required. Special care must be taken regarding nutrition and protein and vitamin supplements should be used as required. Exercise and physiotherapy should be started early after Covid-19 as it may benefit not only fatigue but cardiovascular and pulmonary health and mental well-being of the patient,” said Dr Misra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatigue-complications-more-likely-in-diabetics-who-get-covid-19-study-101636696362815.html
12-11-2021||India||IMD forecasts light to moderate rainfall for Tamil Nadu, Puducherry||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday predicted light to moderate rains for Tamil Nadu and the neighbouring Puducherry over the next 24 hours. A similar weather forecast was also issued for coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, south interior Karnataka and Kerala."The depression over north coastal Tamil Nadu weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area and the associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 5.8 km above mean sea level," the IMD said in its weather forecast bulletin."Under its influence, light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy rainfall at isolated places very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, south interior Karnataka and Kerala during the next 24 hours," it also said.The warning comes a day after parts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry witnessed torrential rains leading to extreme waterlogging conditions.In Coimbatore, schools were closed on Wednesday in wake of the red alert issued by the weather department. Authorities suspended arrivals at the Chennai airport due to the heavy rains.However, the situation moved towards normalcy on Friday as shops started reopening and traffic movement resumed in Chennai after Thursday's torrential rains, according to visuals posted by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, 18 self-contained teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry to tackle the issues related to rescuing and relief arising out of the situation. Of these 18 teams, 11 are deployed in Tamil Nadu, two in Puducherry and five in Andhra Pradesh.The deployed teams are now working to move people to safety and are also providing help to those affected in coordination with local authorities. The NDRF is also monitoring the situation round the clock, the force said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-light-to-moderate-rainfall-for-tamil-nadu-puducherry-101636695884500.html
12-11-2021||India||Don't want to rush, says health minister on Covid-19 vaccine for children||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said the government does not want to make haste about administering the Covid-19 vaccine to children and any decision in this regard will be taken based on expert opinion.On when vaccination for children could start as Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine has been granted emergency use authorisation for those 12-year-old and above, he said children were not being inoculated against Covid-19 on a large scale anywhere in the world though it has been initiated in some countries in a limited manner."We do not want to rush this thing. Since this is a matter related to children, the expert group is carrying out further studies," he said at the ‘Times Now Summit 2021’.All the vaccines which have currently received emergency use authorisation will be granted full authorisation only after a detailed study and based on the data of four to five years, he said."It is through data and experience we have learned that even after vaccination Covid can happen. Then again, data emerged stating that after vaccination one does not get severe Covid. The first dose gives 96 per cent protection and both doses give 98.5 per cent protection."About vaccinating the children, we will make a decision based on expert opinion. We have decided to think and evaluate before going ahead with vaccinating children as they are the future of our country and we need to tread with caution in this matter," the minister said.On the probability of administering a booster dose, he said adequate stocks are available and the aim is to complete the vaccination of the target population with two doses. After that, a decision on booster dose would be taken based on expert recommendation, Mandaviya said."The government cannot take a direct decision in such a matter. When the Indian Council of Medical Research and expert team will say that a booster dose should be given, we will consider it then," he said, adding Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always depended on expert opinion, be it vaccine research, manufacturing, or approval.Despite a large population and diverse challenges, nearly 80 per cent of India's adult population have taken at least the first dose. The country's vaccination performance has been remarkable, Mandaviya said.About Covaxin's approval by WHO, the minister said that he had discussed the matter with WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on more than a couple of occasions to understand the requirements a vaccine needed to fulfill to get the clearance."It is a matter of great pride that a vaccine developed and manufactured in India has been given EUA status."Asked if the delay in getting the EUA was because Covaxin is an Indian vaccine  and if there was there any discrimination against India, the Mandaviya replied, "I will not get into this matter."He informed that 97 countries have recognised Covishield and Covaxin.In the coming days, vaccines manufactured in India will be made available around the globe at affordable rates, Mandaviya said and stressed India will play a major role in global Covid vaccination efforts."We will get 31 crore doses in November with more due in December. Another five to six companies are set to come to India to manufacture vaccines here. We will help meet the world's requirement for Covid vaccines by providing USD 18 to 20 vaccines at USD 3 to 4. This is our commitment," he said.The minister said that 16 crore vaccine doses are lying with the states and Union Territories.Referring to the 'Har Ghar Dastak' vaccination at doorstep campaign, he said, "By December 31 we want to complete our target of vaccinating people aged 18 and above. It now depends on people's support."Asked about the possibility of a third wave, Mandaviya said, "Covid is not over. Cases are rising globally. In Russia, China, Hong Kong cases are rising again despite more than 80 per cent vaccination. Vaccination and Covid-appropriate behaviour have to go hand in hand."On preparations for a probable third wave, he said Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission has been launched and ₹65,000 crore will be spent in the next five years to ramp up the health infrastructure across the country.The aim is to form such a level of preparedness that India is ready to fight a pandemic-like exigency if anything like it comes up in the next 50 years, the Union health minister said."The second wave pointed out the shortages in health infrastructure. But, we don't believe in a blame game. PM Modi has linked health with development and the government under his leadership always made efforts to expand and strengthen health facilities," he said.Discussing the Health Infrastructure Mission, Mandaviya said modern laboratories will be set up at the district level which will conduct 115 types of medical tests for the poor citizens free of cost.Critical care units will be set up at the district level equipped with a 100-bed facility that has oxygen and ventilators. Besides, a research centre at the regional level will be set up so that epidemics are recognised on time before they assume pandemic proportions, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-want-to-rush-says-health-minister-on-covid-19-vaccine-for-children-101636694380748.html
12-11-2021||India||RailTel to implement tunnel radio communication system to improve safety in Kashmir Valley||RailTel, the Indian Railways’ technical arm, has been awarded the work of a crucial tunnel communication system in the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla section of the Northern Railway.RailTel Corporation of India Ltd said in a statement that the total cost of the integrated tunnel communication system (VHF Simplex) aimed at connecting the Kashmir valley with the rest of the country is ₹86.90 crore.Konkan Railways managed the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla section, which has 16 tunnels where communication is often interrupted due to poor signal coverage."This state-of-the-art integrated tunnel communication system is designed to provide uninterrupted radio communication between hand-held radios inside tunnels to the base station at tunnel control rooms and station masters of adjacent stations,” the RailTel statement said."The hand-held devices are provided to the staff involved in construction/maintenance activities and train operations. The communication of all channels in the tunnel is independent, simultaneous and failure-free. Completion of this work will ensure safe and smooth running of trains inside the tunnels, on undoubtedly, one of the most difficult terrains of Indian Railways," it added.Puneet Chawla, RailTel’s CMD, said RailTel has the expertise to execute it for improving train operations as well as safety."We are already executing similar projects for Panvel-Karjat, Karjat-Lonawala and Kasara-Igatpuri section of Mumbai Division of Central Railway, and Castle Rock-Kulem section (Braganza Ghat) of South Western Railway,” Chawla said.“We are eyeing more similar projects, and generating good revenue from these niche projects will not only help to diversify the work experience of RailTel but will also enable us to contribute towards nation-building," he added.The tunnel communication system project will achieve continuous coverage over the entire length of the tunnel and clear audio throughout with no interference. It will also have reliable system operation under harsh tunnel environmental conditions, trunked radio channels across many bands and ease of system operation and maintenance.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railtel-to-implement-tunnel-communication-system-in-kashmir-valley-101636694839531.html
12-11-2021||India||Lancet publication marks safety and efficacy of Covaxin, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech International Limited said on Friday that the peer-review of Covaxin, its vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by the medical journal The Lancet, was a further testament to the safety and efficacy of India's first indigenous Covid-19 jab. “Bharat Biotech's Phase-3 data published in the Lancet, one of the highest impact factors in the field of medicine,” the Hyderabad-based firm said on Twitter. Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN® Phase III data published in the LANCET, one of the highest impact factors in the field of medicine #covaxin #covid19 #thelancet #vaccine #safetyfirst #BharatBiotech @CDSCO_INDIA_INF @PMOIndia @WHO @MoHFW_INDIA @mansukhmandviya pic.twitter.com/3LUnxt23H6“10 publications in the name of Covaxin, all in reputed and international journals, marks the safety and efficacy of our indigenous vaccine. Bharat Biotech is committed to data transparency," it further posted. 10 publications in the name of COVAXIN®, all in reputed and international journals marks the safety and efficacy of our indigenous vaccine . Bharat Biotech is committed to data transparency. https://t.co/BrcmQDPEsl #covaxin #covid19 #thelancet #vaccine #safety #BharatBiotech pic.twitter.com/hXtzCDXOcxThe Lancet study corroborates earlier figures released by the vaccine manufacturer with regards to Phase-3 clinical trials of Covaxin, on which the latter said that the jab demonstrated an overall efficacy of 77.8 per cent among symptomatic Covid-19 patients. The corresponding figures for severe and asymptomatic cases of the infectious disease were found to be 93 per cent and 63 per cent respectively, while that for the highly contagious Delta variant was recorded at 65 per cent.Also Read | 77.8% efficacy, robust antibody response: 5 points from Lancet's new study on CovaxinThe shot was granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in January for the nationwide inoculation drive, which began on the 16th of that month. However, Bharat Biotech found itself mired in controversy over reports that EUA was granted to it despite not completing Phase-3 trials of Covaxin.The fresh development, meanwhile, is the latest shot in the arm for Covaxin, which, last week, was approved by the World Health Organization (WHO) for its emergency use listing (EUL). The jab has also been cleared by multiple countries, such as the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lancet-study-marks-safety-and-efficacy-of-covaxin-bharat-biotech-on-peerreview-101636693173784.html
12-11-2021||India||Terrorist plotting suicide attack killed in Srinagar: Jammu and Kashmir police||A terrorist allegedly planning a suicide attack was killed in Srinagar on Thursday night, the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police said on Friday amid a spike in violence and heightened counter-insurgency operations in the region following a spate of targeted attacks on civilians.A terrorist allegedly planning a suicide attack was killed in Srinagar on Thursday night, the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Police said on Friday amid a spike in violence and heightened counter-insurgency operations in the region following a spate of targeted attacks on civilians.|#+|In a tweet quoting inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar, the police identified the terrorist as Amir Riyaz. It added he was a relative of an accused in the February 2019 suicide attack that left 40 paramilitary Central Reserve Police Force personnel dead in Pulwama and brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. The police said Riyaz was affiliated with proscribed terror outfit Mujahideen Gazwatul Hind.Also Read: J&K govt keen to ensure ‘vibrant’ winter tourism season in Kashmir: Chief secretaryRiyaz was killed in an exchange of fire with security forces in Srinagar’s Bemina area on Thursday. An AK 47 rifle was recovered from the gunbattle scene.A high alert was sounded in Srinagar after back-to-back targeted attacks on civilians that left 11 people dead last month. A police constable and a salesman were killed last week in separate attacks.Two terrorists, Shiraz Molvi and Yawar Bhat, were killed in a separate shootout at Chawalgam in the Kulgam district on Thursday. Police said Molvi was active since 2016 and was involved in recruiting terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-plotting-suicide-attack-killed-in-srinagar-jammu-and-kashmir-police-101636693482731.html
12-11-2021||India||Depression dissipated over Tamil Nadu, fresh system forming in Andaman sea||The depression over Tamil Nadu dissipated to a well-marked low-pressure area centred over north Tamil Nadu on Friday morning. It will bring light to moderate rainfall, with heavy rainfall in some parts of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, coastal Andhra Pradesh, Rayalaseema, and south interior Karnataka and Kerala, according to the India Meteorological Department. The system resulted in a significant amount of rainfall in the 24 hours till Friday morning 8:30 am – Kavali in Andhra Pradesh witnessed 10 cm rainfall, Tamil Nadu’s Nungambakkam and Dharampuri recorded 6cm rainfall each, and Andhra’s Machilipatnamand Kalingapatnam received 4 cm of rainfall. This is less in comparison to the rainfall the regions received when the low-pressure area was moving towards the Indian landmass. Under the influence of the system, heavy rainfall was recorded in stations across Chennai – Ennore port saw 12 cm of rainfall in 24 hours till Thursday morning, Nungambakkam received 11.4 cm, MRC Nagar received 11.5 cm, and Taramani received 10.3 cm. A day before, Nagapattinam reported over 23 cm of rainfall and Thiruvarur received 20 cm. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over the South Andaman sea tomorrow. It will move northwestwards and intensify further over the next 48 hours. The system will bring heavy rain and thunderstorm in parts of the Andaman and Nicobar islands on Saturday and Sunday. The system will again lead to squally winds and rough sea conditions in the Andaman sea over the weekend and in the adjoining central Bay of Bengal on November 15 and 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/depression-dissipated-over-tamil-nadu-fresh-system-forming-in-andaman-sea-101636693424351.html
12-11-2021||India||Goa minister says his wife will ‘most certainly’ contest state polls from Siolim||Goa minister Michael Lobo has unilaterally announced that his wife, Delilah Lobo, would “most certainly” contest the assembly polls from Siolim amid growing discord within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the polls due in the state next year. He has also backed Congress leader Sudhir Kandolkar saying the latter would win irrespective of the ticket he contests on. Lobo did not specify whether he will seek BJP tickets for his wife or Kandolkar but said he would only be backing them.Lobo’s announcement came even as state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade has repeatedly asked ticket aspirants to respect the party’s internal processes. “I have spoken on this issue. There is nothing new to add. I do not wish to comment further.”Tanavade earlier said the ticket distribution process involves a recommendation from the state unit to the national parliamentary board, which takes a final decision. “Until that process is completed, no person can decide for himself that he is contesting on a BJP ticket,” Tanavade said earlier.Also Read: Goa BJP chief hits out at Arvind Kejriwal over temple runFormer BJP lawmaker Dayanand Mandrekar, who lost from Siolim in 2017, is believed to be keen on getting the BJP ticket for the seat for himself or his son.Former chief minister and BJP leader Laxmikant Parsekar, who is hoping to contest from Mandrem constituency, faces a challenge from Dayanand Sopte, who currently represents the seat. Sopte “officially” launched his campaign with BJP flags for his re-election. He contested against Parsekar in 2017 on a Congress ticket. He later resigned, joined the BJP, and was re-elected.Lobo has insisted his wife and Kandolkar will win. “I think that this time 100% the people will get them elected. Delilah will contest from Siolim with the blessings of the people,” Lobo said on Wednesday. On Thursday, Lobo said certain lawmakers have not performed without naming anyone. “People of Goa want good candidates so that their issues are addressed and solved whether it is water or electricity. Today people are fighting for basic necessities. These are good candidates. People across Goa are looking for good candidates.”He added the lawmakers are unavailable to the people. “I am not asking for tickets for anybody. I am saying good candidates should be given tickets; these are our names. Let us see which party later,” Lobo said.Lobo said his wife herself decided to contest from Siolim and that the initial feedback was positive. He added this is what prompted him to decide he would back her irrespective of what the BJP may have to say.Kandolkar, whom Lobo is backing in Mapusa, is a former BJP member. He was close to former deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza, who passed away in 2019. In the by-election necessitated by D’Souza’s death, the BJP fielded his son, Joshua, and prompted Kandolkar to join the Congress and contest from Mapusa. Joshua won with a smaller margin.Kandolkar said he expected a Congress ticket and welcomed Lobo’s support.Congress’s Agnelo Fernandes, who has earlier represented Lobo’s Calangute constituency, said he would “fight the forces out to destroy Goa”. He accused Lobo of being in cahoots with the “builder and casino lobby”.The BJP, which seeks to retain power in the state, has 27 lawmakers in the 39-member House while the Congress has four, Goa Forward three, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and Nationalist Congress Party one each. There are three independents in the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-minister-says-his-wife-will-most-certainly-contest-state-polls-from-siolim-101636692762446.html
12-11-2021||India||Will Modi govt tell truth, asks Congress after Bipin Rawat, MEA ‘differ’ on China||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday raised questions over what is happening on the Line of Actual Control in the eastern sector of Arunachal Pradesh, a day after the ministry of external affairs and the chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat commented on the reports of China building villages in Arunachal Pradesh.The ministry of external affairs said India has neither accepted the illegal occupation of Indian territory by China nor China's unjustified claims."China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over the decades. India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims," ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.Bipin Rawat, on the other hand, said the reports that the Chinese have come into Indian territory is not true. "The present controversy - that has erupted - that the Chinese have come across into our territory and built a new village is not true. But what I wish to come out with is that Chinese are building villages possibly for billeting and locating their civilians or for their military in the future all along the LAC, particularly after the recent face-offs that we have had," Bipin Rawat said."EAM says we will not accept China's illegal occupation! CDS gives 'clean chit' to China? Earlier, PM told an all-party meeting 'no one has entered our territory'. Defence ministry has conducted 13 rounds of talks with China on Depsang-Gogra. Will Modi govt state the truth?" Surjewala tweeted.The statement of the ministry was India's first official response to the Pentagon report that China has built a village in Arunachal Pradesh. "The government is committed to the objective of creating infrastructure along border areas for improvement of livelihood, including in Arunachal Pradesh. The government keeps a constant watch on developments having bearing on India's security and takes all measures to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity," Bagchi said. Rawat's comment was part of Times Now Summit 2021. "Wherever the Chinese have now developed their posts, we have seen some old dilapidated huts that existed in that area," he said."Yes, maybe a couple of them, the villages, have increased in size. What I would probably feel is that these are to billet the Chinese soldiers and subsequently, they may also be planning to facilitate the arrival of their families once in a while... Our civilians going there, our families visiting forward areas, so they are watching all this," Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-modi-govt-tell-truth-asks-congress-after-bipin-rawat-mea-differ-on-china-101636692288003.html
12-11-2021||India||SP Vijay Dhull transferred in aftermath of Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Nearly 40 days after the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Vijay Dhull, the superintendent of police (SP) of Lakhimpur Kheri, was transferred late on Thursday evening. Dhull has been attached with the Uttar Pradesh state police headquarters in Lucknow and has been kept on a waiting list.A senior home department official said Dhull, a 2012 batch IPS officer, has been replaced by 2014 batch IPS officer Sanjiv Suman as new SP of Lakhimpur Kheri district.The official said Suman, who was posted as deputy commissioner of police (east) at Lucknow police commissionerate, has been replaced by 2016 batch IPS officer Amit Kumar Anand.On October 28, the UP government had transferred Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya, who was district magistrate of Lakhimpur Kheri when the violence erupted on October 3, and Mahendra Bahadur Singh was made the new DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sp-vijay-dhull-transferred-in-aftermath-of-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101636691503187.html
12-11-2021||India||Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh in UP today, key engagements lined up||Home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh are expected to visit Uttar Pradesh on Friday, with an eye on the assembly elections in the state to be held early next year. Amit Shah will be in Varanasi for two days - Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency - where the union home minister will address a meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) assembly in-charges and district chiefs.Rajnath Singh will be in Lucknow for three days - his own Lok Sabha constituency - where he is expected to hold talks with chief minister Yogi Adityanath regarding a defence corridor project in the state. Singh is also expected to inspect development work, carry out a number of inaugurations, and unveil former Lucknow mayor Akhilesh Das’s statue. The defence minister will hold meetings with party cadres. In Varanasi, Amit Shah will discuss 2022 assembly election plans with party functionaries, and then on Saturday, he will lay the foundation stone for a university in Azamgarh, the Lok Sabha constituency of Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav. Also Read: Amit Shah to visit Pune in role as cooperation minister on Nov 26On Friday, he will visit the Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre (TFC) from the Varanasi airport to attend a meeting. He will stay overnight in Varanasi and on Saturday morning he will participate in an All-India official language conference at TFC at 10am. In the afternoon, he will fly to Azamgarh. CM Yogi Adityanath will be present when the home minister lays the foundation stone of a university in Azamgarh. Shah would also address a public meeting there. After coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP government had publicly pledged to set up a university in Azamgarh. Political analyst Kaushal Kishore Mishra, a professor in the department of political science at Banaras Hindu University, said, “The people of Azamgarh have been demanding the university since the mid-70s when Ram Naresh Yadav was the chief minister of UP. Different political parties came to power in UP over the past four decades, but the demand remained unfulfilled. Now, the BJP government is going to fulfill the demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-tour-key-engagements-lined-up-for-amit-shah-rajnath-singh-101636690542267.html
12-11-2021||India||Over 55% donations to regional parties from ‘unknown’ sources: ADR report||Twenty-five regional parties collected ₹445.774 crores or 55.50% of their total income from unknown sources in the 2019-20 fiscal, according to an Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) report.In its report for 2018-19 fiscal, ADR found the total income of 23 regional parties amounted to ₹885.956 crores including ₹481.276 crores, or 54.32% from unknown sources. There has been a 1.18% increase in income from unknown sources.“At present, political parties are not required to reveal the name of individuals or organizations giving less than Rs. 20,000. As a result, a substantial amount of funds cannot be traced and are from ‘unknown’ sources,” the NGO said in the fresh report.ADR found Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao’s Telangana Rashtra Samithi declared ₹89.158 crores income from unknown sources, the highest among regional parties in 2019-20. Similarly, Telugu Desam Party, Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party, Biju Janata Dal, and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam declared ₹81.694 crores, ₹74.75 crores, ₹50.58 crores, and Rs. 45.50 crores.The report said income contribution reports of the Aam Aadmi Party, Indian Union Muslim League, and Lok Jansakhti Party are available but their donations data show discrepancies. ADR found that the total declared contributions of the three parties are less than the total donation declared in their reports by ₹6.105 crores, ₹31.20 lakhs, and ₹4.16 lakhs. “This is an example of disregard of the parties towards the guidelines formulated for transparency and disclosure requirements.”ADR earlier this year said that national parties collected ₹3,377.41 crore or 70.98% of the total from unknown sources in the 2019-20 financial year. It found Bharatiya Janata Party declared ₹2,642.63 crore as income from unknown sources, the highest among the national parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-regional-parties-collected-55-50-of-total-income-from-unknown-sources-in-2019-20-adr-101636689283376.html
12-11-2021||India||77.8% efficacy, robust antibody response: 5 points from Lancet's new study on Covaxin||The Lancet peer-review has now corroborated Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech's efficacy analysis regarding Covaxin, its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, and confirmed that the shot demonstrates 77.8 per cent efficacy against patients symptomatic with the infectious disease.1 . In its new study, The Lancet noted that the Covid-19 vaccine made by Bharat Biotech is ‘highly efficacious’ and presents no safety concern, also inducing a “robust antibody response” two weeks after two doses of the shot are administered.2. The Lancet journal, although it corroborated Bharat Biotech's efficacy analysis for Covaxin, also noted that more research is needed to understand more about Covaxin's long-term safety and effectiveness, as well as protection against hospitalisation.3. Further research is also needed to effectively study Covaxin's effect on deterring Covid-19 deaths, and also its ability to fend off the Delta variant and other variants of concern of the coronavirus.4. Only 684 suspected Covid-19 cases were identified at least 14 days after the second dose, among the total 24,419 participants who received both doses of the vaccine.5. Of the confirmed cases, nine did not meet the case definition, being either seropositive for SARS-CoV-2 at baseline or only having one symptom, and thus 130 cases were included in the efficacy analysis. 24 (0.3 per cent) cases occurred among 8471 participants in the vaccine group and 106 (1.2 per cent) among 8502 participants in the placebo group, resulting in an estimated vaccine efficacy of 77.8 per cent.Notably, Covaxin was recently granted the much-coveted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the shot has already been cleared for use in as many as 17 nations. With the recent green signal from the global health body, Covaxin has now joined a shortlist of anti-Covid vaccines approved by WHO – which include the shots manufactured by AstraZeneca/Oxford, Johnson&Johnson, Moderna, Pfizer/BioNTech, Sinopharm, and Sinovac.While approving Covaxin, WHO noted that this vaccine is “extremely suitable for low- and middle-income countries due to easy storage requirements”.Bharat Biotech had informed back in July that the safety and efficacy analysis data from the Phase-III clinical trials of Covaxin had shown an efficacy rate of 77.8 per cent against mild, moderate, and severe instances of Covid-19. Against severe symptomatic cases of Covid-19, on the other hand, Covaxin was found to be 93.4 per cent effective, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm had said.The Phase III trials for Covaxin were conducted on 25,798 subjects – aged between 18 to 98 years – across 25 sites in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/778-efficacy-robust-antibody-response-5-points-from-lancet-s-new-study-on-covaxin-101636684611566.html
12-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: No Chinese village on Indian territory, says CDS Rawat and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Not true’: CDS refutes reports of China building villages on Indian territoryThe US department of defence recently said China had built a large village inside the “disputed territory” between Tibet Autonomous Region and Arunachal Pradesh in the eastern sector of the LAC. Read moreBombay HC to hear today defamation suit filed by Sameer Wankhede's father against Nawab MalikNCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede's father filed a police complaint against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Monday, pointing out that ‘false’ and ‘derogatory’ allegations regarding caste have been raised. Read moreMohammad Rizwan spent two nights in ICU before semi-final, photos emerge after Pakistan lose to AustraliaThe Pakistan team management confirmed that Mohammad Rizwan had spent two nights in the ICU of a hospital before the T20 World Cup semi-final against Australia, which Pakistan lost by 5 wickets. Read moreVicky Kaushal reveals what made him steer away from engineering: ‘I was a rat in the race’Vicky Kaushal said that during an industrial visit in his second year of engineering college, he realised that an office job was not for him. "I just was very sure of something that I don’t belong here,” he said. Read moreRujuta Diwekar’s solution to ‘uplift ourselves from all that drags us down,’ is this…On Friday, Rujuta shared a picture of herself, where she can be seen balancing her body on her feet and on her head, with the rest of the body positioned upwards. Read moreT20 WC: How Matthew Wade, Marcus Stoinis stunned Pak, fired Australia to finalAustralia crushed Pakistan's T20 World Cup dream as they defeated the green shirts by 5 wickets in the semi-final. Matthew Wade & Marcus Stoinis stood unbeaten in a six-hitting feast to lead Australia into the T20 World Cup final. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-no-chinese-village-on-indian-territory-says-cds-rawat-and-all-the-latest-news-101636684553228.html
12-11-2021||India||'Exaggerated to him, not to me': Salman Khurshid on Ghulam Nabi Azad's take on Hindutva||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid has stood by his observation on Hindutva that has kicked up a row and clarified that his remark in his new book was on Hindutva and not on Hinduism. After Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said he disagrees with what Khurshid has written in his new book on Ayodhya and that comparing Hindutva with ISIS and Boko Haram is an exaggeration, Khurshid said it varies from person to person. "It may seem exaggerated to him, it does not seem exaggerated to me," Khurshid said.Ghulam Nabi Azad issued a statement and said he does not agree with Khurshid's take on Hindutva and thinks that comparing Hindutva with ISIS and Jihadist Islam is factually wrong and an exaggeration."I don't want to engage him (Azad) in an argument because I think he must have said it in a casual moment when he had nothing serious thoughtful consideration of it. But if he said it, we respect him for what he says, he is a senior person, but it will not make me change my mind," Khurshid said.Defending his viewpoint, Khurshid explained that his point of comparison was on distorting religion. "I have not called these guys terrorists. I have just said they are similar in distorting religion. What Hindutva has done, it has pushed aside Sanatan Dharma' and Hinduism and it has taken over a robust, aggressive position similar to Boko Haram and those other guys," Khurshid told PTI."I could not find anybody else that they could be similar to. I said they are similar to them, that's all, nothing to do with Hinduism. Hindutva, as portrayed by its proponents, is distorting religion," he said.In a chapter titled 'The Saffron Sky' in the newly launched book, Khurshid wrote, "Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years."Two advocates have filed complaints against Khurshid's comments while BJP leaders have sought action against Khurshid. Union minister Prahlad Joshi said the Congress should take action against Khurshid. Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi should visit a temple to reveal their ‘gotra’ (clan) and assert that they are Hindus, the minister said.BJP's Amit Malviya said since Ghulam Nabi Azad is a G-23 leader (group of 23 rebel Congress leaders) and Salman Khurshid in close to the Gandhis, it would be "fair to assume" that Khurshid is echoing the Gandhis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exaggerated-to-him-not-me-salman-khurshid-on-ghulam-nabi-s-take-on-hindutva-101636685699137.html
12-11-2021||India||‘Not true’: CDS refutes reports of China building villages on Indian territory||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat on Thursday refuted all rumours regarding China building its villages on Indian territory and said that there are no transgressions against the Indian “perception” of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as of yet. Referring to the controversy over Chinese troops crossing into the Indian side for the purpose of constructing a new village, CDS Rawat said that these reports were “not true” and that although the said villages exist, they are well within the Chinese side of the LAC.The Defence chief's remarks assume special importance since they come in the wake of a recent report issued by the US department of defence, in which it said that China had built a large village inside the “disputed territory” between Tibet Autonomous Region and Arunachal Pradesh in the eastern sector of the LAC.Reacting officially to the US report, India's ministry of external affairs had earlier said that it neither accepts China's “illegal occupation of its territory nor any unjustified Chinese claims.”Speaking at a media conclave on Thursday, CDS Rawat outright refuted the reports and said, “as far as we are concerned, no such village development has taken place on our side of the LAC.”“The present controversy that has erupted, that the Chinese have come across into our territory and built a new village is not true,” he added.The Defence chief, however, shed some light on the possible purpose with which the Chinese are building villages close to the LAC. “But what I wish to come out with is that Chinese are building villages possibly for billeting and locating their civilians or for their military in the future all along the LAC,” the CDS added, “…particularly after the recent face-offs that we have had.” Rawat also said both the Indian and Chinese forces have posted troops on their respective side of the LAC. “Wherever the Chinese have now developed their posts, we have seen some old dilapidated huts that existed in that area,” he said. “So, some of those huts have been broken and newer infrastructure was being built up and modern huts are coming up.”“Yes, maybe a couple of them, the villages, have increased in size. What I would probably feel is that these are to billet the Chinese soldiers and subsequently, they may also be planning to facilitate the arrival of their families once in a while... Our civilians going there, our families visiting forward areas, so they are watching all this,” he explained.Noting that Chinese soldiers are isolated, Rawat said, “He (a Chinese soldier) is living thousands of miles away from the mainland. And he sees our people that they are in a much happier state. They get to go home much faster.”The Indian soldiers do get leave to go home from the positions on LAC at least twice a year if not thrice, he said, adding that the Chinese soldiers do not have this luxury.“They are building this infrastructure, this kind of so-called villages, which are well within their side of the LAC. They have not transgressed anywhere on our perception of the LAC,” he said.He said there are different perceptions of the LAC but the Indian armed forces know where the LAC lies because they have been told that this is your alignment of the LAC and this is the territory you are expected to defend.“The Chinese have a perception and in some areas, we know about it, and in some areas, we don't know about it. Because they have never really explained where the LAC lies according to their perception,” he noted.When asked if he thinks such village development is muscle-flexing on their part, he replied: “Certainly not, I won't call it muscle-flexing. With the development of these villages, they are trying to make sure that they reach out to their border areas, and it is something we should also be doing.”India was also concerned about its border area development and the government has released funds for BADP (Border Area Development Programme) projects, he mentioned.“In fact, we are encouraging people to go there and stay back in those villages because a large number of villages along the LAC are being vacated,” he explained. “Why are they being vacated? Because people find job opportunities, education, health infrastructure, more in the inner areas.” (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-true-cds-refutes-reports-of-china-building-villages-on-indian-territory-101636678673239.html
12-11-2021||India||Amit Shah in Varanasi today, to hold meetings on upcoming assembly polls||Union minister and senior leader of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Amit Shah is set to visit Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh on Friday ahead of the state assembly elections. During the two-day visit, Shah will attend Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan in Varanasi. He will also hold meetings with BJP office-bearers including state chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya.Shah will meet BJP social media volunteers and the booth presidents separately. He will also take feedback about the performance of the lawmakers from the region. On Saturday, Shah will lay the foundation stone of a university in Azamgarh, a stronghold of opposition Samajwadi Party, and address a public meeting.Varanasi is the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the meeting takes significance in view of the upcoming high-stake assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh as he is considered as the architect of the BJP's turnaround in the state.In the 2017 polls, the BJP had won 312 seats with a vote share of 39.67 per cent. This was followed by a strong electoral performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the BJP won 62 of the state's 80 parliamentary constituencies.The next legislative Assembly elections will be held in Uttar Pradesh in the month of February to March 2022 to elect 403 members of the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly.The term of the current assembly elected in 2017 will expire on May 14, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-varanasi-today-to-meet-hold-meetings-on-upcoming-assembly-polls-101636680071885.html
12-11-2021||India||'Those who begged...': Congress' retort to Kangana's 'freedom in 2014' comment||Reacting to Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's comment that India got real freedom in 2014 and what was attained in 1947 was 'bheek', the Congress said those who begged received forgiveness while those who fought bravely won freedom, in a reference to Veer Savarkar's mercy petitions to the British. It was in the reference of Veer Savarkar that Kangana was asked about her opinion on how Congress sees Veer Savarkar. In answer to the question, Kangana slammed the Congress by calling it 'an extension of the British' and that India got real freedom in 2014.
12-11-2021||NA||LIVE: Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira sent to 7-day ED custody in money laundering case||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Amit Shah offers prayers at Kaal Bhairav temple in VaranasiUnion Home Minister Amit Shah offers prayers at Kaal Bhairav temple. CM Yogi Adityanath and UP election in-charge and Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan also present.Two arrested in Sonipat murder case granted transit remand to Haryana PoliceTwo accused arrested by Special Cell in connection with Sonipat wrestler Nisha's murder case have been granted transit remand to Haryana Police by Delhi court Metropolitan Magistrate.2014 Chitrakoot gang rape case: Three convicts sentenced to life imprisonmentThree convicts, including former UP minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati, have been sentenced to life imprisonment and penalised with ₹2 Lakhs each.Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira sent to 7-day ED custody in money laundering caseCongress leader and former Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira has been sent to 7-day ED custody in money laundering case.Austria plans lockdown for those not vaccinated against Covid-19, reports AFPAustria has planned lockdown for those not vaccinated against Covid-19, says chancellor as quoted by AFP.Johnson & Johnson splits into two companies; shares jumpJohnson & Johnson shares jumped after the company said it will break itself up into two public companies, one focused on drugs and medical devices, and the other on consumer products. Read full reportSaudi Arabia recognises Covishield, lifts quarantine rule for those vaccinated with itSaudi Arabia has recognised Covishield vaccine against coronavirus infection for those entering the country. The Saudi Tourism Authority stated that travellers vaccinated with Saudi-approved vaccines need not undergo institutional quarantine.Top Maoist leader Prashant Bose, who had bounty of ₹1 cr on head, held by Jharkhand PoliceTop Maoist leader Prashant Bose alias Kishan Da has been held by Jharkhand Police. He has been nabbed along with his wife, Sheela Marandi - also a senior Maoist leader, police officers said. Prashant had bounty of ₹1 crore on head. The apprehended couple was being taken to Ranchi for further interrogation.Norovirus cases reported in Kerala, 11 students get infected in WayanadAt least11 students of a veterinary college in Wayanad, Kerala, have been infected by norovirus.Union home minister Amit Shah arrives in Varanasi for pre-poll meetingUnion home minister Amit Shah has arrived in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh to chair the crucial pre-poll meeting. He is on a two-day visit to Varanasi and Purvanchal.At least 3 killed, many wounded in blast at Afghanistan mosqueAt least three people have died in the blast at mosque in Nangarhar province of Afghanistan, reported news agency AFP.Jammu & Kashmir: 1 terrorist held, grenade recovered in GanderbalOne terrorist associate has been apprehended and a grenade has been recovered. Probe underway, said Ganderbal Police.Blast at mosque in Afghanistan's Nangarhar province, reports AFPAn explosion took place at a mosque in Afghanistan's Nangarhar province, news agency AFP quoted Taliban officials.Swift decision to be made regarding women Army officers seeking Permanent Commission, Centre tells SCAfter the Supreme Court cautioned Army of contempt, Centre assures it'll roll out Permanent Commission option to all eligible women Army officers.Centre tells SC that swift decision will be made within 10 days with regard to 11 women Army officers who approached SC for Permanent Commission.AAP releases first list of 10 candidates for 2022 Punjab Assembly pollsAam Aadmi Party (AAP) has released its first list of 10 candidates for the upcoming Punjab Assembly elections. It has fielded 10 of its sitting MLAs.Covaxin approved by Bahrain, announces Indian embassyBahrain’s National Health Regulatory Authority @NHRABahrain approves the emergency use of the India’s indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccination, COVAXIN by Bharat Biotech. #Covaxin https://t.co/7F3h2NYwjc pic.twitter.com/Fi0xtqbI0aBahrain’s National Health Regulatory Authority approves the emergency use of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin: Embassy of India, BahrainEx-Maharashtra HM in ED custody till November 15Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh send to Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody till 15th of November by a session court.Delhi govt imposes fine of ₹5 lakh on NBCCNBCC fined ₹5 lakh for violating dust-control norms at construction site in east Delhi, says Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai.Wrestler Nisha murder case: Main accused heldDelhi Police Special Cell caught the main accused Pawan and his associate Sachin in connection with Sonipat wrestler Nisha's murder case.Image Source: Delhi Police Special Cell pic.twitter.com/4aIBtCFZjlDelhi Police Special Cell arrests main accused Pawan and his associate in Sonipat wrestler Nisha's murder case.CM Uddhav Thackeray's surgery successful, says Maharashtra CMOSurgery performed on chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was successful. Following the cervical spine surgery, the chief minister is in postoperative care and is in stable condition. The surgery was performed by Dr Shekhar Bhojraj at the HN Reliance hospital in Mumbai: Maharashtra CMOCongress leader Sachin Pilot arrives at Sonia Gandhi's residenceRajasthan Congress leader Sachin Pilot reaches interim party president Sonia Gandhi's residence in Delhi to discuss political developments in the state.SC adjourns Lakhimapur Kheri violence case to Monday on request made by UP govtSupreme Court on the request of Uttar Pradesh government adjourns the hearing for November 15 in the case relating to the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri where eight persons, including four farmers, were killed during a farmers' protest. Myanmar court sentences US journalist to 11 years in jailA court in military-ruled Myanmar on Friday sentenced detained US journalist Danny Fenster to 11 years in prison after finding him guilty on several charges including incitement for allegedly spreading false or inflammatory information.Home secretary Ajay Bhalla to visit Bengal, likely to meet top BSF officersUnion home secretary Ajay Bhalla will meet West Bengal chief secretary H K Dwivedi in Kolkata on Friday to discuss pending land acquisition for construction of border fence, road projects, Border Out Posts (BOPs) and Integrated Check Posts (ICPs), people familiar with the matter said. Read More Punjab govt makes Punjabi language complusary in schoolsPunjabi language has been made a compulsory subject for all students from class I to X in Punjab. Schools to be fined up to ₹2 lakhs for violation. Punjabi is mandatory in offices. Also, Punjabi will be written on top of all the boards in the State, announced chief minister Charanjit S Channi on Friday. Delhi records minimum temperature of the season so farDelhi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.6 degrees Celsius on Friday, a notch below normal, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The city recorded a minimum temperature of 12.6 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the season so far, on Thursday as well.India reports 12,516 new cases and 501 deathsIndia reports 12,516 new cases and 501 deaths in the last 24 hours; Active caseload stands at 1,37,416 ( lowest in 267 days), according to the data by Union health ministry.‘Not true’: CDS refutes reports of China building villages on Indian territoryChief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat on Thursday refuted all rumours regarding China building its villages on Indian territory and said that there are no transgressions against the Indian “perception” of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) as of yet. Read MoreCovaxin demonstrates 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19: Lancet The Lancet peer-review confirms the efficacy analysis of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.  As per phase-three clinical trials data, Covaxin demonstrates 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic Covid-19. SpaceX capsule with crew of four docks with International Space StationA SpaceX capsule carrying four astronauts docked with the International Space Station on Thursday, kicking off a six-month stay on the orbiting outpost. Read More Amit Shah in Varanasi today, to hold meetings on upcoming assembly pollsUnion minister and senior leader of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Amit Shah is set to visit Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh on Friday ahead of the state assembly elections. During the two-day visit, Shah will attend Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan in Varanasi. He will also hold meetings with BJP office-bearers including state chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya.Bombay HC to hear today defamation suit filed by Sameer Wankhede's father against Nawab MalikThe Bombay high court will on Friday hear out the defamation suit filed by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede's father, Dhyandev, against Maharashtra cabinet minister Nawab Malik in connection with a series of allegations raised by the latter in a sensational drugs bust case, which had high-profile figures like Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aaryan Khan implicated weeks ago. Read More Chennai sinking in the rainTorrential showers for the second time in five days pounded Chennai and gale force winds forced authorities to bar incoming flights for seven hours on Thursday as thousands of residents scrambled for high ground and rescue personnel waded through knee-deep water to rescue citizens. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-november-12-2021-101636674584673.html
12-11-2021||India||SC asks Future Group to stop sale of retail assets to Reliance||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Future Group to not proceed with a proposed $3.4 billion sale of its retail assets to Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) till its legal wrangle with Amazon.com.Inc is decided conclusively.“We cannot allow you to do anything in the meantime. We are very clear on it. Where is the question of your filing suits and SLPs (special leave petitions), and in the meantime you keep going ahead? What remains then? We hope you don’t proceed,” a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana told lawyers for the Future Group.“If you go on doing everything, what remains to be finally decided? If meetings etc go on, nothing remains. On the other hand, you can buy your own sweet time and go on filing appeals, suits etc,” added the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli.The bench recounted that the court on September 9 passed an order by consent of both Amazon and Future, barring the Delhi high court, regulators and other statutory authorities in the country from passing any effective order on the Future-Reliance deal for the following four weeks.“That was an order passed after both of you agreed. We hope you don’t do anything now and will not proceed,” the bench told senior counsel Parag P Tripathi, who appeared for the Future Group.As Tripathi assured that the group would not proceed, the bench further asked him to take an adjournment before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) where Future Group has pressed for convening meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek approval on a sale proposal of the retailer’s assets to Reliance.The court fixed the matter for a detailed hearing on November 17 when it will also take up Future Group’s petition against the Delhi high court’s refusal to stay the Singapore arbitration tribunal’s October 21 ruling. The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) restrained the Future Group from going ahead with its deal with Reliance. The high court on October 29 issued notice on the Future’s petition fixing the case for a hearing on a later date but declined to stay SIAC’s interim order in the meantime.On Wednesday, the bench was hearing Amazon’s plea to restrain all authorities, including NCLT, from allowing any measure that may facilitate the Future-Reliance deal till the matter is finally decided by the top court.Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for Amazon, cited the Future Group’s attempt to conduct a meeting of shareholders and creditors for approval to sell its retail assets to Reliance, requesting the bench to issue a restraining order.Tripathi, for Future, argued that the process of meeting etc takes between 35-40 days and there is nothing that is happening just now. The bench, however, retorted that SIAC’s order is binding on the Future Group, as was also held by the Supreme Court’s judgment on August 6, and therefore, the retailer should choose its remedies in terms of this verdict.As Tripathi said that the Delhi high court is reluctant to pass any order in view of the Supreme Court’s interim restraining order on September 9, the bench remarked that it had not prevented the high court from examining the case on merit but the interim order was confined only on the aspect of coercive steps against Future Group’s directors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-future-group-to-stop-sale-of-retail-assets-to-reliance-101636673389819.html
12-11-2021||India||In C’garh’s Cong vs BJP, a new twist over commission to probe deadly Maoist attack||RAIPUR: Five days after a judicial commission headed by former Chhattisgarh high court judge Prashant Kumar Mishra submitted its report on the 2013 Jhiram Ghati Maoist attack which wiped out the then Congress leadership in the state, the Chhattisgarh government on Thursday appointed a new chairman, added another member to the enquiry commission, and added new terms of reference.While the state government said the rationale for the change was that Mishra has become the chief justice of the Andhra Pradesh high court, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the move was an attempt to obfuscate the findings of the report, which has not yet been tabled in the assembly or its contents released, and was a delaying tactic.The justice Prashant Kumar Mishra-led commission, constituted on May 28, 2013, by the then BJP government, submitted its findings to the Chhattisgarh governor Anusiya Uike on November 6.It is not clear what happens to this report. Asked by HT to clarify the status of this report, Raj Bhavan officials said the report is still with the governor and she will respond after going through it.To be sure, the Congress including chief minister Bhupesh Baghel objected to the commission directly submitting the report to the governor, pointing out that it should have been submitted to the state government. The ruling party also asked why the commission rushed to submit its report when in September it sought more time to complete the report.The commission was set up to probe the May 25, 2013 Maoist attack on a convoy of Congress leaders during the party’s Parivartan Rally’ in the Jhiram valley in Bastar district of Chhattisgarh, killing 29 people including then state Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel, former leader of opposition Mahendra Karma and former Union minister V C Shukla. The new order appoints Justice (retired) Satish K Agnihotri, former chief justice of Sikkim high court, as the new chairman of the commission and justice (retired) G Minhajuddin as a member. Both of them have served tenures as judges in the Chhattisgarh high court.In September, the government said the commission sought further time, and that a fresh report will be issued in six months.“…The state government was in receipt of the last communication made by the secretary of the commission dated September 23, 2021, by which the commission informed that the inquiry is incomplete and sought further time. The state government has decided to appoint two new members, former judges of high court as Justice Prashant Mishra has been transferred. State has further added three new points in the terms of reference (TOR) of the Commission,” Thursday’s notification said.The three terms of reference include that firstly whether sufficient medical aid was provided to the victims of the attack after the incident and secondly what appropriate steps were taken to prevent such incidents have been included in the probe. “The third term of reference will be determined according to circumstances by the commission or the state government,” the notification said.The BJP, however, asked why the report submitted five days ago has not been tabled for discussion.“The commission submitted its report only a while back, which is supposed to be tabled in the assembly and then discussed in the assembly. We don’t understand why there is a rush and disbelief in the submitted report. I don’t think the report will change if it’s submitted to the governor rather than the CM… The government should have waited till it gets tabled and discussed in the assembly. If they still had reservations they could have gone and appointed a new commission or changed its members,” said Dharamlal Kaushik, leader of opposition in the legislative assembly.Chhattisgarh government spokesperson and senior minister Ravindra Chaubey said the term of the single-member judicial commission expired due to administrative exigency after the transfer of justice Prashant Mishra. “The secretary of the aforementioned commission in his communication had informed the state government that the commission would require additional time to complete proceedings, therefore it has been decided to reconstitute the judicial commission by appointing two new members with a mandate to complete the proceedings in next six months,” said Chaubey adding that no new commission has been constituted, only the previously notified judicial commission has been reconstituted owing to administrative exigencies. “The state government has the power to appoint, dissolve or modify any commission or its terms of reference. Since the commission itself asked the state government to extend the time to complete the inquiry in its last communication, the state government has acted on the same,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, a lawyer, who represented state Congress before the commission. Kanak Tiwari, senior lawyer and former advocate general for the Chhattisgarh government said the state government has the jurisdiction to appoint the new members of a commission as per provisions of Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952.“It is an administrative issue. not a legal issue. The appointments were made as per the provisions of the Inquiry Act, which is an administrative Act and has no constitutional sanction. As per the Act, the state government has the jurisdiction to constitute judicial commissions or appoint any number of members for a commission… Irrespective of the fact that there was a report of commission earlier, the state government can make appointments,” Kanak Tiwari, senior lawyer and former advocate general of Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-c-garh-s-cong-vs-bjp-a-new-twist-over-commission-to-probe-deadly-maoist-attack-101636665220414.html
12-11-2021||India||CISF to set up panel at airports for issues relating to the differently-abled||NEW DELHI: The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) will come up with provisions for security checking of persons with disabilities (PWDs) at airports and as the first step, will set up a committee of stakeholders with reference to the issues faced by PWDs, it was decided after an outreach session between disabled groups and top aviation officials including those from the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) and the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA).“The aim of this conference was to discuss standardisation of the processes across all the airports under CISF security cover in dealing with PWDs, and to minimise the problems faced by them during pre-embarkation security checks at the airports,” a statement from CISF said.On interacting with the NGOs, senior officers said that the agency tried to establish communication with the end-users, explaining the security compulsions and the best possible efforts being made by them (at the airports) to address problems of passengers with special needs. Existing security guidelines for frisking differently-abled passengers and their equipment (such as wheelchairs, prosthetics and others) were brought in by BCAS following the 2016 aircraft blast in Somalia where a wheelchair-bound passenger was suspected to have carried out a blast in the aircraft after evading security at Mogadishu airport.Based on the existing guidelines prescribed by BCAS for security checks of PWDs, CISF highlighted what and how the CISF undertakes security checks of such passengers.“There will be an increased focus on training and sensitisation of the personnel handling the issues of the PWDs,” CISF said. This comes as there were some passenger complaints alleging unfriendly behaviour from the security personnel, in the past. “Representatives of NGOs were invited to share their experiences and put forth their expectations from CISF aviation security group. They were also encouraged to give suggestions, which would ease the process of security checks for PWDs. Our aim is to engage with organisations related to PWDs in order to understand their problems and also put forth solutions to issues, permanent dialogues,” said MA Ganapathy, director general, CISFVaishnavi Jayakumar of Disability Rights Alliance, a Chennai based NGO, said, “The guidelines that exist from our end are disabled friendly, but the problem is that there are differences in security protocols which also is leading to confusion as to which guidelines are to be followed.”“Added to this is the lack of awareness in Indians of the disability experience. In airports, there are wheelchair users not only because they are differently-abled but because of other reasons such as age factor. However, people who are conducting security screening may not understand the difference between such passengers and expect all wheelchair-bound passengers to stand during the security check. This however improves with interaction and awareness which we stressed in the interaction. Now, BCAS has to make sure that all the inputs are in line with civil aviation rules, disability law and the recent aviation accessibility standards,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-to-set-up-panel-at-airports-for-issues-relating-to-the-differentlyabled-101636662520194.html
12-11-2021||India||Goa minister ignores BJP diktat, says will support wife, friend’s election bid||PANAJI: Goa minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Michael Lobo, who pledged his support to his wife and a friend in the state elections leading to red faces in his party, on Thursday defended his announcement, saying people are looking for good candidates and indicted certain sitting MLAs for non-performance. He did not, however, name anyone.“People of Goa want good candidates so that their issues are addressed and solved whether it is water or electricity. Today people are fighting for basic necessities. These are good candidates. People across Goa are looking for good candidates. Today the MLAs are not performing, they are not available to the people,” Lobo told reporters on Thursday explaining his unusual announcement just a day earlier.On Wednesday, Lobo, a two-time BJP lawmaker, announced that his wife Delilah Lobo will ‘most certainly’ contest from the Siolim constituency (which borders the Calangute constituency he represents) and threw his weight behind Sudhir Kandolkar, a Congressman who he said he will back irrespective of the party Kandolkar contests from. “The candidates who are going to contest are seated here -- Delilah, Sudhir Kandolkar from Mapusa. I think that this time 100% the people will get him elected. Delilah will contest from Siolim with the blessings of the people,” Lobo said at the event.To be sure, Lobo did not say that he expected his two candidates to be given a BJP ticket. but only underlined who will have his support on the two seats, Siolim and Mapusa.On Thurday, he reiterated this point as well.“I am not asking for tickets for anybody. I’m saying good candidates should be given tickets, these are our names. Let’s see which party (they will fight on) later”.Lobo, 45, was made a minister in the Pramod Sawant cabinet after the BJP snapped ties with the Goa Forward Party in 2019 and asked its ministers to step down.Lobo’s comments came as a huge embarrassment for the BJP coming as they do, despite a directive from the Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade who has, on more than one occasion, asked party leaders and ticket aspirants to respect the party’s internal process to hand out tickets.After Lobo still went ahead, Tanavade declined to comment, saying “there is nothing new to add” to what he has already said.“I have spoken in the past on this issue... I do not wish to comment further,” Sadanand Shet Tanavade said when asked about Lobo’s announcement.In the past, Tanavade has underscored that the decision to hand out tickets is taken after a due process involving a recommendation from the party’s state unit to the national parliamentary board which takes a final decision. “Until that process is completed, no person can decide for himself that he is contesting on a BJP ticket,” Tanavade said.Lobo’s decision to announce his wife as a candidate for the upcoming polls, irrespective of whether she gets the BJP ticket has ruffled feathers of former BJP MLA Dayanand Mandrekar, who lost his seat to Vinoda Paliencar of the Goa Forward Party in 2017, but is now keen to protect his turf and secure a BJP ticket either for himself or his son.Lobo said his wife decided that she will contest from Siolim and the decision was hers, not his and that the initial feedback she received from the constituency was positive, which is what prompted him to decide to back her. Like Michael Lobo’s Calangute constituency it borders, Siolim constituency is also a tourism centric seat and includes hotspots like Anjuna, Chapora and Siolim itself.In Mapusa, the headquarters of the Bardez taluka, Lobo has vowed to back Sudhir Kandolkar, a former member of the BJP and a close aide of former deputy chief minister Francis D’Souza who died in February 2019. In the bye election that ensued, the BJP gave the party ticket to D’Souza’s son Joshua provoking Kandolkar to switch sides, join the Congress and contest against Joshua. Joshua won by a thousand-odd votes, but the margin was far less than the 10,000 or so votes his father used to win by.Kandolkar, who remains a Congressman, said he was expecting the party’s ticket for the upcoming election has welcomed Lobo’s loud support, saying it was a boost. If there are others willing to back him, they are welcome to do so as well, he added.Michael Lobo’s public announcement has led to ripples in the Congress as well where some leaders hinted they hoped the public declaration isn’t a precursor to Lobo crossing sides. Among them is Lobo’s rival Agnelo Fernandes, a former Calangute MLA who has been looking at another shot at getting back into the assembly.Fernandes stepped up on Wednesday, declaring that he was determined to “fight the forces out to destroy Goa” even as he accused Lobo of being in cahoots with the “builder and casino lobby”.But the BJP’s problems are not limited to Lobo seeking to expand his fief.In Mandrem, a constituency that is home to the beaches of Morjim, Arambol and Tiracol former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar and member of the Goa BJP executive is up against sitting MLA Dayanand Sopte who has “officially” launched his campaign, complete with BJP flags.Sopte, who was earlier with the BJP, quit and contested against Parsekar on a Congress ticket. He however, resigned his seat won on a Congress ticket, joined the BJP and contested again. He was reelected.To his friends and associates, Parsekar has made it clear that he will not go down without a fight.Parsekar’s determination to give himself a fighting chance is something, one BJP leader acknowledged, that has the party leadership concerned.The BJP holds a clear majority of 27 MLAs in the 39-member house after a Congress MLA resigned to join the TMC reducing the strength of the assembly from 40 to 39. The Congress holds four seats, the Goa Forward three while the MGP and NCP hold one each. Independent canddates hold another three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-minister-ignores-bjp-diktat-says-will-support-wife-friend-s-election-bid-101636660780213.html
12-11-2021||India||Bihar police arrests 823 engaged in illicit liquor trade after hooch deaths climb to 41||After recent reports of several deaths due to consumption of illicit liquor in dry Bihar and mounting attack from the Opposition on the alleged nexus behind the thriving liquor trade, the Bihar police has launched a coordinated drive against the liquor mafia and raided more than 1300 locations including Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Gopalganj, West Champaran and East Champaran. Police teams have arrested 823 people in the last 48 hours. Nearly 41 people died due to consumption of spurious liquor in four districts during the festive season. The incidents pushed the death toll due to consumption of suspected spurious liquor in Bihar close to 106 till date. According to a senior IPS official of the state police headquarters (SPH), the liquor mafia have changed their strategy to avoid the risk of smuggling liquor from outside the state and instead have begun manufacturing spurious liquor in Bihar. In Muzaffarpur, police arrested 400 people, including five members of Panchayat Samiti, and unearthed three re-bottling units. Police recovered 8000 empty bottles, seals, cork, wrappers, packing machine and spirits. “We have registered 150 FIRs with 40 police stations and nabbed 400 people who were involved in the spurious liquor trade,” said Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant. He said that the second such incident occurred at Manipur-Narottam panchayat under Kanti police station ahead of the panchayat election scheduled on November 15. A liquor party was organised in the house of a mukhia candidate to lure voters and it went horribly wrong, claiming the lives of six people. Earlier on October 29, six people had died while some others were in serious condition after consuming suspected spurious liquor at Rupauli village under Saraiya police station. Following the incident, police carried out raids at Rupauli and neighbouring Vishhar-patti village and arrested four people including newly elected ward member Amit Kumar. The liquor party was organised by Amit in one of the victim’s houses identified as Dhiresh Kumar alias Gultu. Reports from Gopalganj claim that police have arrested 275 people registered 105 FIRs after the death of 13 people at Mahmadpur police station area and seized 34 vehicles. The police also raided the house of one Karan Kumar at Harpur village under Town police station and recovered new wrappers of UP brand IMFL, polythene, pouches and empty bottles. “After the incident raids have been conducted in several places in the district in which 11 people involved in the hooch tragedy have been arrested,” said Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar, adding that the district administration on Thursday launched an awareness drive among the Chhath Puja devotees and warned them against spurious liquor. In Samastipur, at least seven people including a BSF personnel and an army jawan died, while six minors were in critical condition and two of them lost their vision at Rupauli, the police arrested 65 people and lodged 32 FIRs so far. In East Champaran, police have lodged 83 FIRs after the arrest of 92 people and recovered 11,000 litres of liquor including 8000 litres spirit, said SP Navin Chandra Jha. Change in Modus OperandiPolice officials said the unscrupulous elements engaged in illicit liquor trade have changed their modus operandi by mixing sedative tablets with spirits to prepare spurious liquor, a reason why it is leading to poisoning and other health problems. Another new facet in the illegal liquor trade which has emerged, lately in Bihar, is the mushrooming of localised spurious liquor units as IMFL (Indian Made Foreign Liquor) bottles being smuggled from states like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal and Nepal has been curbed to an extent due to police crackdown on smugglers. As per latest police records, 6,852 smugglers from Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Nepal have been arrested in the last five years since prohibition in Bihar from April, 2016. The cases of arrested people are in different stages of trial with many lodged in different jails in the state, police said. “The liquor mafia has changed their modus operandi, as bringing Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) from other parts of the state was proving risky following the arrest of around 6,852 outsiders from Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Nepal. They have now set up manufacturing units in Muzaffarpur and Gopalganj,” said the official, adding that ever since the liquor tragedy broke out in four districts, more than 800 people involved in liquor trade have been arrested in connection with 698 cases. A joint team of Bihar police and excise officials recovered 16,230 litres IMFL, 4,510 litres country made liquor, 85 vehicles besides mahua seeds and flowers. The Opposition meanwhile has been attacking the government for its failure to arrest liquor flow in the state due to faulty implementation of the prohibition law, police-mafia nexus and sought its review. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav described the recent hooch tragedies as “organised killings” and asked if it was not true that liquor was being supplied through police stations. “What is the result of thousands of meetings to review the impact of prohibition when this is the ground reality? Under whose patronage is the liquor mafia getting by so emboldened,” he asked through a tweet. Congress MLC and spokesman Premchandra Mishra, too, has been questioning the policy. “It is no more time to review prohibition. The time has come to have a rethink on it, as so many deaths have amply proved that checking smuggling is not this government’s cup of tea,” he added. However, chief minister Nitish Kumar has been trying to refute them by saying that prohibition in the state was imposed after a unanimous decision of the state legislature and that all should work to make it successful. He has also held review meetings to take stock of the situation and warned that those involved will not be spared. The issue is again likely to generate heat during the forthcoming winter session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-arrests-823-engaged-in-illicit-liquor-trade-after-hooch-deaths-climb-to-41-101636659100034.html
12-11-2021||India||Cases under SC/ST act: Dalits continue to face discrimination in Karnataka||It was the first day after his college reopened after the Covid-induced lockdown and 21-year-old Dilip Kumar decided to stop at Sri Anjaneya temple near Doddabalapura on the outskirts of Bengaluru city before heading to his college on October 31. His mobile phone rang as he was offering prayers and the priest asked him to get out of the temple. He obliged, but when he returned after taking a call outside, he saw a temple official, Prakash, using a phone inside the temple. When Kumar questioned Prakash, a barrage of abuse followed, and he was thrashed at the temple office. Muni Anjinappa, a Dalit leader of the Praja Vimochana Chaluvali who has been helping Kumar with the case, said that what followed the abuses was more brutal. “First of all, the abuses were caste-related, and they kept asking who he (Kumar) was to question Prakash. Then seven people dragged this young man to the temple office. They hit him and even gagged him using a piece of cloth. He is still undergoing treatment,” said Anjinappa. So far, two people have been arrested in the case. Anjinappa said that they will continue their protest until all suspects are behind the bar. Police said they were trying to track the remaining five accused in the case. Assault on Kumar was the third reported case in a over month where a Dalit man was punished for entering a temple. On September 14, a 24-year-old Dalit man was forced to offer a feast worth ₹11,000 allegedly as a punishment for entering a temple at a village in north Karnataka’s Koppal district. According to a senior district police officer, after a theft was reported in the village temple a few months ago, the temple’s priests restricted entry only to themselves. The Dalit man had taken a vow to conduct some prayers in the temple. On September 14, he entered the temple for prayers. When the priests came to know about it the next day, they demanded that he make amends by offering a feast. In this case, Karatagi police filed a suo motu case against eight people —the priest, Revanayyaswamy, Shekharappa, Sharanappa, Prashant, Basavaraj, Durgesh, and Kadappa Nayak—under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015 and sections 504, 149 of the Indian Penal Code, after protests from a local organisation. All suspects got bail soon after arrests. In another incident on September 4, parents of a Dalit boy were fined ₹23,000 after their 2-year-old son entered a Hanuman temple on his birthday at Miyapura village near Hanumasagar in Koppal district. According to people aware of the incident, Dalits in the village are not allowed inside the temples and they only pray from outside. In this case, however, no complaint was filed as after a mediation meeting held by police, the temple authorities did not pursue the incident following an apology by the Dalit family. “No case was registered,” said a local police officer, who was not willing to be identified as he was not authorised to speak to media. The government is yet to release data on the SC/ST population in the state. However leaked documents from the caste census in the state claims that SC/ST population constitutes the largest community in the state. Dalit activists in the state said that such incidents are being reported in urban and rural areas of Karnataka. “Generally such atrocities are associated in the rural parts of the state. But if you look at the recent cases, they are reported around Bengaluru, the so called IT capital of the country,” said Mohanraj M, a Dalit activist. Activists also say that these are the incidents that have been reported but there are several unreported cases across the state, which show that discrimination against Dalits is rampant in the educationally advanced state of Karnataka. “In this August, a Dalit boy, around 9-year-old, was pushed by a temple trustee and he broke his leg. The incident happened in a village in Devanahalli, not too far from the international airport. His crime was that he went to get prasada (food offering) during a temple festival. The case didn’t come out for weeks because the family was scared. It was only after we interfered an FIR was registered. So, you can imagine, how many more such unreported cases there are,” said Anjinappa. The incidents of atrocities against Dalits in the state are not just limited to temple entry. On June 10, two Dalit men attempted suicide after they were denied haircuts by people from upper castes in Koppal district. Humiliated and assaulted for asking for a haircut, the two Dalit siblings had consumed pesticides, activists said. Both men are out of danger now. But, police have not taken action against the upper castes, who discriminated against them. Sanna Hanumantha, a Dalit activist in the district, said the brothers were humiliated by the villagers twice. “Two days before the attack, they had approached the barbers for a haircut, but they were turned back. The barbers told the brothers that they will not cut the hair of the lower caste people. The villagers also warned the Dalit men against entering the upper-caste area,” said Hanumantha. According to him, the men from the Dalit community used to travel to the town 4 km away for a haircut. “Since there was a lockdown in effect, they were not able to travel. So, they requested the barbers again, but they didn’t budge. The two men felt humiliated after they were abused the second time they went for the hair and consumed pesticide,” he said. Activists in the district said that this was one of the many instances of caste discrimination in Koppal. “If I have to get a haircut, I will have to go to the town because in the village the upper caste won’t let us get the hair cut in the barbershop. Similarly, we are not allowed inside the restaurants. You will find this in every village in Koppal,” said Nilakanda S, a Dalit activist from Koppal. Nilakanda, who is a graduate in computer science, says that for job opportunities to drinking water, the Dalits have to struggle in this rural part of the state. “We have problems in even getting borewells dug or getting water connection,” he alleged. Even the state’s track record in investigating atrocities against SC/STs has been poor. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the conviction rate in cases registered under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act is just 4.6%. In 2020, including the cases from previous years, only 22 convictions were reported in the state, while the number of acquittals stood at 353. In 2019, the conviction rate was 3.8%. In comparison with the neighbouring states, the conviction rate in cases of atrocities against SC/STs in Karnataka has been poor. While neighbouring Andhra Pradesh recorded a conviction rate of 10% and Tamil Nadu 25.2%, the conviction rate in Karnataka was 4.6%. Karnataka has been reporting over 1,000 cases of Dalit atrocities every year. According to NCRB data, 1,325 cases of atrocities against SC/STs were registered in 2018. In 2019 and 2020, these numbers stood at 1,504 and 1,398. The data also showed that among the states, Karnataka transferred cases related to SC/ST atrocities to another state or agency. The state transferred 41 cases registered under SC/ST Act to different agencies for investigation in 2020. An ADGP rank officer who didn’t want to be named claimed that that out-of-court settlements and false cases are some of the reasons for the low conviction rate. He said that special officers are being designated to investigate the cases of discrimination against Dalits. Reacting to incidents of atrocities against Dalits in the state, the head of SC/ST commission and BJP legislator Nehru Olankar said, “We are aware of these incidents and the police are taking strict action in these cases. In all incidents, police have registered cases and we want to assure people that action will be taken if such discrimination takes place in any part of the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-under-sc-st-act-dalits-continue-to-face-discrimination-in-karnataka-101636657242456.html
12-11-2021||India||No new Covid variant detected in Bengaluru, says health secretary||Karnataka health secretary D. Randeep said on Thursday that no new variant of Covid-19 has been detected in Bengaluru.“No new variant of Covid-19 has been detected in Bengaluru recently. The rise in the number of deaths in the could be due to late reporting of deaths by some hospitals,” Randeep said.Karnataka has reported 286 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 7 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 2,991,142 and toll to 38,138, the health department said on Thursday.The day also saw 289 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 29,44,958.Out of 286 cases reported on Thursday, 169 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 171 discharges and 3 deaths.Total number of active cases in the state is at 8,017.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.25 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.44 per cent.Out of 7 deaths reported on Thursday, 3 are from Bengaluru Urban; and one each from Kodagu, Koppala, Mysuru and Tumakuru.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 169, Hassan 23,Dakshina Kannada 17, Uttara Kannada 16, Tumakuru 12, Mysuru 11, followed by others.Cumulatively a total of 50.18 million samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 111,190 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-variant-detected-in-bengaluru-says-health-secretary-101636657241285.html
12-11-2021||India||New aerospace, defence policy in state by year-end: Karnataka minister||Large and medium Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani has said that Karnataka will have a new aerospace and defence policy by this year-end.Making a strong pitch for investments in the sector, he said the government is planning to offer enhanced incentives to MSMEs to provide a level playing field and make them competitive as part of the new aerospace and defence policy.Though Karnataka’s aerospace and defence policy is valid until 2023, the state government is pushing for an updated policy.The new policy will be introduced as part of the government’s “proactive approach to update our policy to provide a key push for this important sector,” Nirani was quoted as saying by his office, at the Lockheed Martin’s 8th Annual India Suppliers Conference late on Wednesday.He also said that the government is also in the process of setting up a 1,200-acre Defence and Aerospace park in Devanahalli, which may also be officially announced at the end of December.The new policy would concentrate on drawing original equipment manufacturers (OEM) to the state and the government is looking to create clusters not only in Bengaluru but other parts of the state like Tumkuru, where the helicopter complex under Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) is coming up, Chamarajnagar and even Chitradurga which is turning into an important hub for units of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).Noting that Karnataka is already leading the realm when it comes to a strong industrial base, Nirani said, “Our Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) is approximately ₹17 lakh crore and accounts for the highest total exports among all states in India.” Elaborating further on Karnataka’s predominant position in the Defence and Aerospace sector, the minister said 25 per cent of India’s aircraft and spacecraft industry is based in Karnataka.“More than 67 per cent of all aircraft and helicopters production for Defence services is done in Karnataka and it contributes to 65 per cent of the country’s aerospace related exports. We are home to more than 2000 Small & micro enterprises along with 70 per cent of India’s supplier base which execute subcontracting work for the Defence PSUs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-aerospace-defence-policy-in-state-by-year-end-karnataka-minister-101636657240004.html
12-11-2021||India||PM asked me not to worry about Bitcoin case, Bommai after meeting Modi||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had conveyed to him not to worry about the Bitcoin scandal and instead focus on developmental work in the state.“When I tried to speak to him about the issue, he (PM) said don’t break your head over it. You (Bommai) work honestly and with dedication for the people and everything will be alright,” Bommai said, sharing what Modi had told the chief minister.The statements come even as the allegations and counter allegations over the Bitcoin scandal continue to rage on in the southern state where the Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress have locked horns over the alleged irregularities.Bommai had met the PM on Thursday after the chief minister made a surprise visit to the capital on Wednesday afternoon.There have been at least three letters written to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) by various individuals and some anonymously, adding to speculation that the complaints were being made from within the party.However, the letters could not be independently verified.The mode of writing anonymous letters from within the BJP to the party high command is not unusual as former chief minister BS Yediyurappa was at the receiving end of such complaints during his turbulent tenure between 2019 and July 2021.The letter, that has gone viral on social media, has been written by a Sachin Mamane who names Congress MLA, NA Harris, and his two sons, Loganath, an influential businessman from Bengaluru, revenue minister R Ashok and several others who are allegedly part of a huge Bitcoin racket to launder ill-gotten money. The veracity of this letter could not be verified independently.Congress state president DK Shivakumar on Thursday said that if the BJP did not have anything to hide, why is the party not raising the issue that the names of officials and even Congress legislators are mentioned in the letter.“They (BJP and Bommai) are speaking on specific points but are leaving out most of the details,” Shivakumar said.He added that he is not sure of the letter or its contents but the entire episode must be investigated.The BJP has called the Congress ‘fabricators’ misleading the people over the alleged scam.A hacker named Srikrishna or Sriki is at the heart of the entire scandal.Bommai had earlier said that Sriki had been arrested in a drug-related case in 2018 when Siddaramaiah was the chief minister, hinting that the latter was involved in the case and trying to deflect the issue by smearing the name of the former.Siddaramaiah said that he had not mentioned Bommai’s name anywhere but the evasive behaviour of the chief minister was raising suspicion.Narayanswamy of the BJP on Thursday said that Siddaramaiah was trying to build the entire case on lies. “There have been several sessions of the legislature. They do not have the capability to present even a shred of evidence in the house,” Narayanswamy said.Bommai said he met home minister Amit Shah on Thursday. Whether Shah asked about the cryptocurrency case, he said, “I could not discuss much with him as the interaction was brief. The issue of Bitcoin did not come up during the interaction. The home minister has all the central agencies and would have all the information regarding the issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmasked-me-not-to-worry-about-bitcoin-case-bommai-after-meeting-modi-101636656519935.html
12-11-2021||India||TRS, BJP in political slugfest over paddy procurement||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the Bharatiya Janata Party are at loggerheads over procurement of paddy from farmers in the state this season, which is snowballing into a major controversy. For the last few days, farmers have been queuing up before the procurement centres set up by the state government to sell their paddy. With Telangana recording 10.6 million tonnes of paddy production this season, heavy loads of the produce have been flooding the market, making it difficult for the authorities to procure the grain at the centres. The authorities are issuing tokens to the farmers to bring their produce to the procurement centres at the prescribed time, instead of waiting there for days together. The Telangana government has been demanding that the Centre procure the entire paddy produced during the season through Food Corporation of India, but the Centre has refused to buy more than the prescribed limit of 6 million tonnes. This has led to a slugfest between the TRS and the BJP in the state. On Thursday, the state BJP organised protest demonstrations before all the district collectorates, demanding that the state government procure the paddy from farmers completely, instead of blaming it on the Centre. “The Centre has made it clear that it would purchase 60 lakh tonnes. It is the responsibility of the state to procure the remaining quantity,” state BJP president Bandi Sanjay. He reminded that it was chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao who had promised the farmers that the state would purchase every grain of paddy through procurement centres. The TRS, too, announced a counter-agitation programme, following a call given by the chief minister on Monday. The party leaders and cadre would stage demonstrations and dharnas all over the state on Friday, demanding that the Centre purchase the entire quantity of paddy produced this season. “The Centre is procuring 100 per cent paddy from Punjab to appease the agitating farmers there. Why is it not doing it in Telangana? Moreover, the Centre has also refused to buy even a single kg of rice from Telangana during the Rabi season and got a written commitment from us to this effect,” KCR pointed out. He demanded that the BJP leaders bring pressure on the Centre to procure all the paddy produced in the state. Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Palla Rajeshwar Reddy said the BJP’s dharnas were meaningless. He said the state government had opened 3,550 procurement centres across the state and would open more in the next few days. “Paddy procurement has been going on at a brisk pace at all the centres and money is being deposited in the accounts of the farmers. So far, the government has spent ₹1,000 crore on paddy procurement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-bjp-in-political-slugfest-over-paddy-procurement-101636656402445.html
12-11-2021||India||Salman Khurshid’s remark on Hindutva in book sparks row||A controversy erupted on Thursday over former Union minister Salman Khurshid’s alleged comparison of Hindutva to Islamic terror with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) criticising the Congress leader.In his book Sunrise over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times, which was released on Wednesday, Khurshid referred to Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints “being pushed aside by robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like ISIS and Boko Haram of recent years.”The Congress distanced itself from Khurshid’s comment.Senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad tweeted that comparing Hindutva to Jihadist Islam was an exaggeration.“In Mr. Salman Khurshid’s new book, we may not agree with Hindutva as a political ideology distinct from composite culture of Hinduism, but comparing Hindutva with ISIS and Jihadist Islam is factually wrong and an exaggeration,” he said.The BJP lashed out at Khurshid. Union minister Pralhad Joshi said, “Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are desperately trying to appease Hindus by touring temples. I would like to ask them- when and what action will they take against Salman Khurshid who have insulted the beliefs of Hindus?” Party spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the Congress was “weaving a web” against Hindus. “All this happens at the behest of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi. Earlier the term Hindu terrorism was invented in the Congress office,” he told reporters.The Shiv Sena, which runs a coalition government with the Congress in Maharashtra, also condemned the book.Khurshid defended himself.“I have not called these guys terrorists, I have just said they are similar in distorting religion. What Hindutva has done, it has pushed aside Sanatan Dharma and Hinduism and it has taken over a robust, aggressive position similar to Boko Haram and those other guys,” he said.On Azad’s remarks, he said, “Exaggeration means it is somewhat like them. That’s what he feels. Distortion is done by Boko Haram and distortion is also done by Hindutva. I said we disagree with Hindutva, and so I think Azad and I are on the same side.” A Delhi-based lawyer also filed a complaint with Delhi Police seeking registration of FIR against Khurshid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salman-khurshid-s-remark-on-hindutva-in-book-sparks-row-101636656401247.html
12-11-2021||India||‘There can’t be cover up’: Kerala high court to govt in ‘antique dealer’ fraud case||“There cannot be a cover up,” Kerala High Court said to the state government on Thursday with regard to the ongoing investigation into self-styled antique dealer Monson Mavunkal’s activities and his alleged links to senior police officers.“The concern of the court is that there cannot be any cover up. To that extent the court will be watching the investigation. I want a proper investigation. There should be no cover up,” Justice Devan Ramachandran said.The high court said that “prima facie there appears to be something much more than what meets the eye” and though an investigation was going on, the question was whether agencies from outside the state should also be brought in due to the allegations against senior police officials, one of whom according to news reports has been suspended. It directed that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) be made a party in the matter after the state government said it was not opposed to the same.The Director General of Prosecution, appearing for the state and the police, said he has not received any information regarding suspension of any officer, but he saw in news reports that Inspector General of Police (IG) G Lakshman has been suspended for allegedly aiding Mavunkal.The court was hearing a plea by the antiques dealer’s former driver-cum-mechanic alleging harassment by his former employer and some police officers close to him after he made certain disclosures to police in connection with a cheating case against Mavunkal.The court, during the hearing, questioned the state police as to why no action was taken under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972 against Mavunkal after former DGP Loknath Behera raised doubts regarding genuineness of the artistic treasures and antiques at the controversial antique dealer’s house subsequent to his visit there.“He (Mavunkal) was allowed to run free all this time and now you have POCSO and rape cases against him. Proper policing would have prevented this,” Justice Devan Ramachandran said to the police.The court said action under the Antiquities Act back in 2019 after Behera’s visit to Mavunkal’s house would have put a stop to his various allegedly illegal activities.The court also noted that no action was taken against Mavunkal even after an intelligence report of January last year said that he was frequently going abroad for dealing in antiquities even though he had no licence for the same.“These things certainly ought to have alerted the police. If it were some ordinary citizen, he would have been jailed long back. But he (Mavunkal) was allowed to run free and he even had access to the office of then State Police Chief (SPC),” the court observed.In response to the court’s query as to who invited Behera and Additional Director General of Police (HQ) Manoj Abraham to the house of Mavunkal, the state said that they were invited there by a woman -- Anitha Pullayil -- who claimed to be the Global Coordinator of the Women’s Wing of Pravasi Malayali Federation, an organisation which purportedly worked for the interests of Indians abroad.The state also said that just because someone claimed to have antiques, action under the Antiquities Act cannot be taken as no one believed Mavunkal’s claims.The court, however, rejected this contention saying a responsible police officer should have taken action when someone was making such claims -- like possessing ‘Tipu’s throne’ or ‘Moses staff’. It listed the matter on November 19, giving time to the petitioner to implead the ED as a party and for filing an additional affidavit.The court had earlier also raised questions related to Mavunkal’s alleged links with senior police officials in the state.State Police Chief Anil Kant had earlier filed an affidavit in court stating that former state police chief Behera’s visit to Mavunkal’s residence in May 2019 was “unscheduled” and purely out of interest to look at the items of historical importance that the latter claimed to possess and not to give him any undue mileage in society.At the time Behera visited Mavunkal’s residence on May 11, 2019, the latter was known in social media and the public as a doctor and philanthropist and there was no intelligence report available about the dubious nature of the articles in his house, the SPC had said in the affidavit.The affidavit was filed in response to the high court’s query to Kant on October 5 as to whether he trusts the police under his command to carry out a proper investigation into the complaints against Mavunkal when allegations are “flying thick and high” against police officers of various ranks in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-can-t-be-cover-up-kerala-high-court-to-govt-in-antique-dealer-fraud-case-101636656399941.html
12-11-2021||India||Winter session: Opposition looks to firm strategy||After fiery speeches by various Trinamool Congress leaders against the Congress, and the latter’s barbs aimed at Mamata Banerjee’s party, the two opposition parties now face the task of coordinating their strategies in the coming winter session of Parliament.In the last session, the Congress (which has 52 members in the Lok Sabha and 34 in the Rajya Sabha)), the TMC (22 in the Lok Sabha and 12 in the RS) , and other opposition parties were on the same page on most of the issues and their united protests over farm laws led to a near-washout of the monsoon session.A divided Opposition, in the past, had come handy for the government to pass key bills on Triple Talaq, bifurcation of J&K and scrapping of Article 370 in the Upper House, where the Bharatiya-Janata Party led NDA still doesn’t have the majority.The winter session of Parliament is scheduled from November 29 to December 23.But in the last two months, the exodus from the Congress to the Trinamool and the latter’s public criticism of the former has rattled even the Congress’ central leadership, according to two senior Congress leaders.In September, West Bengal chief minister, in one of her poll rallies, said, “The Congress is scared. They sometimes manage you (BJP) but you cannot manage Mamata Banerjee. TMC will work across the country even as the Congress couldn’t.”A month later, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala reacted to Banerjee’s visit to Goa, where elections are due early next year, and said, “Politics is not tourism. In a democracy, any party can contest anywhere but are they (TMC) helping BJP in Goa?”“It will not be an easy job to bring all Opposition parties on the same page this time. But we are hopeful that the larger issue of tackling the BJP in parliament might prove to be a key factor,” said a senior Congress leader.A Trinamool floor leader, when asked about floor coordination, quipped, “There’s lots of time left (to work things out).”Top opposition leaders are expected to meet ahead of the session to discuss the floor management plan apart from broader issues.But while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has already announced that his party wants to debate the Rafale deal and the Pegasus spyware controversy, some opposition parties might not be interested in the Rafale issue.“Rafale is an old issue... We must look now to fresh matters of national importance,” said a senior opposition MP, who doesn’t belong to the Congress.Behind the scenes, communication channels are open and buzzing between the TMC and the Congress, according to according to leaders of both parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/winter-session-opposition-looks-to-firm-strategy-101636656219183.html
12-11-2021||India||Landslide risk not enough reason to halt Char Dham project: Centre to SC||he risk of landslides cannot deter the army from giving up on the construction of border roads, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Thursday, defending its application to construct all-weather roads with 10 metre width as part of its Char Dham project in Uttarakhand. Some of these roads, the Centre has said, are strategically important ones leading to the Indo-China border.The Court was hearing two applications by separate departments of the Union government, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) for modifying an earlier top court order of September 2020 that did not allow roads with a width higher than 5.5 metre as part of the Char Dham project. That order relied on a 2018 circular of MoRTH providing for roads in hilly regions to be 5.5m wide. However, another MoRTH circular in December 2020 allowed 7m width for feeder roads on the India-China border.Appearing for the Centre in the matter on which orders were reserved by the Court on Thursday, Attorney General KK Venugopal presented the concerns of the Indian Army, the reason why the Centre sought modification of road width, and the steps taken by government to mitigate the risk of landslides in the stretches where the expansion is sought.“Landslides are a reality across the country and we have to live with it. The question is will the army drop its hands and say landslides will take place and so will give up on developing mountain roads. No army in the world will say that. If we have to live with it, we have to use all the technology at our command to mitigate it,” Venugopal said.Parts of Uttarakhand witnessed landslides caused by extreme rainfall last month. With the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change saying in a recent report that instances of extreme weather events will increase as a result of the climate crisis, and with rampant development in the hill state cutting hill sides and removing original vegetation, experts say the risk of landslides has increased.The Centre’s submissions came a day after the Court enquired about steps taken by the Union government to address the risk posed due to landslides in landslide prone zones on the three strategic roads under consideration of the court.Informing the court of the mitigation measures undertaken by the Centre, the country’s top law officer said that on September 15, 2020, a week after the order on maintaining 5.5m width, the government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Geological Survey of India (GSI) for carrying out geological studies in the region on which work had commenced. He further stated that in January, another MoU was entered with Defence Geo-Informatics Research Establishment, a premier lab of DRDO, for preparing sustainable landslide mitigation measures for the national highways. In addition, the Tehri Hydroelectric Development Corporation (THDC) has been hired as project consultant to cater to needs of slope restoration during the expansion.The bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath found these MoUs to be recent and said, “Your MoUs with GSI, THDC and DRDO are as late as January while the work on the project started much earlier. Perhaps now that the government is undertaking this study to identify vulnerable spots, it should precede construction.”The plea of the Centre was opposed by NGO Citizens for Green Doon on whose plea the road width was restricted to 5.5m. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves reiterated that the fragile ecosystem of Himalayas cannot tolerate such wide roads and there are consequences that come with such expansion, landslides being one of them.The Court directed Gonsalves to submit suggestions on what precautions are to be observed by Centre, in the event the court agrees to accept the stand of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/landslide-risk-not-enough-reason-to-halt-char-dham-project-centre-to-sc-101636656041442.html
12-11-2021||India||Normal life hit as rains lash parts of Andhra||Heavy rains lashed south-coastal Andhra Pradesh and parts of Rayalaseema on Thursday due to depression in Bay of Bengal, coupled with south-east monsoon, throwing normal life out of gear.The officials of the meteorological department warned of the formation of another low-pressure in Bay of Bengal which might turn into a cyclonic storm that might make a landfall in the southern parts of the country by November 17.“Another low-pressure area in Bay of Bengal could bring more showers in south coastal districts on November 17. So, people living in low-lying areas and the farming community have to be cautious,” said chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, in a video conference with the officials. He instructed that the officials monitor the flood situation from time to time.State disaster management authority (SDMA), who attended an emergency meeting convened by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy said surface winds with a speed of 60-70 km per hour along with heavy rains wreaked havoc in Nellore, Prakasam, Chittoor and Kadapa districts since Thursday morning. The Nellore district administration announced a holiday for schools and colleges on Thursday and Friday.The National Disaster Response Force said that in order to tackle the heavy rains and their consequences. its 18 self-contained teams have been deployed in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry in consultation with state authorities. Of these 18 teams, 11 are deployed in Tamil Nadu, two in Puducherry and five in Andhra Pradesh The State Disaster Management Authority Commissioner K Kanna Babu said in a press release that one NDRF and two SDRF teams have been deployed in Chittoor and an NDRF team in SPS Nellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/normal-life-hit-as-rains-lash-parts-of-andhra-pradesh-101636655800454.html
12-11-2021||India||Legal notices served as Malik, Fadnavis continue to lock horns||In yet another day of accusations and countercharges, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Thursday raised questions over the large haul of drugs seized from Gujarat in the recent weeks and said that Gujarat’s role in the country’s illegal narcotics supply chain should be investigated by central agencies.Later in the day, Malik’s daughter, Nilofer Khan, sent a legal notice to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and his wife Amruta, seeking an apology from them for claiming that her husband, Sameer, had possessed drugs. This was soon followed by Amruta Fadnavis sending a legal notice to Malik demanding deletion of tweets pertaining to Fadnavis’ alleged connections with drug dealers, within 48 hours.Since Monday, Fadnavis and Malik have traded accusations of wrongdoing. On Thursday, Malik raised questions over the recent seizure of drugs worth ₹313 crore in Devbhumi Dwarka, and asked if “a drug game (racket)” was “being run from Gujarat”.“The Gujarat drug connection needs to be exposed and those involved need to be brought to justice. With another seizure of drug consignment at Dwarka in Gujarat on Wednesday, it has been established that drug consignments come to Gujarat via sea route and are distributed in the country,” Malik said.Gujarat minister Kiritsinh Rana said: “The law is equal for everyone and those who have done anything wrong will be punished,” Rana said. Meanwhile, the legal notice sent by Malik’s daughter to Fadnavis reads, “The charge sheet filed by the Narcotics Control Bureau does not support even a single allegation levied by you... But from which source you obtained such false, frivolous and baseless report is better known to you.” It adds: “That my client is demanding damages amounting to ₹5 crore on account of mental torture, agony, financial loss and injury inflicted to his reputation and honour due to the statements which you made in the news telecast, viz. ABP News.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/legal-notices-served-as-malik-fadnavis-continue-to-lock-horns-101636655799820.html
12-11-2021||India||Chennai deluge: Stories of hardship come flooding back||Chennai: For five days, M Mahendran’s life has been hell.The 46-year-old entrepreneur and father of two has not seen the outside of his independent home in Madipakkam, one of Chennai’s worst-inundated localities, since torrential showers began on Sunday.On Monday morning, he let out a shriek when he spotted a snake that lay still on the window of the room where his seven-year old son was attending online classes in – the reptile having floated in on the standing water gathering outside on the road.Three days later, the Mahendran family is marooned in one room of their home, the water level only rising. “There is four feet of water outside our home, and it has entered the living room. I only pray it doesn’t enter the one room we are now in,” said Mahendran over the phone. These rain- battered scenes are not unfamiliar to Chennai, particularly after the devastation of the 2015 floods that killed 400 people, and thus Mahendran has been preparing. “I have the habit of stocking up because I have two sons who are five and seven, and I didn’t want to take a chance. So we have been able to manage for now but I don’t know how many days we will have to remain like this.” Across Chennai on Thursday, Mahendran’s plight was echoed by thousands of citizens. Families either trapped inside their homes because the streets outside are waterlogged, or on higher floors or rooftops because the water entered their homes, carrying only their identity cards and a few spare clothes. Trapped inside, across a metropolitan city where the civic infrastructure is collapsing under pressure, many were even seen using ropes to lower buckets from higher floors to the ground, where volunteers in boats passed on essentials like milk, bread packets, cooked food and water cans. On the streets of the metropolis, inflated rescue boats were as visible as wheeled vehicles, deployed across the city in Madhavaram, Madippakkam, Velachery, T Nagar, Peravallur, Perambur and Pattalam. With many just stranded where they were, unable to step out, only 40 of 160 government shelters set up in the city were occupied on Thursday. In areas like Pattalam in central Chennai, the continued rainfall only added to the sheets of water stagnating for the past four days. This, locals said, had affected not only homes but businesses too. B Rama, who runs a grocery shop said, “We shut shop on Sunday and we haven’t been able to go back. All our rice stock has submerged.” Rama said that there had also been no electricity for the past four days, and therefore for any supplies, people were having to step out, braving the weather. “Women here are walking through chest-deep water,” said B Rama who has a rice shop in Pattalam. Power supply to more than 60,000 houses across the city were suspended as a safety measure in Chennai, electricity minister Senthil Balaji told reporters on Thursday. But this also affected water supply in tanks. Ram Mohan, a resident of Madhavaram in north Chennai, where almost every road is submerged, said, “We have been stuck at home since Sunday and now they have cut off power too. The rain water has mixed with sewage and garbage. So not only are we immobile until the waters recede but we don’t know what infections this would lead to,” he said. And yet, even as parts of Chennai struggled to deal with the crisis, some tried to keep the cheer, albeit with a little government help, and when that wasn’t possible, helped each other. With early November being wedding season, vernacular television news showed visuals of the fire department using a boat to take back a wedding couple and their guests from a submerged marriage hall to their home in T Nagar.In Perambur, families living in a high-rise apartment got together to cook meals for their less fortunate neighbours. “Most of them are slums so they have moved to government shelters,” said a resident Narendra Jain. “We have all stocked up when the rains subsided on Monday and Tuesday and we are safe indoors. So starting today we decided to cook for about poor 500 families who live next to us and are really struggling in four feet deep water.” In Velachery, the lessons from 2015 brought a strange sight on Thursday, with rows of vehicles parked atop a flyover. Velachery, residents said, was low lying, and had seen much damage to life and property six years ago. “The 2015 floods are so fresh in everyone’s minds that nobody wants to take a risk. Most of the cars on the flyover will have a registration starting with the same series because that was the series that came out after the 2015 floods when many of these people lost their cars,” said local resident E Sunalini. Sunalini herself was marooned back in 2015 in Jafferkhanpet where she recalled water was 12-feet high. People then were swimming in these localities to warn their neighbours or pass any information. The following year Sunalini moved to Velachery but has been lucky thus far -- her street has not flooded. “The storm water drains built here recently are making a lot of difference but the surrounding areas are still heavily water logged.” Back in Madipakkam, four kilometers away from Velachery, Mahendran has been desperately trying to find a way out. Outside his window, where the snake once was, civic body workers have been using motor pumps to drain the water. “But even when they do, the water returns in half an hour,” said Mahendran. For now, he is waiting, and praying that the worst is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-deluge-stories-of-hardship-come-flooding-back-101636655568175.html
12-11-2021||India||COP26: Two new draft texts on climate finance published||Two new draft texts on setting a new collective quantified climate finance goal and long term finance were published on Thursday, which will be of priority to India and other developing countries. There are many bracketed sections and options which are yet to be agreed upon as on Thursday afternoon.The draft on a new quantified goal for post-2025 suggests setting a new collective finance from a floor of $100 billion per year in the context of meaningful mitigation actions and transparency of implementation and taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries. Alternately, it suggests parties will define an annual mobilisation goal in the form of an ambitious figure, taking into account the needs and priorities of developing countries as expressed in NDCs. On long term finance, there are two sections that could be of importance to developing countries -- coming up with a multilaterally agreed definition on climate finance, and establishing a measurement and tracking platform to be maintained by the secretariat.“The thing to be careful of here is that most of the points are bracketed and are still being debated. So, these are not final and there is a good chance that these will remain provisional even after COP26,” said Arjun Dutt, Programme Lead at Council on Energy, Environment and Water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26two-new-draft-texts-on-climate-finance-published-101636655559823.html
12-11-2021||India||Tripura violence: SC to hear plea challenging UAPA against journalist, lawyers||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear a petition of a journalist and two advocates against Tripura Police’s decision to book them under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for an alleged report on the recent violence in the case. The court, however, is yet to give a date for the hearing. In their petition, the journalist and the advocates alleged that the police move was an attempt to “monopolise the flow of information” by the state. “If the quest for truth and reporting thereof itself is criminalised, then the victim in the process is the idea of justice,” they said. Appearing for the petitioners, advocate Prashant Bhushan said that the two lawyers and the scribe who had gone there on a fact finding mission have been proceeded against by the Tripura Police under the UAPA for their social media posts, and an FIR has been lodged and a notice under the CrPC has been issued to them.“Why did they not go to the high court? You go before the high court,” the bench led by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana observed initially and later agreed to consider listing the plea after the lawyer said that besides seeking relief of quashing of the FIR, the plea also challenged the constitutional validity of some UAPA provisions. Meanwhile, the top court said that no political party should be prevented from campaigning and pursuing its electoral rights in the local body polls. The court made the observations while directing the Tripura government to make all arrangements to maintain law and order for unimpeded right of political participation in the municipal elections. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Surya Kant and Vikram Nath also issued notice to the state government on the plea of Trinamool Congress (TMC) party and its Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev seeking security to its workers and representatives alleging wide scale violence on the party workers during the upcoming local body polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-violence-sc-to-hear-plea-challenging-uapa-against-journalist-lawyers-101636655320462.html
12-11-2021||India||Rescue personnel help Chennai stay afloat||At 7am on Thursday, Tamil Nadu Police inspector E Rajeshwari walked into the TP Chatram police station in Chennai, keenly aware that the day ahead was going to be tough. City roads were already marooned by overnight showers and panicked residents in low-lying areas were calling out for help as water levels rose.The first task for the police team was to remove a large tree that had been felled by strong winds and was blocking a road. “We were working on removing the big tree when I received information about a man who had fallen unconscious in a nearby cemetery,” said Rajeshwari.Within minutes, the 53-year-old woman, along with a constable, was speeding to the spot on a two-wheeler, parting swirling sheets of water. When they reached the spot, they found the man lying unconscious on the ground.“His whole body was freezing. He was curled up on the pavement. But when we tried to move him there was a small gasp of breath,” she said. They called the state ambulance service on the 108 helpline, but couldn’t afford to lose time, and hailed an autorickshaw .Rajeshwari hoisted the 30- year old man on her shoulders, and waded through knee-deep water to place him inside the vehicle with two other people. A video of her heroics went viral on social media and was tweeted even by chief minister MK Stalin.The man was Udhaya, a worker at the crematorium, who received treatment at the government Kilpauk Medical College. “I met his mother and the doctor at the hospital. They said that he is doing okay,” said Rajeshwari.She wasn’t the only one.As torrential rain pounded Chennai and Tamil Nadu districts for the fifth day, throwing normal life out of gear and submerging several neighbourhoods, a phalanx of relief and rescue workers kept the city afloat and kept its civic infrastructure from completely collapsing.On Thursday itself, nearly 18,000 personnel cut through fallen trees and used motor boats to reach people whose houses had been flooded in areas like KK Nagar, T Nagar and Velachery.Sanitation workers braved the downpour to declutter drains, collect waste from households, and remove snapped electricity wires.Rajeshwari showered praise on all her fellow workers.“It’s not just me. All police officers are doing relief work on the ground. It’s just that my video was circulated (on social media). We are mostly engaged in removing fallen trees, providing food and blankets to flood-affected people and moving them to shelters,” she said.Chennai police commissioner Shankar Jiwal praised Rajeshwari for going beyond the call of duty. “At this age, to go around with such enthusiasm inspires the younger generation to not hesitate to do anything to save a life,” Jiwal said.“It is, however, in tune with what our officers have been doing. Flooding isn’t new to Chennai so they know how to act,” Jiwal added.Apart from the police, sanitation workers from the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) worked through the day to clear garbage from drains, collect waste from households, and remove trees often wading through knee deep water, braving potholes, and hanging electricity wires.On Thursday, according to the GCC, water had stagnated in 500 locations across the city out of which they were able to clear 26 as till 2pm.Officials said that they used 46 boats to supply essentials. Authorities used motors and robotic excavators to pump out water, de-clog drains and remove trash. As civic, revenue, public works, police and fire personnel slogged to help people, Stalin said he bowed before all government workers involved in relief and rescue operations. “Your selfless services and sacrifice have removed the distress of crores of people,” he tweeted.GCC officials said they supplied 664,950 food packets to 202,000 people since Sunday, when a depression in the Bay of Bengal triggered a deluge across Tamil Nadu.“Low lying areas are still inundated,” said GCC commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi.“We closed subways as a precaution. We have requested people to avoid stepping outside their homes,” he said.Officials of the revenue and disaster management department said that 100,000 volunteers, including snake catchers, were press into service after reports that snakes had entered many flooded homes. The government also appointed an officer for each of the city’s 15 zones to lead relief operations.Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management KSSR Ramachandran said that 14 NDRF teams are on the ground along with 4 SDRF teams to help with relief work across the state. “Since rains have decreased now, efforts to drain out water is being carried out rapidly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescue-personnel-help-chennai-stay-afloat-101636655319229.html
12-11-2021||India||Developing countries dig in heels as talks reach final lap||Talks at the 26th edition of the climate change conference (COP26) in Glasgow entered the crucial final stages of negotiations, with a key grouping of developing countries, which includes India and China, raising objections against some segments of the draft proposal, decrying what they said would amount to “carbon colonialism” by rich nations.Like Minded Developing Countries (LMDC) said the draft document on the outcome of the summit – particularly its focus on the 1.5°C target for all countries -- is reinventing the terms of the 2015 Paris Agreement, which made a differentiation in climate action and ambition.“The Paris Agreement has a delicate balance which we cannot rewrite. There should be differentiation in climate action and ambition. There should also be recognition of the pre-2020 ambition gap. If we go ahead with the proposal of net-zero by 2050 for all countries, the developing world will be trapped. We do not have the technological and financial means to achieve such targets. This narrative will allow the developed world to control the world with carbon colonialism. Developing countries will be ethically and financially condemned for not complying,” said Diego Pacheco, lead negotiator of Bolivia on behalf of LMDC.Pacheco added that 60% of the carbon space was occupied by developed countries with only 18% of the world population, and that the historical responsibility of these regions in causing the climate crisis cannot be ignored.They instead proposed to the COP26 presidency that there be recognition of this historical responsibility and the limited carbon space in the final deal, and that developed countries should achieve full decarbonisation with real and immediate reduction of emissions within this decade. Developed countries are classified as Annex I nations. It also states thatIndia, on behalf of BASIC — a bloc of four countries comprising Brazil, South Africa, India and China — said the draft material lacked balance and while the mitigation section – which deals with steps on reducing emissions offered a highly “prescriptive” approach. The proposals are strong on revising the NDCs, or nationally determined contributions, by 2022, in annual ministerial roundtables and updating long-term strategies, but such an approach is not reflected in judging how climate finance is made available.“The announcements here in Glasgow are encouraging but they are far from enough. The emissions gap remains a devastating threat. The finance and adaptation gap represent a glaring injustice for the developing world. We need even more ambition in the future revised NDCs. We need pledges to be implemented. We need commitments to turn concrete. We need actions to be verified. We need to bridge the deep and real credibility gap,” UN secretary general Antonio Guterres said in a statement on Thursday.“We cannot settle for the lowest common denominator. Keeping the 1.5 goal within reach means reducing emissions globally by 45% by 2030. But the present set of NDCs — even if fully implemented — will still increase emissions by 2030,” he added.According to Third World Network, a non-profit international research and advocacy organisation focusing on North-South affairs, the developed countries were happy with the draft text on mitigation which mentioned the goal of 1.5°C.The US did not want any reference to the principle of Common But Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities with regard to the ‘carbon budget’. UK negotiator Archie Young said: “There is no consensus on many critical issues. Time is running out. We are trying to find solutions,” the representative of the COP26 presidency said. He added that new cover decision and other texts will be released overnight. The US did not respond to requests for a comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26developing-countries-dig-in-heels-as-talks-reach-final-lap-101636655080090.html
12-11-2021||India||UP sacks Kafeel Khan over Gorakhpur hospital deaths||The Uttar Pradesh government has terminated the services of Dr Kafeel Khan, the paediatrician at Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das (BRD) medical college who was controversially suspended in connection with a shocking oxygen supply-related tragedy in which 63 children died in August 2017.Principal secretary (medical education) Alok Kumar said Dr Khan was dismissed from service on the basis of the inquiry report on the death of the children at BRD Medical College four years ago. The state government sent the inquiry report to the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC), and the commission ordered the termination of Dr Khan’s services, he added. The dismissal order was issued on Thursday by the medical education department, and Kumar said that departmental action will soon be initiated against Dr Khan.Hours later, Dr Khan described the decision as “illegal”. In a tweet on Thursday afternoon, he said that the 63 children died because the government did not make payments to two oxygen suppliers, and not because of any laxity on his part. “63 kids died ‘cos the govt didn’t pay the O2 suppliers. 8 Doctors,employees got suspended -7 reinstated. inspite of getting clean chit on charges of medical negligence & corruption -I got terminated. Parents-Still awaiting Justice. Justice ? Injustice? U decide,” Dr Khan tweeted.He later posted a video in which he said the “the district magistrate, the principal secretary and the court, in its earlier order, had stated that there was no laxity on my part, nor I have indulged in corruption... Yet, I have been terminated while the main accused in the case are moving scot-free,” he further said. He added that he has “faith in the court and [will] continue to fight for justice”, pointing out that hearings in case are going on in court.Soon after news of Dr Khan’s dismissal broke, Congress general secretary and the party’s Uttar Pradesh in charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the move was inked to the BJP’s “hate agenda” against Muslims.“The dismissal of Dr Kafeel Khan by the UP government is motivated by ill-will. Motivated by hate agenda, the government is doing all this to harass them. The Congress party is with Dr Kafeel in his fight for justice,” she said.“The rule of law is followed in UP. If the government has taken a decision, there must be reasons for it. Don’t jump to conclusions,” state BJP spokesman Harish Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-sacks-kafeel-khan-over-gorakhpur-hospital-deaths-101636654780041.html
12-11-2021||India||Punjab House resolution hits out at BSF move||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Thursday passed a resolution against the Centre’s notification to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) up to 50km inside the international border even as opposition parties questioned the delay by the Congress government in moving the Supreme Court against the order.This was the last assembly session during the tenure of the present Congress government. The resolution was adopted unanimously by the state assembly, “rejecting” the Union home ministry’s October 11 order in the absence of the two members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in power at the Centre, from the House. Former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who quit the Congress last month and has backed the extension in the BSF’s operational remit, also did not attend the proceedings.All other parties, including the opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), supported the official resolution on the concluding day of the two-day special session convened after an all-party meetting resolved to oppose and reject the Union government’s notification. However, both the AAP and the SAD also questioned the delay in challenging the notification in the apex court.The Centre had amended the BSF Act to authorise the border guarding force to carry out “arrest, search and seizure” within 50km, up from the existing 15km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam.Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, moved the resolution demanding the withdrawal of the Centre’s directive.Terming the Centre’s move “an attack on the federal structure”, Randhawa said the state government will challenge the notification in the Punjab and Haryana high court.“As per the Constitution of India, maintaining law and order is the responsibility of the state government, and for this purpose, government of Punjab is fully competent. The decision of extending the jurisdiction of the BSF by the Union government is an expression of distrust towards the police and people of Punjab. This is their insult,” the resolution stated, stressing that prior consultation was needed.Citing a letter written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2012 to the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government as the Gujarat chief minister against a similar move that a separate state was being created within the state, Randhawa suggested that the House members should meet the PM over the issue.As the SAD and AAP members rose to speak on the matter, speaker Rana KP Singh and parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra said there was no need for a debate as the matter had already been discussed at length in the all-party meeting.The speaker later allowed the members to give their suggestions.Raising the issue of a delay in moving the Supreme Court against the notification, SAD member Bikram Singh Majithia said the Congress government in the state should also take a decision that the Punjab Police would not give cooperation to the BSF beyond 15km.He then hit out at Randhawa for allowing the BSF into the state by asking for their deployment in jails for security. “What purpose will the resolution serve? There have been 16 resolutions so far, but none has been implemented,” he said.While finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said he (Majithia) was trying to gain a political advantage through the issue, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said this was not one person’s fight and they (political parties) were all together in it.Congress member Navjot Singh Sidhu asked why the Akali Dal chief (Sukhbir Singh Badal) did not attend the all-party meeting on such an important issue.Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu suggested that the Punjab government should get in touch with other states such as Rajasthan, Gujarat and Jammu & Kashmir and together press for an amendment in the BSF Act to incorporate a clause regarding prior consultation with states before any such changes.SAD (Sanyukt) member Parminder Singh Dhindsa and AAP member Aman Arora asked the CM to share the details of his meeting with the PM and Union home minister Amit Shah after which the Centre issued the BSF notification.“We should have acted promptly after the MHA came out with this directive. It has been one month, but we are still discussing what needs to be done. Why has it (directive) not been challenged in the Supreme Court?” Arora asked.Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema suggested a resolution against former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh in the House for repeatedly raising the bogey of security, asking the CM what was his (Channi’s) deal with the Prime Minister and Shah on the BSF issue.Hitting back, Channi said the SAD always saw everything through the narrow prism of politics, especially the issues of utmost importance to Punjab such as devolution of more powers to states, and the transfer of Chandigarh to Punjab.“They allowed entry to the BJP and RSS in Punjab. They became the gateway through which the RSS, which has always been inimical to the interests of Punjab, managed to make inroads in the state. When the RSS and its political wing, the BJP, undermined the federal structure of the country by revoking Article 370 not only did the Akalis side with the BJP but SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal spoke in its favour,” he said.On meeting Modi and Shah, Channi said his meetings with them were a courtesy call. “The Akalis have chosen to forget very conveniently that I wrote letters to the Union government emphasising the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor, besides pleading with it repeatedly to roll back the three draconian agricultural farm laws,” he added, saying that he never asked them to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF in the state.However, the AAP and the SAD members were not satisfied with his reply. They started protesting and entered the well of the House, raising slogans against the state government, before staging symbolic walkouts, separately.The House also passed the Punjab Agricultural Produce Market (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to safeguard the interest of farmers and also annulled a law on contract farming passed by the state assembly in 2013. Earlier in October last year, the assembly passed a resolution against the Centre’s farm laws when Capt Amarinder Singh was the chief minister and also introduced three bills as an attempt to negate the Centre’s farm laws.However, the bills remained stuck with the governor as they were never sent to the President for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-house-resolution-hits-out-at-bsf-move-101636654599142.html
12-11-2021||India||How another Millennium City faces a very Bihar problem||The small town of Bihta, 30km west of Patna, has always held pride of place in Bihar’s history. It was here that Swami Sahajanand Saraswati, one of India’s most prominent farmer leaders during the freedom struggle lived and worked, setting up the Sitaram Ashram that stands to this day. It was here, in 1932, that Ramkrishna Dalmia set up a sugar factory, appointing Dr Rajendra Prasad to the board of directors. And it was in Bihta that the Indian Air Force set up a station after the 1962 war with China.
12-11-2021||India||Chennai sinking in the rain||Torrential showers for the second time in five days pounded Chennai and gale force winds forced authorities to bar incoming flights for seven hours on Thursday as thousands of residents scrambled for high ground and rescue personnel waded through knee-deep water to rescue citizens.At least 14 people have died in rain fury across Tamil Nadu since Sunday, when Chennai was battered by 210mm of rainfall, the highest single day rainfall for the month of November since 2015.In the last 24 hours, the city received 203.5mm of rain, inundating many iconic neighbourhoods, residential areas and commercial hubs in the southern city.State minister for revenue and disaster management, KKSSR Ramachandran, said two people died on Thursday in Thanjavur and Thiruvarur.The minister said Tamil Nadu received a total of 405mm of rainfall from October 1 to November 11, an excess of 56%. The other affected districts were Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur, Villupuram, Cuddalore and Karaikal.By evening, rain had abated in several parts of Chennai and officials were signalling that the worst was behind them. At 5.30pm, the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) withdrew the red alert for Chennai as the depression in the Bay of Bengal, which triggered the downpour across southern India, finally made landfall.“It will rain intermittently tonight and isolated places can see very heavy rainfall but it will slowly reduce by tomorrow (Friday),” RMC Chennai chief S Balachandran told reporters.Chennai, a city of 11 million, woke up on Thursday to streets, homes, and hospitals flooded. As water levels rose, nearly 18,000 rescue personnel cut through fallen trees and used motor boats to reach people cut off by swirling sheets of water. T Nagar, KK Nagar, West Mambalam and Velachery were submerged, as were low-lying areas near the coast.Sanitation workers braved the downpour to declutter drains, collect waste from households, and remove snapped electricity wires. Corporation officials said water had stagnated in 523 locations in the city, out of which only 68 could be cleared by the end of day. However, they were able to remove 237 out of the 240 trees that had been uprooted on Thursday.Chief minister MK Stalin hailed the rescue workers and tweeted images of them at work. “Let’s all work together to return to normalcy quickly,” he said.Yet, there was no electricity at some places in the city and residents in some areas complained that little had changed since Sunday, when shock rainfall first inundated the city. “For the last two days, civic workers have been pumping out water stagnated around our apartment but it kept coming back in half an hour. Today it’s not possible to do anything because the water is at least four-feet deep,” said V Narayanasamy, a resident of T Nagar, one of the worst affected areas.People living on ground floor in Ashok Nagar shifted out of their homes. Patients from the flooded ground floor of the government hospital in KK Nagar were moved to other blocks, hospital officials said. In some neighbourhoods, people parked their cars on top of flyovers to prevent them from getting submerged.A resident of north Chennai, Ashok Modi, said they had to survive without power for two days. “Every year, we face the same problems during November and December. We are safe for now but our life is completely paralysed until waters recede,” said Modi.Disaster management minister Ramachandran said Tamil Nadu received a total of 405mm of rainfall from October 1 to November 11, an excess of 56%.“Traditionally low lying areas are still inundated,” said Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. “We closed subways as a precaution. We have requested people to avoid stepping outside their homes.”Transport hubs shutThe Airports Authority suspended flights from the city airport between 11.15am and 6pm, though some departures were allowed. The railways said it was working “overtime” to restore services on the local train network and repairing damage caused to interstate tracks because of strong winds gusting 45 kmph, the RMC said. The Madras high court was forced to work virtually after all roads in the area were submerged.Stalin advised people to remain indoors and said free food would be provided through Amma Canteens till the flood situation improved. He claimed that the situation was under control and said officials were appointed for each ward of the Greater Chennai Municipal Corporation area to monitor the situation.The CM also constituted a panel of six ministers to assess the crop damage in delta districts, which were also pulverised by heavy rain. The National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) in a statement said 11 teams were deployed in Tamil Nadu, two in Puducherry and five in Andhra Pradesh. “We have set up a around the clock control to monitor the situation,” NDRF said.In all, 10,073 people were moved to 185 relief camps across Tamil Nadu and more than 1,000 hutments damaged. Reservoirs in Chembarambakkam, Redhills, Cholavaram, Poondi and Veeranam had reached their maximum capacity and water was being discharged from the reservoirs.Chennai collectorate announced a holiday for all schools and colleges in the city on Friday. Unlike Sunday, when the sudden deluge caught authorities unawares, officials were better prepared on Thursday with over 400 boats deployed in Chennai itself.Rainfall at this time in Tamil Nadu is not unusual but experts have warned that the climate crisis and unchecked development in low lying areas have exacerbated the problem. The climate crisis has rainfall more intense and frequent and the urbanisation of water bodies has resulted in blocking of discharge outlets, say experts.No lessons learntMoreover, the crisis underlined that only temporary patchwork was done after the 2015 tragedy, and no permanent solutions - removing encroachments on flood plains, stopping the dumping of fly ash, municipal waste and industrial effluents on river basins and unclogging decades-old storm water drains – were undertaken.“Normally Chennai receives an average rainfall of 38-40 cm in November and we have exceeded that already,” said former deputy director of the India Meteorological Department YEA Raj. “We still have 19 days to go so we may see record rainfall or not.”Independent weather expert Pradeep John said that the problem of water-logging was more due to unplanned development and blocking of water discharge systems, especially in the low lying areas close to the coast. “Despite building new drains worth crore of rupees, the problem remains and could continue,” he said.He said this November could break the record for the most rainfall received by the city. According to IMD’s data, the record is held by November 1918 with 1088 mm. “If we take cumulatively, many stations from Wednesday has crossed 200 mm rainfall in 24-hours. Only four times 1000mm has been breached by Chennai’s Nungambakkam in an entire month in 200 years,” said John.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-sinking-in-the-rain-101636654239132.html
12-11-2021||India||Lawsuit over workers’ exploitation filed in US||A lawsuit alleging sub-human working conditions and meagre wages for workers from India at a temple built, maintained and run by a prosperous and well-connected Hindu community has spread to four other US states from the first accusations that were levelled against a New Jersey temple in May. Similar wages of $1.20 an hour were paid to workers at this community’s temples in Chino Hills, a Los Angeles suburb in California; Bartlett, a Chicago suburb in Illinois; Stafford, a Houston suburb in Texas; and Lilburn, an Atlanta suburb in Georgia. The initial lawsuit was filed about the temple in Robbinsville, New Jersey, which is said to be the largest Hindu temple in the United States. The expanded lawsuit was filed in October, as first reported by the New York Times. These temples belong to an organisation called the Bochasanwasi Shri Akshar Purushottam Swaminarayan Sanstha, Inc (BAPS), which is run by members of a Hindu community called the Swaminarayan Sampradaya. The sect has 3,850 centres around the world. They have hosted and co-hosted Diwali celebrations on Capitol Hill, home to the US Congress, that have been attended by a large number of lawmakers, White House officials and Congressional aides. The New Jersey temple was raided by the FBI in a “court-authorized action” under the lawsuit filed in May by six workers by name and 200 in all. The lawsuit says that temple officials’ “actions constitute forced labour, trafficking with respect to forced labour, document servitude, conspiracy, and confiscation of immigration documents in the course of and with the intent to engage in fraud in foreign labour contracting”. The lawsuit brings claims under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act (“TVPA”) and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”), which has been used by US authorities to bust the American Mafia. The expanded lawsuit filed on October 23, alleges workers at the sect’s temples in California, Illinois, Texas and Georgia “also worked long hours for very little pay, suffering violations of their employment and civil rights”. They were paid the same $1.20 an hour, which was the rate in the US way back in 1963 and is now considerably below the federal and state minimum wages. But working hours and conditions were better — they worked eight hours a day, compared to 12 and a half hours put in by those at the New Jersey temple. They were required to work seven days a week, with one day off a month while New Jersey workers worked seven days a week with just a few days off a year. These workers, who were brought to the US on R-1 visas for those offering religious services, are mostly from marginalised communities in India. The lawsuit alleges the temples “intentionally” employed workers from the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes and temple officials “did what they could to remind these marginalised workers of their place in the social hierarchy”. One official named in the lawsuit is alleged to have called the workers “worms”. The temple organisation told US authorities these workers were coming as religious “volunteers”, the lawsuit said, adding, “In reality, however, the Plaintiffs and other R-1 workers performed solely manual — not religious — labour at the temples” and they were not volunteers. “US government officials have authorized the use of R-1 visas for stone artisans for 20 years, and federal, state and local government agencies have regularly visited and inspected all of the construction projects on which those artisans volunteered,” Paul Fishman, an attorney representing BAPS, said in an email to Associated Press. As at the New Jersey temple, workers at California, Illinois, Texas and Georgia “generally slept in a large hall or other buildings in the respective temple compounds”, the lawsuit states. Security guards were posted at the compounds, and the R-1 workers were not allowed to possess their passports. “For a time when working at the Los Angeles temple, the R-1 workers were required to live in a hotel that was walking distance from the temple, and supervisors escorted them between the Los Angeles temple and the hotel.” As in New Jersey, workers at the four additional locations were prohibited from talking to outside visitors and violation of this rule would be punished with cuts in their payment, which were meagre, to begin with, or being sent back to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lawsuit-over-workers-exploitation-filed-in-us-101636653700168.html
12-11-2021||India||CBI seeks nod to prosecute retired Allahabad HC judge||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sought prosecution sanction against Justice Shri Narayan Shukla, now retired, of the Allahabad high court in the judicial corruption scandal involving Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences, where bribes were allegedly paid to secure a favourable order by the institute.Shukla, who retired from the service in July 2020, is accused of taking a bribe for passing an order that favoured the Lucknow-based medical college, which was disbarred from admitting students by the regulator in May 2017.People familiar with the development said prosecution sanction has been sought from the Allahabad high court against Shukla so that a charge sheet can be filed soon. “The investigation has been concluded and there is sufficient evidence in the case,” said a CBI officer, requesting anonymity.The central investigative agency, after registering a First Information Report (FIR), raided Shukla’s residence in December 2019 when he was a sitting judge.He was booked under criminal conspiracy, sections of the prevention of corruption act which deal with accepting bribes, and criminal misconduct along with retired Odisha high court judge IM Quddusi, Bhagwan Prasad Yadav, and Palash Yadav of Prasad Education trust, a conduit, Bhawana Pandey and another alleged middleman Sudhir Giri.HT made efforts to reach out to retired justice SN Shukla for his comments but he could not be contacted.It is alleged that Shukla and Quddusi, who was arrested in September 2017 by CBI, conspired to accept bribes from Prasad Education Trust promising relief in their case related to debarment of their college by the Medical Council of India.Justice Quddusi was given a charge sheet by CBI in July 2019. He is currently out on bail. In September 2017 itself, the central agency launched a subsequent preliminary enquiry (PE) against Shukla.Two months later, former Chief Justice of India, Dipak Misra, ordered an investigation against Shukla on a complaint by Uttar Pradesh advocate general Raghvendra Singh alleging judicial malpractice. A three-member committee comprising then Madras high court chief justice Indira Banerjee, then Sikkim high court chief justice SK Agnihotri and Madhya Pradesh high court judge PK Jaiswal, found Shukla guilty of judicial irregularities in January 2018 after which his impeachment was recommended to the President of India.Shukla, who was a sitting judge at the Lucknow bench of Allahabad HC at the time, was debarred from entering the court premises and all the judicial and administrative work was taken away from him.Later, in July 2019, former CJI Ranjan Gogoi gave permission to CBI to file a case in the matter. Gogoi also wrote to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi recommending Shukla’s removal.CBI has alleged that Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences was debarred in May 2017 by MCI from admitting students for academic years 2017-18 and 2018-19 due to substandard facilities and non-fulfillment of required criteria along with 46 other medical colleges which were also debarred on similar grounds. The decision was challenged by Prasad Institute through a writ petition before the apex court.“Subsequently, a conspiracy was hatched and the writ petition was withdrawn with the permission of the court.“Another writ petition was filed before the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court on August 24, 2017. It was further alleged that the petition was heard on August 25, 2017 by the division bench of the court comprising Justice SN Shukla and a favourable order was passed on the same day,” CBI’s FIR states.It adds that Quddusi and BP Yadav of Prasad Trust met justice Shri Narayan Shukla on the morning of August 25, 2017, at his residence in Lucknow regarding the matter, which is when the bribe is believed to have been exchanged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-seeks-nod-of-allahabad-high-court-to-prosecute-retired-judge-101636652439844.html
12-11-2021||India||MEA urges Pak to allow visit of 1.5k pilgrims to mark Gurupurab||India on Thursday said it expects Pakistan to allow a visit of a group of 1,500 pilgrims on the occasion of Gurupurab, the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak, following the denial of permission for visits by two other groups in June.“In view of the significance of Gurupurab and sentiments associated with it, it has been decided that a jatha of around 1,500 pilgrims will visit Pakistan from November 17-26 via the Attar-Wagah integrated check post (ICP),” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing.He noted that Pakistan had denied permission for visits by Indian Sikh pilgrims twice in June this year – on the occasion of the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev and on the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh – even though both were covered under the 1974 bilateral protocol on visits to religious shrines.“We hope that the (visit by the) forthcoming jatha...does take place,” Bagchi said.Referring to the cross-border Kartarpur Corridor, which was opened in 2019 to allow Indian citizens visa-free access to the gurdwara at Kartarpur, Bagchi said movement through the corridor was suspended in March 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic.The pilgrims are scheduled to visit Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Gurdwara Panja Sahib, Gurdwara Dera Sahib, Gurdwara Nankana Sahib, Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib and Gurdwara Sachha Sauda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-urges-pakistan-to-allow-visit-of-1-5k-pilgrims-to-mark-gurupurab-101636652019711.html
12-11-2021||India||‘Illegal occupation’: India’s first response to China village in disputed region||In its first official response to a US report on China constructing a large village in a disputed region, India said on Thursday it has never accepted such “illegal occupation” of its territory and will takes steps to safeguard country’s sovereignty.The Indian side has stepped up the building of infrastructure, including roads and bridges, in border areas in wake of China’s construction activities in regions it has illegally occupied over the decades, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular news briefing.Bagchi was responding to a question on a report submitted on November 3 by the US department of defence to the Congress, which said China had built a large 100-home village in disputed territory between the Tibet Autonomous Region and Arunachal Pradesh. The development was first reported by the Indian media in January.Noting that China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along border areas, including in areas it has “illegally occupied over the decades”, Bagchi said: “India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims.”The Indian government has stepped up the creation of border infrastructure, including roads and bridges, which has provided much-needed connectivity to the population along the frontier, he said. “Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India’s security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity,” he added.The government is committed to the objective of creating infrastructure along border areas to improve the livelihood of citizens, including in Arunachal Pradesh, Bagchi said. At the same time, the government has always conveyed its strong protest to China’s activities through diplomatic means and will continue to do so.The US report on military and security developments involving China had extensively focused on the downturn in India-China relations because of the standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Tens of thousands of troops from the two sides have been engaged in a face-off since May 2020, and 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops died in a brutal clash at Galwan Valley in June last year.The report said that despite ongoing diplomatic and military dialogues to reduce tensions, China has “continued taking incremental and tactical actions to press its claims at the LAC”.In this context, the report added: “Sometime in 2020, the PRC built a large 100-home civilian village inside disputed territory between the PRC’s Tibet Autonomous Region and India’s Arunachal Pradesh state in the eastern sector of the LAC.”The village and other infrastructure development efforts along the border have been a “source of consternation” for the Indian government, the report said. China has also “attempted to blame India for provoking the standoff through India’s increased infrastructure development near the LAC”, the report added.“Asserting that its deployments to the LAC were in response to Indian provocation, Beijing has refused to withdraw any forces until India’s forces have withdrawn behind the PRC’s version of the LAC and ceased infrastructure improvements in the area,” the report further said.The village referred to in the US report is situated on the banks of Tsari Chu river in Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh, a region that has long been contested by India and China.After the report was released, people familiar with the matter in India’s security establishment said the village was within territory controlled by China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/illegal-occupation-india-s-first-response-to-china-village-in-disputed-region-101636638989569.html
12-11-2021||India||Delivering piped 24X7 water supply to top of world||The tiny town of Leh, perched in the northern Himalayas at an elevation of 11,562 feet, bordering China, is unforgiving, despite being a tourist haven of soaring mountains, colourful monasteries and eternal poplars. Much of the Ladakh region, where the town is located, remains snow-bound. Winds are freezing. Even cellphone connections are spotty.Government engineers and contractors have connected 12 of the region’s 60 villages with 24X7 piped water connection in the cold desert under the flagship Jal Jeevan Mission, defying odds that have often left Leh behind in terms of modern infrastructure.The Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) scheme aims to connect every rural household in the country with a functional tap water connection by 2024. Over 120 million households in India lacked access to clean water near their homes, the highest in the world, according to a UN Water report of 2014.India has 189 million rural households, according to Census data, and the race to reach piped water to every household is on. As on November 10, nearly 84.7 million households have been provided with a functioning tapped water supply source. This is 44% of total rural households.The expanding network of piped drinking water is critical for the health of Indians. Poor-quality water is the main cause of diseases such as diarrhoea, the third leading cause of childhood mortality in the country, according to researchers Subitha Lakshminarayanan and Ramakrishnan Jayalakshmy, who work at Puducherry’s Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and Indira Gandhi Medical College, respectively.Some regions like Leh in the northern Union territory of Ladakh, stood out for their harsh terrain and geographical hurdles in the national programme to provided piped water.Besides, the region witnesses heightened military watch because of a simmering border dispute with China.In one such remote village called Dipling, ferrying men and equipment to locate a sustainable water source and lay the pipeline network was the most arduous task as there was no motorable road.“Air sorties were used to move labour, engineers and equipment to this village,” says Bharat Lal, the additional secretary in the ministry of Jal Shakti, which oversees the programme. Along with high density polyethylene piped, high-tech gadgets to locate water sources were also transported through air.Most villages lacked electricity, without which providing functional piped water supply is impossible. Running motor equipment and monitoring sensors require power. Engineers in Leh built solar power units to solve the problem.Villages along the so-called Line of Actual Control along the India-China border are being covered on a priority.“Solar power units mean the piped water facilities in the region are zero-carbon infrastructure. This makes it totally green,” district magistrate Skrikant Suse said.Of Leh’s 24,767 households, 5,425 households now have tapped water.The Union Budget had allotted ₹10,001 crore in 2019-20 for the national rural drinking water mission. In 2020-21, ₹11500 crore was provided. The Union budget 2021-22 allotted ₹50,000 crore for the mission.Overall, experts say a key challenge for the programme is to maintain sustainability of water supply sources. In previous attempts to provide drinking water supply, villages connected with water sources fell back to “no-water” status after a few years due to non-availability of water.Maintaining sustainability will require work on different aspects altogether. These include groundwater recharge, water conservation and, critically, cutting down the overuse of water in agriculture, which hogs 90% of available supply, mainly because farming isn’t efficient.“India has to bring down its farm-water use to optimal levels for greater sustainability of groundwater, the most important source of water for human consumption,” says Alok Nath, a former water specialist at the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-ladakh-villages-will-now-get-24x7-piped-water-as-part-of-centre-s-jal-jeevan-mission-101636636406428.html
12-11-2021||India||AAP’s CM face in Goa to be OBC, deputy CM Catholic: Manish Sisodia||The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) chief ministerial candidate in Goa will be from the Bhandari community, which falls under the other backward classes (OBC) category, while its deputy chief minister will be Catholic, the party announced on Thursday.The two communities account for over 60% of Goa’s population.Delhi’s deputy chief minister and AAP leader Manish Sisodia said the decisions were taken after a consultation with the party’s local leadership and leaders from the Bhandari community. He added they were unanimous in calling for a chief ministerial candidate from the “historically wronged” group.“Goa was liberated 60 years ago (from the Portuguese). During this time, there have been chief ministers from various communities -- Brahmin, Marathi Gomantak Samaj, Catholic. But, from the Bhandari Samaj, there was only one chief minister -- Ravi Naik for two-and-a-half years,” Sisodia said. He added that, among the OBCs, the Bhandari community are a majority. “.... in Goa’s population, over 30% are from the Bhandari community, and they have contributed greatly towards the state.” He added that the community has never got its rightful place in Goa’s politics.Sisodia said there was a lot of anger and disappointment within the community, and that is why the AAP has decided to have its chief ministerial face from it.While the Bhandari Samaj did not directly welcome the move, association president, Ashok Naik, said they would support any party that gave maximum seats to members of the community. Others within the community, however, decried the move and accused the president of selling out to the AAP.“There is no unanimity among the community over whom to support... Even the community’s leaders are spread across political parties...,” Anil Hoble, a former president and presently a vice-president of the BJP, said. Edwin Fonseca, a former president of Catholic Association of Goa, said: “It’s not as if Goa belongs to one community or another who should be preferred for political reasons. There could be many unintended consequences of such a move.” Political analyst Cleofato Almeida Coutinho said: “They could have announced the CM face without specifying his caste and community.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aaps-cm-candidate-in-goa-will-be-from-bhandari-community-says-manish-sisodia-101636632026327.html
12-11-2021||India||Congress seeks privilege motion against minister||The Congress has sought to move a privilege motion over Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Tarun Vijay’s appointment as the National Monuments Authority (NMA) chairman, saying the appointee does not meet the criteria laid down under a law passed by the Parliament for the post.Congress’s chief whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh wrote a letter on Thursday to Venkaiah Naidu, the chairman of Parliament’s Upper House on the privilege motion. He pointed out that Vijay, a former editor of the weekly Panchajanya of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the BJP’s ideological fountainhead, is ineligible for the post. Ramesh said the appointment makes a mockery of the law.Ramesh cited the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act’s Section 20F and said that it stipulates that the chairman to be appointed should have proven experience and expertise in archaeology, town planning, architecture, heritage, conservation architecture, or the law. “For the first time, I find that the government of India has appointed a chairperson whose education and professional background does not, in any way whatsoever, meet the requirement of the law as stipulated mandatorily by Parliament,” Ramesh said in the letter, a copy of which HT has seen. Since Ramesh is seeking to move the privilege motion now, it has to be against the current minister. The Congress maintained the details of his appointment came into light later. Culture minister’s office didn’t wish to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-eyes-privilege-motion-over-bjp-ex-mp-vijay-s-appointment-as-nma-chief-101636615164813.html
12-11-2021||India||10 die in Assam road accident||Ten people died in a road accident in Assam’s Karimganj district on Thursday after a speeding truck rammed into a three-wheeler, the police said.The people were returning from a ghat at around 7.30 am after celebrating the Chhath Puja when the deadly collision took place in the Baithakhal area on NH 8, according to the police.Padmanabh Baruah, Karimganj superintendent of police, informed that the truck driver involved in the accident has been apprehended from a nearby area. However, he didn’t reveal details of the apprehended as the case is now under investigation.Baruah further informed that nine people died on the spot and their bodies were sent to Karimganj Civil Hospital for post mortem. One person, who was critically injured, died an hour after admission at the same hospital, he said.According to Patharkandi police, the deceased were identified as Duja Bai Panika, Salu Bai Panika, Garuv Das Panika, Shambhu Das Panika, Lalon Guswami, Puja Gorh, Deb Gorh, Sanu Ree, Manglae Karmakar and Tupu Karmakar.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma offered condolences to the affected families.“I deeply mourn the tragic deaths of nine persons in an accident at Baitakhal, Patharkhandi this morning (Thursday). One injured [person] is in hospital. Assam police are trying to trace the driver of the truck who fled the scene after hitting the auto [rickshaw]. Condolences,” he tweeted.Patharkandi legislature Krishnendu Paul on Thursday said CM Sarma has assured to provide compensation of ₹1 lakh each to the victims of the road accident.In a social media post, Paul wrote, “Received a call from Chief Minister Dr. Himanta Biswa Sarma regarding the Pathetic Road Accident. He took details of the incident and further announced that rupees one lakh will be provided to the family members of each deceased to support them at this hour of grief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-nine-killed-as-speeding-truck-rams-into-three-wheeler-in-karimganj-101636612044223.html
