13-11-2021||India||Maruti to be allotted 900 acres in Sonepat for units||Chandigarh Automobile giant Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) will be allotted about 900 acres at Industrial Model Township (IMT) Kharkhauda in Sonepat for setting up car and motorcycle manufacturing units. The allotment, officials said, will entail an investment of 18,000 crore, one of the biggest in recent times. Officials said the 900 acres being allotted to the auto giant will fetch ₹2,500-2,700 crore for the state exchequer. A decision to this effect was taken during a meeting of the Haryana Enterprise Promotion Board (HEPB) headed by Chief minister ML Khattar in Gurugram on Saturday. MSIL chairman RC Bhargava and top functionaries were also present during the meeting. The country’s largest car manufacturer plans to gradually shift its manufacturing operations from the Gurugram facility to IMT Kharkhauda once the new unit get commissioned. The relocation has been necessitated due to growing congestion and traffic snarls in Gurugram. Officials said the car manufacturing unit will come on 800 acres and the Suzuki motorcycle unit will be set up on 100 acres at IMT Kharkhauda. The finalisation of expansion and relocation plans at IMT Kharkhauda, officials said, were delayed due to issues pertaining to reimbursement of State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) and the newly enacted law providing for 75% reservation for locals in private sector jobs. “We have been able to iron out these issues and a broad agreement has been reached on the incentives to be provided to the company. The minutes are being prepared and will be shared with MSIL,’’ said an official. Chief minister Khattar in a statement said the ongoing talks with Maruti to set up a plant on about 900 acres at Kharkhauda were finalised. “This has been discussed in detail with the senior management of the company. If the company deposits the entire amount within 45 days, then it will be given 10% discount on the total amount as per the policy. Along with this, the company has been given State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) reimbursement for 15 years by the government,’’ he said. The auto major had earlier expressed concern over the enactment of the 75% private sector jobs quota law terming it as a deterrent in finalising expansion plans. “Even though we have got assurances that the criteria for applicability for the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act shall be pragmatic and business friendly, the same needs to be formalised. A meeting at the highest level from both sides is necessary to close this critical issue,’’ the company had written to the state government a few months back. In a measure to placate the industry, the state government had last week reduced the upper limit of gross monthly salary for jobs which will come under the ambit of the private sector jobs quota law. As per a notification, jobs having a gross monthly salary of not more than ₹30,000 will be up for hiring from amongst local candidates. The company brass subsequently expressed satisfaction over the reduction in the upper limit.The state government also plans to exempt firms and establishments which come into being after the commencement of the law on January 15, 2022 from hiring 75% local candidates for a year. Also, any hiring from within (internal hiring) by a company or an establishment will be exempted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maruti-to-be-allotted-900-acres-in-sonepat-for-units-101636828191741.html
13-11-2021||India||‘Cows, their dung, urine can help boost India’s economy’: MP CM Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said that cows, their dung and urine can “help strengthen the economy” of both the state and the country if a proper system along the lines is put in place, news agency ANI reported.To back his statement, Chouhan used the reference of dairy brand Amul and its success story. He added that growth can only happen when the society accepts the fact that cows and buffaloes are important gateways, and not just via government’s schemes and gaushalas (shelters).“As women have entered this sphere (veterinary science), and will be treating cows, buffaloes and other animals, I am sure that going ahead, if not immediately, we will certainly succeed (in strengthening the economy of the state and India),” he told a gathering in Hindi.
13-11-2021||India||Massive support on UP CM’s home turf indication of BJP govt’s exit, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday attacked the BJP government on a number of issues ranging from rising fuel prices, farm laws, unemployment, privatisation and the Covid-19 pandemic while reiterating his claim that his party will come to power in Uttar Pradesh with a thumping majority. The UP assembly polls are slated to be held early next year. After launching the third phase of his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra with a massive roadshow in Madapur area on the outskirts of Gorakhpur city, Yadav said, “This great excitement, enthusiasm and support that too in Babaji’s (a reference to CM Yogi Adityanath) region shows that this government (BJP) is on its way out as it has insulted and cheated people. No one has ever made such large numbers of fake promises as this government has done.” He further claimed that the SP would come to power with a huge mandate and that the change will start from Gorakhpur. Taking a swipe at the CM, Akhilesh said, “Do you know why laptops are not being distributed? Because our Babaji doesn’t know how to use one.”The yatra sees the SP chief travel on a bus, which has been converted into a ‘rath’. Akhilesh Yadav addresses people from atop this ‘rath’ and he also waved a mace to people as a victory gesture. Attacking the BJP government over its “failure” in handling the pandemic, the former UP CM alleged, “Do you remember how our labourers walked home in huge numbers from various parts of the country, including Gujarat and Maharashtra? However, this government did nothing for them.”“Back then, the poor desperately needed hospitals, medicines and oxygen but the government failed to supply them, leading to uncountable deaths. Even today, this government has not been able to provide proper treatment to the poor,” he further alleged.On rising fuel prices, the SP leader said, “In the last three months, the profit earned by oil companies has gone up to six hundred times. Can BJP reveal where all this money is going? This is the BJP which is filling the pockets of the rich by cutting the pockets of the poor. They have sold off public properties from airport to railways. It was already a ‘Pheku Sarkar’ (a government which does rhetoric) which has now become a ‘Bechu Sarkar’ (a government which is selling off public properties).” “The (BJP) government had promised that it will make air travel so cheap that even those who wear slippers only will be able to travel in planes. Leave alone the affordable plane travel, the common man is finding it difficult to use even a motorcycle as petrol prices have crossed the ₹100-mark,” the SP chief said.Supporting the farmers’ ongoing agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws, the former CM said, “This government is not listening to the demands of the farmers who have been staging a demonstration for a long time as the government doesn’t worry about them but about its rich friends. If this government comes to power again, it will crush the farmers’ movement.”Seeking people’s support for his party, he also said the forthcoming UP election would be a battle to save all four pillars of democracy and the Indian Constitution. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister began his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra on October 12 in Kanpur which ended on October 13, covering Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun and Hamirpur. The second phase, meanwhile, was held in Hardoi on October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/massive-support-on-up-cm-s-home-turf-indication-of-bjp-govt-s-exit-says-akhilesh-yadav-101636824350436.html
13-11-2021||India||Two terrorist organisations claim responsibility for Manipur ambush attack||Two terrorist organisations have claimed responsibility for the ambush attack on an Assam Rifles unit wherein the commanding officer, his wife and son, along with four personnel were killed earlier in the day, news agency PTI reported.In a joint statement, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) and the Manipur Naga People's Front (MNPF) claimed the responsibility of the brutal attack carried out in Manipur's Churachandpur district.Colonel Viplav Tripathi, the commanding officer of Khuga Battalion of Assam Rifles along with his personnel riflemen NK Nayak, Suman Swargiary, RP Meena and Shyamal Das lost their lives in the brutal attack. Tripathi's wife and six-year-old son were also among the deceased persons.The attack happened at around 10am, with the militants first causing an improvised explosive device (IED) blast on the single-lane street, and later opening fire on the convoy. The incident took place when Tripathi and the personnel were coming back from his forward company base to the battalion headquarters, officials said.The terror attack was first confirmed by Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Twitter, who said that the perpetrators will be “brought to justice.” Later, he also informed about visiting one jawan, who was admitted tp Shija Hospital in Manipur's capital Imphal after sustaining serious injuries in the attack.Meanwhile, government sources told news agency ANI that security has been beefed up on Myanmar border and close watch is kept on the region. This development came after Singh said that paramilitary forces and commandos have launched a combing operation to nab the culprits.The news of the attack sent shockwaves across the political sphere of the country with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, Union home minister Amit Shah and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, among others condemning the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-militant-organisations-claim-responsibility-of-manipur-ambush-attack-101636821999053.html
13-11-2021||India||‘Reports of vandalisation of a mosque in Tripura’s Gomati fake’, says govt||The Union government claimed news reports detailing an alleged incident of vandalisation of a mosque in Kakraban area of Gomati district in Tripura are “fake” and a “complete misrepresentation of facts”.“These news reports are fake and are a complete misrepresentation of facts. The mosque in Dargabazar area of Kakraban has not been damaged and the Tripura Police in Gomati district is working to maintain peace and tranquillity,” the government said in an official press release.Reports of vandalisation began doing the rounds on social media following which Tripura Police released a statement in which it said, “This is a complete misrepresentation of facts. The mosque in Dargabazar area of Kakraban is completely fine & Gomati police is working to maintain peace and tranquillity.”Communal tension flared in the northeastern state after the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) took out a rally in north Tripura’s Dharmanagar following which a mosque was allegedly vandalised in Panisagar sub-division and homes of those belonging to the Muslim community were also damaged. Police imposed Section 144 in the concerned area to bring the situation under control.The Centre, however, claimed all such reports were untrue. “There is no reported case of damage to the structure of any Masjid in Tripura in the recent past. There is no report of simple or grievous injury or rape or death of any person in these incidents as alleged in some social media posts," it said.Tripura police booked at least 102 social media account holders, including 68 Twitter handles, under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for allegedly distorting news on communal violence.The press release also mentioned the violent incident in Maharashtra’s Amravati, where Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took out a protest against a bandh called by members of the Muslim community to protest against the violence in Tripura, which led to massive crowds surging onto the roads, shouting slogans, carrying banners and saffron flags. Some sections of the protest began pelting stones at private and government vehicles, shops and establishments, forcing the police to resort to mild caning.“People should maintain calm and should not be misguided by such fake reports. For instance, in Maharashtra, there have been reports of violence and unsavoury statements that are aimed at disturbing peace and harmony, based on fake news regarding Tripura. This is very concerning and it is urged that peace is maintained at all costs,” the government press release cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reports-of-vandalisation-of-a-mosque-in-tripura-s-gomati-fake-says-govt-101636823555957.html
13-11-2021||India||In PM Modi's meet on crypto, concerns expressed over terror-financing, misleading youth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a meeting on cryptocurrency where the concerns over the virtual currency market, the way forward for India were discussed in a comprehensive way, reports said. The meeting comes after Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das cautioned investors about the digital currency. Attempts to mislead the youth through over-promising and non-transparent advertising have to be stopped, it was discussed in the meeting."It was also discussed that unregulated crypto markets cannot be let to become avenues for money laundering and terror financing," the report said.The government will keep a close watch on cryptocurrency as this is an evolving technology will take proactive steps, it said.The meeting was an outcome of a "consultative process as RBI, finance ministry, the home ministry had done an elaborate exercise on it as well as consulted experts from across the country and the world," reports said. India is also going through the global examples and the best practices regarding crypto.In future, the Centre will take forward-looking and progressive steps regarding crypto, it was discussed and decided. "Since the issue cuts across individual countries' borders, it was felt that it will also require global partnerships and collective strategies," the report said.The RBI has a strong view of cryptocurrencies and sees them as a threat to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country. It has also questioned the claimed market value of crypto and the number of investors trading on them. A report of RBI's internal panel on crypto is also expected to be submitted next month.The Supreme Court in early March 2020 had nullified the RBI circular banning cryptocurrencies. Following this on February 5, 2021, RBI instituted an internal panel to suggest a model of the central bank's digital currency. RBI said it wants to come up with its own official digital currency to combat the rise of the cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin against which it has reservations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pm-modi-s-meet-on-crypto-concerns-expressed-over-terror-financing-misleading-youth-101636820163988.html
13-11-2021||India||Col, kin among 7 killed in Manipur ambush near Myanmar border; India vows strong response||Armed militants on Saturday ambushed an Assam Rifles convoy near the porous India-Myanmar border in Manipur’s Churachandpur district; killing five soldiers including a colonel, his wife, their eight-year-old son, and injuring six personnel of whom four are critical and battling for their lives at a medical facility in the state, people familiar with the developments said. The commanding officer of the 46 Assam Rifles, Colonel Viplav Tripathi, and his quick reaction team (QRT) were returning from the Behiang border post and heading to the battalion headquarters at Khuga when the militants ambushed them at S Sehken village under Singhat sub-division at around 11 am, said one of the officials cited above. Apart from Tripathi, his wife Anuja and son Abeer; Riflemen NK Nayak, Suman Swargiary, RP Meena and Shyamal Das were killed in the pre-planned attack. Family members of soldiers being hit by insurgents is a rarity and has sent shock waves through the military community. In May 2002, terrorists killed 31 people at an army base in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kaluchak area. The casualties were three soldiers, 18 family members (including a two-month-old baby girl) and 10 civilians. The 47 wounded were 12 soldiers, 20 family members and 15 civilians.The attackers first triggered an improvised explosive device (IED) on the single-lane road in a densely forested area and then brought the Assam Rifles personnel under heavy automatic fire to inflict maximum casualties, bringing back memories of the June 2015 Chandel ambush in the state in which a Dogra battalion of the Indian Army lost 18 men, said a second official. Five days after the Dogra unit was attacked in broad daylight in the Moltuk Valley, India’s Special Forces responded with a cross-border raid into Myanmar where they targeted and destroyed two insurgent camps. Security forces on Saturday launched a massive manhunt for the insurgents but they may have slipped across the porous border into Myanmar. Tripathi’s unit, 46 Assam Rifles, had disrupted several drug trafficking rings in the area and may have been targeted by the insurgents because of its successes in curbing the illegal money-spinning trade, HT has learnt. The aftershocks of the hit were felt in New Delhi with the government vowing strong and swift action against the insurgents. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the attack and paid homage to the soldiers and family members who lost their lives in the ambush. “Their sacrifice will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of sadness,” the PM wrote on Twitter. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the perpetrators of the attack would be brought to justice swiftly. “The cowardly attack on an Assam Rifles convoy is extremely painful and condemnable. The nation has lost five brave soldiers including CO 46 AR and two family members. My condolences to the bereaved families,” Singh said. State chief minister N Biren Singh said security forces had launched a hunt for the militants and they would be brought to justice. No insurgent group has so far claimed responsibility for the attack but the People’s Liberation Army of Manipur and People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (PREPAK) are among the outfits suspected to be involved, said a fourth official. At least half a dozen main insurgent groups are active in the state including PLA, PREPAK, Kanglei Yawol Kanna Lup, Kangleipak Communist Party, Kuki National Army and Kuki National Front. “Insurgents may have carried out the attack to impose caution on the Assam Rifles as this unit (46 Assam Rifles) was extremely successful in busting drug-trafficking networks in the area. These insurgent groups are involved in illegal narcotics trade,” said Lieutenant General Shokin Chauhan (retd), who headed the Assam Rifles in 2017-18. The road on which the ambush took place is one of the alternative routes from Myanmar to Imphal, and is used for drug trafficking. Chauhan doesn’t rule out a Chinese angle to the attack. “The People’s Liberation Army of Manipur is known to be in sync with China. It is within the realm of possibility that it was ordered to carry out the hit to force India to deploy more forces in the area at a time when there’s tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China,” he said. Chauhan, a counter-insurgency expert who understands the security dynamics of India’s Northeast, last year retired as the chairman of the Ceasefire Monitoring Group responsible for implementing ceasefire ground rules between the Centre and Naga insurgent groups. He added that the attackers would have known that civilians were part of the Assam Rifles convoy but still carried out the hit. According to figures obtained by HT in 2018, the average annual operations launched by the army and Assam Rifles in Manipur involve setting up 52,000 check posts, 42,000 patrols, more than 10,000 ambushes and 550 special operations.Improvised explosive devices (IEDs) are one of the biggest challenges confronting soldiers deployed in insurgency-hit Manipur and mitigating that threat is a top priority for the security forces. The predominant weapon of insurgent groups, IEDs have killed, maimed or injured hundreds of soldiers in India’s north-east, including Manipur, over the last three decades. The vast area that the security forces operate in, the state’s topography and a 398-km porous border with Myanmar are among the challenges faced by soldiers who operate from 180 bases scattered across Manipur, officials said. The IEDs came to prominence in the Northeast, including Manipur, in 1990, when insurgents began emulating the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. The latest ambush comes at a time when the security situation in the North-east had improved significantly in the army’s assessment, and a planned and gradual drawdown of soldiers is underway there. In February 2021, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said two army divisions had been pulled out of counter-insurgency and internal security duties in the Northeast, and were solely focused on their operational role along the China border. Several parliamentary panels have made recommendations in their reports to reduce the army’s exposure to counter-insurgency and counterterrorism duties because it results in blunting the force’s focus on its main task - defending the country from external aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/col-kin-among-7-killed-in-manipur-ambush-near-myanmar-border-india-vows-strong-response-101636820150131.html
13-11-2021||India||'I learnt English in 8th standard,' says Chief Justice, 'Same', replies Solicitor General||During the hearing of Delhi pollution matter in the Supreme Court on Saturday, some confusion was created between Chief Justice NV Ramana and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and as they figured out that it might be the language which created the confusion, both of them disclosed that they started studying English only in Class 8, Livelaw reported.The exchange of these remarks took place as Tushar Mehta sought to apologise for a misunderstanding created by a submission about stubble burning. "Sometimes language in which our response as lawyers is given might create a wrong message, that wasn't the intention," Mehta said.In reply, the CJI said he considers this as his drawback that he is not a "very sophisticated speaker". "Unfortunately I am not a very sophisticated speaker Mr Mehta, that is my drawback. I learnt this English in class 8th", the CJI said. The solicitor general said he himself learnt English in Class 8 and studied in Gujarati medium till graduation.The CJI, according to the report, replied that his schooling was in Telugu medium and he only studied law in English medium. "I never knew the similarities between me and CJI. I am really proud of it," Mehta said to Livelaw later.The Supreme Court on Saturday expressed grave concern over the Delhi pollution situation. As the solicitor general referred to the stubble burning issue, the CJI said, "You are projecting as if farmers are responsibile..what about the Delhi people? What about the steps to regulate firecrackers, vehicular emissions?" he said.The SG said he did not want to suggest that farmers are responsible for the pollution. "Please don't take it that government, state or Centre is putting this on farmers. There's not a remote intention of suggesting that," he said adding that he was only taking the bench through the issues one by one and other issues will be highlighted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-learnt-english-in-8th-standard-says-chief-justice-same-replies-solicitor-general-101636818097473.html
13-11-2021||India||‘Cowardly attack, strong condemnation’: How politicians reacted to attack on Assam Rifles||Following the terrorist attack on the convoy of Assam Rifles unit, which cost the lives of commanding officer Viplav Tripathi, his wife and son, along with four more persons, several prominent leaders of the country, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind have reacted strongly against it.The attack that happened at around 10am on Saturday killed three paramilitary force personnel of the Assam Rifles unit and reportedly the driver of the convoy as well. Although no confirmation has been received, but the Manipur-based People’s Liberation Army is suspected to be behind the attacks.The news of the attack was first confirmed by Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Twitter.Also Read | Manipur terror attack: Close watch on Myanmar border, Army chief general briefedBesides PM Modi and President Kovind, leaders in the likes of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, among others, have condemned the attack.Here are the top reactions by prominent political leaders on the Manipur attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-terror-attack-how-political-leaders-reacted-to-the-incident-101636816972270.html
13-11-2021||India||26 naxals killed in encounter in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli||At least 26 naxals were killed on Saturday in an encounter with police in eastern Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district, over 900 km from Mumbai, senior officials said. "We have recovered the bodies of 26 naxals so far from the forest," said district Superintendent of Police Ankit Goyal. The gunbattle took place in the morning at Korchi in Mardintola forest area when a C-60 police commando team was conducting a search operation led by additional SP Soumya Munde, Goyal said. While identity of the slain naxals was yet to be ascertained, according to sources a top rebel leader was suspected to be among them. Four police personnel were also seriously injured in the action and were taken to Nagpur by a helicopter for treatment, officials had said earlier. The district lies on the border of Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/26-naxals-killed-in-encounter-in-maharashtra-s-gadchiroli-101636817228547.html
13-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Security on Myanmar border tightened after Manipur attack and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Manipur terror attack: Close watch on Myanmar border, Army chief general briefed on ambushFollowing the dastardly attack on the convoy of the commanding officer of an Assam Rifles unit on Saturday, the security on the Myanmar border has been strengthened as the attackers are believed to have infiltrated into India from Myanmar. Read more.Heavy rain batters south Kerala, rail traffic disrupted due to landslidesIncessant heavy rain lashed many parts of south Kerala on Saturday triggering minor landslides and severe water-logging and disrupting rail traffic between Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari at three places. Read more.'Yogya, not Yogi': Akhilesh hits back at UP govt, says CM can't operate laptopUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav traded barbs over the development of Azamgarh district where Union minister Amit Shah held a public rally on Saturday. Read more.Amit Shah says Hindi a friend of all indigenous languagesUnion home minister Amit Shah on Saturday said Hindi is a friend of all indigenous languages and the country’s prosperity lies in the prosperity of all its languages. Read more.‘Dengue cases in Delhi will decrease in next 2 to 3 days’, says expertThe number of dengue cases in Delhi have stabilised and will come down in the next two or three days, the medical director at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital said on Saturday. Read more.'Wouldn’t be at all surprised to see them lift the trophy': Kevin Pietersen predicts winner of T20 World Cup finalFormer England cricketer Kevin Pietersen on Friday predicted his winner for the T20 World Cup 2021, between Australia and New Zealand which will be played at the Dubai International Stadium on Sunday. Read more.World Diabetes Day 2021: Eye expert reveals how to detect early sign of diabetesCaused by high blood glucose or too much sugar in the blood, Diabetes Mellitus can adversely affect almost any organ in our body, literally from head to toe that is brain stroke to foot or toe amputation and to raise awareness of diabetes as a global public health issue, November 14 is annually marked as World Diabetes Day. Read more.On KBC 13, Kapil Sharma recalls Amitabh Bachchan apologising to him before a shoot: ‘I remember it till today’Comedian Kapil Sharma and actor Sonu Sood were the celebrity guests on Friday’s episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13. On the show, Kapil shared an anecdote about host Amitabh Bachchan. Read more.Anand Mahindra shares about ‘best weekends of his youth’ in latest Twitter postAnand Mahindra recently took to Twitter to share about the ‘best weekends of his youth’. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-myanmar-border-security-tightened-after-manipur-attack-101636814787807.html
13-11-2021||India||Centre mulling doorstep vaccination for bed-ridden, disabled: Health ministry to SC||The Centre is open to having mobile vaccination teams to facilitate Covid-19 vaccination at doorsteps for bed-ridden people and those facing extreme disability. It has directed states and union territories to prepare a list of such people in every district.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) has written a letter to all states and union territories on September 22 and is awaiting responses. This information was told to the Supreme Court in an affidavit filed by the Union Health Ministry while responding to a PIL filed by NGO Evara Foundation seeking ease of access for disabled persons to get Covid-19 vaccination. One of the prayers sought in this petition was to enable doorstep vaccination of persons with disabilities who face difficulty to either access the CoWIN digital interface or the Covid-19 vaccination centres.“Vaccination at home has its own logistic and medical complexities,” the Union government said, adding “the MoHFW recognizes that despite efforts made, there may still be some people who might be bed-ridden or have extremely restricted mobility or disability and/or special needs that may hamper their accessibility even to near-to-home Covid vaccination centres (NHCVC).”In its advisory issued on September 22, the Centre has asked states/UTs to prepare a “line-list of all such potential beneficiaries and their care-givers” and to collate this list at the district level. Subsequent to this information being gathered, the Centre said, “Best efforts would be employed on case to case basis, considering logistic and medical exigencies, for facilitating vaccination of all such beneficiaries at their place of residence using mobile vaccination teams.” A nodal officer has also been designated in each district for this purpose by MoHFW to oversee the implementation.On Saturday, the PIL was taken up by for hearing by a bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna where Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati appeared for the Centre. Bhati informed the Court that Covid-19 vaccination centres were arranged near to homes of people above 60 and those faced with disabilities. Under this scheme, nearly 17.26 crore vaccine doses have been administered in a short span of four months, from May 27 (when the scheme was launched) till September 27, ASG Bhati said.Advocate Pankaj Sinha who appeared for petitioner organization questioned the data on disabled persons getting vaccinated when there was no mechanism either under CoWIN or at the Covid vaccination centres to identify persons with disabilities. As the bench had not gone through the affidavit, the matter was posted to Thursday.On the previous hearing on September 20 when notice was issued on the PIL, the Court noted four areas of concern – doorstep vaccination for persons with disability and their caregivers, preference for scheduling vaccination slots, accessibility of CoWIN web portal and mobile app for persons with disabilities, and scheduling of vaccinations through a dedicated helpline number other than CoWIN portal or app. The bench was concerned as persons with disabilities have rights protected under the Right of Persons with Disability Act 2016 which follows the principle of “reasonable accommodation”.The PIL had said that Section 25 of the 2016 Act provided for “barrier free accessibility of medical facilities” for persons with disability. It stated that disabled persons should not be required to visit the vaccination centres due to the risk of getting exposed to COVID infection as such persons cannot maintain social distancing and those with psychological disabilities cannot ensure use of face masks and face shields for their protection. The petition urged the Court to direct for door-to-door vaccination on priority basis pointing out that the Indian Council of Medical Research had already recommended for doorstep vaccination. The states of Jharkhand and Kerala have already implemented this policy, the petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-mulling-doorstep-vaccination-for-bed-ridden-disabled-health-ministry-to-sc-101636816129709.html
13-11-2021||India||‘National Achievement Survey to facilitate new strategies, policies in post-pandemic era’: Educationists||The Centre on Friday conducted the National Achievement Survey (NAS) 2021 across the country and as per the initial estimate from 24 states and Union territories (UTs), 96% of schools and 92% of the targeted sampled students participated in the survey, Union ministry of education said. Experts and educationists dubbed the survey as crucial for the post-pandemic era.The survey, which assesses the competencies developed by the students at the grade levels of 3rd, 5th, 8th and 10th, is conducted after every three years. Around 3.8 million students from 1, 23,000 schools in 733 districts were scheduled to participate in the survey. “National Achievement Survey 2021 has been conducted successfully across the country, with the enthusiastic participation of schools and students. As per the initial estimates received from 24 states/UTs, nearly 96% of the sampled schools and nearly 92% of the targeted sampled children, of classes 3, 5, 8 and 10 participated in the survey,” the ministry said.The survey was last conducted in 2017 and was scheduled to take place in 2020. However, due to the Covid-19 situation, it was postponed till this year.This was the first time when private schools have been included in the NAS for grades 3, 5 and 8. Earlier, private schools were included for the class 10 NAS. The education ministry said that the survey will help to assess the learning interruptions and new learning during the Covid-19 pandemic and help in taking remedial measures.“NAS 2021 is the first achievement survey after the release of National Education Policy 2020 (NEP). The assessment would be used to benchmark students’ learning against criteria such as process skills and learning outcomes. NAS 2021 will infuse the competency-based assessment system over the content and memory-based assessment as envisaged by the NEP 2020,” the ministry added.Apart from students, subject teachers and school principals also participated in the survey on Friday. Tania Joshi, principal of the Indian School in Delhi, one of the centres, said, “There were questions like how did covid affect the education system and if we think that if the learning took a backseat because of online teaching. It also sought details about basic infrastructure and facilities at the school. The survey will be really helpful in making strategies and policies in the post-pandemic era.”In Punjab, as many as 1,31,000 students from 3,722 schools were scheduled to take part in the NAS 2021. Officials said at least 7,000 students appeared for the exam in 208 government and private schools in Ludhiana district alone.Officials in Tamil Nadu said that the survey was conducted in only some districts since most of the schools have been closed following heavy rainfall causing floods in parts of the state.In Tripura, 95.25% of the 38,760 respondents in 898 schools turned up for the NAS, officials said. “We received good responses during the survey. Our observers and field investigators went to their respective destinations on Thursday, i.e a day before the survey. And the survey was done hassle-free,” said an official of SCERT of Tripura.Officials in Assam said that the survey was conducted smoothly in the state. “In Assam, besides 74 CBSE schools, state-government run schools also took part. Since several of these schools are located in remote areas, the officials in those centres would be able to provide details of attendance only by Saturday. There was no online option of registering details of students or attendance. Hence the delay is expected,” said KK Choudhury, regional director at NAS control centre of CBSE’s Guwahati office.In Chandigarh, officials said that around 90% of students turned up for the test on Friday. As many as 5,800 students from 106 schools were expected to appear for the test. “The schools had been open for classes for a while now so it wasn’t a big deal for students to come to school and take the exam. Over 90% attendance is expected,” a senior official said, adding they are yet to compile the final data.In Uttarakhand, over 20,000 students in 2,630 schools took part in the NAS on Friday, said Banshidhar Tiwari, director general education of the state.According to the Maharashtra SCERT, till 7 pm, various districts reported attendance of students between 91 to 95%. There were, however, 12 districts in the state which were yet to submit the data by the time this report was filed.In Madhya Pradesh, 2,43,601 out of 2, 700,24 enrolled students across 9,499 schools took part in the NAS on Friday. “The NAS was conducted smoothly at all the schools. More than 90% of the students took the exam.” said school education department public relations officer Amitabh Anurag.Meanwhile, in West Bengal, where schools have not been reopened yet, teachers said they witnessed several issues. “The timing of the test was not proper. Teachers were asked to come to school almost two hours before students arrived. The students were asked to report around 9 am. Some students and teachers stay very far from the school. They had great difficulty in reaching the school on time,” said Sandip Kumar Pal, an English teacher in Kolkata. Educationist Meet Sengupta said that the survey will be crucial after the pandemic. “The NAS conducted after a tough year of pandemic lockdowns in schools will not be a measure that is useful for tracking education trends but it will help us in getting an understanding of the learning lag. It is, and should be used only as an outlier, not as a measure of the regular education system,” she said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-achievement-survey-to-facilitate-new-strategies-policies-in-post-pandemic-era-educationists-101636816071391.html
13-11-2021||India||Manipur terror attack: Close watch on Myanmar border, Army chief general briefed on ambush||Following the dastardly attack on the convoy of the commanding officer of an Assam Rifles unit on Saturday, the security on theMyanmar border has been strengthened as the attackers are believed to have infiltrated into India from Myanmar. The Army headquarters is closely monitoring the situation and Army chief general MM Naravane has been briefed on the ambush, government sources told news agency ANI. Operations have been launched in the area of the attack to nab the terrorists involved. The border is on the close watch so that the terrorists can't escape, reports said.No terrorist organisation has so far claimed responsibility for the attack, though Manipur-based People's Liberation Army is suspected to be behind the attack. Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his wife and son were among the seven killed in the attack that took place on Saturday morning when the colonel was going to supervise a civic action programme in Churachandpur district, bordering Myanmar.The area where the terror strike took place is also close to the border.The terrorists first carried out an IED attack on the convoy and then a firefight between the soldiers and the terrorists ensued. It is not yet known whether the terrorists suffered any casualties.Saturday's terror attack is the first major attack on security forces since June 4, 2018 when an Army convoy was similarly targeted in Chandel district resulting in the death of 18 personnel and injury to others, PTI reported. Since then, terror activities abated in the state.The Assam Rifles said it suspected the People's Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak behind the attack as the PREPAK remembrance day is celebrated on 12/13 November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-terror-attack-close-watch-on-myanmar-border-army-chief-general-briefed-on-ambush-101636814561688.html
13-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 14, 1983 — Sunil Gavaskar is highest-ever run-getter in history of Test cricket||Ahmedabad- Master batsman Sunil Gavaskar had his tryst with manifest destiny today when he became the leading scorer of runs in the history of Test cricket. Gavaskar’s sparkling knock of 90 not only erased the existing record of 8114 runs by Geoff Boycott but also helped India finish the second day of the third Test in a sound position. Though the afternoon became quite memorable for the capacity 50,000 fans at the Gujarat Stadium, it would have been a unique occasion for the stalwart Indian opener had he got the necessary ten more runs to emerge as the all-time record holder of the highest number of centuries in Test cricket. As it turned out, Gavaskar narrowly failed to overhaul the total of 29 centuries which he shares with Don Bradman. It was a thoroughly professional piece of batting from Gavaskar which lasted 182 minutes and which contained 13 thundering fours that silenced the dreaded West Indies pace battery for a major part of the afternoon.As the result of the most impressive start given by Gavaskar and Anshuman Gaekwad, India were 173 for two in reply to West Indies first innings total of 281 when stumps were drawn after a prolonged final session which was extended to allow the stipulated number of overs to be completed. The pair put on 127 runs in 153 minutes before the persevering Michael Holding struck twice and removed both the openers in a spell of 38 balls conceding only 10 runsGavaskar’s command performance completely overshadowed yet another valuable knock, this time from West Indies wicketkeeper Jeff Dujon who missed his maiden Test century by just two runs. It was the bearded Dujon who led a resolute rearguard action aided by tailenders Holding and Davis which saw the West Indies reach a respectable total from the overnight score of 209 for eight.Dujon struck 14 forceful boundaries in a stay of 192 minutes before he committed the only error which resulted in his dismissal. A sudden rush of blood ended his sedate knock when Kapil Dev easily accepted a mistimed drive off left-arm spinner Shastri. Overnight on 44, Dujon was the last man out in the West Indies innings. At the close, Test debutant Navjot Sidhu, who came in at one drop, and Sandip Patil were together. Both Sidhu and Patil had some luck but they realised the importance of staying there to build up a lead for India and batted on a cautious note. Sidhu showed great sense, keeping his bat and pad together and his head over the line of the ball. In attack, he attempted only those strokes which he knew he could play - through the covers and off his toes. Sidhu had a narrow escape from the second ball he faced after he had taken a single off Holding. An edged shot off Davis dropped just short of Lioyds grasp at first slip. Patil on five was let off by Haynes at short leg off Marshall. Patil seemed to loose his patience at one stage before he checked himself and saw the day through. On a day when the spotlight was once Main on Gavaskar, the opener decided to play some exciting shots and at times verged on cheekiness. Yet he flicked and drove the West Indies pace quartet with admirable ease as the catalogue of boundaries speak for themselves. He struck the first two balls from Marshall who commenced the attack to extra-cover and midwicket boundaries. That set the pattern for the rest of his innings. When on 54, Gavaskar completed one thousand runs in a calendar year for the fourth time. Later when he took a single off Holding to reach 83 he bettered Boycott s existing mark of aggregate runs. This was his 96th Test and 168th innings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-november-14-1983-sunil-gavaskar-is-highest-ever-run-getter-in-history-of-test-cricket-101636812049684.html
13-11-2021||India||India was ‘partially a Muslim nation’ under Congress rule, BJP claims||Keeping up its attack on the Congress over the opposition party's criticism of Hindutva, the BJP claimed on Saturday that India was partially a "Muslim nation" when it was in power as sharia provisions were then part of the legal system and measures were taken to give them primacy even over Supreme Court judgment.BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi alleged that the violence in Maharashtra over the "false" news of mosques being targeted in Tripura, disinformation campaign in social media and Congress leaders' comments attacking Hindutva were part of a larger conspiracy against Hinduism.Attacking Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, he wondered if the opposition leader was training his party workers in Maharashtra in defaming Hindutva and driving an organised campaign to stoke communal discord and violence.It was during his speech via video conferencing to Congress workers at a training camp in the state that Gandhi had sought to draw a distinction between Hinduism and Hindutva, and had attacked the latter.The BJP has been on the offensive after Congress leader Salman Khurshid compared Hindutva, a term associated with the RSS-BJP ideology, with terrorist Islamist organisations.Trivedi said the Congress symbolises politics of appeasement and spreads hate against Hinduism and causes riots.Noting that Shivaji's rule was also associated with Hinduism, Trivedi said leaders like Rahul Gandhi cannot comprehend the concept and asked him to read up his own party stalwarts like Mahatma Gandhi, Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Jawaharlal Nehru.Nehru, he added, had written that the word 'Hindu' can be understood in the broader context of Indian identity and should not be seen narrowly."Under the Congress rule India was partially a Muslim nation. I am saying so because sharia provisions were part of the constitutional system," the BJP leader said, referring to the practice like instant talaq, now barred, and grant of Haj subsidy, since discontinued."Supreme Court judgment was overruled to give primacy to sharia provisions," Trivedi said in an apparent reference to the Rajiv Gandhi government bringing a law to override an apex court order in the famous Shah Bano case.Before the Modi government took office and with the exception of the Vajpayee dispensation, India was partially a Muslim nation under the Congress' rule and the party is now becoming desperate as India is now turning secular in a real way, he claimed.He took a swipe at Congress leaders for giving their "wisdom" on Hinduism and referred to their use of terms like Hindu Taliban and Hindi terrorism to hit out at them.These are the same people who do not want a proud India to bloom in all its glory, and are trying to stop its rise, he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-was-partially-a-muslim-nation-under-congress-rule-bjp-claims-101636811100491.html
13-11-2021||India||Heavy rain batters south Kerala, rail traffic disrupted due to landslides||Incessant heavy rain lashed many parts of south Kerala on Saturday triggering minor landslides and severe water-logging and disrupting rail traffic between Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari at three places. In Neyyattinkara (Thiruvananthapuram district) a portion of a bridge on the National Highway 66 caved in disrupting traffic and in Vizinjam many shops and houses were submerged after the Gangayar stream overflowed. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded a red alert in Thiruvananthapuram district and an orange alert in six other districts. It also said rainfall will continue for three more days and strong winds with a speed of 50 km per hour is likely to prevail over the Kerala coast. A red alert is sounded if rainfall is over 20 cm in 24 hours, orange alert for 11 cm to 20 cm and yellow alert means rainfall lies between 6 to 11 cm. Thiruvananthapuram district collector Navjot Khosa has banned travelling in hilly areas and asked people to avoid travel if it is not urgent. No casualty was reported so far though many houses and agricultural fields were ravaged by gushing water. Some areas in the district received 30 cm of rain in the last 24 hours. Many dams in southern Kerala are filled to the brim and people living on the banks of water bodies have been asked to keep utmost vigil by the district administration. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is attending the party politburo meet in Delhi, took to Facebook asking people to stay alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-batters-south-kerala-rail-traffic-disrupted-due-to-landslides-101636811091512.html
13-11-2021||India||'Yogya, not Yogi': Akhilesh Yadav hits back at UP govt, says CM can't even operate laptop||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav traded barbs over the development of Azamgarh district where Union minister Amit Shah held a public rally on Saturday. Referring to an attack on his convoy in Azamgarh over a decade ago, Adityanath said that no one can think of repeating such acts under the current government. Shah also targeted the previous SP-led government, saying Azamgarh was “known for radicalisation” but will now be known for education.“Azamgarh is witnessing transformation under Yogi government. 'Mafia-raj' has ended under CM Adityanath,” he added.Hitting back at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, Akhilesh Yadav said that the ruling party has deceived the people and is responsible for defaming Azamgarh. The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister also mentioned the Yogi Adityanath government’s move to withdraw criminal cases against Adityanath.“BJP does politics of 'destruction not development'. It has deceived the people... If anyone is defaming Azamgarh, it's BJP...The way they (BJP) killed a trader, it brought bad name to the district. He (CM) had cases against him, he withdrew them,” ANI quoted Akhilesh Yadav as saying.Amit Shah hits out at Akhilesh with new ‘Jinnah’ wordplay Taking potshots at the UP CM, Yadav said that the state needs a ‘Yogya Sarkar’ (an able government) not ‘Yogi Sarkar’ (Yogi government). The Samajwadi chief further stated that a chief minister should be able to operate a laptop and the internet, claiming that Adityanath doesn’t even know how to operate a phone.“A 'Yogya Sarkar' is the need in UP, not 'Yogi Sarkar'. The one that knows to operate laptop, internet...The CM can't even operate a laptop. I have also heard that he doesn't know how to operate a phone either,” Akhilesh Yadav said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogya-not-yogi-akhilesh-yadav-hits-back-at-up-govt-says-cm-can-t-even-operate-laptop-101636808921396.html
13-11-2021||India||Trinamool appoints Mahua Moitra as Goa in-charge ahead of 2022 assembly polls||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday appointed party lawmaker Mahua Moitra as the official state in-charge of Goa ahead of the state assembly elections scheduled for early next year. “Our Hon’ble Chairperson @MamataOfficial is pleased to appoint Smt. @MahuaMoitra as the State in-charge of the @AITC4Goa unit, with immediate effect,” the TMC said in a tweet.Our Hon’ble Chairperson @MamataOfficial is pleased to appoint Smt. @MahuaMoitra as the State in-charge of the @AITC4Goa unit, with immediate effect. pic.twitter.com/9Y4RBbe1P2“Hon'ble Chairperson Smt. Mamata Banerjee looks forward to a brighter future for Goa, with All India Trinamool Congress paving the way with courage and wisdom. The Hon'ble Chairperson is pleased to appoint Smt. Mahua Moitra, (Hon'ble MP, Krishnanagar Lok Sabha) as the State in-charge of AITC Goa unit with immediate effect,” an order from the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said.Moitra thanked the party chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the new role. “Looking forward to doing my very best. Thank you for the opportunity @MamataOfficial,” she tweeted.Looking forward to doing my very best. Thank you for the opportunity @MamataOfficial https://t.co/Dr5w901AP4Meanwhile, the Goa unit of the party celebrated the announcement. “A bright future lies ahead for Goa! Heartfelt congratulations to @MahuaMoitra. Together, we shall ensure that every single Goan sees a New Dawn of growth & development!” it said.Also read | Trinamool nominates ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro to Rajya SabhaEarlier in the day, the party also nominated former Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro, who quit the Congress and joined the TMC in September, to the upcoming bypoll to a Rajya Sabha seat from West Bengal. “We are extremely pleased to nominate @luizinhofaleiro to the Upper House of the Parliament. We are confident that his efforts towards serving the nation shall be appreciated widely by our people!” the party said in a tweet.Faleiro currently serves as the national vice president of the ruling party in Bengal. He is among the several people who have joined the TMC ahead of the Goa elections next year. The former Goa CM ended his decades-old association with the Congress and criticised the party for its performance in the 2017 Goa assembly elections, before joining the TMC. With the aim of expanding her party’s national footprint, Banerjee announced that the Trinamool would contest from all seats in Goa. She visited the coastal state last month, during which tennis player Leander Paes, Bollywood actor Nafisa Ali and Mrinalini Deshprabhu also joined the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-appoints-mahua-moitra-as-goa-in-charge-ahead-of-2022-assembly-polls-101636807674865.html
13-11-2021||India||‘Blaming farmers have become fashion’: Top 10 quotes of Supreme Court during hearing of Delhi air pollution||Taking cognisance of the extreme pollution in Delhi wherein the air quality remains in the “severe” category, the Supreme Court on Saturday recommended ways to cut down pollution levels to both the Centre and the Delhi government. It also pulled up the central government over farm fires, highlighting that the machinery available for stubble management is too expensive for poor and marginalised farmers to purchase.A bench comprising Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice Surya Kant suggested imposing a two-day lockdown in the national capital, saying that the air quality in the city is expected to drop even further in the next two to three days.According to data collected from heat-sensing satellites by Hindustan Times, farm fire emissions in the second week of November have hit a record high this year. As many as 24,694 fire events occurred this year, beating the previous high recorded in the same period in 2016 with 16,931 incidents.Also Read | ‘Don’t know why Centre is silent’: Gopal Rai on Delhi air pollutionOn Saturday, the apex court also questioned the Delhi government over its decisions to install smog towers, and told the Centre at the same time that blaming the farmers has “become a fashion” when air pollution in the capital increases.The matter has now been posted for Monday.Here are top 10 quotes of the SC bench after today’s hearing:1.     “Tell us how we can reduce AQI from 500 at least by 200 points. Take some urgent measures. Can you think of two days lockdown or something? How can people live? We will look at a long-term solution later.”2.     “You have to look at this issue beyond politics and government. Something must happen so that in two to three days we feel better.”3.     On Delhi government’s decision to install smog towers, the bench asked, “This is not the Centre's but your jurisdiction. What is happening on that front?”4.     “Be the petitioners, the Delhi government or anybody else -- it has become a fashion to blame the farmers. Have you seen how crackers are being burnt in Delhi for the last seven days? What was the Delhi police doing?”5.     “You are saying two lakh machines are available, but the poor farmers cannot afford these machines. After the agrarian laws, the landholding in UP, Punjab and Haryana are less than 3 acres. We can't expect those farmers to purchase those machines.”6. “Why can't the Centre and the state governments provide the machines. Take away the stubble for use in paper mills and various other purposes. In winters the stubble can be used for fodder for goats, etc. in Rajasthan.”7.     After Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told the court that the Centre is providing machinery at 80 per cent subsidised rate, the bench asked, “Can the farmer afford it. I am a farmer and I know it, the CJI is also from a farmer family he also knows it.”8.     “Problem is of incentivisation. If you are not giving incentives to farmers for alternatives then things cannot change. Enforcement cannot happen just like that.”9.     “How do we ensure that stubble is removed, in time and taken to thermal power plant and then economic remuneration to farmers?”10. “Schools have been opened now and little children are on the roads and we are exposing them to this. [AIIMS director] Dr [Randeep] Guleria said we are exposing them to pollution, pandemic and dengue.”(With inputs from PTI and Bar and Bench)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-air-pollution-top-10-quotes-of-supreme-court-bench-led-by-cji-ramana-101636806692265.html
13-11-2021||India||India has sequenced over 100,000 viral genomes as part of its surveillance effort||At least 100,000 genomes of the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has been sequenced by the consortium of laboratories that keep an eye out for variants that might lead to a surge in infection. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), which consists of 10 central laboratories and 28 regional ones, has sequenced 115,101 samples since January this year. Of the total samples, over 65,000 samples were assigned lineages by the Pangolin software used by the researchers to determine which variant family they belong to. Of these, 69% of samples are known variants of interest (VOI) or variants of concern (VOC), according to the latest bulletin of the consortium. At present, delta and its sub-lineage continue to be the dominant variant. “Delta (B.1.617.2 and AY.x) continues to be the main VOC in India. No new VOI or VOC are noted and other VOC and VOI other than Delta are now negligible in sequencing data from India,” the bulletin states. A previous bulletin had clarified the delta sub-lineage AY4.2 that was declared as a variant of interest by the UK was found in 0.1% of the samples. “It is too low to be of a concern at the time,” the bulletin from November 1 states. The original delta variant (B1.617.2) continues to be the most dominant one in India, found in 66% of all the samples sequenced, according to data from outbreak.info, which compiles data from the global GISAID database. Delta is followed by five sub-lineages of it – AY.43 (7%), AY.39 (5%), AY.44 (3%), AY.20 (3%), and AY.33 (2%). In October-end, HT reported that there were 17 genome sequences that were being re-looked by researchers from INSACOG in order to see whether they can be classified as AY4.2. There are two mutations in the spike protein and one in the ORF region of the viral genome; if a sequence contains two of the three mutations coupled with the ones for delta variant they are considered to be AY4.2. The scrutiny around AY.4.2 arose after the latest technical briefing by the Public Health England (PHE) upgraded the variant as being under investigation. The PHE document, dated October 22, said the key decision is based on AY.4.2 having a modestly increased growth rate and a higher secondary rate of attack – the ability to pass the infection on to someone – was higher than Delta’s (12.4% versus 11.1%). Among the total samples that have been assigned lineages so far this year, Alpha accounts for 6.4%, beta 0.33%, gamma 0.003%, delta 43.9%, close relatives of delta (B1.617.1 and B1.617.3) account for 8.2% of the sequences, and the AY sub-lineage of delta accounts for 10%, according to INSACOG data. Dr Ekta Gupta, head of the regional INSACOG laboratory at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in Delhi said, “So far, there is no clinical significance of the AY variants that we are seeing. These are also similar to the delta variant that a large proportion of the population has been exposed to, so these are unlikely to cause a huge surge.” Union minister of state for science and technology Dr Jitendra Singh, in a high-level review meeting on the current status of Covid-19 research, took note that over 100,000 samples have been sequenced so far and over 57,000 patient samples have been stored at five bio-repositories across the country that will be made available to researchers and private players for the development of vaccines and therapeutics. “A vaccine testing and research facility will come up at the second campus of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) and this centre will also have a BSL-3 facility which is capable of handling airborne viruses like Covid-19. This facility will be the first of its kind in South India. The RGCB will be developed as a hub for research and testing of multiple vaccines such as cancer vaccines and those for infectious diseases, including Covid-19. This will bring huge recognition for the RGCB in the specific area of vaccine research and development,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-sequenced-over-100-000-viral-genomes-as-part-of-its-surveillance-effort-101636806290597.html
13-11-2021||India||Assam Rifles CO, kin, 4 soldiers killed in ambush by terrorists in Manipur||An Assam Rifles Commanding Officer, his wife and son along with four other soldiers were killed in Manipur’s Churachandpur district on Saturday when armed men ambushed their convoy, according to people familiar with the development in Imphal.The incident took place near S Sehken village under Singhat sub-division when the convoy of 46 Assam Rifles Commanding Officer who was travelling along with his family was returning from Behiang, a border post, people from Churachandpur district headquarters claimed. Commanding Officer of 46 Assam Rifles, identified as Colonel Viplav Tripathi and his family members are believed to be among those killed on the spot. Other injured personnel were taken to a nearby health centre initially and later evacuated to the nearest hospital for further treatment.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh condemning the attack said that 5 army personnel and two family members had been killed in the attack. “The cowardly attack on an Assam Rifles convoy in Churachandpur, Manipur is extremely painful & condemnable. The nation has lost 5 brave soldiers including CO 46 AR and two family members. My condolences to the bereaved families. The perpetrators will be brought to justice soon,” he said in a tweet soon after the incident. Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh has also condemned the incident. In a tweet, Biren Singh wrote, “Strongly condemn the cowardly attack on a convoy of 46 AR which has reportedly killed few personnel including the CO & his family at CCpur today. The State forces & Paramilitary are already on the job to track down the culprits. The perpetrators will be brought to justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-rifles-co-kin-4-soldiers-killed-in-ambush-by-terrorists-in-manipur-101636805509131.html
13-11-2021||India||PM Modi condemns Manipur terrorist attack, says sacrifice will never be forgotten||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday condemned the terrorist attack on a convoy of the Assam Rifles killing Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his wife and their six-year-old son, apart from three Assam Rifles soldiers, and said their sacrifice will not be forgotten. “Strongly condemn the attack on the Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur. I pay homage to those soldiers and family members who have been martyred today. Their sacrifice will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of sadness,” PM Modi tweeted.  Strongly condemn the attack on the Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur. I pay homage to those soldiers and family members who have been martyred today. Their sacrifice will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of sadness.The terror attack took place at around 10am to 11am on Saturday in Manipur's Churachandpur. Police said the incident took place near Sehken village as the heavily armed terrorists fired upon the convoy after carrying out an IED blast. The colonel was going to supervise a civic action programme in the Churachandpur, bordering Myanmar.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the Modi government over the terror attack and said the incident proves 'once again' that the government is incapable of protecting the country."Strongly condemn the cowardly attack on a convoy of 46 AR which has reportedly killed few personnel including the CO & his family at CCpur today. The State forces and paramilitary are already on their job to track down the militants. The perpetrators will be brought to justice," Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh wrote on Twitter.Defence minister Rajnath Singh termed the attack as ‘cowardly’ and promised action against the perpetrators. "The cowardly attack on an Assam Rifles convoy in Churachandpur, Manipur is extremely painful and condemnable. The nation has lost five brave soldiers including CO 46 AR and two family members. My condolences to the bereaved families. The perpetrators will be brought to justice soon," Singh tweeted. In a press statement, the Assam Rifles hailed the contribution of Colonel Tripathi who had also served in Mizoram before being transferred to Manipur in July 2021. "During his tenure at Mizoram, under his able and energetic leadership, the Battalion has been at the forefront in Border management thwarting illegal smuggling in the IMB and hinterland. Battalion has also recovered several weapons & War like stores which could have landed in the hands of Anti National elements thus avoiding major casualties," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condemns-manipur-terrorist-attack-says-sacrifice-will-never-be-forgotten-101636804230359.html
13-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amit Shah hits out at Akhilesh in Azamgarh over ‘Jinnah’ remark and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amit Shah hits out at Akhilesh with new ‘Jinnah’ wordplayUnion home minister Amit Shah who is on a two-day visit to Uttar Pradesh's Purvanchal came up with a new ‘Jinnah’ wordplay to hit out at Samajwadi Party (SP). Read MoreThane civic body proposes to shut 2 Covid facilities for paucity of patientsWhile the state government is preparing for an active Covid-19 caseload of 1.2 million cases in the third wave, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has proposed to shut its Thane Global Covid Hospital and the Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad Stadium due to scarcity of patients at present. Read More3rd draft Glasgow cover decision continues to be weak on finance, loss and adaptationAfter night long negotiations on several elements of the Glasgow cover decision, the COP 26 Presidency released another draft text on Saturday morning. Read MoreT20 World Cup: Sachin Tendulkar explains why David Warner didn't review his dismissal against PakistanAustralia might have beaten Pakistan convincingly in the second semi-final of the T20 World Cup, but David Warner's dismissal early in the run-chase had diminished the Aussie hopes for a comeback in the game. Read MoreAlia Bhatt reveals her phone wallpaper featuring Ranbir Kapoor, gives cryptic response to marriage question. WatchAlia Bhatt shared a new video on her YouTube channel, which gave fans a glimpse of what a day in her life looks like. Read MoreMrunal Thakur’s leg day is all about lifting weightsMrunal Thakur is gearing up for the release of her upcoming film Dhamaka in all ways possible – be it in fashion or in fitness. Read MoreBusker stops performance to help man searching for food in trash, then this happens. WatchThe stories of kindness by random strangers often leave people with a warm feeling in their hearts. Read MoreThese 3 Indian cities are part of world’s top 10 polluted places listThe horrible situation of air pollution in the national capital region has highlighted India's struggle with ensuring clean air for its citizens. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amit-shah-hits-out-at-akhilesh-in-azamgarh-over-jinnah-remark-and-all-the-latest-news-101636801394372.html
13-11-2021||India||‘Divide communities’: Kapil Sibal describes Kangana Ranaut's 'Independent India'||Amid the raging controversy triggered by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut's comment that India got real freedom in 2014, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal in a sarcastic tweet described Kangana's 'independent India' from 2014 which said yes to "abuse, tear asunder our social fabric, divide communities, spread fake news, let loose investigation agencies, file false cases". "This is Kangana's 'Independent India," the Congress leader tweeted. Kangana Ranaut thinks :India got independence in 2014 … Yes to :Abuse Tear asunder our social fabricDivide communities Spread fake newsLet loose investigation agenciesFile false casesThis is Kangana’s Independent India !Kangana's comment has kicked up a row and several complaints have been filed against her for insulting India's freedom movement. Though Kangana in his remark credited the BJP as by 2014, she referred to Narendra Modi's becoming the prime minister, BJP leaders have reacted strongly to the comment. Apart from BJP leader Varun Gandhi, Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said Kangana can appreciate PM Modi without criticising the freedom struggle. "Kangana Ranaut's comment on the country's fight for Independence is completely wrong. Nobody has a right to pass a negative remark on the freedom movement," he said.The Congress, which was at the target of Kangana's comment, raised the demand of recall of her Padma Shri to which the actor has replied and said that she would return her award and apologise too if anyone could answer her question. Which was took place in 1947, the actor asked."Just to set the records (sic) straight... 1857 first collective fight for freedom along with sacrifice of greats like Subhash Chandra Bose, Rani Laxmibai and Veer Savarkar ji."...1857 I know but which war took place in 1947 I am not aware, if someone can bring to my awareness I will give back my Padma Shri and apologise also… please help me with this (sic)," the actor posted on her Instagram story."..And why Gandhi let Bhagat Singh die... why Neta Bose was killed and never got Gandhi ji's support? why line of partition was drawn by a white man... ?instead of celebrating freedom why Indians killed each other some of the answers I am seeking please help me find answers (sic)," Kangana wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/divide-communities-kapil-sibal-describes-kangana-ranaut-s-independent-india-101636802137320.html
13-11-2021||India||Manipur ambush: Colonel Tripathi’s goodwill will last an eternity, says Assam Rifles||Colonel Viplav Tripathi served in Mizoram until his transfer to Manipur in July this year, Assam Rifles said on Saturday adding his "goodwill for the society will last an eternity".Col Tripathi, the commanding officer of the Khuga Battalion of Assam Rifles, his wife and six-year-old son and four personnel of the paramilitary force were killed in an ambush by terrorists in the Churachandpur district of Manipur on Saturday morning, officials said.The attack took place near S Sehken village under Singhat sub-division when Col Tripathi along with his family and the other personnel of the paramilitary force of the Indian Army were returning from Behiang, a border post around 10am.Also read | Assam Rifles CO, wife, son, 3 soldiers killed in terrorist attack in ManipurThe Assam Rifles said in a statement they suspected that the insurgent group responsible for this massacre "must be from PREPAK (People's Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak) cadre as the PREPAK remembrance day is celebrated on 12/13 November 2021"."In the firefight which followed with the Militants (Suspected PREPAK/ PLA cadres) the Commanding officer and three QRT (quick response team) personnel lost their lives on the spot,” Assam Rifles said in a statement.It said Tripathi’s wife and son were also killed in the attack and that injured personnel were admitted at the Behianga health care centre."During his tenure at Mizoram, under his able and energetic leadership, the Battalion has been at the forefront in Border management thwarting illegal smuggling in the IMB and hinterland. Battalion has also recovered several weapons & War like stores which could have landed in the hands of Anti National elements thus avoiding major casualties,” the oldest paramilitary force in the country said in a statement.Also read | Manipur terrorist attack: Perpetrators will be brought to justice, says Rajnath"Col Viplav though his remarkable endeavors has bonded closely with the locals of Mizoram. The Anti Drug campaign conducted by his battalion in January 2021 received several laurels and praise & the awareness was rightfully created by him in the entire state including the remote villages to ensure the youth are guided in the right direction," the statement said.Later, defence minister Rajnath Singh indicated one more personnel of the force was killed in the Manipur ambush and said that perpetrators will be brought to justice soon."The cowardly attack on an Assam Rifles convoy in Churachandpur, Manipur is extremely painful & condemnable. The nation has lost 5 brave soldiers including CO 46 AR and two family members. My condolences to the bereaved families. The perpetrators will be brought to justice soon," he tweeted.Manipur chief minister Biren Singh said that state and paramilitary forces have already started tracking down the attackers.“Strongly condemn the cowardly attack on a convoy of 46 AR which has reportedly killed few personnel including the CO & his family at CCpur today. The State forces & Para military are already on their job to track down the militants. The perpetrators will be brought to justice,” Singh tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-ambush-colonel-s-goodwill-will-last-an-eternity-says-assam-rifles-101636801691586.html
13-11-2021||India||Remittances barely improving lives of Odisha migrant workers’ families: Survey||The living condition of migrant workers’ families from western Odisha districts has not improved much despite the remittances sent home, generated from labouring in brick kilns or construction sites of southern Indian states, a study by Odisha’s Sambalpur University on migration, remittances and human development in Western Odisha has found.The study by Centre of Excellence Regional Development and Tribal Studies of Sambalpur University revealed that 19.8 per cent of the migrants who were surveyed earned around ₹10,000 per month and 58.6 per cent migrants earned around ₹10,000-15000 per month. Just about 4 per cent earned more than ₹20,000.“Around 97.9% migrant households said they use the remittance to purchase food, followed by purchase of clothes for family members, house electrification, acquire drinking water facility, purchases of television, Cable connection and purchase home appliances. However, 40.7% of the migrant households said their living condition has not improved at all, whereas 36.8% households said their living condition has improved to some extent. Only one fourth of migrant household (22.6%) said that their living condition has improved,” said Prof Arun Acharya of social anthropology department who led the study that was done in the month of July and August this year.The study was done through home visits to 394 households of migrant workers in the 7 western Odisha districts of Bargarh, Sambalpur, Balangir, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh, Subarnapur and Deogarh.Three fourth of total migrants sampled were between the ages of 21 to 35 years. In term of educational qualification, more than 90% migrants had completed secondary, high school and college level education. As the data indicates, majority of people have migrated to Tamil Nadu (46.7%), followed by Andhra Pradesh (13.7%), Karnataka (8.1%) and Telengana (8.1%).Acharya said 58.4% of surveyed migrant households have low level of human development, whereas one fourth (37.6%) migrant households reported medium human development and 4.1% migrant households high human development. “As majority of migrant households perceived that their living condition has not at all improved after migration of their family, it indicates that remittances sent by the migrants of Western Odisha have not contributed much for the improvement of the household living conditions,” said Acharya.Also Read: Odisha questioned about sex racket allegations in Kalahandi SchoolIn 2018 World Bank and Odisha higher education department jointly established a Centre of Excellence on Regional Development and Tribal Studies and one of the main objectives of this centre is to analyse the migration and livelihood pattern of the people of western Odisha.Migration to the southern states like Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala is an annual feature in western Odisha, infamous for poverty. In districts like Bolangir, Nuapada, Bargarh and Sambalpur people start flocking to Kantabanjhi railway station to board two trains heading to Visakhapatnam – the Korba-VSKP Link Express and the Durg-VSKP Passenger.A large study in coastal and western Odisha, coordinated by the Centre for Migration Studies, Ajeevika Bureau in 2014 among 99,523 households found that 30.83 per cent of the total households had one or more members migrating for work. This amounted to an estimated 1.53 million migrants from the region, of which 0.58 million were from Western Odisha. The state labour department has not conducted any studies to find out the scale of annual migration to southern states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-finds-remittances-barely-improving-odisha-migrant-workers-families-lives-101636800711482.html
13-11-2021||India||Manipur terrorist attack: Perpetrators will be brought to justice, says defence minister Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday condemned the terrorist attack on a convoy of the Assam Rifles in Manipur's Churachandpur district and said that perpetrators will be brought to justice soon."The cowardly attack on an Assam Rifles convoy in Churachandpur, Manipur is extremely painful and condemnable. The nation has lost 5 brave soldiers including CO 46 AR and two family members. My condolences to the bereaved families. The perpetrators will be brought to justice soon,” Rajnath Singh tweetedColonel Viplav Tripathi, the commanding officer of the 46 Assam Rifles, was travelling in the convoy along with his wife and son and soldiers of the Quick Reaction Team (QRT).Also Read| Assam Rifles CO, wife, son, 3 soldiers killed in terrorist attack in ManipurThe attack took place at around 10am when the convoy was on its way towards a remote village in the Churachandpur district.The cowardly attack on an Assam Rifles convoy in Churachandpur, Manipur is extremely painful & condemnable. The nation has lost 5 brave soldiers including CO 46 AR and two family members. My condolences to the bereaved families. The perpetrators will be brought to justice soon.Police officials told the Associated Press on Saturday that the terrorists opened fire with automatic weapons, killing all the seven people on the spot.So far, no terrorist organisation has claimed responsibility for the attack. However, the police officials cited by AP said that the People’s Liberation Army is likely behind the ambush.Manipur chief minister Biren Singh said that state forces and the para-military have already started tracking down the terrorists, adding, perpetrators will be brought to justice.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also expressed her condolences to the bereaved families.“I strongly condemn the dastardly attack by militants on a convoy of 46 Assam Rifles in Manipur. It pains me to learn that we have lost five brave soldiers, including the CO & his family members. Heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. The entire nation awaits justice!” Banerjee tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-terrorist-attack-perpetrators-will-be-brought-to-justice-says-rajnath-101636797813943.html
13-11-2021||India||Amit Shah hits out at Akhilesh with new ‘Jinnah’ wordplay||Union home minister Amit Shah who is on a two-day visit to Uttar Pradesh's Purvanchal came up with a new ‘Jinnah’ wordplay to hit out at Samajwadi Party (SP).“We brought in JAM- J for Jan Dhan account, A for Aadhaar Card, M for mobile phones. Now, SP also said they bought a JAM...which is - J for Jinnah, A for Azam Khan and M for Mukhtar (Ansari),” Shah said at a rally in Azamgarh.
13-11-2021||India||Airlines may resume food on flights with less than 2-hour duration. Here's what health ministry said||The Union ministry of health and family welfare has informed the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) that meal service can be resumed on flights with less than two hours of journey, reported news agency PTI. The report suggests that MoCA had sought inputs from the health ministry for amending the existing regulations that have barred airlines from providing food to passengers whose air journey is less than two hours.The ban on serving food on flights of less than two hours duration came into effect on April 15 during the devastating second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The health ministry has said that the crew members no longer need to wear coveralls on the flight but they should continue wearing gloves, masks and face shields, reported PTI citing people familiar with the matter.The scheduled domestic flights were resumed on May 25 last year following two months of nationwide lockdown and in-flight meals were also allowed under certain conditions. During the second wave of the pandemic, the civil aviation ministry, on the suggestion from the health ministry, allowed meals for flights flying for more than two hours, provided the airlines used disposable cutlery and served only pre-packed food."The health ministry has now informed that serving food on flights of less than two hours can be resumed and that the crew members need not wear coveralls but should continue to wear gloves, masks and face shields," PTI quoted a person familiar with the development as saying.The overall active cases have shown a sustained decline, with Saturday recording the lowest in 274 days, according to the health ministry’s latest data. The number of fresh daily infections has been below 20,000 for 36 consecutive days, prompting the ministry to further ease restrictions on airlines-related guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-may-resume-food-on-flights-of-less-than-2-hour-duration-here-s-what-health-ministry-said-101636798252538.html
13-11-2021||India||Congress writes to Mark Zuckerberg, seeks internal inquiry on ‘fake news’, findings be made public||The Congress party has asked Facebook chief Mark Zuckerberg for an internal inquiry regarding the issue of fake news and inflammatory content being spread on the social media platform during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s rule.Rohan Gupta, social media head of the All India Congress Committee (AICC), wrote the letter to Mark Zuckerberg, news agency ANI reported. “By making Facebook a weapon, BJP has done business of hate,” Gupta also said in a tweet.“The atmosphere of propagating false news and hatred under Facebook India's patronage is becoming extremely dangerous and Facebook is becoming irresponsible,” he told news agency ANI.He also wondered if Facebook was “responsible” to someone owing to the large user base the platform has in the country. “Today, nearly 37 crore people in the country are using Facebook in our country. This is a matter of 'serving hatred' to those people. Is Facebook responsible for someone? How is Facebook fulfilling this responsibility?” he asked.Also read | Congress MP writes to Facebook India head over company’s partisan policiesGupta in his letter urged Zuckerberg to conduct an internal inquiry into the functioning of Facebook India and make the findings public. “It is your responsibility as the head of this organisation to hold those responsible for betraying our people accountable for their actions,” ANI reported, citing an excerpt from the letter.Further, he also shared a list of three “facts” which he claimed had come to the light. “Firstly, according to a report, when Facebook staff points out hatred and fake news content being spread through Facebook in India, the Facebook executives reply that it is not that big an issue, it is not a problem,” he said.“This hatred is hollowing out India's brotherhood and is weakening India. Facebook India seems to not have a problem with it and more importantly, BJP has no problem by weakening India due to hatred,” he added.“The second fact is that when inflammatory content, fake news was being spread on Facebook, the social media giant chose to ignore its own internal reports on the problem. Instead, Facebook India reduced the number of people in its team who controlled such,” he said. He also alleged that the BJP “took advantage” of this situation.“The third fact is shocking. In the Facebook India report, it said that during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, BJP-RSS spread fake information, hatred among people at an alarming level to win elections and Facebook India also allowed it to spread,” he further claimed.“Facebook India is not only escaping from its responsibilities but also highlighting, forming the nexus of spreading lies and hatred. But we will not allow the land of India to be used for spreading lies and hatred,” he added.Gupta letter to Zuckerberg comes after party MP Gaurav Gogoi wrote to Facebook India managing director Ajit Mohan expressing “vehement disdain and alarm pertaining to the recent revelations made by former employees of Facebook Inc. regarding their internal policies and action taken relating to the moderation of content on your platform.”“Considering the pivotal role Facebook plays today in disseminating information and shaping public opinion, such allegations if true are likely to have an adverse public impact,” Gogoi said in his letter.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-writes-to-mark-zuckerberg-seeks-internal-inquiry-on-fake-news-findings-be-made-public-101636797659188.html
13-11-2021||India||Amravati clashes: Wrong to protest against incident which never happened in Tripura, says Fadnavis||Leader of opposition in Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis said on Saturday that the clashes which erupted during protests in Amravati since Friday are unfortunate, adding it seemed like a well-planned conspiracy. Fadnavis urged all people of Amravati to maintain peace and not engage in violence.Speaking to news agency ANI, Fadnavis, senior BJP leader and the former chief minister of Maharashtra said that communal violence in Tripura never occurred and it was wrong to organise rallies in Maharashtra.Also Read| Section 144 enforced in Amravati after fresh violence over incidents in Tripura“The Tripura government and local police have clarified that no religious place of a minority community was burned down. They have issued pictures of the same as well. I appeal to both the communities to observe restraint,” Fadnavis said in Mumbai, adding that shops of the Hindu community were also attacked during the protests in Maharashtra.Fadnavis also targeted the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra by saying that some of its ministers were giving provocative statements.On Saturday, a mob hurled stones and damaged shops at various places in Amravati during a bandh called by the BJP, prompting the police to resort to lathi charging.The Amravati Police imposed a curfew in the city, which will remain in force till further orders, after the fresh violence. People will not be allowed to step outdoors except for medical emergencies.The Kotwali Police have registered at least 20 first information reports or FIRs in connection with stone-pelting during rallies held on Friday in protest against the Tripura communal violence in Maharashtra and 20 people have been arrested.Also Read| Two cops injured in Maharashtra as protest turns violentOn Friday, rallies in Amravati were held by Muslim organisations against the communal violence which broke out in Tripura's Panisagar town on October 26.More than 8,000 people gathered outside the Amravati district collector's office to submit a memorandum demanding that atrocities against the minority community be stopped.As they were leaving the office, stones were pelted at three places between Chitra Chowk and Cotton Market under the limits of the Kotwali police station.Incidents of stone-pelting were also reported in Malegaon and Nanded during the rallies taken out by Muslim organisations on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clashes-in-amravati-unfortunate-urge-people-to-maintain-peace-fadnavis-101636794133899.html
13-11-2021||India||Former Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro nominated to Rajya Saba by TMC||Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, who joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in September, will be the party’s nominee in the upcoming Rajya Sabha by-poll in West Bengal. TMC, the second-largest opposition party in Parliament, will have no problem getting Faleiro elected in the Upper House as it has an absolute majority in the West Bengal assembly. The vacancy in the Rajya Sabha has arrived after the resignation of Arpita Ghosh in September. Ghosh resigned just days before Faleiro joined the TMC. “Former Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro to be elected next week to the Rajya Sabha by TMC. He will also be contesting the upcoming Goa Assembly elections 2022,” said a TMC leader.Former Goa CM Faleiro is considered to be a prized asset for the TMC that wants to contest Goa assembly elections in February 2022 as part of its plan to expand beyond West Bengal to consolidate its position as a major player in national politics. TMC’s last nominee in Rajya Sabha was Sushmita Dev, another leader who left the Congress and joined Mamata Banerjee’s party. Faleiro’s entry into TMC was not without heartburn in the Congress. According to two senior Congress leaders, party president Sonia Gandhi was irked at the way Congress leaders were lured by the TMC. TMC has announced that it will fight Goa and Tripura elections. Its leaders claimed that in the two states, the people are upset with both the BJP and the Congress and TMC eyes a chance of working the situation in its favour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-goa-cm-luizinho-faleiro-nominated-to-rajya-saba-by-tmc-101636796210109.html
13-11-2021||India||Curfew clamped, internet shut down in Amravati after fresh violence||A curfew was imposed and internet services were shut down on Saturday in Maharashtra's Amravati after fresh violence during a shutdown to protest incidents in Tripura late last month, officials said.Additional police commissioner Sandip Patil issued orders imposing the curfew in the city limits of Amravati under sections 144(1), (2), (3) of the CrPc to avoid any untoward incidents. According to the order, people cannot leave their homes except for medical emergencies and a gathering of more than five people is not allowed. City commissioner of police Arti Singh said internet services in Amravati will remain suspended for three days to prevent the spread of rumours that could fuel violence.Amravati's guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said the violence was unfortunate and that the police will investigate it. Action will be taken against whoever is guilty, she added. “Everyone has the right to protest. But doing violence in the name of the movement is not right,” she said.“We appeal to the people to maintain peace. Some chaotic elements are working to spread violence in the city and police are working hard to maintain law and order,” she added. Also read | Two cops injured in Maharashtra as protest turns violentThe prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC were imposed after at least 10 people were injured when police resorted to lathi-charge during a shutdown called by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday. The shutdown was called by the BJP to protest against the violent incidents during another bandh, called by a section of people in the city on Friday against the alleged vandalisation of a mosque in Tripura. News agency PTI cited an official as saying that a mob hurled stones and damaged shops at various places in Amravati during the bandh prompting the police to lathicharge the protesters.Also read | Cases registered, forces deployed after mosque, shops vandalised: CopsThe news agency reported that hundreds of people, many holding saffron flags in their hands and shouting slogans, came out on the streets in the Rajkamal Chowk area of Amaravati, around 670km from the state capital of Mumbai, in the morning.It cited a police official as saying that some people hurled stones at shops and damaged them in the Rajkamal Chowk area and other places. An additional police force has been deployed at various places in Amravati, the official told PTI.Also read | Mumbra, Bhiwandi observe bandh to condemn attacks on Muslims in TripuraMeanwhile, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis condemned the protests and violence in Maharashtra and appealed for social harmony and peace.“Reactions in Maharashtra on incidents that never occurred in Tripura, are very unfortunate. It seems like a well-planned conspiracy. Hindu shops set on fire in Amravati. More serious part is MVA ministers giving provocative statements,” he also tweeted.According to PTI, more than eight thousand people gathered outside the Amravati district collector's office on Friday to submit a memorandum demanding that atrocities against the minority community be stopped.Also read | ‘Panisagar mosque is safe. Don’t spread rumours’: Tripura policeAs people were leaving after submitting the memorandum, stone-pelting took place at three places between Chitra Chowk and Cotton Market under the limits of the Kotwali police station.Kotwali Police have registered at least 20 FIRs in connection with stone-pelting during rallies held in protest against the Tripura communal violence in five districts of Maharashtra. As many as 20 people have also been arrested.An official told PTI that an additional police force, including two companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), has been deployed in Amravati to avoid any untoward incident.Incidents of stone-pelting were also reported from Malegaon and Nanded during the rallies taken out by some Muslim organisations on Friday. A shutdown was also observed in Muslim-dominated areas of Mumbai, including Bhendi Bazar, Mohammad Ali Road and Kurla, as well as in Thane’s Mumbra and Bhiwandi.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/curfew-clamped-internet-shut-down-in-amravati-after-fresh-violence-101636793925524.html
13-11-2021||India||India strongly takes up 'Khalistan' referendum with UK||Even though India and the UK share similar views on the Indo-Pacific as strategic partners, New Delhi has conveyed its serious concerns to London for allowing banned pro-Khalistan organisation Sikhs for Justice to hold a referendum on the secession of Punjab on October 31.While the so-called referendum held in downtown London turned out to be a damp squib, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval made it clear to his UK counterpart Stephen Lovegrove that the Modi government takes strong exception to the UK allowing a referendum on affairs of a third country by weaponising a minuscule section of the Indian diaspora. The Indian position was conveyed during the bilateral strategic dialogue on November 3 in London.It is understood that India made it clear that there was total peace in Punjab with radical Sikh elements failing to get even one per cent of the vote during assembly or Lok Sabha polls held every five years. The Modi government conveyed its serious concern that the UK government is turning a blind eye to the open radicalisation of the Indian diaspora by Sikh banned groups to promote their secessionist agenda. Under the influence and support of the Pakistani deep state, the Sikh radicals have been holding protests on the three farm laws and punitively participating in anti-India activities in the UK. Despite the SFJ being a banned organization in India since 2019 and its leader Gurpatwant Singh Pannu being declared a terrorist, the UK allowed the US-based extremist organisation to conduct an illegal referendum on the Indian Punjab.Unlike European Union countries like France, Spain and Netherlands with whom India has very close ties, the bilateral ties with the UK have been derailed by London playing an adversarial role against India when it comes to Afghanistan, Pakistan, Kashmir, and the so-called Khalistan issue. In this context, the role played by UK Chief of Defence Staff Nick Carter, who called Taliban terrorist country boys with code of honour, in the now failed Doha peace process stands out singularly.Although India and the United Kingdom have been strategic partners since 2004, the UK role in tacitly supporting Pakistan in the multi-lateral fora on abrogation of Articles 370 and 35 A in Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019, has been noted with concern by the Modi government.It is understood that while UK NSA Lovegrove assured NSA Doval that no anti-India sentiment will be promoted, India is watching London carefully to see whether the promise gets translated on the ground as adversarial actions will directly impact bilateral ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-strongly-takes-up-khalistan-referendum-with-uk-101636794826859.html
13-11-2021||India||Odisha questioned about sex racket allegations at Kalahandi School||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the police chief of Odisha’s Kalahandi district to probe and submit a report within 3 days into allegations of sexual exploitation of minor girls in a public school whose teacher was allegedly murdered and buried in an under-construction stadium last month.Since October second week when the charred remains of Mamita Meher, a woman teacher at Sunshine Public school in Mahalinga grampanchayat of Kalahandi was unearthed from an under-construction stadium, Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress have taken to streets alleging a sex racket flourished there, patronised by Gobind Sahu, the president of the school’s managing committee. Sahu is accused of strangling 26-year-old Meher in his car somewhere in Kalahandi district on October 8 after the latter allegedly threatened to expose his extramarital affairs. He then dismembered the body, burnt it and buried it in an under-construction stadium near the school. He was arrested on October 19 and is now in judicial custody.The political parties have alleged that a sex racket was being operated in the school’s ladies hostel premises, and the girl students, the female staff there were sexually harassed by Sahu.The NCPCR in its letter to Kalahandi SP Vivek Saravana said there have been allegations of sexual exploitation of minor girls by Sahu. “The accused used to tempt the girls for good marks in examination and the minister of state for home Dibyashankar Mishra used to visit the school frequently. Both the girls as well as the boys of the educational institution were exploited,” the NCPCPR said, asking the SP to conduct a probe and submit the report within 3 days.Also Read: Orissa HC says Congress-proposed 6-hour bandh is illegalThe SP was asked to send information on action taken against the accused, total number of students studying in the school, age group of boys and girls, who were allegedly exploited in the school and whether a case was registered in accordance with Section 19/21 of Pocso Act. It however advised the SP to be careful in ensuring that identities of the victims are not disclosed during the process of investigation.Though the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) has been strident in defending minister of state Mishra, saying he could not be held accountable for the crimes committed by Sahu, the BJP and Congress continued to wave black flags and throw eggs at Mishra, agriculture minister Arun Sahu and women and child development Minister Tukuni Sahu’s vehicles over the last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-questioned-about-sex-racket-allegations-in-kalahandi-school-101636794712121.html
13-11-2021||India||Assam Rifles commanding officer, wife, son, 3 soldiers killed in terrorist attack in Manipur||In a major terrorist attack in Manipur, the commanding officer of an Assam Rifles unit, his family members and three paramilitary force personnel were killed in Singhat sub-division of Manipur's Churachandpur district. Colonel Viplav Tripathi's wife and son were there in the convoy. The attack took place at around 10am as the commanding officer went to supervise a civic action programme in the district, reports said, The driver of the car is believed to be killed in the attack, which will take the toll to seven. Manipur-based People's Liberation Army is suspected behind the attack, reports said, though no terrorist militant organisation has claimed responsibility for the attack so far.Officials said terrorists first carried out an IED blast to ambush the convoy of Viplav Tripathi and then fired at the vehicles when the Colonel was returning from his forward company base to his battalion headquarters.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh confirmed to news agency PTI that the commandant and others have been killed in the ambush. Strongly condemn the cowardly attack on a convoy of 46 AR which has reportedly killed few personnel including the CO & his family at CCpur today. The State forces & Para military are already on their job to track down the militants. The perpetrators will be brought to justice.Condemning the attack, the chief minister said the perpetrators will be brought to justice. "Strongly condemn the cowardly attack on a convoy of 46 AR which has reportedly killed few personnel including the CO & his family at CCpur today. The State forces & Para military are already on their job to track down the militants. The perpetrators will be brought to justice," the chief minister tweeted.
13-11-2021||India||Kerala urges Centre to allow booster doses, reduce Covishield dosage gap||The Kerala government has urged the Centre to allow booster doses of the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for those with co-morbidities and reduce the gap of the second dose of Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covishield.Speaking during an event organised by the Indian Express, state health minister Veena George said that she has already written to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya regarding the allowance of booster doses, adding that her secretary has taken up this matter with the secretary of the Union health ministry.Pointing out that the decision on booster doses will be based on expert opinion, George said during the Indian Express event, “We have more number of people with lifestyle diseases — diabetes, hypertension, etc. We have analysed Covid-19 deaths and it was more in people with these comorbidities. It is good if they get a booster dose. This is why we have decided to request the central government to take a decision on giving booster doses.”The Kerala health minister also added that the gap between two doses of Covishield should be reduced due to a large number of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) in the state.“Many of our people work abroad and if they come here and take the first dose of vaccine, it will be difficult for them to stay for 84 days to take the second dose. So we have asked for the gap to be reduced,” George said.In June, the Centre allowed administering a second Covishield dose before the prescribed period of 12-16 weeks in certain cases. These included people who are seeking to travel abroad for education, employment or were a part of the Indian contingent to the Tokyo Olympics 2020.Meanwhile, Veena George also urged the Centre to take a quick decision on vaccinating children against Covid-19.Also Read| Don't want to rush, says health minister on Covid-19 vaccine for childrenTwo days ago, Union health minister Madaviya said that the Centre does not want to rush regarding the inoculation of children against the virus and any decision in this regard will be taken based on expert opinion.Kerala, which is one of the worst-hit states by the coronavirus pandemic, has so far administered 40,753,975 vaccine doses to eligible people of which 25,489,633 have received the first dose and the remaining 15,264,342 are fully vaccinated.The state on Friday recorded 6,674 new cases of Covid, 59 related deaths and 7,022 people recovered from the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-urges-centre-to-allow-booster-doses-reduce-covishield-dosage-gap-101636790533987.html
13-11-2021||India||On whirlwind tour of eastern UP, Amit Shah to visit Azamgarh, Basti||Union home minister Amit Shah, who is on a whirlwind tour of eastern Uttar Pradesh will lay the foundation of a state university in Azamagarh on Saturday before travelling to Basti where he will inaugurate Sansad Khel Kumbh and also address a public meeting. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma will also remain present during the foundation laying. The university will come up on 52-acre land which has already been acquired. After coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP government had promised to set up a university in Azamgarh, considered to be a stronghold of the Samajwadi Party.Before reaching Azamgarh, Shah addressed the Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan in Varanasi and stressed that the Central government has given special emphasis on ‘Rajbhasha’ (national language) under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership, Shah said he “loves” Hindi language more than Gujarati, the regional language of his home state.He added that the freedom movement was turned into a people’s movement, built on three pillars of Swaraj (self-rule), Swadeshi (promotion of country made goods) and Swabhasha (own language), however, Swaraj was achieved, but Swadeshi and Swabhasha were left behind. There is no conflict between Hindi and all our local languages. he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Also Read |‘Time has come to take pride…’: Amit Shah urges people to speak in HindiOn Friday, he held a meeting with the BJP’s assembly constituency in charges and district presidents and reviewed preparedness for the upcoming assembly elections in the state. A BJP leader, who attended the meeting in Varanasi, said Shah told the BJP assembly constituency in charges to focus on every polling booth to win the UP polls. He gave the mantra: Yadi Booth Jeeta to UP jeeta (if the booth is won, then UP is won). Having announced that the BJP is eying to win 300 plus seats in UP, Shah told the workers to apprise the electorate of welfare schemes started by the BJP governments at the Centre and in UP. He also asked the people to prepare a list of intellectuals in every assembly constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-whirlwind-tour-of-eastern-up-amit-shah-to-visit-azamgarhbasti-101636792968348.html
13-11-2021||India||Mumbai achieves 100% first dose Covid vaccine coverage||Nearly ten months after the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme was rolled out, Mumbai has achieved 100% first dose coverage on Saturday. The city’s target adult population is 9,236,546, and by noon on Saturday, 9,239,902 first dose has been administered in the city, according to the CoWin dashboard. Mumbai’s second dose coverage stood at 5,983,452, nearly 65% of the city’s adult population. “Decentralising the vaccination centres played a crucial role in our vaccine coverage,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Civic officials said their aim is to achieve coverage beyond 100% as many people from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region have taken the vaccine jabs in Mumbai. Infectious disease expert and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force Dr Om Srivastava said that 100% first dose coverage is a great news for the city. “It definitely means that the city has lot more protection, but this should not be taken as an excuse to let our guards down. The virus is unpredictable, and there are countries that are seeing large number of cases even now. France, for instance has now announced that they are experiencing the fifth wave,” he said. According to Srivastava, Russia, which has high vaccination coverage is also going through a surge. “It is difficult to predict how the virus will behave in different countries, despite vaccination,” he said. Also Read: HC order on Wankhede defamation suit reservedMumbai launched the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination for healthcare workers on January 16, along with the rest of the country, with just 10 vaccination centres. The city gradually increased the number of vaccinations centres, while battling many instances of supply shortage. Its feat of 100% first dose coverage was achieved by a total of 462 public and private vaccination centres that have the combined capacity to administer over 123,000 vaccine doses a day. “It’s a great milestone and perhaps the first in the country,” said vaccination expert Dr Naveen Thacker, a former civil society organisation representative to GAVI, the vaccine alliance. “Mumbai has shown us that 100% vaccination is achievable. Other districts in the country should follow suit,” he said, adding that the full first dose coverage is a relief at a time when schools and colleges are reopening and all lockdown restrictions have been lifted. “This wide coverage should be a good barrier between the city and the anticipated third wave,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-achieves-100-first-dose-covid-vaccine-coverage-101636791408475.html
13-11-2021||India||Heavy rain continues to lash Tamil Nadu, IMD issues thunderstorm alert||Thunderstorm with moderate rainfall is likely to occur at one or two places over the Kanniyakumari and Tirunelveli districts of Tamil Nadu within the next two hours, according to an alert issued by Regional Meteorological Centre in Chennai on Saturday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), however, has withdrawn a ‘red alert’ for heavy rainfall in Chennai, instead predicting more showers in Kerala and coastal Andhra Pradesh.According to the MeT department, a new cyclonic system is expected to develop over the south Andaman sea on November 13 and 14. RK Jenamani, a senior scientist for the IMD, confirmed the development and said that the department is monitoring the system as it develops.The districts in Tamil Nadu which are likely to see heavy rainfall later today are – Kanyakumari, Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, Kallakurichi, Namakkal, Karur, Dindigul, Salem, Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Theni, Perambalur, Tiruchirapalli, Madurai, Virudhunagar, and Thenkasi. The meteorologists have also predicted moderate showers over the rest of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal.As many as 14 people have been killed in rain-related incidents in the state since last week, with the downpour leaving a trail of destruction in several districts. The ANI news agency reported, citing resident locals, that waterlogging has persisted in some areas, including in north Chennai's Jawahar Nagar, for over a week. The residents told the agency that they have no power and that “drainage water is mixed with rainwater, so there's odour and a lot of insects and snakes coming into the house.”Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin visited the rain-affected areas of Cuddalore earlier in the day and distributed relief materials to the needy people. Stalin also reviewed waterlogging in the agricultural areas of Kurinjipaadi and Cuddalore districts.The chief minister later plans to visit the delta districts of Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Thiruvaarur and Thanjore, and review the situation there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-continues-to-lash-tamil-nadu-imd-issues-thunderstorm-alert-101636788901891.html
13-11-2021||India||TMC nominates former Goa CM Faleiro to Rajya Sabha||The All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) will nominate former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro to the Rajya Sabha, the party confirmed on Saturday. Goa will vote to elect a new government in assembly polls scheduled early next year. Announcing the decision via a tweet from the party’s official handle, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has said that they are “confident that his efforts towards serving the nation shall be appreciated widely by our people!”“We are extremely pleased to nominate @luizinhofaleiro to the Upper House of the Parliament,” the party said. “The party has done what it had promised by giving a stronger representation to Goa at the national level,” the party said in a statement. Faleiro was long rumoured to have been offered a Rajya Sabha seat in exchange for him shifting allegiances from the Congress to the Trinamool Congress. The former two-time chief minister of Goa, who occupied the top post only for a total of nine months across his two terms, was initially tight-lipped about the shift. Also Read: Goa minister says his wife will ‘most certainly’ contest state polls from SiolimFaleiro represented the Navelim constituency continuously from 1979 till 2007 when he was defeated by Churchill Alemão of the Save Goa Front, who is presently a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MLA from the neighbouring Benaulim constituency. He was re-elected after a ten-year gap in 2017. Faleiro also served as the president of the Goa Pradesh Congress committee and was appointed the AICC in charge of several north eastern states including Mizoram, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-nominates-former-goa-cm-faleiro-to-rajya-sabha-101636790089829.html
13-11-2021||India||Aadhaar update: Here’s how you can change name, address, phone number||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has made the process of correcting errors in Aadhaar cards easier and one can fix their details easily from the comfort of their homes.Citizens to change their demographic and biometric details, including their name, address, date of birth/age, gender, mobile number, email address, relationship status, and information sharing consent. They can also change their biometric details such as iris, fingerprints and facial photographs.Here’s how you can change your name on Aadhaar card:1. Visit the official UIDAI web portal - https://uidai.gov.in/ 2. Click on 'My Aadhaar' on the top left corner of the website3. Now go to the ‘Update Your Aadhaar’ section. You will see the option of Update your Demographics Data Online4. As soon as you click on it you will get to the official website of UIDAI Self Service Update Portal ssup.uidai.gov.in5. You now need to log in with your 12 digit Aadhaar number. Then fill in the captcha given on the screen and click on Send OTP. You will get an OTP on your registered mobile number6. After you enter the OTP, a new page will open. Now you will have to fill in your personal details like your address, date of birth, name and gender and others7. You now need to select the section in which you want to make the changes. That means you will now have the option to change your name, date of birth, address. If you want to change your name, then click on update name8. You must have ID proof to update the name. As ID proof, you will have to upload a PAN card, driving license, voter ID card, ration card9. After filling in all the details, a verification OTP will be sent to your number and you will need to verify it. You can now save the changes.Here’s how you can change your address on Aadhaar card:1. Go to resident.uidai.gov.in and click on 'Request Aadhaar Validation Letter' given in Aadhaar Update Section2. After this, you will be taken to the Self Service Update (SSUP) portal3. Log in through your 12 digit Aadhaar number.4. You will get a link via SMS on your registered mobile number5. Verify by entering OTP and captcha6. Now log in via SRN. You will receive a letter upon submission7. After this you have to go to UIDAI's website again and click on 'Proceed to Update Address'. You will have to choose the option of ‘Update Address’ via ‘Secret Code’8. After entering the 'Secret Code', check the new address and click on Submit. Note down the 'Update Request Number' (URN) that appears on the screen.Here’s how you can update your mobile number on Aadhaar card:1. Go to UIDAI’s official website, ask.uidai.gov.in2. Login using your current registered number, type captcha code and click on the 'Send OTP' option 3. Then click on ‘Submit OTP & Proceed’4. Now go to ‘Online Aadhaar Services' and click on the ‘Update mobile number’ option5. Fill in all required details and click on ‘what do you want to update’6. You will now have to enter the captcha code7. You will get an OTP your number, enter that and click on ‘Save and Proceed’8. Book an appointment and visit your nearest Aadhaar centre to finalise and pay a ₹25 fee to complete the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aadhaar-update-here-s-how-you-can-change-name-address-phone-number-101636789290376.html
13-11-2021||India||Delhi CM calls emergency meeting to tackle air pollution||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called an “emergency” meeting on Saturday evening to discuss immediate measures to curb air pollution in the city, senior government officials privy to the development said.“Kejriwal has called an emergency meeting today to tackle air pollution. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain, environment minister Gopal Rai and chief secretary have been asked to be present,” said a senior government official on condition of anonymity.The decision to convene the meeting came minutes after the Supreme Court suggested that the Centre and the Delhi government should consider imposing a lockdown for two days in the national Capital in view of the rising pollution levels.The apex court said that air quality in Delhi is in the ‘severe’ category and in another two to three days it will dip further.The court asked the governments to take an emergency decision. “We will look at a long term solution later,” it said. Also Read: On pollution in Delhi, Supreme Court suggests imposing lockdown for 2 daysThe national capital plunged into the ‘severe category’ after reporting an air quality index (AQI) of 499, according to the latest data provided by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR). Authorities on Friday advised people to limit outdoor activities and told government and private offices to cut vehicle use by at least 30% as the air quality in Delhi-NCR inched towards the emergency level amid a rise in emissions from farm fires and unfavourable meteorological conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cm-calls-emergency-meeting-to-tackle-air-pollution-101636789128140.html
13-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: TMC nominates ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro to Rajya Sabha and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Trinamool nominates ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro to Rajya SabhaThe Trinamool Congress on Saturday nominated former Goa chief minister, who joined the party in September, as its member to the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of Parliament. Read more'Rizwan’s grit, fight after being in ICU for two days, truly inspiring’: VVS Laxman doffs hat to Pakistan's wicketkeeperThe fact that Pakistan's wicketkeeper-batsman Mohammad Rizwan was in the ICU two days before the T20 World Cup semifinal and he still went on to score a crucial 67 against Australia bears a testament to his love for the country. Read moreKangana Ranaut offers to return Padma Shri if proven wrong about freedom comment, asks 'which war took place in 1947'Kangana Ranaut defended herself after being slammed for her ‘freedom’ remark. The actor said that she is ready to return her Padma Shri if someone can enlighten her about what took place in 1947. Read moreMilind Soman does 18 pull-ups after long day at work, fan says incredible at 56: Watch videoFitness enthusiast and celebrated supermodel Milind Soman has a knack for pumping us up to get off our beds and start our day on a healthy routine. At 56, the actor never misses a day in his workout routine that is an inspiration for many. Recently, he posted a video of himself working out after a long day at work, and it will motivate you to fight all the laziness. Read moreFood blogger tries ‘Tikki rasgulla chaat’, her expression says it all. WatchA food blogger's reaction to trying a new fusion food dish has left people giggling. It also prompted many to say how they think they would feel the same way as the blogger without even trying the dish. The clip shows the woman trying a dish called ‘Tikki rasgulla chaat’, Let that sink in. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tmc-nominates-ex-goa-cm-luizinho-faleiro-to-rajya-sabha-and-all-the-latest-news-101636787762691.html
13-11-2021||India||Trinamool nominates ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro to Rajya Sabha||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday nominated former Goa chief minister, who joined the party in September, as its member to the Rajya Sabha, the upper house of Parliament. According to reports citing party functionaries familiar with the development, Faleiro is expected to file his nomination papers next Tuesday as the Trinamool Congress member for Rajya Sabha.Announcing the news from its official handle on Twitter, the Trinamool said, “We are extremely pleased to nominate @luizinhofaleiro to the Upper House of the Parliament. We are confident that his efforts towards serving the nation shall be appreciated widely by our people!”We are extremely pleased to nominate @luizinhofaleiro to the Upper House of the Parliament.We are confident that his efforts towards serving the nation shall be appreciated widely by our people!Goa is heading to assembly elections early next year, a scenario that is being followed closely at the Trinamool camp. Party supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee conducted a series of public meetings in Goa last month, which Faleiro and other local leaders were also seen attending. According to political commentators, the Trinamool has now nominated the former Goa chief minister and seven-time legislator, Faleiro, to Rajya Sabha to increase its organisational strength in the poll-bound state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-nominates-ex-goa-cm-luizinho-faleiro-to-rajya-sabha-101636784826544.html
13-11-2021||India||Bihar panchayat election 2021 results: Know who is winning from where||The results for the sixth phase of Bihar panchayat election 2021 started coming in from Saturday morning. At least 848 panchayats in 37 districts will see the results in this phase. The counting will be completed on Sunday.The polling in sixth phase of Bihar panchayat elections was held on November 3. Among the results to be declared today are from Patna, Vaishali, Gaya, Saran, Aurangabad, Aiwan, Buxar, Kaimur, Rohtas, Gopalganj, Sheikhpura, Nawada, Nalanda, Kishanganj and Begusarai.The results today will decide the fate of 94,188 candidates. The state election commission has made elaborate arrangements for counting of votes.The results have started trickling in.• In Araria, the head of Sikatia panchayat Jai Kumar has been defeated. The winner Pramod Kumar Yadav defeated Kumar by 380 votes. Jai Kumar is the brother of Sikti MLA Vijay Kumar.• Ziaul Haq emerged as the winner of the Dilaghbank panchayat in Kishanganj.• In Lohargara panchayat, Krishna Kumar defeated Bahaar Ali.• In Siwan's Kailgarh, the election has been won by Rambalak.• In Buxar's Kamarpur panchayat, Kalawati Devi won 3,202 votes. He nearest rival Sarita Devi received 1,652 votes. Kalawati won the contest by 1,550 votes. In another panchayat from Buxar, Chhotka Nuav, Gorakhram (with 1,332 votes) defeated Guddu Rajak (902 votes).• Sanjay Prasad won the Lakdi Dargah panchayat in Siwan.• Udwant Nagar in Bhojpur, new canddiates won the election in Chhoti Sasaram and Karisath. While Virendra Kumar Sah won in Chhoti Sasaram, Dharmsheela Devi emerged victorious in Karisath.The counting began at 8am on Saturday amidst tight security arrangements. Four halls have been prepared for the counting of votes, with 15 tables in each one of them. CCTV camera along with control rooms have also been prepared to ensure no untoward incident happens during the counting of votes.Two-layered security has been thrown around the counting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-panchayat-election-2021-results-know-who-is-winning-from-where-101636785814107.html
13-11-2021||India||On pollution in Delhi, Supreme Court suggests imposing lockdown for 2 days||The Supreme Court on Saturday suggested that the Centre and the Delhi government may consider imposing a lockdown of two days in the national capital in view of the high pollution levels. The court's observations came while hearing a case in this matter.A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, Justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant said that the air quality in Delhi is in the "severe" category and will dip further in another 2-3 days and asked the Centre to take an emergency decision. "Tell us how we can reduce AQI from 500 at least by 200 points. Take some urgent measures. Can you think of two days lockdown or something? How can people live? We will look at a long term solution later," it said."You have to look at this issue beyond politics and government. Something must happen so that in two to three days we feel better," the bench told the Centre.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that the government is going to hold a meeting today where the focus will be on the emergency situation of air pollution.The Centre further said in its response that we have to be watchful till November 18, as per its consultation with the India Meteorological Department (IMD), which has cited a spurt in stubble burning as one of the reasons.The court, however, said that farmers alone can't be blamed for the rising pollution levels over stubble burning and that the authorities must deal with other causes too, including vehicular pollution, dust and industrial pollution.The court then asked the Delhi government about what happened to its decision to install smog towers and emission control projects. "This is not the Centre's but your jurisdiction. What is happening on that front?" the apex court asked the Delhi government. After the court's rap, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has called an emergency meeting today at 5pm.The court then directed Centre to call an emergency meeting of all the stakeholders and posted the matter for hearing on Monday.The air quality level in Delhi plunged to near emergency levels on Friday, with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recording an AQI of 471. It was 411 on Thursday.A sub-committee on Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) said meteorological conditions will be highly unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants till November 18 and agencies concerned must be fully ready to implement measures under "emergency" category.A record number of farm fires is believed to be one of the major reasons for pushing up Delhi's pollution. According to an analysis of data from heat-sensing satellites done by Hindustan Times, there have been 24,694 incidents of fire recorded since November 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pollution-in-delhi-supreme-court-suggests-imposing-lockdown-for-2-days-101636784148496.html
13-11-2021||India||‘I greatly cherish’: PM Modi thanks Padma Shri awardee Biren Kumar Basak for special gift||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday took to Twitter to recall his interaction with Padma Shri awardee Biren Kumar Basak during this year's Padma Awards ceremony, which took place at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on November 8. In his post, PM Modi thanked Basak, who is a saree weaver from West Bengal, for presenting something, which, he said, he greatly cherishes.Also Read | Meet Biren Kumar Basak, from selling sarees to winning Padma Shri“Shri Biren Kumar Basak belongs to Nadia in West Bengal. He is a reputed weaver, who depicts different aspects of Indian history and culture in his Sarees. During the interaction with the Padma Awardees, he presented to me something which I greatly cherish,” PM Modi tweeted, sharing an image of the said interaction between the two.
13-11-2021||India||Maharashtra signs MoU to boost adoption of electric vehicles||The Maharashtra government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian arm of the USA-based Rocky Mountain Institute (RMI) to support adoption of electric vehicles (EVs) in Maharashtra earlier this week.RMI India -- which is an independent non-profit working on clean energy transitions in the country -- is expected to provide technical support for implementation of the state’s recently launched EV Policy. The MoU was signed in Glasgow amid the ongoing COP26 summit.Maharashtra’s new draft Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy 2021 aims to bring at least 146,000 new battery-operated electric vehicles (BEVs) on state roads by 2025, estimated to comprise about 10% of all new vehicle registrations by that time. The policy aims to incentivise purchase of 100,000 electric two-wheelers, 15,000 e-autos, 10,000 cars, 20,000 goods carriers (both three and four-wheeler) and 1,000 e-buses.For each of these vehicle segments, incentives are likely to be funded by the green tax levied on polluting vehicles, said officials from the transport department. Importantly, urban local bodies will also provide rebates on property tax to residential establishments that set up EV charging infrastructure on their premises. In fact, the policy targets that all upcoming residential complexes should have 20% of their parking spots dedicated for EVs by 2025.Also Read: Maharashtra education dept to refund only 21% of board exam fees“We look forward to further our partnership on electric mobility, ZEV, hydrogen fuel and decarbonisation of our transport and urban renewal sector” said Aaditya Thackeray, Cabinet minister for environment and climate change, at the signing of the MoU. Akshima Ghate, senior director, RMI India added, “Maharashtra has notified one of the most progressive sub-national EV policies. RMI India is inspired by honourable minister’s vision for 100% electrification of public transport in the state and is looking forward to bringing together RMI and RMI India’s expertise to support the state in decarbonising its transportation sector.” RMI India is currently implementing its City EV Accelerator platform in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-signs-mou-to-boost-adoption-of-electric-vehicles-101636782828357.html
13-11-2021||India||'Arrest her': Who said what on Kangana Ranaut's alms remark||Actor Kangana Ranaut, who is known for making controversial remarks, has again stirred controversy over her views on India's independence struggle against the British Raj.The 34-year-old Padma Shri Award winner said in an interview with a TV news channel that India's independence in 1947 was not freedom but ‘bheek’ (alms) and the country got real independence in 2014 when the Narendra Modi-led government came into power.Also Read| Kangana Ranaut’s alms remark ‘biggest misuse of freedom’, says BJP leader“That wasn’t freedom, it was a bheek (alms). We got real freedom in 2014,” Ranaut said in a 24-second clip which was tweeted by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi. Gandhi said that it is an anti-national act and must be called out as such.Political parties, including the BJP, have strongly condemned Ranaut's remarks.The Congress on Friday demanded that the Centre should take back the Padma Shri from Ranaut as she insulted the country’s independence movement. The Shiv Sena, which is an ally in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, said that a sedition case should be filed against the Bollywood actor.Also Read| Withdraw Padmashri, National Awards given to Kangana: MVAThe Mahila Congress in Rajasthan has already lodged multiple complaints with the police against Ranaut and the TV channel where she gave the interview. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has also filed a complaint against the actor in Nagpur. Here are the top reactions on Kangana Ranaut's comment:• “We strongly condemn actress Kangana Ranaut’s statement. She insulted freedom fighters. The Centre must take back the Padma Shri from Kangana and arrest her. Looks like Kangana Ranaut took a heavy dose of Malana Cream before making such a statement,” Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik.• “Being the son of a freedom fighter and coming from a family of freedom fighters, I find Kangana Ranaut’s remarks that India’s freedom was alms (bheek) as the biggest misuse of freedom and an insult to the sacrifice made by freedom fighters,” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.• “Prime Minister should break his silence and tell the nation if he endorses the views of Ms Ranaut. If not, the government should take appropriate legal action against such people,” Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said in a series of tweets.• “Kangana Ranaut’s comment on the country’s fight for Independence is completely wrong. Nobody has a right to pass a negative remark on the freedom movement,” Maharashtra BJP President Chandrakant Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrest-her-who-said-what-on-kangana-ranaut-s-alms-remark-101636778111134.html
13-11-2021||India||Centre releases ₹8,453.92 cr grant to 19 states to strengthen health systems||The Centre has released ₹8,453.92 crore as a health sector grant for rural and urban local bodies of 19 states to “strengthen health systems and plug critical gaps in the health care system” at the primary health care level, the Union ministry of finance said on Saturday.The finance ministry said in a release that the grant was released by the department of expenditure as per the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission.“The Fifteenth Finance Commission (FC-XV) in its Report for the period from 2021-22 to 2025-26 has recommended a total grant of Rs.4,27,911 crore to local governments. The grants recommended by the Commission inter-alia include health grants of Rs.70,051 crore. Out of this amount, ₹43,928 crore have been recommended for Rural Local Bodies and ₹26,123 crore for Urban Local Bodies,” according to the finance ministry’s release.The 19 states are Andhra Pradesh ( ₹488.1527 cr), Arunachal Pradesh ( ₹46.944 cr), Assam ( ₹272.2509 cr), Bihar ( ₹1116.3054 cr), Chhattisgarh ( ₹338.7944 cr), Himachal Pradesh ( ₹98.0099 cr), Jharkhand ( ₹444.3983 cr), Karnataka ( ₹551.53), Madhya Pradesh ( ₹922.7992), Maharashtra ( ₹778.0069 cr), Manipur ( ₹42.8771), Mizoram ( ₹31.19 cr), Odisha ( ₹461.7673 cr), Punjab ( ₹399.6558 cr), Rajasthan ( ₹656.171 cr), Sikkim ( ₹20.978 cr), Tamil Nadu ( ₹805.928 cr), Uttarakhand ( ₹150.0965 cr) and West Bengal ( ₹828.0694 cr).The health grants to the remaining nine states will be released after their proposals are received from the respective states through the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the release also said.The finance ministry said that the commission has also identified interventions that will “directly lead to strengthening the primary health infrastructure and facilities in both rural and urban areas and has earmarked grants for each intervention.”The finance ministry has earmarked grants of ₹16,377 crore for support for diagnostic infrastructure to the primary healthcare facilities in rural areas and ₹5,279 crore for block-level public health units in rural areas. It has also earmarked ₹7,167 crore for the construction of buildings of building-less sub-centres, Primary Health Centres (PHCs), Community Health Centres (CHCs) in rural areas and ₹15,105 crore for the conversion of rural PHCs and sub-centres into health and wellness centre.The finance ministry said ₹2,095 crore has been granted for the support for diagnostic infrastructure to the primary healthcare facilities in urban areas and ₹24,028 crore urban health and wellness centres (HWCs)."Health grants recommended to be released in the financial year 2021-22 is ₹13,192 crore of which ₹8,273 crore is for rural and ₹4,919 crore is for urban local bodies," the ministry added.It also said that the rural and urban local bodies can play a key role in the delivery of primary health care services especially at the 'cutting edge' level and help in achieving the objective of Universal Health Care."Strengthening the local governments in terms of resources, health infrastructure and capacity building can enable them to play a catalytic role in epidemics and pandemics too," the finance ministry added.“Involving Panchayati Raj institutions and Urban Local Government as supervising agencies in these primary health care institutions would strengthen the overall primary health care system and involvement of local governments would also make the health system accountable to the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-rs-8-453-92-cr-grant-to-19-states-to-strengthen-health-systems-101636779054480.html
13-11-2021||India||UP polls: BJP favourite, SP gains momentum, shows ABP-CVoter survey||The Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is favourite to win the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections next year, according to the results of the ABP News-CVoter survey. It was conducted in the first week of November amid the various permutations and combinations emerging in the politically crucial state.The ABP News-CVoter survey also showed that the Samajwadi Party (SP), under the leaderhsip of Akholesh Yadav, is gaining ground, while Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is sliding.The survey was carried out in five states - Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Goa and Manipur with the sample size of 1,07,193. The margin of error, according to ABP, was +/- 3% to +/- 5%.The ABP-CVoter survey shows that the BJP's seats are expected to come down from 325 in 2017 to something in the range of 213-221 in the UP assembly elections scheduled to be held early next year, but it is still in clear lead. The Election Commission is expected to announce the poll schedule in January.The SP is projected to win 152-160 seats in the state elections next year, while the BSP is expected to win 16-20 seats - in the last election it won 19 seats.The BJP is also likely to capture 40.7 per cent of the votes, marginally down from its 2017 number of 41.4 per cent, the ABP-CVoter survey further showed.The Congress is also gaining some ground under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi, the ABP-CVoter curvey said, showing an expected uptick of 2.7 per cent in the vote share as compared to the party's 2017 performance.The SP and its allies is likely to wrest 31.1 per cent vote share, up from 23.6 per cent they captured in 2017. The BSP, meanwhile, will most likely see its vote share plunge to 15.1 per cent from 22.2 per cent in last polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-polls-bjp-favourite-sp-gains-momentum-shows-abp-cvoter-survey-101636778232753.html
13-11-2021||India||Jhansi bound super fast train catches fire, all safe||An air conditioned coach of Jhansi bound 04062 Taj Super Fast (SF) Express caught minor fire shortly after it departed from New Delhi railway station on Saturday morning, railway officials said. The Taj Super Fast Express departed from New Delhi at 6.56 am and the incident took place at 7.40 am at Asaoti railway station in Haryana after it had covered about 50 kms of its journey. A railway official said, “Smoke was observed by the station master and hence the train was made to halt.”Deepak Kumar, chief public relation officer (CPRO) Northern Railway said, “There was smoke due to jamming of the break block. Train was stopped at Asaoti railway station between Hazrat Nizamuddin — Palwal section. The fire was extinguished and all passengers are safe.”Also Read: Railways to discontinue special trains, revert to certain pre-Covid-19 faresOfficials confirmed that the train departed at 8.30 am from Asaoti station after thorough technical checks were performed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jhansi-bound-super-fast-train-catches-fire-all-safe-101636777787700.html
13-11-2021||India||Covid-19: India logs 11,850 new cases; daily toll tops 500 for 2nd straight day||For a second straight day, India saw more than 500 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related fatalities, as 555 more people succumbed due to the infection, taking the overall toll to 463,245, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Saturday. The country also added 11,850 fresh infections, more than 5 per cent lower than yesterday, taking the cumulative case count to 34,426,036, the ministry said in its daily bulletin.Also Read | Nearly 1,900 Covid deaths in India this week, highest on Nov 12: Top updatesOf the new cases and deaths, 6674 infections and 471 fatalities (59 fresh+412 backlog) were reported from Kerala alone. The southern state thus contributed more than 56 per cent and 86 per cent of the latest daily infections and deaths respectively.Saturday's bulletin also showed that as many as 12,403 more patients were discharged after recovery, taking the total number of such cases to 33,826,483, while active caseload fell by 1108 to 136,308. It added that the recovery rate, at 98.26 per cent, was at its highest since March 2020, also highlighting that the active caseload was at its lowest in 39 weeks (274 days). At 0.40 per cent, the contribution of active cases in the overall tally is at its lowest since March last year, while deaths contribute 1.34 per cent to the total tally, the ministry further said.Meanwhile, with 1,266,589 samples tested for Covid-19 on Friday, 622,333,939 samples have been tested since the beginning of the pandemic, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) data showed. The daily positivity rate, therefore, stood at 0.94 per cent, staying below the 2 per cent mark for the 40th consecutive day. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/1VqVfdbwsgFor the 50th straight day, the weekly positivity rate, too, remained below 2 per cent, and was recorded at 1.05 per cent.With 5,842,530 more vaccine doses administered, the cumulative vaccination coverage has risen to more than 1.11 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-logs-11-850-new-cases-daily-toll-tops-500-for-2nd-straight-day-101636775805992.html
13-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC to hear case regarding operation of Mullaperiyar Dam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court to hear today case regarding operation of 126-year-old Mullaperiyar DamThe Supreme Court will on Saturday hear a public interest litigation regarding the operation of the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar Dam, a longstanding dispute between the states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Read moreDays before PM Modi inaugurates Habibganj station, MP govt seeks to rename itPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the swanky new Habibganj railway station in Madhya Pradesh's capital Bhopal on Monday (November 15). The station has been redeveloped as a cost of ₹100 crore. Read moreBombay HC order on Wankhede defamation suit reservedThe Bombay high court on Friday reserved its order on a defamation plea against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for his comments on Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede, observing that verification of information was important. Read moreUS court extends order pausing Biden's shot-or-test mandate for businessesA US appeals court has extended its November 6 order pausing President Joe Biden’s shot-or-test mandate for businesses with 100 or more employees. The ruling, issued today by the New Orleans-based US court of appeals for the fifth circuit, solidifies its earlier order blocking implementation of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s emergency regulation. Read moreKangana Ranaut shows Bollywood moves at Tejas wrap-up bash amid 'freedom' comment row. See picsKangana Ranaut partied the night away with the team of her upcoming film, Tejas on Friday. The actor shared several pictures and videos from the bash on Instagram. Read more‘It should not have happened’: After Ashwin, Harbhajan joins 'Spirit of Cricket' debate on Warner's sixAfter Indian spinner Ravichandran Ashwin, veteran cricketer Harbhajan Singh joined the "Spirit of Cricket" debate on Friday, talking about Australian opener David Warner's six against a double-bouncer from Pakistan all-rounder Mohammed Hafeez during the second semi-final of the T20 World Cup at the Dubai International Stadium on Thursday. Read moreMadhuri Dixit looks magical in most beautiful ₹90k pink silk saree for new shoot: All picsActor Madhuri Dixit Nene's eternal love for everything traditional has given the fashion world some magical moments. From wearing the most beautiful sarees to rocking intricately designed lehengas, the star has worn it all. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-to-hear-case-regarding-operation-of-mullaperiyar-dam-101636772187252.html
13-11-2021||India||Nearly 1,900 Covid deaths in India this week, highest on Nov 12: Top updates||Till now, India has reported 34,414,186 cases, 462,690 deaths and 33,814,080 recoveries due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The active cases, which stand at 137,416, have been the lowest in 267 days and the overall recovery rate is at 98.26%.On Friday, the country reported 12,516 cases while 501 more patients succumbed to the viral disease. The cases and deaths reported this week are at 58,650 and 1,899 respectively.Meanwhile, more than 1.11 billion vaccines have been administered in India since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January. Of these, nearly 5.3 million doses were administered in the last 24 hours.Here are the top Covid-19 updates across India during this week:> This week, the highest number of cases was reported on Thursday at 13,091, while the lowest number of cases was reported on Tuesday at 10,126.> The highest number of deaths this week was reported on Friday, at 501, and the lowest was on Monday at 266.> The national capital Delhi recorded its first death due to Covid-19 after a gap of few weeks when two more patients succumbed to the viral disease on Friday, taking the overall toll to 25,093. Delhi had last reported a virus-related death on October 22.> Union health minister Mansukh Madaviya said on Friday that stickers will be pasted out the houses of those families who are fully vaccinated, i.e. have taken both doses.> The Centre on Thursday revised its guidelines for international passengers coming to India. According to the new guidelines, children below the age of 5 are exempted from both pre-and post-arrival Covid-19 testing.> INSACOG, a consortium of laboratories from across the country tasked with monitoring genomic variations in the Sars-CoV-2 virus, informed on Thursday that the Delta Variant of the coronavirus disease continues to be the main variant of concern in India.> The Union health ministry said on Tuesday that India and 96 other countries have agreed to mutually recognise vaccination certificates.> On Wednesday, Himachal Pradesh reopened schools for classes 3 to 7 amid an improvement in the overall pandemic situation in the state. Previously, offline classes resumed for students of classes eight and above in Himachal Pradesh.> Intending to achieve 100% vaccination coverage of all eligible population by the end of this year, the Madhya Pradesh government announced that a special vaccination drive will be organised every Wednesday starting from November 10.> The Assam government said on Monday that children below the age of 10 who enter the state will no longer be required to undergo the mandatory testing for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-1-900-covid-deaths-in-india-this-week-highest-on-nov-12-top-updates-101636768839795.html
13-11-2021||India||Among world's 10 most polluted cities, 3 are from India. Check full list here||Mounting levels of air pollution in Delhi, exacerbated by a hazardous amalgamation of smoke from farm fires in the nearby states and the city's local pollution sources such as vehicle emissions, have triggered concerns of a health emergency. Meanwhile, the air quality and pollution city tracking service from IQAir, a Switzerland-based climate group that is also a technology partner of the United Nations Environmental Program, has shown that there are as many as three cities from India on the list of ten cities with the worst air quality indices.While Delhi tops the list with an average AQI of 556 as listed by the IQAir service, Kolkata ranks fourth and Mumbai sixth in the entire list. The cities with the worst AQI indices also include Lahore, in Pakistan, and Chengdu, in China.Here are the ten cities with the worst air quality indicators and pollution rankings, according to IQAir:-1. Delhi, India (AQI: 556)2. Lahore, Pakistan (AQI: 354)3. Sofia, Bulgaria (AQI: 178)4. Kolkata, India (AQI: 177)5. Zagreb, Croatia (AQI: 173)6. Mumbai, India (AQI: 169)7. Belgrade, Serbia (AQI: 165)8. Chengdu, China (AQI: 165)9. Skopje, North Macedonia (AQI: 164)10. Krakow, Poland (AQI: 160)-Notably, estimates from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s (IITM) decision support system (DSS), which provide a forecast for Delhi’s air quality and identify the components of the pollution, said that on Friday, Delhi also received pollutants from other cities such as Jhajjar, Gurugram, Baghpat, Ghaziabad, and Sonepat.The DSS analysis showed that on Friday, paddy stubble fires contributed to 15 per cent of Delhi’s PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres), local vehicular emissions had a share of 25 per cent, emissions from households contributed to 7 per cent of the particulate levels and industries in Delhi and its peripheries made up 9-10 per cent of the city’s pollution profile.SAFAR, the Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring station, said the stubble fires accounted for at least 35 per cent of pollutants in the air on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/among-world-s-10-most-polluted-cities-3-are-from-india-check-full-list-here-101636766984042.html
13-11-2021||India||Days before PM Modi inaugurates Habibganj station, MP govt seeks to rename it||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the swanky new Habibganj railway station in Madhya Pradesh's capital Bhopal on Monday (November 15). The station has been redeveloped as a cost of ₹100 crore.Days before the inauguration, the Madhya Pradesh government this week sent a letter to the Union home ministry to rename Habibganj railway station after Rani Kamlapati, the 18th Century Gond queen of the region.Explaining the reason behind the proposal, the Madhya Pradesh government's letter said that the renaming of the station will honour Rani Kamlapati's legacy and bravery.Rani Kamlapati was the widow Gond ruler of Nizam Shah, chief of Ginnorgarh. The Gond community comprises the largest tribal group of India with more than 1.2 crore population. Linguistically, the Gonds belong to the Gondi–Manda subgroup of the South Central branch of the Dravidian language family.The letter from the state's transport department has said that renaming the station is also in accordance with the Indian government's decision to celebrate November 15 as 'Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas' in remembrance of revered tribal leader and freedom fighter Birsa Munda.Starting Monday, the government will organise week-long celebration of the pride of the Scheduled Tribes in India.Madhya Pradesh government's letter comes a day after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur demanded that the station be renamed after former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee.Thakur had been raising the demand since July, requesting the state government to honour the promise she made to voters in her constituency. Apart from Habibganj railway station, Thakur has sought renaming Islampura as Jagdishpura, Idgah as Guru Nanak Tekri, and Obaidullahganj, a town near Bhopal, as Shivpur.Recently, the name of Allahabad railway station in Uttar Pradesh was changed to Prayagraj and Mughalsarai railway junction was renamed as Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay junction.The Habibganj railway station has been developed under a public-private partnership and developed by the Bansal Group. It has been built at a cost of around ₹450 crore and is on the same lines as Germany's Heidelberg railway station.Around 160 CCTV cameras have been installed at the station to keep round-the-clock surveillance. It also has escalators and lifts to reach the platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-before-pm-modi-inaugurates-habibganj-station-mp-govt-seeks-to-rename-it-101636767511698.html
13-11-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear today case regarding operation of 126-year-old Mullaperiyar Dam||The Supreme Court will on Saturday hear a public interest litigation regarding the operation of the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar Dam, a longstanding dispute between the states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. In view of a recent spell of heavy downpour in Kerala and the threat of floods looming large, the Supreme Court had in the last hearing issued an interim order saying the water level in the dam can be up to 139.05 feet. The matter was then adjourned at the top court on Monday and scheduled for hearing on November 13.Kerala and Tamil Nadu have been at loggerheads over the century-old dam, with the former insisting the reservoir is not safe and wants a new one in its place while its neighbour has been maintaining it was strong.Notably, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led CPI(M)-LDF government in Kerala had earlier granted Tamil Nadu permission to cut down 15 trees downstream of Baby Dam at the Mullaperiyar reservoir. However, in the wake of intense criticism – mainly from the Opposition Congress over the issue – the state government later froze the order and decided in a cabinet meeting that the earlier November 5 order issued by the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and the chief wildlife warden was “not legally binding”.While Tamil Nadu had sought a nod for the removal of 23 trees, permission was granted for clearing 15, which was also later frozen. The Vijayan government was under attack from the opposition Congress-led bloc in the state Assembly for its controversial order granting permission to cut the trees. It had staged a walkout in the assembly earlier in the day over the issue.The official who prepared the order could also face action, the PTI news agency reported, citing those familiar with the matter. Besides that, the cabinet also decided to set up a three-tier committee to provide the Kerala government with the necessary views and advice to take quick and accurate decisions on issues related to inter-state river water disputes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-today-case-regarding-operation-of-126-year-old-mullaperiyar-dam-101636763373656.html
13-11-2021||NA||LIVE: 8 key witnesses of Lakhimpur Kheri case want police security removed||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:8 key witnesses of Lakhimpur Kheri case want police security removedAs many as eight of the 90 key witnesses of the Lakhimpur Kheri case, in which Ashish Mishra, son of BJP leader and Union cabinet minister Ajay Mishra Teni is main accused, have written to the local administration wanting their police security to be removed.News of mosque damage in Tripura is fake: CentreCentre clarifies that news circulating on social media regarding the damage and vandalisation of a mosque in Tripura's Gomati district is “fake” and “complete misrepresentation of facts.”Combing ops launched after attack on Assam Rifles unit: Manipur CMManipur chief minister N Biren Singh told news agency ANI that the paramilitary forces along with the commandos have launched a combing operation in the area of the attack on Assam Rifles earlier in the day to catch the culprits.BSP chief Mayawati's mother passes away aged 92BSP PRESS NOTE-13-11-2021-BEHENJI MOTHER DEMISE pic.twitter.com/XjUMsw8olGBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati’s mother Ramrati passed away at a Delhi hospital on Saturday after battling a brief illness. She was 92 at the time of death.Delhi govt offices to work from home for a week in wake of air pollution: CM KejriwalDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced that government offices will work from home for a week, and the ones under the private sector have been advised to go online as well.Offline classes suspended in Delhi for a week starting Monday: CMChief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that offline classes have been suspended in Delhi for a week starting Monday.PM to transfer first instalment of PMAY-G to over 1.47L beneficiaries on Tripura on Sunday: PMOIn a statement, Prime Minister Office (PMO) said that Narendra Modi will transfer the first instalment of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana - Gramin (PMAY-G) to over 1.47 lakh beneficiaries of Tripura via video-conferencing on Sunday.TMC appoints Mahua Moitra as party's in-charge of Goa unitThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) has appointed Mahua Moitra as the in-charge of party's Goa unit with immediate effect.‘Sacrifice will never be forgotten’: PM Modi on attack on Assam RiflesStrongly condemn the attack on the Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur. I pay homage to those soldiers and family members who have been martyred today. Their sacrifice will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of sadness.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday condemned the attack on Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur, saying that"'their sacrifice will never be forgotten".Rare case of post-dengue mucormycosis reported in Delhi hospitalA rare case of post-dengue mucormycosis has been reported at Delhi's Apollo Hospital, PTI reported citing doctors. Read more here.Uttarakhand to soon have disaster research centre: CM DhamiUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that the state will soon have a disaster research centre equipped with facilities, which can send early signals of natural disasters in hilly regions areas to help save lives, PTI reported.SAD announces candidates for 3 seats in Punjab polls 2022Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has announced the candidature of Sunita Chaudhry from Balachaur, Jaspal Singh Bitu Chatha from Patiala Rural, and Bachittar Singh Kohar from Shahkot constituencies for the upcoming Assembly elections in 2022, ANI reported.Mamata Banerjee wrote letter to PM on BSF jurisdiction extension: TMC MPTMC MP Saugata Roy said on Saturday that West Bengal chief minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi against the Centre's decision to extend the jurisdiction of BSF from 15km to 50km in the state. “We will table a resolution against it in the Assembly,” Roy told ANI.At least 5 suspected Maoists killed in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli districtAt least five suspected Maoists, including two women, were killed on Satiurday in an anti-rebel operation in Mardintola jungle in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district.Assam Rifles Commandant, others killed in ambush by militants in Manipur: CM N Biren SinghStrongly condemn the cowardly attack on a convoy of 46 AR which has reportedly killed few personnel including the CO & his family at CCpur today. The State forces & Para military are already on their job to track down the militants. The perpetrators will be brought to justice.Militants kill Assam Rifles Commandant and others in an ambush in Manipur, chief minister N Biren Singh confirms.‘Need for emergency joint meeting’: Gopal Rai on Delhi pollutionThe Delhi govt ran an anti-dust campaign & inspected 2,500 sites. We've begun the 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign for vehicle pollution; 550 people deployed to restrict bio-mass burning. Bio-decomposer is given to stop stubble burning: Environment Min Gopal Rai, earlier today pic.twitter.com/7Aj65SkHlsThe Delhi environment minister also said that the government has given direction to the Delhi Metro and Transport Department to increase frequency of metros and buses, and that imposing the “odd-even" scheme is the last measure. Rai also said that a joint, emergency meeting between the Delhi government and the Centre is required for which they have sent a letter again.Ex-Goa CM Faleiro to be elected to Rajya Sabha next weekFormer Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro to be elected to Rajya Sabha next week from Trinamool Congress (TMC), to also contest upcoming assembly elections.Amravati violence: Section 144 imposed in districtProhibitory orders imposed in Amravati in view of protests against Tripura violence, ANI quotes guardian minister as saying‘Heavy rains expected in southern districts’: Kerala CM P VijayanHeavy rains are expected in the southern districts of the state. Emergency relief camps will be set up in landslide/flood-prone areas. In the wake of orange and yellow alerts issued by IMD, caution is needed in hilly areas: Pinarayi Vijayan, Kerala CMCondemn what happened in Amravati, says MP Navneet RanaWe condemn what happened in Amravati yesterday. I appeal to citizens and political leaders that it's our responsibility to maintain harmony and peace here. I want to request the guardian minister to not give political colour to this, and instead talk about safety of people: Navneet Rana, Lok Sabha MP from Amravati.Delhi CM Kejriwal to hold ‘emergency meet' over pollutionDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal calls for ‘emergency’ meeting to tackle air pollution in the city.SC suggests 2-day lockdown in Delhi due to severe pollutionSupreme Court directs Centre, Delhi government to consider imposing a two-day lockdown in the national capital in view of the high pollution levels.Delhi: Red Fort, Jama Masjid shrouded in smogDelhi's historical monuments Red Fort and Jama Masjid shrouded in smog as air quality dips to 'severe' category pic.twitter.com/cnfFq9hnWHHistorical monuments such as Red Fort and Jama Masjid shrouded in smog as air quality dips to 'severe' category in Delhi.PM Modi invites ideas for this month's Mann Ki BaatI want to hear from you on possible themes and topics for this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 28th. Contribute on MyGov, the NaMo App or record your message.https://t.co/ZU8CZKE36R pic.twitter.com/MgWKhOMwqK“I want to hear from you on possible themes and topics for this month’s #MannKiBaat, which will take place on the 28th. Contribute on MyGov, the NaMo App or record your message,” tweets Prime Minister Narendra ModiLiquor ban: 49,900 cases registered in Bihar since January49,900 cases have been registered during raids under the liquor ban rules from January to October this year and 3,872,645 litres of liquor seized: Bihar Police11,850 new Covid-19 cases and 555 deaths in IndiaIndia records 11,850 new Covid-19 cases, 12,403 recoveries and 555 deaths. Total cases rise to 34,426,036 including 33,826,483 recoveries, 463,245 deaths and 136,308 active cases.Germany's Covid-19 tally nears 5 millionGermany logs 45,081 fresh Covid-19 infections and 228 deaths. Total cases rise to 4,987,971 including 97,617 fatalities.Delhi's air quality dips with AQI at 499Air quality dips in Delhi as overall Air Quality Index (AQI) stands at 499 (‘severe’ category).872 dengue cases reported till now in UP's Prayagraj“872 dengue cases have been reported in Prayagraj so far out of which 628 cases are in urban areas. There is no shortage of blood platelets,” says chief medical officer (CMO).Pakistan to consider Taliban's request to transport wheat offered by IndiaPM Imran Khan has said his government would ‘favourably’ consider Taliban's request for transporting wheat offered by India through Pakistan on an ‘exceptional basis’ for humanitarian purposes: Pakistan mediaBrazil logs 14,598 new Covid-19 cases and 267 deathsBrazil adds 14,598 new Covid-19 infections and 267 deaths, as total cases mount to 21,939,196 including toll of 610,491.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-november-13-2021-101636763320496.html
13-11-2021||India||Purvanchal Expressway: PM Modi to land in IAF's Super Hercules for inauguration||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will land on the Purvanchal Expressway in a C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft, when he arrives to inaugurate the 340-kilometre-long road. The expressway is one of the major infrastructure projects to be inaugurated in Uttar Pradesh ahead of elections early next year.The expressway will connect state capital Lucknow with eastern districts, including Mau, Azamgarh, Barabanki with links to major cities of Prayagraj and Varanasi.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who inspected the preparations for the inauguration programme in Sultanpur on Friday, said that the Purvanchal Expressway will become the backbone of east UP's economy. The Prime Minister had laid the foundation of the expressway on July 2018.Adityanath said the expressway had been completed despite 19 months of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.
13-11-2021||India||HC order on Wankhede defamation suit reserved||The Bombay high court on Friday reserved its order on a defamation plea against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for his comments on Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) Mumbai zonal chief Sameer Wankhede, observing that verification of information was important.Wankhede’s father Dnyandev Wankhede filed a defamation suit seeking damages of ₹1.25 crore from Malik last week. He claimed that Malik’s statements alleging his son forged his caste certificate and other personal documents “caused harm to him and his family”.Wankhede was leading the probe into drugs allegedly found on a cruise on October 3, a case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan spent 26 days in custody.“Verification (of documents) is of some importance. The verification of an MLA has to be of a different level,” the single-judge bench of justice Madhav Jamdar observed before reserving his order.Wankhede is currently facing a NCB vigilance probe on extortion charges. Wankhede’s lawyer Arshad Shaikh told the HC that the documents posted by Malik were not public documents. However, Malik’s advocate Atul Damle said most documents referred to by Malik were either from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation records or from the social media accounts of members of the Wankhede family, and reasonable verification was done before posting them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-order-on-wankhede-defamation-suit-reserved-101636762874259.html
13-11-2021||India||Kerala to be pounded by more rain today, orange alert issued for 6 districts||Six districts in Kerala are likely to experience heavy rainfall on Saturday, according to an orange alert issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). A similar alert has been issued for five other districts for Sunday.While Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki are expected to witness the downpour on Saturday, the alert on November 14 warns of heavy rainfall in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki.The alert comes due to northeast monsoon, which has been active in the southern state.In its weather bulletin issued on Friday evening, the IMD has warned of "heavy to very heavy rainfall" at isolated places over Kerala. It will be accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning. According to the IMD bulletin, heavy rainfall will continue to lash Kerala till November 16.Idukki district collector Sheeba George said that the shutters of the Cheruthoni Dam of the Idukki reservoir might be opened on Saturday or Sunday in case the rain continues in the district.George warned the people living downstream the Idukki dam and along the banks of Periyar river to remain cautious.The IMD categories its alerts based on the rainfall activity expected in the region. There are three types of alerts which are issued by the weather department - red, orange and yellow. The red alert is issued when there is an expectation of torrential rains of over 20cm in 24 hours. Orange alert denotes very heavy rains from 6cm to 20cm of rain. A yellow alert, meanwhile, means heavy rainfall between 6 to 11cm.Kerala witnessed heavy rainfall in October, which led to landslides in various parts of the state. Forty two lives were lost in rain-related incidents. The monsoon activity has revived in the state after a brief pause, and after the IMD alert, the fishermen have been advised not to go out in the sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-be-pounded-by-more-rain-today-orange-alert-issued-for-6-districts-101636762448503.html
13-11-2021||India||Amit Shah in UP's Azamgarh today, to lay foundation of state university||Union home minister Amit Shah will be visiting Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav's Lok Sabha constituency of Azamgarh in the poll-bound Uttar Pradesh today, where the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader will be laying the foundation stone for a state university and also address a public meeting in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Jainath Singh, who is also the BJP's former Azamgarh district unit president, said earlier this week that preparations for Shah's visit were complete and that the chief minister, too, had made a personal visit to Azamgarh to take stock of the situation ahead of the home minister's visit.After coming to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, the BJP government had assured the local people that a university would be set up in Azamgarh, considered to be the stronghold of the SP and home turf of its leader Azam Khan. According to political analyst Kaushal Kishore Mishra, a professor at the department of political science at the Banaras Hindu University (BHU), the people of Azamgarh had been demanding this university since as far back as the mid-70s but this demand remained unfulfilled even though multiple different political parties came to power in UP over the past four decades.However, it is only now that the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in Uttar Pradesh decided to fulfill the demand by laying the foundation for the university, which will come up on 52 acres of land acquired for the purpose.After laying the foundation for the university in Azamgarh and addressing a subsequent public meeting, home minister Amit Shah will be travelling to Basti, where he is set to address people at the Shiv Harsh Kisan PG College between 3:40pm and 4:25pm.Meanwhile, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav will leave Azamgarh the same day and travel to Gorakhpur, the home turf of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in a move to mobilise support for his side of the camp ahead of the assembly elections earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-in-up-s-azamgarh-today-to-lay-foundation-of-state-university-101636760595316.html
13-11-2021||India||Stickers to identify completely vaccinated houses: Mandaviya||Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday stickers will be pasted outside the houses where all residents were fully vaccinated against Covid-19 .“The sticker will read all the family members here are vaccinated fully,” said the minister, during his visit to Natkur village in Sarojini Nagar development block of Lucknow.“The minister said this during his visit to a UP village today, but there have been no formal instructions given to states regarding the same by the health ministry,” said an official in the health minister’s office aware of the matter, on condition of anonymityThe health minister was in the village as part of the month-long ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ drive launched on November 3 by prime minister Narendra Modi, focussed on those whose second Covid-19 vaccination dose is overdue to accelerate the inoculation drive.The minister visited some households in the village and motivated the villagers to get vaccinated against Covid-19.UP has, so far, administered about 140 million doses of Covid vaccine, according to Dr Ajai Ghai, state immunisation officer.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry also organised a webinar with media persons in the national capital to involve them in a big way at the state level to tackle vaccine hesitancy among masses.The other things that the Centre has asked states to focus on is managing complacency, misinformation, misconceptions, rumours, fake news and anti-vaccine trends etc.“Communication objectives should be to enhance awareness, knowledge, understanding, trust and belief in Covid vaccine; convincing families and communities on the need, value, and benefits…; increase confidence in safety of vaccine production, distribution and use; facilitate evidence based discourse; and ensuring accessibility to accurate information on Covid vaccine,” read the ministry document.“The states have been asked to look into all these issues and devise ways to tackle them in an effective way,” said a senior government official aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stickers-to-identify-completely-vaccinated-houses-mandaviya-101636761875934.html
13-11-2021||India||After Punjab, Bengal eyes move against BSF order||The tussle between the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party over the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in West Bengal from 15km to 50km of the international border with Bangladesh headed towards a flashpoint on Friday when the Mamata Banerjee government decided to follow Punjab and introduce a resolution against it in the legislative assembly even as Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla held a meeting on border issues with state bureaucrats in Kolkata.The developments took place hours after three men, of whom two are suspected to be Bangladesh nationals, were killed when some BSF personnel opened fire after they were allegedly attacked in the Sitai area of Cooch Behar district in north Bengal.On October 26, Bengal chief minister had set the tone by declaring that she will not accept the extension of the BSF’s jurisdiction. “This is direct interference with our state’s sovereignty and India’s federal structure. Law and order is a state subject. We have high respect for the BSF but they cannot operate inside our districts. We will oppose this,” she said at the state secretariat. Her party took this forward on Friday.Among Indian states that share borders with neighbouring nations, Bengal’s 2,216.7 km-long border with Bangladesh is the longest and covers 10 of the 23 districts. These are Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur and Malda in north Bengal and Nadia, Murshidabad North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas in south Bengal.If the BSF’s jurisdiction is geographically extended then it will cover more than 30 % of Bengal’s territory and include many important towns, TMC leaders pointed out. The ruling party announced that the resolution against the Centre’s decision will be discussed in the assembly on November 16 and protests will be held in the Parliament when the winter session begins.While the TMC spoke against the new law, Bhalla arrived in Kolkata with a MHA team to meet state chief secretary H K Dwivedi, director general of police Manoj Malviya and officers from the bordering districts.“The MHA officers were concerned about security because around half of the border is unfenced. During a two-hour meeting, they discussed ways to ensure better coordination between the BSF and local authorities on infiltration and smuggling,” an officer aware of the details said. Bhalla and Dwivedi refused to talk to the media.The Centre’s recent decision to amend the BSF Act and extend the paramilitary force’s jurisdiction by 35 km from the borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam have already witnessed protests in the first two non-BJP-ruled states. Assam, where the BJP is in power, has kept silent.The Punjab assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the Centre’s notification even as opposition parties questioned the delay by the Congress government in moving the Supreme Court against the order.“The discussions will be held on November 16. The BSF Act had no provision for such extension of jurisdiction. The amendment is illegal,” said Bengal’s parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee.The TMC’s leader in the Lok Sabha, Sudip Bandopadhyay, said protests his party is planning may stop parliamentary proceedings. “We will raise our voice in the Lok Sabha. Fifty kilometres is a big zone. Our state will never accept this. If required, we will create a situation that may lead to adjournment of the session,” he said.Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury supported the TMC. “The state government should pass a resolution in assembly. People in my district do not want the BSF in their backyard.”For the ruling party, more powers to a Central paramilitary force has a political implication, especially in north Bengal where the BJP captured seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019 and 30 of the 54 assembly constituencies in the March-April state polls. Since June, a section of BJP leaders in north Bengal have been demanding a separate state or Union territory of the region citing lack of development.Questioning the Centre’s decision to extend the area of jurisdiction of the BSF, the CM said, “We do not want this. Our relations with Bhutan, Nepal and Bangladesh are very good. They (BJP government) are doing this to capture more power...”BJP apparatchiks welcomed the amendment, saying Banerjee is opposed to it because infiltrators from Bangladesh comprise her principal vote bank. “The move is a positive step by the Centre to control smuggling, infiltration and trans-border terrorism. It is not surprising that Mamata Banerjee will oppose it because cow smugglers and Rohingyas (read infiltrators) vote for her,” BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-punjab-bengal-eyes-move-against-bsf-order-101636758392523.html
13-11-2021||India||JPC considers relaxations for social media firms in data law||The joint parliamentary committee, led by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP PP Chaudhary, is considering introducing amendments to the country’s first Personal Data Protection Bill to reduce penalties against defaulting social media companies and remove the provision treating them as publishers, people familiar with the matter said.“It seems that big tech has managed to garner support to relax some of the provisions of the data protection law,” a person familiar with the matter said. “Clauses from section 28 that proposed to treat social media companies as publishers in case they altered content have been proposed to be removed. Moreover, clauses that dealt with the civil penalties to be imposed upon the social media companies have been reduced from 4%, which is the bar for EU GDPR,” the person added.The draft Personal Data Protection law was referred to a JPC to iron out several contentious issues in 2019. A previous draft was scheduled to be circulated among the members earlier this year but was abandoned when the then head, Meenakshi Lekhi, was replaced by Chaudhary.The JPC is set to table its report in the winter session.A second person familiar with the matter said that the changes were vociferously contested and a new draft report is likely to be circulated on November 20, two days before panel meets.The report, drafted under the chairpersonship of Lekhi, proposed to treat social media platforms as publishers -- a move that would make them liable for content posted by users, one of the people cited above said. This was of particular concern because the bill cleared by the Centre allowed for the government to claim an exemption as long as it felt it was “necessary or expedient” to do so in a particular set of circumstances, such as those relating to national security.The panel’s report will aim to address “reasonable purposes for data sharing, exemptions for government agencies and sensitive personal data”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jpcconsiders-relaxations-for-social-media-firms-in-data-law-101636751950509.html
13-11-2021||India||Civil society’s division will hurt nation: Doval||Wars have ceased to be effective instruments to achieve  political and military objectives, are unaffordable, and have uncertain outcomes, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval said on Friday, but if civil society can be subverted, divided and manipulated it will “hurt the interest of the nation”.Doval was speaking to young Indian Police Service officers at the passing out parade of the 73rd batch of IPS probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) .In the context of his remarks on civil society, he emphasised the important role the police force has to play in internal security.“If internal security fails, no country can be great. If people are not secure, people are not safe, they cannot rise to the potential and probably the country will never grow,” he added.NSA Doval also pointed to the circumstances in which the young officers will be serving. “It will be a different India at that time. India is on the march and you will see that you will be leading these police forces at a time when it will bring India which has got a new place in the international arena.”India will Doval added, as it progresses towards its 100th year of independence (in 2047)  enter a new era, be known for its “many achievements and many accomplishments”, and be one of the leading nations across the world.Doval also spoke of the importance of laws and of the officers in the context of the laws.The quintessence of democracy does not lie in the ballot box but in the laws which are made by the people who are elected, he said.And the officers” are the ones who are the enforcers of those laws. Laws are not as good as they are made. Laws are as good as they are executed and implemented”.“The implementation of those laws are important. No nation can be built where rule of law has failed. People cannot feel safe and secure where law enforcers are weak, corrupt, partisan,” the NSA added.Doval also said that police forces have a greater role in border management besides maintaining law and order. He said maintaining law and order in every part of the 32 lakh sq km of India is also the responsibility of police forces.“…Not only policing, in which you have been trained very well, but you will (also) be responsible for border management of this country. There’s 15,000 km of the border, and most of it has got peculiar problems of its own,” he added.“There is a border with Pakistan with China or Myanmar or Bangladesh. We have got different types of security-related issues which are manned by the police and the central police organisations which are manning these borders.”The Hyderabad-based Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy trains officers of the Indian Police Service, selected through the Civil Services Examination conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-society-s-division-will-hurt-nation-doval-101636751160424.html
13-11-2021||India||Take punitive action against officials for inaction on hate speech: Plea in SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday posted for November 22 a petition filed by former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed and academic Alok Rai that sought directions to authorities to curb hate speech failing which punitive steps should be taken against them for inaction.The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar told the petitioners to serve a copy of their plea on the centre and decided to hear the case on Friday along with another petition filed by Ashwini Upadhyay.The petition filed by Syeda Hameed and Rai said they were concerned over concerted events in the recent past that targeted political, social and economic exclusion of Muslims through a series of rallies and hate speeches. The petition, filed by lawyer Shahrukh Alam said, their plea was not adversorial and sought implementation of guidelines on hate speech passed by Supreme Court in 2014 and on mob violence and lynching events in a subsequent decision in 2018. The latter decision even prescribed punitive steps against public authorities who failed to contain such incidents.Referring to an August 8 event at Jantar Mantar where anti-Muslim slogans were raised at an event organised to end colonial-era laws, the petition said, “The petitioners are personally affected by the stigmatising and the push towards social and political exclusion that is the result of a concerted and organized series of events aimed at targeting Muslims and their sympathisers.”It said that the constitutional guarantee from protection from ‘hate speech’ is not supposed to protect people from being offended but to protect the dignity of an individual or group. “In recent months, there have been rallies replete with speeches that directly and hatefully target a religious community, use pejoratives to describe them, identify them falsely as predators of land, resources and of Hindu women and advocate their social, economic and political boycott,” the petition said, adding, “In some cases, speeches have advocated direct violence as the final solution.”Pointing to the Jantar Mantar event, which was organized without permission and in violation of Covid-19 protocols, the two petitioners stated, “There is a close proximity of such events that are made in communally charged atmospheres, to incidents of ‘hate crimes’ that range from lynching, and threats of sexual violence to more structural discrimination….The latest episode of 8 August was only one amongst a series of such events.”Incidentally, one of the persons named in the Jantar Mantar case was advocate Ashwini Upadhyay who filed the second petition on framing a law on ‘hate speech’ and ‘rumour mongering’ that came up for hearing before the same bench on Friday.Upadhyay was told to serve his petition on the Centre as well.Upadhyay, also a former Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson, has claimed that he was framed.in his petition, Upadhyay said the Indian Penal Code was not sufficient to deal with the situations of hate speeches and rumour mongering and sought special provisions in this regard.“Anonymity of internet allows a miscreant to easily spread false and offensive ideas,” Upadhyay said, adding, “Incitement to violence should not be the sole test for determining whether a speech amounts to hate speech or not. Even speech that does not incite violence has the potential of marginalising a certain section of society or individuals.”Both petitions relied on a 2020 Supreme Court decision in Amish Devgun case where hate speech was linked to the violation of unity and fraternity and breach of human dignity, which constitutes an essential facet of the right to life and liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution.In addition, the petition by Syeda Hameed and Rai said, “Hate speech is a discursive process of pushing marginalised groups outside of social, economic and political spheres of society by disseminating hate propaganda and encouraging discrimination. At its most harmful, it is widely recognized as a precursor to ethnic cleansing.”They highlighted isolated events in the Capital and other places involving violence against a particular minority community in breach of top court’s earlier guidelines.“Public authorities must be held accountable for dereliction of the duty of care and also for non-compliance with this court’s orders by not taking action to prevent vigilante groups from inciting communal disharmony and spreading hate against citizens of the country and taking the laws into their own hands,” added the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-punitive-action-against-officials-for-inaction-on-hate-speech-plea-in-sc-101636747427836.html
13-11-2021||India||Rahul remarks on Hindutva spark fresh political slugfest||The controversy over statements on Hindutva ideology in a new book by former Union minister Salman Khurshid escalated on Friday, when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called for the need to differentiate between Hindutva and Hinduism, saying the former encouraged violence and the latter preached peace and harmony.While addressing the party’s National Orientation Camp in Wardha on video, Gandhi said: “BJP talks about Hindutva, and we say there is a difference between Hinduism and Hindutva, because if there was no difference, the name would have been the same. Hindutva does not need a Hindu or Hindu does not need Hindutva.”He added that Hinduism did not talk about attacking people from other religions.“Is Hinduism about beating a Sikh or a Muslim? Hindutva of course is. But is Hinduism about killing Akhlaq?” he asked.He went on to question the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh about what kind of Hindu religion they are promoting.The comments -- a day after references in Khurshid’s book, Sunrise over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times, comparing Hindutva to Boko Haram and the Islamic State stirred a political controversy -- sparked angry reactions from the BJP.On Friday, the BJP spokesperson, Sambit Patra, said Gandhi’s comments highlighted his and the Congress’s “pathological hatred for Hinduism”.“It is at the behest of the Gandhi family, particularly Rahul Gandhi, that the other leaders of the Congress party, be it Salman Khurshid, Digvijaya Singh, Rashid Alvi, Mani Shankar Aiyar, among others, often speak against Hinduism. This pathological hatred for Hinduism among the Congress leaders gets its traction, energy from Rahul Gandhi and the Gandhi family,” he added.“Can they talk on similar lines about any other religion? ... This is not the first time such comments have been made. Some of the worst comments have been made in the yesteryears when they have used words such as ‘saffron terror’,” he added.The term “saffron terror’ was also raised by BJP leader and IT cell chief Amit Malviya, who called it a fictitious creation to get Muslim votes through appeasement politics. Patra said that senior Congress leader P Chidambaram used the term ‘saffron terror’ in 2010 and since then it has been used by his party colleagues.Union minister RK Singh, meanwhile, lashed out at Khurshid over his recent statement where he compared ‘Hindutva’ with ‘Jihadi’ organisations., “Isn’t he (Khurshid) the man who bad-mouthed India in Pakistan’s military academy? Isn’t he the man who embezzled funds for the handicapped? It’s a matter of shame and intolerance to denigrate a whole religion. What’s Congress doing?” he said in an interview with ANI.The Congress, however, quickly distanced itself from Khurshid’s comment.Amidst this Hindutva row, a video of Congress leader Rashid Alvi purportedly saying that ‘not all people who chant Jai Shri Ram are saints’ has gone viral.BJP’s Amit Malviya shared the video of the senior Congress leader addressing a gathering and tweeted, “After Salman Khurshid, now Congress leader Rashid Alvi is saying those who chant Jai Shri Ram are demons. How much poison does Congress have towards the devotees of Ram!”On Friday, Gandhi said that the BJP and RSS’s “hateful and divisive” ideology has overshadowed the “loving, affectionate and nationalistic” ideology of Congress, and stressed on the importance of spreading the Congress ideology||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-remarks-on-hindutva-spark-fresh-political-slugfest-101636746924549.html
13-11-2021||India||NCPCR steps in, asks Odisha SP to probe sexual exploitation charge in Kalahandi school||BHUBANESWAR: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked Odisha’s Kalahandi district police chief to probe allegations of sexual exploitation of minor girls in a public school whose teacher was allegedly murdered and buried in an under-construction stadium last month. The superintendent of police (SP) has been told to file a report within three days.Since October when the charred remains of Mamita Meher, a school teacher in a private school in Mahalinga panchayat of Kalahandi was found in an under-construction stadium, opposition BJP and Congress have taken to streets alleging that a sex racket flourished there patronised by Gobind Sahu, the president of the school’s managing committee.Sahu is accused of strangling 26-year-old Meher, a teacher in the school, in his car somewhere in Kalahandi district on October 8 after the latter allegedly threatened to expose her extramarital affairs. He then allegedly dismembered the body, burnt it and buried it in the under-construction stadium. He was arrested on October 19 and is in judicial custody.Opposition parties have alleged that a sex racket was being operated in the school’s hostel for girls, and the students and female staffers were sexually harassed by Sahu.In its letter to Kalahandi SP Vivek Saravana, NCPCR such allegations of sexual exploitation of the children. “The accused used to tempt the girls for good marks in examination and minister of state home Dibyashankar Mishra used to visit the school frequently. Both girls, as well as boys of the educational institution, were exploited,” the NCPCPR said.The police officer has been told to send the information on action taken against the accused, and the other details of the schools including the number of students, age group of boys and girls who were allegedly exploited in the school and whether a case was registered in accordance with Section 19/21 of Pocso Act. It however advised the SP to be careful to ensure that the identities of the victims are not disclosed during the process of investigation.Though BJD has stridently defended minister of state Mishra saying he could not be held accountable for the crimes allegedly committed by Sahu, opposition BJP and Congress continued to wave black flags and throw eggs at ministers. BJP and Congress workers pelted eggs at Mishra, agriculture minister Arun Sahu and women and child development minister Tukuni Sahu’s vehicles over last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcrsteps-in-asks-odisha-sp-to-probe-sexual-exploitation-charge-in-kalahandi-school-101636745925372.html
13-11-2021||India||CAG report on flood management flaws kicks off a debate in Kerala||A political slugfest has begun in Kerala over a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report pointing out serious flaws in the state government’s preparedness and dam management during the 2018 floods that claimed 480 lives across the state. The CAG report titled ‘Preparedness and response to floods in Kerala’ was tabled in the assembly on Thursday. The Opposition heavily criticized the Communist Party of India (Marxist), which was in power during the time of the floods, for its mismanagement and sought a high-level probe into the findings of the audit body. The Congress-led opposition on Friday sought an independent probe into CAG findings saying the government, which is bound to protect the lives and property of its people, endangered their lives due to its inept handling of the situation. Talking to newsmen in the state capital on Friday, opposition leader V D Satheesan said it was a grave error on the part of the CPI (M) government and responsibility should be fixed on people who led to the grave situation. “The CAG has pointed out serious errors in flood management policies. The government even failed to constitute a probe after the death of many people. Even after the tragedy, the government’s track records show it is least bothered,” he said, adding that the state’s floods plains have not been demarcated and flood zoning legislation was not done. The CAG found serious flaws in the state’s management, including lack of real-time data on rainfall, streamflow, the water level in important dams and a poor communication network. “Communication infrastructure was non-functional in some areas including dam sites and government offices during or after the 2018 floods,” it said, adding the Kerala Water Policy 2008 was not updated following the National Water Policy. Though 7000-odd works for immediate repair and restoration of damages in 2018 floods were approved for execution under the state disaster response fund, only 18 per cent of the work were yet to be completed even after three years, the report said. The responsible authorities failed to issue mandatory alerts or warnings when the rain situation deteriorated in 2018, it said in the latest report, saying most flaws were yet to be addressed. The report also said no flood hazard map was available in the state and its flood susceptibility map was not in conformation with the Central Water Commission criteria. Siltation studies also found significant levels of siltation in many dams, and works were very slow. The report assumes much significance as the state has been consistently reporting flash floods and landslides in the last three years. After the 2018 floods, there was widespread criticism over the way all dams were opened simultaneously and many, including ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan, had approached the Kerala high court seeking a probe into the so-called lapses on the part of government bodies. Moreover, in 2018, there was a charge against then power minister M M Mani for delaying the opening of the Idukki dam in an alleged attempt to produce more power. The delay triggered a chain reaction, which caused further flooding across the downstream. Idukki hydroelectric project produces one-fourth of power in the state. On Friday, Mani denied most of the findings in the report and suspected a political angle in the report. “In 2018, the state received the highest rainfall of the century. Some areas in Idukki received more than 300 mm of rainfall in just two days. There is no mention of heavy rainfall in the report. It is easy to blame without understanding the ground situation,” he said, adding the government averted dam bursts due to its effective handling. “In the light of changing rain pattern and threats of climate change we need experts’ team for every day dam to monitor the situation. We need a real-time decision. And we have to expedite dam and river-basin related works and repairs on a war footing,” said dam expert James Wilson, also a former member of the Mullaperiyar dam cell. ENDS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cag-report-on-flood-management-flaws-kicks-off-a-debate-in-kerala-101636743465507.html
13-11-2021||India||Andhra govt, local bodies owe over ₹25,000 cr dues to discoms||The Andhra Pradesh government and the local bodies in the state together owe ₹25,257 crore to power distribution companies towards tariff subsidy and electricity consumption charges.This was revealed in a letter written by the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) to the state government and three power distribution companies – Eastern Discom, Central Discom and Southern Discom – on November 9, a copy of which was seen by HT.APERC said while the state government had not released the subsidy on power tariff to the extent of ₹15,474.43 crore to the three Discoms, the local bodies and various government departments have not been paying power bills amounting to ₹9,783.37 crore to the Discoms over a period of time. The letter does not specify the period.The total amount of dues to be recovered by the three Discoms from the government and the local bodies has shot up to ₹25,257.70 crore, it said.“The situation looks alarming, to say the least, and the very survival of the Discoms is at stake. If not addressed, it will also adversely impact the consumers in the state,” the commission said in the letter.The commission found fault with the Discoms for not collecting the dues. “It is regretted to note that the Discoms have not realised the seriousness of the situation and are not making their best efforts to collect the dues, in spite of the proactive steps taken by the commission to support them and bail them out of the financial crisis,” the letter said.The commission directed that the Discoms serve fresh notices to the local bodies and the government departments offering them the last chance to clear the pending dues within 14 days failing which power supply be disconnected.“Further, the Discoms are also directed to pursue with the state government to release the pending tariff subsidy amounts on a war-footing. The Discoms have been asked to submit the compliance reports to the commission on the above directions within 15 days,” the letter said.Energy department secretary Nagulapalli Srikanth could not be reached for his comment on the regulatory commission’s letter. Calls and text messages to the secretary went unanswered.Telugu Desam Party lawmaker and Public Accounts Committee chairman Payyavula Keshav alleged that the Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government was pushing the Discoms into a state of bankruptcy.“As per the APERC guidelines, the state government has to pay the power tariff subsidy to the Discoms in advance before the tariff order is approved every year. But it never happens. These dues could be pending since the days of the previous TDP regime, but it is the responsibility of the government to clear the dues periodically,” Keshav said.With the state government failing to pay the tariff subsidy to Discoms on time and not clearing the power consumption charges of its departments for long, the Discoms are forced to go in for borrowings from financial institutions for purchasing power.“The interest burden on these loans is being recovered from the consumers in the form of True-Up charges. So, the ultimate sufferers are common people,” the TDP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-local-bodies-owe-over-25-000-cr-dues-to-discoms-101636743105177.html
13-11-2021||India||Amit Shah on 3-day visit to Andhra Pradesh starting today||Union home minister Amit Shah will be on a three-day visit to Andhra Pradesh from Saturday, where he will chair the 29th Southern Zonal Council meeting to be held at the temple town of Tirupati in Chittoor district on Sunday, according to an official communication.Shah would land in the Tirupati International Airport on Saturday evening and have a night halt in the pilgrim town. He would be received by Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and his cabinet colleagues, besides senior officials.On Sunday morning, the Union home minister would travel to Venkatachalam in Nellore district, where he would take part in a programme being organised by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.Shah would visit Akshra Vidyalayam and Soma vocational training centres being run by Swarnabharati Trust at Venkatachalam, promoted by Venkaiah’s daughter Deepa. He would reach the trust headquarters, where he would attend the 20th anniversary celebrations of the trust till noon.After taking lunch along with the Vice-President on the trust premises, Shah would leave for Tirupati to take part in the Southern Zonal Council meeting to be held at Hotel Taj from 3 pm to 7 pm.Later, he would travel to Tirumala, where he would have a night halt. On Monday morning, he would have a darshan of Lord Venkateshwara, before returning to New Delhi via Tirupati, the communication said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-on-3-day-visit-to-andhra-pradesh-starting-today-101636743046732.html
13-11-2021||India||Railways to discontinue special trains, revert to certain pre-Covid-19 fares||With Covid-19 cases in the country dipping, the Indian Railway ministry on Friday decided to restore the pre-Covid train schedule for now. According to a circular issued by the railway board, it has rolled back all the regular mail timetables which are currently operating as mail/express special trains. The Railways have also decided to revert to some of the original fares as applicable.According to a circular released by the Railway Board late on Friday evening, regular fares will be charged for concerned classes of travel and type of train, as per the guidelines issued.The circular read, “Second class of such trains shall continue to run as reserved except any relaxation permitted in special case.”“The passengers travelling on these trains are required to pay 30% extra fares. With Covid-19 cases being under control, the ministry in Friday’s meeting decided to resume trains as per pre-Covid trains,” a railway official said.Around 1700 mail express trains were running before Covid-19 hit the country and they had to be halted due to the pandemic.The Indian Railways had been operating special trains with full reservation across the country ever since the Covid-19 pandemic affected the nation. Passengers travelling in these special trains pay extra fares as compared to normal trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-discontinue-special-trains-revert-to-certain-pre-covid-19-fares-101636742685261.html
13-11-2021||India||Major rejig likely in Raj cabinet, Pilot holds meeting with Sonia||A major reshuffle encompassing both ministerial and other political appointments might take place in the Rajasthan government to balance regional sentiments and caste combinations, and get rid of some non-performing ministers, with the larger aim of managing the turf war between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot.Two insiders with knowledge of developments don’t rule out the possibility of Pilot getting some responsibilities, too, if the proposed reshuffle goes according to plan.The former deputy CM of Rajasthan, who rebelled against Gehlot in July 2020, met Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday for over an hour. “It is essential to form our government in Rajasthan again in 2023. The party’s decision would be taken keeping the factors such as experience, credibility, regional balance and caste combination in mind,” Pilot said outside 10 Janpath, Gandhi’s residence.“There’s not much time left (for poll preparations). There are some vacancies to be filled and there are some balancing to be done,” he added. The reshuffle is likely to take place this month, based on a formula acceptable to both Gehlot and Pilot, said people aware of developments. Two more meetings are likely to finalise names.Gehlot had met Sonia Gandhi on Thursday, and party general secretaries Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Ajay Maken and KC Venugopal a day before.The Gehlot cabinet currently has nine vacancies and three ministers—state Congress unit chief Govind Singh Dotasara, and the party’s Gujarat and Punjab in-charges Raghu Sharma and Harish Chaudhary, respectively—hold two posts each. Some of them might be relieved from ministerial assignments, said party leaders with knowledge of developments.The Pilot camp is also hopeful that a few “non-performing ministers” might also be dropped, said the leaders quoted above.“In the meeting, Pilot also pointed out that while Punjab has got its first Dalit CM, Rajasthan doesn’t even have a Dalit minister even as it got overwhelming support from SC/ ST [scheduled caste and scheduled tribe] and minorities in the last assembly polls.”According to a senior party leader involved in Rajasthan matters, there are at least six districts that are not represented in the Union cabinet and the next reshuffle might address the regional imbalance. The Pilot camp is hopeful that their leader gets a bigger responsibility after elections in five states are done early next year.Pilot loyalists are hopeful that out of the vacancies arising in the Rajasthan government, at least 50% posts will go to them but Gehlot too, has a strong rapport with the high command and his administrative and political experience may benefit him.“Whatever happens in Rajasthan, it would not be a one-sided decision. Sonia Gandhi has met both Gehlot and Pilot. All reshuffle should be acceptable to Gehlot as well...,” said the senior leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-rejig-likely-in-raj-cabinet-pilot-holds-meeting-with-sonia-101636742211382.html
13-11-2021||India||Maoist ‘Kishan Da’ caught after decades on run||Raipur/Kolkata/New Delhi: The Jharkhand Police on Friday held Prashant Bose, better known by his nom de guerre “Kishan Da”, from the Kandra area of Saraikela Kharsawan district -- possibly the most prominent alleged Maoist leader to be captured alive in the country in at least two decades.Bose is over 80 years old, carries a bounty of ₹1 crore, is part of the National Investigation Agency’s most wanted list, and has been an ideological fountainhead of the guerilla Maoist movement for over five decades. His wife, Sheela Marandi, was held along with him, according to reports citing the state police. Marandi is also a senior member of the Maoist cadre; the only woman in the Central Committee, the foremost operational organization of the Maoists; and spent over a decade in jail in multiple cases in Odisha and Jharkhand before she was released from a Rourkela prison in 2016. Senior officials from multiple agencies, including the Jharkhand Police, the Chhattisgarh Police, and intelligence agencies confirmed that Bose and his wife were held. “Top Maoist leader Prashant Bose, alias Kishan Da, who was carrying a bounty of ₹1 crore on his head, has been arrested in Jharkhand along with his wife Sheela Marandi, a senior police officer said on Friday. According to the officer, the police, acting on intelligence inputs, arrested the duo,” PTI reported. HT could not independently verify if they were arrested or just detained.Another senior police officer said that they were going to interrogate Bose, who has grown frail and weak, as well as his wife Marandi, who is the “top woman Maoist [in the organisation] in her own right and leads many women oriented frontal organisations for the Maoists.” “He has suffered many illnesses and cannot travel on his own. His associates were trying to take him to a safe place, but they were intercepted midway,” the Jharkhand Police officer added, asking not to be named. Governments at the state and the centre have for long grappled with Maoism, with former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh describing Maoism in 2006 as “the single biggest internal security threat ever faced by our country.” In 2018, the Home Ministry said that as many as twelve thousand people had lost their lives in the Maoist conflict “in the last two decades”, including 2700 security personnel. Data from the South Asia Terrorism Portal estimates that ten thousand people have been killed since the year 2000.Bose also goes by the names Nirbhay, Kajal, Buddha or Maneesh. For four decades until a change in the Maoist leadership in 2018 -- when Nambala Keshava Rao (Basavaraju) took over from Muppala Lakshman Rao (Ganapathy) as General Secretary of the banned CPI (Maoist) -- Bose was largely considered the second most senior Maoist in the country. “When Basavaraju took over from Ganapathy, the idea was to make the leadership a little younger. So both Ganapathy and Prashant Bose took a back seat, but they are clearly the two biggest Maoists India has seen of the past three decades,” a senior intelligence officer told HT on Friday on condition of anonymity. NIA records describe Bose as five-foot-six, say that he “keeps a light beard to hide a twisted left cheek”, has “false teeth”, is “fond of tobacco”, and wears “bifocal specs”. The investigative agency also shows Bose as a member of the CPI (Maoist) politburo, its highest political body, a member of the Central Committee, a non-permanent member of the CMC ( Central Military Commission), and secretary of the Eastern Regional Bureau, which oversees all Maoist activities in seven states including Jharkhand and West Bengal. “[He] reportedly stays in the Saranda forests (Jharkhand). Can be regarded as the No. 2 man in the CPI(Maoist),” the NIA records, which HT has seen, show. Bose was also one of the two principal architects of the unification of the two primary Maoist organisations in the country in 2004, creating the CPI (Maoist), as it is known today. While Bose was the supreme commander of the Maoist Communist Centre of India, which operated principally in Jharkhand, West Bengal and Bihar, Ganapathy led the Peoples War Group, the strongest in Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. According to intelligence officers, the two groups came together on September 21, 2004; and at the meeting, known as the “unity conference”, Bose told cadres: “We are intensifying the war by forming several guerrilla zones, advancing towards the establishment of Base Areas, and transforming the guerrilla army into a regular liberation army. It is in this background that the joint meeting is going on with the objective of unifying into a single directing centre for the Indian revolution.” Such was Bose’s heft among the Maoist cadre that his alias, Kishen, was adopted by Mallujola Koteshwar Rao -- who came to be known as Kishenji and became one of India’s most well-known Maoist leaders. Rao was killed in 2011. Unlike “Kishenji” however, “Kishan da”, was much less of a public figure, almost a ghost for security agencies who have been on the hunt for him most of his life. Chhattisgarh police officers said that security agencies have all of two photographs of him. The first, a grainy visual is likely from the 1980s, and is the one pasted on most records. “Then, in 2012, after a raid in Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh, we found a CD which had a clearer photograph of him,” a senior intelligence official said. Former Maoist Amitadyuti Kumar, 77, who lives in Kolkata, and once worked with Bose but has not met him since 1975, told HT: “I still remember how he escaped the police in Hooghly district in 1970. We were holding a secret meeting when the police and CRPF raided the area. Local villagers decided to hide Bose in a raft made out of water hyacinths and floated it in the river. He stayed there all night.” In 2011, Delhi Police said in a charge sheet that it was Bose who signed a deal with the Manipur-based militant group, the People’s Liberation Army, seeking to train Maoist cadre in guerilla warfare. At the time, the special cell claimed they found emails exchanged between the PLA and Bose which planned joint training exercises and training camps for Maoists in Myanmar. Bose was named as an accused in November 2018 by the Maharashtra Police in the controversial Bhima-Koregaon violence case, which has seen the arrests of multiple activists and lawyers including Surendra Gadling, Rona Wilson and Sudha Bhardwaj for allegedly conspiring with the Maoists. Ajay Sahni, executive director of Institute of Conflict Management said, “People like Kishan Da have been on the run for a long time even though they were able to supervise occasional attacks. There will definitely be some sort of psychological impact (on the organisation) but I don’t think it will extraordinarily change the situation on the ground as the capability (of Maoists) is already hit. They are fighting a last-ditch battle. When the movement itself is fading, supervision is not that important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-kishan-da-caught-after-decades-on-run-101636740464501.html
13-11-2021||India||PM Modi to address 200k tribals as part of BJP outreach plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address 200,000 tribals from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal at an event in Bhopal as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attempts to reach out to the community, people familiar with the matter said.The PM is set to inaugurate the Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas on November 15, the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda in Bhopal, which is expected to be a big boost to Bharatiya Janata Party’s tribal outreach plans. The day will be celebrated as ‘Tribal Day’.A senior MP BJP leader aware of the BJP’s strategies to attract the tribals support said the PM’s visit will further cement the new strategy, which has worked in the state and can be replicated in other tribal-dominated states.In the October 30 by-polls, Sulochana Rawat won the Jobat Vidhan Sabha seat for the BJP by 6,104 votes, while Gyaneshwar Patil secured the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat with a margin of more than 88,000 votes.According to a BJP leader, who didn’t wish to be named, the first change in strategy came when the central government declared a holiday on the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda in 2019. “The BJP left no stone unturned to make tribals realise that their ancestors fought for the freedom of country and they were full of patriotism,” he said.Tribal experts, however, said the plan is to win the trust of tribals and divert the community from real issues. Biswas said, “BJP is trying to influence tribal through unsung heroes and push their agenda through these icons. Shankar Shah was a follower of Maa Kali and he is being promoted to show tribal are also Hindus.”Another tribal activist, Vikram Achaliya said, “Definitely, they have shifted the focus but issues remain. The BJP wants to distract tribals from core issues such as poor implementation of the Forest Rights Act and government not accepting Sarna Code (a separate religious code in the Census).”Political experts said tribals are important for any political party in MP as they constitute 21% of the state’s population and have 47 assembly seats reserved for them. Tribals can influence the result in another 31 seats, said political expert Girja Shankar. MP Congress Committee president Kamal Nath said, “BJP leaders are not concerned about the rise in atrocities against the tribal, death of tribal children due to malnourishment and no jobs for them,” he said.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Friday that Congress never thought of tribal development and used them as a vote bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodito-address-200k-tribals-as-part-of-bjp-outreach-plan-101636740405359.html
13-11-2021||India||Checks on paper, Delhi chokes on toxic haze||Air pollution reached the season’s worst levels on Friday as the toxic smog that has persisted for over a week thickened and emissions breached “emergency” level thresholds that would have normally led to a host of curbs like a ban on construction work, the entry of heavy vehicles, and odd-even car use limits.Instead, this year has seen a new record for farm fires this late in the year as the enforcement of a ban on the practice collapsed, and has exposed the futility of the mainstay pollution response mechanism known as the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) despite advance predictions that meteorological factors will exacerbate the problem.The air quality index (AQI) was 471, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin, having risen by 100 points within 48 hours. The number surpassed the 462 recorded the day after Diwali, when a double whammy of firecracker smoke and farm fires pushed up pollution levels.Doctors urged people to stay indoors, and parents have begun keeping their children at home as the days remain particularly dangerous for those with respiratory conditions.Like each year for nearly a decade now, man-made factors have combined with pre-winter weather conditions to create the perfect storm of conditions that has led to the crisis. “This spike in pollution is an amalgamation of many things. Delhi already saw peak pollution levels after Diwali and the high stubble count in Punjab and Haryana. Because of slow winds, the pollution load is not being eased, and more pollution is being added. All this is being recirculated in the air,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research department.Data from heat-sensing satellites analysed by HT show that, this year, there have been 24,694 incidents of fire recorded since November 8. This number is the highest for the second week of November since 2012, the earliest year for which data was available. The later farm fires take place, the harder it is for the smoke to be dispersed in the atmosphere since this is the time of the year when weak pre-winter winds set in over the region.Officials in Punjab, where most of the farm fires take place, told HT earlier they are not prosecuting farmers for violating a Supreme Court-ordered ban on burning crop residue.Authorities have also dragged their feet on factors they can control within the National Capital Region, largely as a consequence of how Grap is designed – the curbs designed for most impact do not kick in unless pollution has remained in the emergency level for 48 hours.The subcommittee of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), a new body that now is responsible for the implementation of Grap, met on Friday and reiterated that the measures listed under the severe category will be implemented. They advised government and private offices to reduce the use of private vehicles by at least 30% by encouraging practices such as work-from-home and carpooling, and urged residents to limit outdoor activities.“We have also asked the state pollution control boards of Delhi and NCR to closely monitor the action being taken by enforcement teams and submit reviews to the CAQM and CPCB,” said Prashant Gargava, chairperson of CAQM subcommittee for the implementation of Grap and member secretary, CPCB.The most strict curbs under Grap are a ban on the entry of trucks, shutting down of schools, halting all construction work, and allowing cars with odd and even number plates to be driven only on alternate days. But these come into force only if the PM10 levels and PM2.5 levels have remained above emergency levels for 48 hours. Till 10pm on Friday, PM2.5 levels were above the 300ug/m3 mark (the emergency threshold) for 22 hours and PM10 levels were above 500ug/m3 mark for 20 hours.Experts said the recurring crisis is evidence that the plan to fight air pollution simply does not work. “Grap has been in place since 2017, but we have not seen any impact of from implementing the measures listed under it. So, if these measures have not worked, it means that it has not been effective and we need to look at alternatives. It’s not just Grap, our governments need to revisit their overall approach to pollution management,” said environment issues lawyer Rahul Choudhary.The Supreme Court is likely to discuss the issue on Saturday when it will continue hearing a plea filed by a 17-year-old Delhi student, Aditya Dubey, who has alleged that authorities have failed to protect his fundamental right to clean air and health by not controlling air pollution.A bench, comprising Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and justices DY Chandrachud and Surya Kant, will take up the latest affidavit filed by the Union government on steps taken to reduce air pollution due to various factors, including crop residue burning.As the crisis persists, doctors warn the air outside can leave immediate as well as lasting health impacts, particularly for people’s lungs, heart and even brain. “When we say PM 2.5 or PM 10, it’s just the particle size that we are talking -- the kind of damage depends on what creates the particle such as firecrackers, fuel combustion, stubble burning etc. The particulate matter from diesel or kerosene burning can even cause lung cancer...,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of pulmonology department, AIIMS, Delhi.“What nobody talks much about and does the maximum damage is ultrafine particles of 0.1 micron or less. These penetrate the lung and reach the blood stream, and once in the blood, these can reach anywhere. Even perfectly healthy people can experience short-term symptoms such as breathing issues, sore throat or red eyes,” added Dr Khilnani,For now, experts warned the problem is going to persist, which means the Grap’s 48-hour requirement will be met.“As per IITM’s Decision Support System for air quality management, a significant share of pollution comes from transport-related emissions, in addition to farm fires. The Delhi government should focus on offsetting the additional load from farm fires... by imposing vehicle restrictions, ensuring that open burning of waste is prevented and inspection of all construction sites in Delhi-NCR,” said Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).(With inputs from Abhishek Jha)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/checks-on-paper-city-chokes-on-toxic-haze-101636740344449.html
13-11-2021||India||Putin to visit India, S-400 may be in tow||Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India next month for an annual summit is expected to coincide with the delivery of the first batch of S-400 air defence systems and will set the stage for the two sides renewing their military-technical cooperation for the next decade.Putin’s visit will be preceded by the inaugural 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers of India and Russia in Moscow. The dialogue, which has been held up by the busy schedules of ministers on both sides, will prepare the grounds for the summit, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The first batch of S-400 systems is expected to be delivered by December, the people said. Putin is expected to be in New Delhi in the second week of December for the annual summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with both sides looking at December 6 as the most likely date, the people added.At the upcoming summit, India and Russia are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31 and sign several agreements in defence, trade and science and technology. One of the key agreements expected to be inked is the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS), which will allow militaries of the two sides to access logistics and support facilities at each other’s bases and ports.India has signalled its commitment to long-standing defence ties with Russia by forging ahead with the $5.4-billion contract for five S-400 systems despite the US warning that the deal could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA).Several teams of Indian Air Force personnel have been trained in Russia to operate the S-400. India and Russia signed the deal in October 2018, and all deliveries are to be completed within five years.The IAF will induct the first unit of S-400 systems at a time when India is locked in a standoff with China in the Ladakh sector, and the Chinese side has deployed two S-400 squadrons at Hotan airbase in Xinjiang and Nyingchi airbase in Tibet, across Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh respectively.The induction of the S-400 systems will enhance IAF’s air defence capabilities, said Air Marshal (retired) Anil Chopra, director general of the Centre for Air Power Studies. “The mix of radars and missiles that will come with the S-400 will cover various height and range bands. It will bring an important capability upgrade with an air defence bubble of 400 km. Of the five systems ordered, four are likely to be deployed in forward areas to defend against aerial threats from China and Pakistan. One system could be used to defend vital industrial facilities,” Chopra said.IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari also said in October his force is likely to induct the first unit of S-400 systems by the year-end.The induction is taking place when India is looking at the creation of theatre commands to best utilise the military’s resources. The current theaterisation model seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations – two land-centric theatres, an air defence command, and a maritime theatre command.The India-Russia summit couldn’t be held in 2020 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. This will only be Putin’s second foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak began – he travelled to Geneva in June for his first meeting with US President Joe Biden but skipped the G20 Summit in Rome last month. Putin’s upcoming visit to New Delhi reflects the importance attached by Russia to its relationship with India, the people said.Developments in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover are also expected to figure in both the 2+2 dialogue and the summit. During a phone conversation on August 24, Modi and Putin agreed to create a permanent channel between national security adviser Ajit Doval and his Russian counterpart Nikolay Patrushev for consultations on Afghanistan. Both sides have not recognised the Taliban setup in Kabul and backed calls for the formation of an inclusive government in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/putin-to-visit-india-s-400-may-be-in-tow-101636740345081.html
13-11-2021||India||Chennai picks up pieces, IMD warns of more rain||The skies were clear in Chennai but the spoils of the mayhem caused by heavy rainfall over the past week were visible on the streets as workers from various government departments fanned out to drain out water, remove fallen trees, clear blocked roads, and help restore normalcy.This relief, however, may be short-lived as another low pressure is likely to form in Bay of Bengal early next week, weather scientists warned.With three more rain-related deaths in Chennai, Sivaganga and Nilgiris on Friday, the toll went up to 18, minister for revenue and disaster relief, KSSR Ramachandran told reporters.“By tomorrow Chennai will be made alright,” the minister said.The city has been battered by two heavy spells of rains since last Saturday. Chennai recorded 210 mm of rain overnight between November 6 and 7, and on November 12, the average rainfall in the city was 60.6mm over a 24-hour period.Almost all districts in Tamil Nadu have received heavy rainfall and four districts got extreme rainfall from November 7 to 12, Balachandran, head of the Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, told reporters on Friday.“Chennai has recorded 46cm (460mm) rainfall, which is five times the average we receive during this period which is about 8 cm,” the RMC head said. From October 1, when the north east monsoon began up to November 12, Chennai has received 81 cm rainfall, while the average is 44 cm.”This is 85% excess,” he added.Even as the city got a breather on Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast another low pressure area forming over the South Andaman sea on Saturday. “In the next two days, Chennai and adjoining areas are likely to see thunderstorms with light and moderate rain in some areas,” said Balachandran.Over the last six days, at least 17,654 Chennai residents called the Greater Chennai Corporation helplines with complaints. Residential areas such as T Nagar, West Mambalam, Madhavaram, and Pattalam were still inundated in deep water, officials said, and 620 motor pumps were used on Friday morning. Authorities in the corporation said that 534 locations in the city were waterlogged, of which they were able to clear 204 by 4pm.Families from low lying areas -- a total of 2,888 people including 464 children -- are housed in 44 relief camps in Chennai.“Our situation hasn’t improved. We still can’t step out and there is no power but water is slowly receding,” said M Ramesh, a resident of Velachery, one of the worst affected low-lying areas in Chennai.The crisis underlined that only temporary patchwork was done after the 2015 tragedy, and no permanent solutions - removing encroachments on flood plains, stopping the dumping of fly ash, municipal waste and industrial effluents on river basins and unclogging decades-old storm water drains – were undertaken.Disaster relief minister Ramachandran blamed the previous AIADMK government for failing to carry out flood mitigation work. “In the previous regime, water was everywhere -- in lakes and on roads,” he said. “The same officials are working now but our CM has the capacity to make them work rapidly for relief and rescue.”On Friday, chief minister MK Stalin inspected flood-affected localities in Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts. Stalin tweeted that he opened a medical camp for the monsoon season-related ailments. “Similarly 200 such medical camps will be started in Chennai,” he tweeted.He also handed over an appreciation certificate to police inspector E Rajeswari, whose videos went viral on social media on Thursday after she carried an unconscious man and saving him from drowning.Opposition AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami also distributed relief to flood-affected people in Chennai.Palaniswami defended his party’s regime by recalling that the Union government gave awards to Tamil Nadu for its governance record. “That’s how well we did!” Palaniswami said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-picks-up-pieces-imd-warns-of-more-rain-101636740285386.html
13-11-2021||India||Gujarat civic bodies ban ‘public display’ of non-veg food items||The municipal corporations of Vadodara and Rajkot, both ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have ordered shopkeepers and hawkers to cover non-vegetarian food, including eggs, saying an open display of the food could hurt religious sentiments.The order issued by the two bodies said that non-vegetarian food on streets hurt religious sentiments of Hindus. It added that smoke emanating from such spots was a health hazard.Rajkot mayor Pradip Dav passed instructions and launched a drive on Tuesday. Two days later, Vadodara Municipal Corporation’s (VMC) standing committee chairman Hitendra Patel on Thursday issued oral directives to the civic body to remove within 15 days all roadside non-vegetarian food stalls if they didn’t properly cover their food items. “The public display of meat, fish, eggs hurts religious sentiments. It should not be visible,” Patel said on Friday, adding that the practice might have continued for decades but now it was time to put a stop to it.The VMC’s directive was inspired by a similar instruction by Dav on November 9. “It hurts the religious sentiments of Hindus on seeing non-vegetarian food hanging when they pass by the road,” he said.The RMC staff has removed non-vegetarian food stalls and kiosks in Fulchhab Chowk, Limbda Chowk and Shastri Maidan in Rajkot. “We are only removing encroachments from main roads. They cause nuisance, traffic snarls and offend religious sentiments of Hindus,” said Dav.Revenue minister Rajendra Trivedi welcomed the move, saying: “The smoke and smell emanating from these non-vegetarian stalls is a health hazard for passers-by.”Leader of Opposition in the VMC, Ami Rawat, said, “No political party or government can decide who should eat what and where...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-civic-bodies-want-non-vegetarian-food-stalls-removed-say-it-hurts-religious-sentiments-101636740170263.html
13-11-2021||India||Permanent Commission for women: Army blinks after SC warns it of contempt||The Supreme Court on Friday spared the army of contempt proceedings after the latter changed its position on denying permanent commission to 72 women short service commission officers, agreeing to grant it to all women officers who have qualified on merit and have no disciplinary or vigilance clearance pending against them.The Supreme Court on Friday spared the army of contempt proceedings after the latter changed its position on denying permanent commission to 72 women short service commission officers, agreeing to grant it to all women officers who have qualified on merit and have no disciplinary or vigilance clearance pending against them.|#+|Of the 72 women officers, 36 filed contempt petitions in the top court that were taken up for hearing by a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna. These petitions said the Indian Army was in contempt of the apex court’s March 25 order that said all women short service commission officers (WSSCOs) who qualify with 60% merit, are medically fit and have secured disciplinary and vigilance clearance, are to be granted permanent commission. In all, 514 WSSCOs qualified on the basis of the 60% benchmark, of which 442 were given permanent commission; the other 72 were denied this by the selection board that met in September 2020. One officer opted for premature release from service, reducing the number to 71.On Friday, the ministry of defence submitted an affidavit stating that out of 36 officers, 21 have since been granted permanent commission upon review and letters in this regard were issued to them on October 29. The case of one officer was under consideration , leaving 14. Of this, the affidavit added, three were found to be medically unfit, while there were serious objections against 11 others.After some prodding from the court, it agreed to grant permanent commission to these 11, and also consider similarly, the case of the 36 others who did not file a contempt petition.There was no response from the Army on the development.The women short service commission officers secured their right to permanent commission and command positions in non-combat streams at par with male officers after a prolonged legal battle culminating in the Supreme Court order on February 17, 2020. The women officers again came to the court in September 2020, complaining against the whimsical standards on merit, medical fitness applied by Selection Board to deny them their due. This resulted in the March 25 order.In June, the Centre moved an application for clarification of the judgment stating that the 72 officers denied permanent commission faced serious issues: discipline, disobedience of orders, forging medical documents, poor work ethic, lack of professionalism, un-officer like conduct, and poor performance in courses. The court refused to entertain this application in August and directed the army to comply with the March judgment.In Friday’s hearing, the Centre initially said it would grant permanent commission only to 21 of the 36 who filed the contempt petition. It was very clear that it did not want to grant commission to the 11 against whom there were serious objections.“If service records of the relevant period of these 11 officers is to be taken as the basis, it raises a question on their continuation in the force which is a relevant consideration adopted by the army to deny them permanent commission,” said Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Union government. The 11 officers were medically fit.The court wished to know if these officers had secured disciplinary and vigilance clearance to which the ASG replied in the affirmative “As of today, they have those clearances, but there are some weak points against them pertaining to the relevant period.”The court then remarked: “The Army may be supreme in its own authority, but the Constitutional court is supreme in its own jurisdiction. We gave you a long rope and put you on guard that if you go beyond our order (of March), you will invite trouble. We are going to record a finding holding Army guilty of contempt.”It added: “Our directions are very clear. Do not deny these people on some remarks made at some point in the past.”ASG Jain along with senior advocate R Balasubramanian appearing for the Indian Army took an hour’s concession from the Court to discuss the issue with top army and government officials.Returning with instructions in the afternoon, ASG Jain told the Court that the 11 officers shall be granted PC within 10 days and all similarly placed WSSCOs who have not approached the Court in contempt petitions will also be given similar consideration. The Court accepted the stand of the Army and recorded the statement, granting three weeks’ time to consider grant of PC to the remaining officers.ASG Jain said, “The army officers are keen to see this matter attains finality today. We will consider them with open heart and open mind.” Balasubramanian, who too played a crucial part in convincing the army officers to arrive at a consensus, said, “Army is being thrown apart by this litigation. We want to bring an end to these proceedings.” He further pointed out that the Court should state in the order that in peculiar facts of this case as otherwise, it could open a flood of litigations by male short service commission officers who have been denied permanent commission in the past on similar grounds.The Court disposed the contempt petitions and directed the Army authorities to deal with the complaints of two WSSCOs denied PC on medical grounds within a month. The accomplishment of these two officers was mentioned in the March judgment as an ode to the services rendered by the women officers in the army. Senior advocate V Mohana appearing for the two officers said that one officer was shown in low medical category at the relevant period due to her pregnancy while the other officer was being penalised for not producing medical documents of the relevant period.The bench told the Centre, “It is not that she is unfit but that she was pregnant.”However, the Court reiterated, “By way of abundant caution, it is clarified, those officers who have disciplinary and vigilance clearance as of present will be eligible for grant of PC subject to other conditions mentioned in paragraph 120 of our judgment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/permanent-commission-for-women-army-blinks-after-sc-warns-it-of-contempt-101636740164463.html
13-11-2021||India||‘Contrary’ views by CDS, govt on Chinese incursion fan row||Seemingly contradictory views within the government on a village built by China in a disputed area in Arunachal Pradesh and the status of the land on which it sits, ignited a political controversy on Friday with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accusing the Centre of compromising India’s security.“Our national security is unpardonably compromised because GOI (Government of India) has no strategy and Mr 56” (a jibe at the PM) is scared,” Gandhi wrote on Twitter.The Congress leader attacked the government a day after the ministry of external affairs, in its first response to a US report on the Chinese village, referred to China’s activities in areas it has illegally occupied over the years, and asserted that India will never accept such “illegal occupation” of its territory, even as the country’s senior-most military commander General Bipin Rawat said the Chinese constructions were on its side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).“My thoughts are with the soldiers risking their lives to guard our borders while GOI churns out lies,” Gandhi added. HT reached out to the defence ministry and the army but they didn’t react to Gandhi’s allegations.Hitting back, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said: “Rahul Gandhi has no moral authority of commenting on National Security. Same Mr Rahul Gandhi had questioned the “Surgical Strike” and dubbed it “Farzical”, had demanded for evidence in case of Air Strike. Rahul Gandhi was caught with the wrong foot during the Doklam Standoff. Defence Minister Mr Antony had mentioned on the floor of parliament that “No Border Infrastructure” was the best policy as far as National Security is concerned. Rahul Should stop opposing just for the sake of Opposition. His hatred for Modi has transformed into hatred for India.”The new Chinese village, which has emerged as a symbol of Beijing’s assertiveness in disputed border areas in the eastern sector, was built in an area held by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) since August 1959.The Indian Army has been aware of the village’s existence for more than a year, but the 100-home village was thrust into the limelight after being mentioned in a US defence department report last week. It is located in disputed territory in Arunachal’s upper Subansiri district.Responding to a question on the report submitted on November 3 by the US department of defence to the Congress, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on Thursday told a regular news briefing that China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along border areas, including in areas it has “illegally occupied over the decades.” “India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims,” he said.The US report said China constructed the village “inside disputed territory” between Tibet and Arunachal Pradesh.Speaking at a conference organised by a TV channel, chief of defence staff General Rawat, however, said China was building infrastructure and the so-called villages on its side of LAC.“They have not transgressed anywhere on our perception of LAC. There are differing perceptions (of LAC). We are very clear where the LAC lies because we have been told that this is your alignment of LAC and this is the territory you are expected to defend,” CDS said, adding that no Chinese village had come up on the Indian side of LAC.There’s some debate on that, though.China has built the village in an area occupied by China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) after overrunning an Assam Rifles post in 1959 in the Longju area, as previously reported by HT. The Longju skirmish, which left two Indian soldiers dead, took place a few months after the 14th Dalai Lama fled Tibet, crossed into India in March 1959 and was later granted political asylum by New Delhi.“Although the Chinese are occupying this area since 1959, our clear position is that Longju is on our side of LAC. We follow the watershed principle for LAC in Arunachal and Longju lies south of the watershed,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).The watershed formed by the highest mountains is an established global principle or norm for border demarcation.“Grey areas” along McMahon Line such as Asaphila, Longju and Khinzemane are places where the Chinese-claimed LAC goes beyond the watershed and is shown as the international border on Indian maps, historian Srinath Raghavan wrote on Twitter on Friday.“PLA patrolling & presence in these areas is often reported by Indian media as an “incursion”… CDS Rawat’s response suggests that the Indian perception of the LAC in this area doesn’t go up to the watershed either. Longju may be an exception among the “grey areas” owing to the longstanding Chinese position,” he added.Some experts, including General Hooda, view the setting up of the Chinese village in the context of a 2005 agreement between India and China on political parameters and guiding principles for the settlement of the India-China boundary question.Article VII of that pact says, “In reaching a boundary settlement, the two sides shall safeguard due interests of their settled populations in the border areas.”Eastern Army commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande last month flagged concerns about the “dual use” of villages being set up by China in forward areas, and said the army was factoring in the development in its operational planning.PLA has intensified patrolling in sensitive areas across LAC in Arunachal Pradesh after a lingering standoff with India began last year in the Ladakh sector. It has ramped up area domination patrols for surveillance and orientation of newly inducted troops with a noticeable increase in visits by senior PLA officers to forward areas to supervise the military activities in the eastern sector.The sectors across which the Indian Army has detected increased PLA activities include Lungro La, Zimithang and Bum La --- areas of high historical significance in the context of Chinese aggression in the eastern sector --- and counter measures have been taken to boost India’s readiness to handle any contingency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contrary-views-by-cds-govt-on-chinese-incursion-fan-row-101636740106107.html
13-11-2021||India||Focus on booths to win UP elections, Amit Shah tells BJP cadres in Varanasi||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday reviewed the preparations for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections by holding a meeting with the Bharatiya Janata Party’s assembly in-charges and district presidents in Varanasi.Shah is on a two-day visit to eastern UP. Soon after landing at the Lal Bahadur Shastri International Airport in Varanasi on Friday, he went paid a floral tribute to a statue of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) founder Mahamana Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya on the latter’s death anniversary, in Lanka area.Later, he reached the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Trade Facilitation Centre in Varanasi, where he addressed a meeting of BJP assembly constituency in-charges from all 403 seats, district heads and in-charges.“I reviewed the preparations for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh by holding a meeting with the assembly in-charges in Varanasi,” he said in a tweet.UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, who was present at the meeting, said Shah gave the victory mantra to the party office bearers and reiterated the target of winning 300 plus seats in the upcoming elections. He also informed the constituency in-charges about their responsibilities in detail, asserting that if a booth is won, the UP election is won, Singh added.Union education minister and the BJP’s UP election in-charge, Dharmendra Pradhan, tweeted, “Uttar Pradesh, once counted among the BIMARU states, has emerged as an example for the entire country in the difficult times of Corona. We have full confidence that the people of Uttar Pradesh will press the lotus button in UP assembly elections 2022 and strengthen the foundation of giving the blessings of public opinion to Modi ji again in 2024.”Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers Pradhan and Anurag Thakur, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, Swatantra Dev Singh, state in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal and state co-organisation general secretary Karmveer Singh also addressed the meeting.Those aware of the matter said that the strategy for the upcoming assembly elections was chalked out at the meeting.After the meeting, Shah stayed overnight in Varanasi.He will participate in the Akhil Bharatiya Rajbhasha Sammelan (All India Official Language Conference) at TFC here at 10am on November 13.He will later lay the foundation stone of a state university in Azamgarh. Shah will also go to Basti from Azamgarh where he will address a meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-booths-to-win-up-elections-amit-shah-tells-bjp-cadres-in-varanasi-101636739930013.html
13-11-2021||India||SC shifts trial in Kanpur businessman’s murder case from Gorakhpur to Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday shifted the trial in the case involving the death of a Kanpur businessman at a Gorakhpur hotel in which six policemen are accused, to a Delhi court.The businessman Manish Gupta’s wife Meenakshi had approached the top court seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation probe from the state-instituted Special Investigation Team (SIT) and transfer of trial outside UP.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government informed the court that the state had already transferred the probe to CBI and that it had no objection if the trial was shifted to another state.Recording this submission, the bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and AS Bopanna directed the trial to be shifted to a Delhi court after the investigation is complete.The petition filed by advocate Anand Shankar said, “The petitioner has no faith in the investigation being carried out by the SIT considering the status and power of the accused persons....”The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered an FIR in the case earlier this month.On September 27 this year, 36-year-old Gupta, from Kanpur, had checked in at a Gorakhpur hotel with his two friends to meet a business associate Past midnight, six policemen barged into the hotel room and conducted searches of Gupta and his associates. When Gupta objected, the police assaulted him that led to his death.Police had earlier denied the charge and said Gupta received a head injury after he fell on the ground as he was drunk.On September 29, a case of murder was registered against six policemen involved in the raid. The state government later formed SIT and policemen were arrested. In October, the state police recommended CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-shifts-trial-in-kanpur-businessman-s-murder-case-from-gorakhpur-to-delhi-101636736205027.html
13-11-2021||India||25 states, UTs reduced VAT on petrol, diesel after Centre's request. These haven't||As many as 25 states and Union territories have reduced Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to provide relief to consumers. The decision of states and UTs to cut VAT on petrol and diesel followed the Centre's announcement to significantly reduce central excise duty on these fuels on Diwali eve. Most of the states that announced a reduction in VAT on petrol or diesel are either ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or its allies.The ministry of petroleum & natural gas said the states and UTs which have not undertaken any reduction in VAT on petrol and diesel are: Maharashtra, NCT of Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chattisgarh and Rajasthan.Punjab has recorded the highest cut in petrol price after the Central and the state government announced a reduction in central excise duty and VAT respectively. The petrol price in Punjab has come down by ₹16.02 per litre, followed by ₹13.43 in UT of Ladakh and ₹13.35 in Karnataka. Andaman & Nicobar consumers are getting petrol at the cheapest price ( ₹82.96 per litre) in the country while Itanagar is selling the fuel at ₹92.02 per litre. In Jaipur, petrol is priced at ₹117.45 per litre while Mumbai consumers are getting it at ₹115.85 in Mumbai.For diesel, the price has come down most in UT of Ladakh by ₹19.61 per litre, followed by ₹19.49 in Karnataka and ₹19.08 in Puducherry. “Diesel is cheapest in Andaman & Nicobar at ₹77.13 per litre, while it is ₹79.55 per litre in Aizwal, Mizoram. Diesel is priced at ₹108.39 per litre in Jaipur, Rajasthan, while it is ₹107.48 in Vizag, Andhra Pradesh,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-states-uts-have-reduced-vat-on-petrol-diesel-after-centre-s-request-101636725889433.html
13-11-2021||India||Sonepat murders: Prime suspects behind killings of wrestler, her brother held||Two prime suspects in the murder of 22-year-old university-level wrestler Nisha Dahiya, and her brother, Suraj Dahiya, 18, have been apprehended, the Delhi Police said on Friday.The siblings were killed while their mother, Dhanpati, was injured when they were fired upon at a wrestling academy at Halalpur in Haryana’s Sonepat on Wednesday.The Delhi Police identified the two accused as 25-year-old wrestling coach Pawan Barak and his associate Sachin Dahiya, 23. The two were apprehended from Delhi’s Dwarka area. One licensed revolver has been recovered from Barak’s possession. Sachin Dahiya was previously arrested in two cases of the Arms Act in Haryana, said deputy police commissioner (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.“The two men were wanted in the double murder case registered at the Kharkhoda police station in Haryana’s Sonepat,” said Yadav.Also Read: Witness in murder trial found dead with gunshot wound to head in DelhiA Special Investigation Team of the Sonepat Police on Thursday arrested Barak’s wife, Sujata, and her brother, Amit, in connection with the double murder. Barak and Sachin Dahiya were the prime suspects in the case and were absconding. The Haryana police announced ₹1 lakh reward for information leading to their arrest.The reports of the murder triggered confusion as the university-level wrestler was a namesake of a bronze medal winner at the Under-23 World Championship.In her statement to the Haryana Police, Dhanpati alleged Pawan Barak, also the owner of the academy, fired at them after her daughter accused him of harassing her. “My daughter informed me earlier too that Pawan often misbehaved with her. When we talked to the accused about this, he promised not to repeat such acts.”She said on Wednesday, her daughter went to the academy for training and returned home. “At 1pm, she went to the academy again. We received a call from Pawan saying Nisha was not feeling well, and he asked us to take her home. When I and my son Suraj reached there, we saw Pawan, his wife Sujata, and two others rushing towards Nisha near the main gate of the academy. She told me that Pawan had misbehaved with her and threatened to kill her if she narrated the incident to anyone.”Pawan Barak then allegedly pulled out a gun and fired multiple shots. “She collapsed after receiving bullet wounds. Pawan then fired shots at me and chased my son Suraj, who was running towards the village. I saw them firing several bullets, which hit him and he too died on the spot.”The slain wrestler’s father, Dayanand Dahiya, a sub-inspector in the Central Reserve Police Force, has alleged that Pawan Barak extorted ₹8-10 lakh from them in the name of sending their daughter to foreign tournaments.“Pawan brainwashed my daughter and she used to follow his directions. On his advice, Nisha did not appear in her exams and the coach did not pay us ₹50,000 won by Nisha in a tournament in Maharashtra. He had also taken money from my daughter to prepare her another birth certificate with a lower age.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonepat-murders-prime-suspects-behind-killings-of-wrestler-her-brother-held-101636713343935.html
13-11-2021||India||Withdraw Padmashri, National Awards given to Kangana: MVA||The allies of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over actor Kangana Ranaut’s controversial statement on India’s independence. The Shiv Sena on Friday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president JP Nadda must clarify the meaning of the statement and withdraw the awards given to her.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that the Government of India must take back all the awards it has given to the actor. Congress, also a part of the ruling coalition in Maharashtra, called Ranaut a “puppet” of the BJP.The actor triggered a controversy by describing India’s Independence in 1947 as ‘bheek’ or alms. In a 24-second video clip that has gone viral on social media, Ranaut also said: “And we got real freedom in 2014.” She was speaking at an event organised by a news channel.Senior Congress leader Tariq Anwar said that there is likely to be a conspiracy by the BJP behind the remarks by Kangana Ranaut. “She is an ardent Modi admirer and has never spoken against him. BJP’s central leadership has not uttered a word on her remarks. This raises doubts that there could be a conspiracy by the BJP to defame the freedom fighters and glorify the Modi rule. The Padmashri should immediately be taken back and a case of sedition be registered against her,” he said in Mumbai. Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap said that they would stage protests in various parts of the city against Ranaut.“BJP will have to speak out on this issue. All the National Awards given to Kangana ben should be taken back. If the government does not take back these awards, then it does not have the right to celebrate the Amrut Mahotsav (75th year) of Independence,” Raut said.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary Sachin Sawant tweeted, “Kangana is BJP’s Jhansi Ki Rani who dares to insult the freedom struggle and sacrifices of the freedom fighters, martyrs by saying ‘Azadi Bhik Mein Mili Hai’. Such puppets are nurtured by BJP deliberately for this filth. These parrots are not the real culprits but their masters are”NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said that the actor must have taken an overdose of some addictive grown in Malana Valley of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/withdraw-national-awards-given-to-kangana-demand-mva-allies-ask-pm-to-clarify-101636711543657.html
13-11-2021||India||PC Mody replaces Ramacharyulu as Rajya Sabha secretary general||n what is perhaps the shortest term ever for a Rajya Sabha secretary general, PPK Ramacharyulu has been removed from the post just 10 weeks after his appointment.PC Mody, former chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, has replaced him as secretary general of the Upper House.Mody’s appointment marks a rare occasion of an Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer becoming the Rajya Sabha’s secretary general. The position has traditionally been reserved for Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers or senior parliament secretariat officers.Former Uttarakhand cadre IAS officer Utpal Kumar Singh is the current Lok Sabha secretary general.“PC Mody, former chairman of the CBDT, will be the new secretary general of Rajya Sabha. Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, the appointing authority, signed the order of appointment to this effect,” said a senior official.Two senior Opposition leaders, who asked not to be named, expressed surprise at the change of guard.Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, in a tweet, said “Not surprised at all. Dr. PPK Ramacharyulu is a thorough professional, non-partisan and perfectly qualified for the post—three deadly sins in the Modi regime.”Mody, who is likely to take charge on Friday, is a 1982 IRS officer who was given three extensions as CBDT chairman since August 2019.Ramacharyulu, secretary general since September 1, has been appointed as an adviser to the Rajya Sabha chairman.The secretary general heads the secretariat of the House and is the key lieutenant to the chair for running the affairs.A secretary-general is appointed by the Chair of the respective House. Retired bureaucrats have been appointed as SGs of both Houses on several occasions but replacing an incumbent in the middle of his term is an unusual move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pc-mody-replaces-ramacharyulu-as-rajya-sabha-secretary-general-101636698162807.html
13-11-2021||India||Covaxin 77.8% effective against Covid-19 in Lancet study||Covaxin, the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical research has 77.8% efficacy against symptomatic infections, 93.4% against severe infections, and 65.2% against infection by the highly infectious Delta variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes the coronavirus disease, according to an analysis of the vaccine’s Phase 3 trials published on Friday in The Lancet.The data is the same as that published in a pre-print study four months ago.“The Lancet peer review confirms the efficacy analysis that demonstrates Covaxin to be effective against Covid-19. Covaxin is the only Covid-19 vaccine to have demonstrated efficacy data from Phase 3 clinical trials against the Delta variant at 65.2%,” said Bharat Biotech in a statement on Friday.The efficacy analysis was done after the evaluation of 130 confirmed Covid-19 cases, with 24 observed in the vaccine group as against 106 in the placebo group, the article said.Bharat Biotech developed the anti-Covid jab in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology in Pune. WHO, on November 3, issued a Emergency Use Listing for Covaxin, which has been part of India’s vaccine programme since January. Of the 1.1 billion vaccine doses administered till Friday evening in India, over 125 million, or 11% are of Covaxin.The company received strains of Sars-CoV-2 isolated by the Indian government’s apex virology laboratory in March 2020.“The peer review of Covaxin’s Phase 3 clinical trial data in The Lancet, an authoritative voice in global medicine, validates our commitment to data transparency and meeting the stringent peer review standards of world-leading medical journals,” Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, said in a statement.“The data from our product development and clinical trials has been published in 10 peer-reviewed journals, making Covaxin one of the most highly published Covid-19 vaccines in the world. This accomplishment reflects the undeterred commitment by my team members at Bharat Biotech, our public partners, ICMR, the National Institute of Virology and the trust imposed by our trial participants who made this happen,” Ella said.The long gap between the publication of Covaxin’s Phase 3 results in a release and in a peer-reviewed journal and the delay in WHO granting an EUL to the vaccine had become talking points. Pfizer, whose vaccine was approved for emergency use by the US drug regulator in December 2020, published its Phase 3 results in a peer-reviewed journal in the same month.Oxford/AstraZeneca’s vaccine was approved for use by the UK regulator in December 2020. Covaxin was approved by India’s drug regulator before interim results of its Phase 3 trials were available, and the company finally published these in a release in June 2021.Balram Bhargava, director general of the ICMR, said, “Following successful isolation of the Sars-CoV-2 virus at the ICMR-National Institute of Virology in Pune, ICMR and Bharat Biotech embarked upon one of the most successful public-private partnerships to develop the virus isolate into an effective Covid-19 vaccine. “I am delighted to see that the Phase 3 efficacy data has also been published in The Lancet, one of the most reputed journals worldwide. It speaks highly about the strong position of Covaxin among other global front-runners [with respect to] Covid-19 vaccines...” he added. According to the company, its emergency-use authorisation application is in process in at least 50 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-covaxin-s-phase-3-trial-data-published-in-lancet-101636686641937.html
13-11-2021||India||Anti-Covid pill likely to get approved in India soon, DCGI reviewing data||The Drugs Controller General of India is reviewing the clinical data of molnupiravir, the world's first anti-Covid pill approved in the United Kingdom, for the treatment of Covid-19 in adults in India. Sun Pharmaceutical Industries said it is all set to introduce Merck Sharp Dohme (MSD) and Ridgeback's molnupiravir under the brand name Molxvir.Sun Pharma is one of the companies in India with which Merck entered into voluntary licensing agreements."The recent authorisation of molnupiravir, licensed from MSD and Ridgeback, by the UK regulator is a positive step. In line with our consistent efforts to accelerate access to new drugs for COVID-19 treatment, we are gearing up to make Molxvir available to patients and healthcare providers across India at an economical price post-approval by DCGI," Sun Pharma India Business CEO Kirti Ganorkar said in a statement.The United States is also going through the data of molnupiravir.Who can take this pill? Adults who are at risk of Covid can take this pill to avoid severe symptoms or hospitalisation. However, experts have warned that anti-Covid pills are not alternatives to vaccines. The pill can be taken within the first few days of Covid symptoms appearing.Molnupiravir, as a small molecule, does not require cold storage like messenger RNA vaccines. In the Phase 3 trial by Merck, Molnupiravir significantly reduced the risk of hospitalisation or death by around 50 per cent in a planned interim analysis of the MOVe-OUT trial in at risk, non-hospitalised adult patients with mild-to-moderate COVID-19.Based on the participants with available viral sequencing data (around 40 per cent of participants), molnupiravir demonstrated consistent efficacy across viral variants like Gamma, Delta and Mu.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anticovid-pill-likely-to-get-approved-in-india-soon-dcgi-reviewing-data-101636680456713.html
