14-11-2021||India||COP26 summit in Glasgow proved to be a success, says India||Glasgow India on Sunday called the COP26 summit a “success”, saying it put across the concerns and ideas of the developing world quite “succinctly and unequivocally” in front of the world community.Negotiators from nearly 200 countries have accepted a new climate agreement after the COP26 summit in Glasgow concluded its extra time plenary on Saturday with a deal, which recognises India’s intervention for the world to “phase down” rather than “phase out” fossil fuels.Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav, head of the Indian delegation at the Glasgow conference, said that the world needs to awaken to the reality that the current climate crisis has been precipitated by unsustainable lifestyles and wasteful consumption patterns in the developed countries.“The summit proved to be a success from India’s standpoint because we articulated and put across the concerns and ideas of the developing world quite succinctly and unequivocally. India presented the way for a constructive debate and equitable and just solutions at the forum.“Consensus, however, remained elusive at COP26. India has maintained that the current climate crisis has been precipitated by unsustainable lifestyles and wasteful consumption patterns mainly in the developed countries. The world needs to awaken to this reality,” Yadav wrote on his blog on Sunday.The minister, who has been maintaining a blog ‘COP 26 Diary’, wrote that India, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has proactively taken the lead in creating the International Solar Alliance, Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI) and the One Sun, One World, One Sun Grid initiatives as examples of international collaboration to combat climate change.“Having done its part, India at the summit, asked the developed world concrete actions in this decisive decade and translation of commitments to actions,” he said.India has been criticised by several countries for the change promoted by it to phase down, rather than phase out coal power, the single biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions.Yadav said that fossil fuels and their use have enabled parts of the world to attain high levels of growth. “Even now, developed countries have not completely phased out coal. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) refers to mitigation of GHG emissions from all sources. UNFCCC is not directed at any particular source. Developing countries have a right to their fair share of the global carbon budget and are entitled to the responsible use of fossil fuels within this scope,” he said. The minister said that climate friendly lifestyles and climate justice as enshrined in the Paris Agreement are the key to solving the climate crisis. “We can proudly say today that India is the only G20 nation well on track to achieve the goals mentioned under the Paris Agreement. While there has been a lot of talk about and around Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), the lack of commitment on climate finance is troublesome. “There is a wide mismatch between climate finance and mitigation efforts. The record on means of implementation support to developing countries has been dismal so far. India looks forward to a change in finance and technology support to developing countries going forward,” he said.In the end, the minister hoped that the world will rise to the urgency of the climate crisis “As I conclude my engagements at COP26 and return home, India is hopeful that the world will rise to the urgency of the climate crisis facing us and that alone will ensure we have real actions to save our planet for the future generations,” he said.“India, I am happy to note, achieved some remarkable results in terms of climate finance issues including a work program on new collective quantified goal, support for enhanced transparency framework for developing countries, Article 6 rule book, adaptation, common timeframe, at the COP26 negotiations,” he added. PTI AG ZH ZH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop26-summit-in-glasgow-proved-to-be-a-success-says-india-101636914435554.html
14-11-2021||India||Preserve, protect judiciary’s independence and integrity: CJI to High Courts||Nothing is more important than to preserve and protect the independence and integrity of the judiciary at all levels, said Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Sunday. He was addressing a gathering of High Court Chief Justices at the closing event of a legal awareness and outreach campaign organized by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA).“For an overwhelming majority of litigants, what is real and existing is only the district judiciary,” CJI Ramana said, adding, “Without a robust justice delivery system at the grassroot level, we cannot imagine a healthy judiciary. Therefore, nothing is more important than to preserve, protect and promote the independence and integrity of the judiciary at all levels.”Stressing on the need to make citizens aware of their legal rights and to secure them, the CJI, who is also the Patron-in-Chief of NALSA, said, “The stark divide between haves and have nots is still a reality. No matter how many cherished declarations we successfully arrive at, in the face of poverty, inequity and deprivations, it will all seem pointless…. efficient legal aid service forms the backbone of a proficient justice delivery system, as it brings people closer to us.”As the mind of the Indian judiciary is known to millions through the actions of the trial court and the district judiciary, CJI said, “It is the trial court which is approached first by a woman in distress, a child in need of care, or an illegal detenue.” He urged the High Courts to play an important role in supervising and overseeing effective functioning of all district courts within their jurisdiction.The CJI said decisions by courts have a huge social impact and for this reason, he stressed that judgments given by Courts should be “easily comprehensible and must be written in simple and clear language.” He told the gathered Chief Justices and judges of High Courts that the ability of constitutional courts to function with absolute independence and necessary boldness in the face of adversity is the only way to sustain the impeccable character of this institution and to live up to the faith of people.President Ram Nath Kovind had inaugurated NALSA’s pan-India Legal Awareness and Outreach event on October 2 that ended on Sunday. The valedictory event was also attended by NALSA Executive Chairman and Supreme Court judge, Justice UU Lalit along with Supreme Court Legal Services Committee Chairman Justice AM Khanwilkar, Attorney General KK Venugopal and Union Women and Child Development minister Smriti Zubin Irani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/preserve-protect-judiciary-s-independence-and-integrity-cji-to-high-courts-101636914314520.html
14-11-2021||India||No pre-poll alliance, will contest on all 403 seats in UP election, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Sunday ruled out a pre-poll alliance with any political party and said that the party would go solo in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh. Lashing out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for misleading people that Congress has a weak organisation in Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka said, “We will show them our strength by contesting alone on 403 seats in the forthcoming assembly elections in UP. How can they say that we have a weak organisation when over 18,000 workers and leaders of our party had been booked for raising issues of the public? We didn’t see Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) fighting for public issues in the past two years,” said Priyanka while interacting with workers of the party and frontal organisations at a party workers’ conference in Bulandshahr on Sunday. Congress leaders and workers from 14 districts of Meerut, Aligarh and Agra divisions attended the conference. She also paid tribute to Pt Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary in the beginning of the workers’ meet. Spokesperson of Meerut district Congress committee, Harkishan Verma, who attended the meet, said that Priyanka asked workers to be more active on social media in order to counter lies, fake news and propaganda by the ruling BJP. “Elections are won on the strength of women party workers,” she said while calling upon leaders to have a team of at least 25 women workers at each booth. She said that two of them should actively coordinate with others for effective execution of the party’s activities. The Congress leader accused the BJP of trying to write a new definition of the country and Independence. She asked party workers to reach out to people and explain how the Constitution is in danger under BJP’s rule. She also asked party workers to inform people about the party’s decisions for the welfare of women and people of different segments of the society. “Each worker should associate at least five families with the party,” she added. The Congress leader said that Mahatma Gandhi, Nehru, Sardar Patel, Baba Saheb Ambedkar and others sacrificed their lives for Independence. “But the BJP leadership does not know the meaning of Independence. Only a few people enjoy independence today. The family of Hathras rape victim had no independence of doing the last rites of the girl. Now, the time has come to re-do the slogan of ‘Do or die’,” Priyanka said. She said that people are in deep trouble due to increasing prices of essential commodities. “Petrol price were at ₹70 in the past 70 years which has now risen to ₹100 and beyond in the past seven years,” she said. Party’s state president Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ and other Congress leaders accompanied Priyanka, who interacted with several delegations from each district to have their feedback about what more could be done to strengthen the party further. A similar conference of Saharanpur, Moradabad and Bareilly divisions will be held in Moradabad on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-pre-poll-alliance-will-contest-on-all-403-seats-in-up-election-says-priyanka-gandhi-101636910952927.html
14-11-2021||India||Incessant rain continues to batter Kerala, south Tamil Nadu||Torrential rain continued to pound the two southern states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu as the north-east monsoon turned vigorous leaving a trail of destruction. In Kerala, the shutters of the Idukki dam were opened again on Sunday to ease pressure—this is the first time that the shutters are being opened twice a year. Though there is some respite in Chennai, heavy rain battered the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. The shutters of the Idukki dam were opened on October 19, after the district received heavy rainfall that triggered flash floods and landslides claiming many lives. The 45-year-old dam, Asia’s largest arch dam, was opened only five times since its inception and that shows the intensity of rain in catchment areas. Out of the total capacity of 2,403 feet, the water level had risen to 2,398 feet on Sunday forcing authorities to open the shutters. “We have opened just one shutter for 40 cm now and in a second 40,000 litres are getting released. We are monitoring the situation and if need be more shutters will be opened,” said state Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, camping in the district. More than 200 relief camps have been opened in the two worst hit districts, Pathanamthitta and Idukki. Tamil Nadu also informed the state that if the situation continued the spillways of the Mullaperiyar dam will also be opened. Water level in Mullaperiyar crossed 140 feet on Sunday. Kerala has been put on high alert as many dams are filled to the brim and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has called an emergency meeting later on Sunday evening. The India Meteorology Department had sounded a red alert in three districts (Idukki, Ernakulam and Thrissur) and another orange alert in six other districts. Some areas in Idukki and Pathanamthitta districts received around 220 mm rain in the last two days. People living near water bodies have been asked to keep vigil. In the second week of October, 42 people died in Kerala after heavy rainfall triggered flash floods and landslides. The usual rainfall during north-east monsoon in Kerala is 492 mm between October 1 and December 31, but this time between October 1 and November 6 the state received 716 mm rain against the expected fall of 387.9 mm, IMD statistics show. Going by the present pattern, rainfall will be at least 200 per cent higher than the usual rate by the end of December. IMD attributed the heavy rainfall to a low pressure brewing near the southern Andaman Sea and it is likely to intensify in the next 48 hours. “We can’t ignore signals of climate change. Changing rain pattern is one of them. We have to expect the unexpected in such scenarios. We have to strengthen our early warning system and need more studies to lessen impact of such changes. We desperately need more studies on climate change,” said Dr MG Manoj of the Advanced Centre for Atmospheric Radar Research with the Cochin University of Science and Technology. Though Chennai and adjacent districts received two heavy spells last week that crippled the region and several areas continued to be inundated, it had some respite over the weekend. But heavy rain lashed the southern districts of Kanyakumari, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi causing severe flooding. Two areas in Kanyakumari district recorded 220 mm of rainfall, said the Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). As many as 3,278 people were moved to relief camps in the district. The heavy rainfall in neighbouring Kerala also impacted railway traffic between Kanyakumari and Thiruvananthapuram so the southern railway cancelled four trains and partially cancelled 11 trains and announced changes in timings. Tamil Nadu has received excess rainfall this northeast monsoon. Overnight between November 6 and 7, Chennai recorded 210 mm of rain and on November 12 the average rainfall was 60.6 mm. From November 7 up to 12, Tamil Nadu recorded 110 mm rainfall, S Balachandran, head, RMC Chennai told reporters on Friday. “Chennai has recorded 46 cm rainfall which is five times the average we receive during this period which is 8cm.” From October 1, when the north east monsoon began up to November 12, Chennai has received 81 cm rainfall while the average is 44 cm.” This is 85% excess,” the RMC head had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incessant-rain-continues-to-batter-kerala-south-tamil-nadu-101636909751189.html
14-11-2021||India||Schools shut in Delhi, Gurugram; AAP to submit lockdown plan to SC on Monday | 10 points||The Aam Aadmi Party government will submit a proposal on imposing a lockdown in the national capital owing to rising air pollution to the Supreme Court on Monday. The Apex Court asked the government on Saturday to consider imposing a lockdown for two days to control the pollution. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said imposing a lockdown will be a major decision. There will be wide consultation before taking any such decision. Kejriwal said the government will prepare a draft proposal of a lockdown and its modalities and will submit it to the apex court.Here are 10 updates regarding the pollution situation in Delhi-NCR1. All schools in Delhi will remain shut for a week starting from November 15. Schools in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat, Jhajjar will also remain closed till November 17.2. Construction activities in Delhi are banned till November 17.3. The Haryana government has also banned construction works in four districts that in the National Capital Region.4. Apart from emergency services, all government offices in Delhi will work from home, starting from tomorrow. Haryana government has also urged offices to switch to work from home mode as much as possible.5. The AAP government has also suggested shutting down diesel generator sets and coal kilns in Delhi, increasing parking fees, increasing the frequency of metro and bus etc to mitigate the pollution.6. In Delhi, 400 tankers will be sprinkling water to settle dust.7. The government will complete the work of spraying bio-decomposer solutions for stubble decomposition in 4,000 acres of fields by November 20.8. As Delhi and Haryana shut schools, the Commission for Air Quality Management on Sunday advised Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to consider implementing restrictions.9. On Sunday, there was a marked improvement in Delhi's air quality as the air quality index was 330 as against 437 on Saturday and 471 on Friday. The air quality index of neighbouring Ghaziabad, Gurgaon, Noida, Faridabad, Greater Noida was recorded at 331, 287, 321, 298 and 310, respectively.10. According to the forecast, the air quality may improve a little over the next two days in Delhi because of the ban on construction activities.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-shut-in-delhi-gurugram-aap-to-submit-lockdown-plan-to-sc-on-monday-10-points-101636907491620.html
14-11-2021||India||Delivery of S-400 air defence systems has begun, says Russian official||Russia has begun delivering the S-400 air defence system to India, a senior Russian official has said ahead of President Vladimir Putin’s visit to New Delhi for a planned annual summit. The delivery of the S-400 systems to India is going as planned, Dmitry Shugaev, director of Russia’s Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation, told the state-run Sputnik news service. “The supplies of the S-400 air defence system to India have started and are proceeding on schedule,” Shugaev said, without giving further details. There was no official word from the Indian side on the development. Hindustan Times had reported last week that the delivery of the first batch of S-400 systems is expected to coincide with Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to New Delhi in December for the annual summit, which will set the stage for the two countries renewing their military-technical cooperation for the next decade. The two countries had signed a $5.4-billion contract for five S-400 systems during Putin’s last visit to India for the annual summit in October 2018. India has in recent months signalled its intention to go ahead with the deal despite the US warning that it could attract secondary sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). Several teams of Indian Air Force personnel have been trained in Russia to operate the air defence system that will be used to protect key cities, strategic installations and sensitive stretches of the country’s borders. Russian officials have said deliveries of all the systems are expected to be completed within five years of the signing of the contract. The IAF is expected to induct the first unit of S-400 systems at a time when India is locked in a border standoff with China, which has deployed two S-400 squadrons at Hotan airbase in Xinjiang and Nyingchi airbase in Tibet, across Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh respectively. The S-400 is currently in service with the militaries of China and Turkey. In August, the head of Russia’s state arms exporter Rosoboronexport, Alexander Mikheev, had said negotiations on supplying the S-400 were underway with seven countries in West Asia, the Asia-Pacific region and Africa. Putin is expected to be in New Delhi in the second week of December for the annual summit, with the two countries looking at December 6 as the most likely date for the meeting. His visit will be preceded by the maiden 2+2 dialogue of the defence and foreign ministers of India and Russia in Moscow. At the summit, the two sides are expected to renew their military-technical cooperation arrangement for 2021-31 and sign several agreements, including the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Agreement (RELOS) to allow access to logistics and support facilities at each other’s military bases and ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delivery-of-s-400-air-defence-systems-has-begun-says-russian-official-101636907111128.html
14-11-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: November 15, 2015 — Paris attacked, 127 slaughtered in six coordinated attacks, IS says more coming||Paris – French President Francois Hollande vowed on Saturday to launch a “pitiless” attack on the Islamic State after the jihadist group orchestrated a coordinated assault by gunmen and bombers that killed at least 127 people across locations in Paris.Hollande called Friday night’s shootings at Paris cafes, suicide bombings near France’s national stadium and a hostage-taking slaughter inside a concert hall —all in under an hour — “an act of war that was prepared, organised, planned from abroad with internal help”.“Faced with war, the country must take appropriate action. All measures to protect our compatriots and our territory are being taken within the framework of the state of emergency,” he said after the deadliest attacks to hit his nation since World War II.France has been on edge since January, when Islamic extremists attacked the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo, which had run cartoons of the Prophet Muhammad, and a kosher grocery. Twenty people died in those attacks, including three shooters.Experts said the brazen strikes — that also injured more than 200 people — were a copycat of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks with militants choosing crowded locations in Paris and food joints.“The militants opened fired at a Paris restaurant like at Mumbai’s Leopold café. Similarly, crowded areas like Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus (CST) were targeted as the attackers hit a packed stadium and a rock concert in Paris,” said V Balachandran, former special secretary and a member of a commission that probed the 26/11 violence.In a statement, the Islamic State admitted responsibility and said eight fighters “wrapped in explosive belts and armed with rifles” carried out synchronised attacks. All were killed.It said the assaults were designed to show France would remain a top target as long as it continued playing a role in bombing IS targets in Syria and Iraq.The cold-blooded massacre was part of what terror experts call a “high impact, low cost” attack that is difficult to apprehend due to the use of simple weapons and minimum logistical backup.As Hollande addressed the nation, authorities expressed concern that many of the attackers could be home home-grown as an estimated 5,000 to 6,000 Europeans have flocked to join the IS ranks – with France being the single-largest source of recruits.Analysts said the massacre – that came days after the IS allegedly shot down a Russian plane, killing over 240 people – showed the group was preparing to inflict enough damage to drive foreign governments from the anti-IS coalition.As news of the bloodbath spread, world leaders united in sympathy and indignation, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the people of India felt “the shock, pain and outrage of the people of France”.“India stands firmly with the great people of France in dealing with the tragedy. And we must stand together as humanity in combating the major global threat to our times and uphold our values and our way of life,” he said. Foreign minister Sushma Swaraj confirmed no Indian had died.A defiant France refused to cancel a landmark climate conference in Paris that begins on November 30 and is expected to see over 100 heads of state in attendance but strengthened security measures.French anti-terror police also worked to identify potential accomplices and said eight died, seven in suicide bombings, a new terror tactic in France. Police said they shot and killed the other assailant. A Greek minister later on Saturday said the holder of a Syrian passport found near the body of one of the gunmen passed though Greece in October.Suicide bombs targeted spots around the national Stade de France stadium, where Hollande was watching an exhibition soccer match. Fans inside the stadium recoiled at the sound of explosions, but the match continued amid rising spectator fears.Around the same time, bullets shattered the clinking of wine glasses in a trendy Paris neighbourhood as gunmen targeted a string of crowded cafes, killing at least 37 people.The deadliest attack was on the Bataclan, a popular concert venue where the Californian rock group Eagles of Death Metal was performing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-november-15-2015-paris-attacked-127-slaughtered-in-six-coordinated-attacks-is-says-more-coming-101636906157076.html
14-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Army chief leaves for Israel to boost defence ties and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Army chief Gen Naravane heads to Israel to boost defence tiesArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Sunday left for Israel on a five-day official visit to discuss avenues for enhancing bilateral defence relations. Read MoreSP chief Akhilesh Yadav hits back at Amit Shah’s JAM jibeSamajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday hit back at Union home minister Amit Shah for his JAM jibe in Azamgarh and said he would reply to JAM with butter. Read MoreArmy to get firepower boost in mountains with more M777 gunsThe Indian Army is set to scale up its capabilities with more M777 ultra-light howitzers that can be swiftly deployed and redeployed in mountains. Read MoreRani Mukerji says she couldn’t get ‘pita wali feeling’ for Shah Rukh Khan in Veer-Zaara, got scolded by Yash ChopraDuring an appearance on The Kapil Sharma Show on Saturday, Rani Mukerji said that she and Shah Rukh Khan could not stop laughing while shooting for Veer-Zaara. Read MoreYami Gautam is fashion goals for bridal trousseau in ₹1 lakh red silk lehengaSymbolic of of passionate love and seduction, the colour red is powerful in traditional cultures and Bollywood actor Yami Gautam's viral ethnic pictures from latest photoshoot are enough to back our claim. Read MoreUK: Protestor hijacks mic at COP26 stage amid disappointment over climate pactAfter lengthy negotiations, a climate agreement was finally inked at the COP26 summit in UK's Glasgow. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-army-chief-leaves-for-israel-to-boost-defence-ties-and-all-the-latest-news-101636901462743.html
14-11-2021||India||Mercury dips below zero in Srinagar, a first this season||Jammu and Kashmir’s summer capital Srinagar recorded sub-zero night temperatures on Sunday for the first time this season.The Meteorological department said that Srinagar witnessed minus 0.9 degrees Celsius on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The department’s weather register revealed that all weather stations of the Valley recorded below zero night temperatures.The mercury plunged lowest in the mountainous resort of Pahalgam in south Kashmir settling at minus 3.5 degrees while it was minus 3 degrees in Khanbal.The ski resort of Gulmarg recorded minus 1.8 degrees and a temperature of minus 1.3 degrees was witnessed in Kupwara.For the past few days the valley has been witnessing foggy conditions in the mornings.Officials say that the foggy conditions are owing to sub-zero temperatures and air pollution caused by increased vehicular traffic and burning of stubble and tree foliage. The temperatures will keep dipping till a western disturbance changes the dry weather condition. “The weather will most likely remain dry till the 20th. A feeble Western Disturbance is likely to affect the region between November 21 and 23, which may cause light to moderate snow over higher reaches especially northern parts of Kashmir,” said director MeT, Sonam Lotus on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mercury-dips-below-zero-in-srinagar-a-first-this-season-101636902189725.html
14-11-2021||India||'Fake history factory': Owaisi on Yogi's ‘Alexander lost to Chandragupta Maurya’ remark||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said 'Hindutva' is a factory of fake history referring to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath's remark that history remembers Alexander as 'The Great', who 'lost to' Chandragupta Maurya. "Chandragupta and Alexander never met in war. This is yet another example of why we need good public education system," Owaisi tweeted."Hindutva is a fake history factory. Chandragupta & Alexander never met in war. This is yet another example of why we need good public education system. In absence of good schools, Baba-log get to make up facts according to convenience. Baba doesn’t value education and it shows," Owaisi tweeted. Hindutva is a fake history factory. Chandragupta & Alexander never met in war. This is yet another example of why we need good public education system. In absence of good schools, Baba-log get to make up facts according to convenience. Baba doesn’t value education & it shows https://t.co/nFWqvoRZLyAddressing the Samajik Pratinidhi Sammelan in Lucknow, Adityanath said, "How is history distorted! History did not call Chandragupta Maurya great, whom did it call great? The one who lost from him. They call Alexander, the great. The nation has been cheated. But historians are silent on it, because, if the truth comes out before Indians, the society will stand up once again. When society stands up, the nation stands up too. PM Modi is making this nation stand up today. When we talk of 'Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat', these issues are addressed."
14-11-2021||India||MP police bust drug peddling gang using e-commerce site to supply marijuana||The Madhya Pradesh Police claims to have busted an interstate drug peddling gang that was using Amazon’s e-commerce website for moving more than 1000 kg of marijuana from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh to three states. Two Bhind residents Suraj Pawaiya and Vijendra Singh Tomar were arrested with 20 kg of Marijuana from a road side eatery at Gohad, said Manoj Kumar Singh,the Bhind police chief.“These two accused are part of a drug peddling gang which has a network across the nation. Police are trying to nab the other four identified and six unidentified accused,” Singh said.“A company registered in 2007 as an Ahmedabad-based textile firm, Babu Tex Private Limited, which used to sell Marijuana as stevia dry leaves. Acting on a tip-off, police raided a Dhaba in Gohad of Bhind and recovered packaging material of amazon e-commercial company and two air tickets from Visakhapatnam to Delhi,” said Singh. Police claims that during interrogation, Pawaiya revealed that they used to send marijuana from Visakhapatnam to agents at Bhind, Agra, Delhi, Gwalior and Kota. “The supply used to be suspended most of the time and would resume when it was bought by the agents. On the site, the price of 2 Kg leaves was shown as ₹180 and the payment used to be done online,” said Om Prakash Mishra, in-charge, Gohad police station. Also Read | 2018 case: AAP’s ex-Haryana chief appears before policePolice said that over one tonne of marijuana, estimated to be worth ₹1.1 crore, had already been transported through the e-commerce site. Police added that they were trying to nab the other accused to get to the source of Marijuana and to other suppliers and agents. Police also wrote to Amazon asking them to explain if there was any method of verifying the sellers because it could be conveniently misused for illegal trade. “If any person from the verification team is found involved, we will book that person too,” said Singh. No one from Amazon has responded so far despite attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-police-bust-drug-peddling-gang-using-e-commerce-site-to-supply-marijuana-101636899609419.html
14-11-2021||India||Army chief Gen Naravane heads to Israel to boost defence ties||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Sunday left for Israel on a five-day official visit to discuss avenues for enhancing bilateral defence relations. His visit comes weeks after the India-Israel joint working group (JWG) on defence cooperation decided to set up a task force to put together a comprehensive 10-year roadmap to identify new areas of collaboration. “The army chief will take forward the excellent bilateral defence cooperation between Israel and India through multiple meetings with senior officials of the (Israeli) security establishment and exchange views on various defence related issues,” the army said in a statement. This is Naravane’s first visit to Israel. The army chief’s Israel visit comes after external affairs minister S Jaishankar visited that country last month. Israel has been among India’s top three arms suppliers for the last five years, according to a report published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri) in March 2021. Israel accounted for 13% of India’s imports during 2016-20 after Russia (49%) and France (18%). The decision to form the task force to identify new areas of cooperation for the next decade was taken during the 15th JWG meeting co-chaired by defence secretary Ajay Kumar and his Israeli counterpart Major General Gen Amir Eshel (retd) in October-end. India and Israel also agreed to form a sub-working group on defence industry cooperation for efficient utilisation of resources, effective flow of technologies and sharing industrial capabilities. The ongoing border conflict with China in Ladakh forced India last year to speed up the purchase of military hardware from several countries including Israel, officials said. India is sourcing from Israel the Firefly loitering ammunition, Spike anti-tank guided missiles, Spice guidance kits that can mounted on standard bombs to convert them into smart weapons and an operational surface-to-air missile system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-gen-naravane-heads-to-israel-to-boost-defence-ties-101636898349256.html
14-11-2021||India||Maoists shoot 4 of Bihar family on suspicion of being police informers||Maoists in Bihar’s Gaya district allegedly shot down four members of a family on Saturday night claiming they were police informers and later hung their bodies in a cowshed in their village, police said. The incident took place at the foothills of Maoist-dominated Maunwar village at Dumaria police station in Gaya district with the rebels blowing up houses of the deceased and also setting a motorcycle on fire apart from the killings, which they said was just punishment for passing information to police and CRPF, which had earlier resulted in the encounter of four Maoists-- zonal commander Amresh Singh alias Tuntun Bhokta (Gaya), sub-zonal commander Shivpujan Yadav alias Pramod, Uday Paswan and Sita Bhuiyan (all three from Aurangabad district) on March 16.The deceased have been identified as Satyendra Bhokta, his wife Manorma Devi, brother Mahendra Bhokta and Mahendra’s wife Sunita Devi. All the four were reported to be related to Saryug Singh Bhokta, a special police officer (SPO). In the last two and half years in Bihar, the ultras have killed at least 22 civilians believing them to be spies, data shows. Also Read: Manipur ambush brings China role in Northeast back in focusAccording to reports, a group of armed members of outlawed CPI (Maoist) outfit stormed into the village at around 12.30 am and abducted Bhokta brothers from their houses at gun point. They fired several blank rounds and lobbed explosives to terrorise the villagers before vanishing into nearby hilly and forest area, where they assaulted the four abducted men before shooting them dead about 100 metres from a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) camp at Chakarbandha. Gaya SSP Aditya Kumar said villagers recovered the bodies from the premises of a cowshed where they had been hung. Police also found handwritten Maoist posters from the spot, stating the men had been killed since they were “police informers”. They also warned villagers of similar consequences in case they opted to be police informers. The pamphlet were reportedly written by Jan Mukti Chhapakar Sena, Madhya Zone Jharkhand (Maoists). The SSP added that a search operation had been launched in Gaya and adjoining Palamu district of Jharkhand. The bodies had been sent to ANMCH for post-mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-shoot-4-of-bihar-family-on-suspicion-of-being-police-informers-101636897749168.html
14-11-2021||India||Army to get firepower boost in mountains with more M777 guns||The Indian Army is set to scale up its capabilities with more M777 ultra-light howitzers that can be swiftly deployed and redeployed in mountains, amid the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh, people familiar with the developments said on Sunday. India ordered 145 howitzers from the US for $750 million in November 2016. “The army will receive 56 more M777 guns by June 2022. As of now, 89 howitzers have been delivered,” said one of the persons cited above. The army has deployed M777s in Ladakh, where India and China have been locked in a border row for over 18 months, and also in Arunachal Pradesh across which the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has stepped up its activities. M777 manufacturer BAE Systems has delivered 25 ready-built howitzers and the remaining guns have been/are being built locally in collaboration with Mahindra Defence under the Modi government’s Make in India initiative. The 155 mm/39-caliber M777 howitzers have a range of up to 30km, but it is capable of striking targets at ranges of more than 40 km in some areas where the geography allows the shells to fly in rarefied air. “The howitzer can be easily moved from one area to another depending on the requirement. The induction of the remaining M777s will provide a big boost to the army,” said Lieutenant General SL Narasimhan (retd), a member of the National Security Advisory Board.Built with titanium and aluminum alloys, the howitzers weigh 4,218 kg. In contrast, 155mm towed guns weigh twice as much. The Indian Air Force’s CH-47F Chinook helicopters can carry the howitzers as underslung load for swift deployment in high-altitude areas. “There are many places where heavier artillery guns cannot be deployed because of the terrain. But the M777s can be sling-loaded to Chinooks and swiftly inserted there,” Brigadier Sanjeev Kumar, the commander of an artillery brigade in Arunachal Pradesh, previously said. The M777s are a key component of the army’s field artillery rationalisation plan (FARP), cleared in 1999. The ₹50,000-crore FARP lays down the road map for inducting new 155mm weaponry, including tracked self-propelled guns, truck-mounted gun systems, towed artillery pieces and wheeled self-propelled guns. The plan seeks to equip 169 artillery regiments with a mix of nearly 3,000 guns over the next decade. The M777 order in 2016 was the first contract for artillery guns in almost 30 years after the Bofors scandal erupted in the late 1980s. Apart from M777s, the army has also deployed the K9 Vajra-T self-propelled artillery guns and the 155 mm FH 77 BO2 guns (better known as Bofors) in the Ladakh sector. Private sector defence major Larsen & Toubro and South Korea’s Hanwha Techwin (HTW) have built the highly mobile K9 guns in India. The guns were meant to be deployed in the plains, but the army has carried out some minor changes to deploy them in high altitude. India and China have hardened their positions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh with increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies. Despite two rounds of disengagement at friction points on LAC this year, the two armies still have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each and advanced weaponry deployed in Ladakh. PLA did not agree to suggestions made by the Indian Army at the 13th round of military talks on October 10 to cool tensions in Ladakh. The Indian Army said it made constructive suggestions for resolving outstanding problems but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals, while China accused India of unreasonable and unrealistic demands in an unusually aggressive statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-to-get-firepower-boost-in-mountains-with-more-m777-guns-101636896249075.html
14-11-2021||India||Watch: IAF conducts trial runs on airstrip days before PM Modi’s scheduled inauguration of Purvanchal Expressway||The Indian Air Force (IAF) conducted trial runs on airstrip on Sunday, ahead of the inauguration of Purvanchal Expressway by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is scheduled to land on the airstrip in a C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft on November 16.IAF aircraft were seen zooming past in a short video uploaded by news agency ANI on Sunday.
14-11-2021||India||Train booking, cancellation to remain shut for 6 hour-duration for next 7 days. Check details||The Railways Passenger Reservation System (PRS) will be shut for six hours during the “lean business” hours of the night for the next seven days, the ministry of railways announced on Sunday. The six-hour duration will be used to upgrade the system data with new train numbers and other relevant items in a bid to normalise passengers services and revert back in a phased manner to the post-Covid levels of services as announced by the ministry earlier.“As part of Railways’ efforts to normalize passenger services and revert back in a phased manner to the pre-covid levels of service, the Railways Passenger Reservation System ( PRS) will be shut down for 6:00 hours during the lean business hours of the night for next 7 days,” the ministry said in a statement.The ministry has decided to discontinue Covid-19 special trains and restore the number, fare and categorisation of regular timetabled trains which are presently operating as Mail/Express Special and Holiday Special due to the pandemic. The Railway Board has also requested CRIS to make necessary changes in the software for train bookings and other railways-related services.Railways to discontinue special trains, revert to certain pre-Covid-19 faresAs an enormous amount of data pertaining to current passenger booking and old train numbers are to be updated for all Mail/Express trains, the Railways has planned a series of “carefully calibrated steps” to discontinue Covid special trains. The data will be updated during the night hours in order to minimise the impact on ticketing services.The 6-hour activity will be performed starting at 11:30pm on November 14 and ending at 5.30am on November 15. It will end with the last scheduled activity on the intervening night of November 20 and 21. During the six-hours duration, no PRS Services including ticket reservation, current booking, cancellation, enquiry services will be available.“During the period railway personnel will ensure the advance charting for the trains to start during the affected timings. Except for the PRS services, all other enquiry services including 139 services will continue uninterrupted,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-booking-cancellation-to-remain-shut-for-6-hour-duration-for-next-7-days-101636895279657.html
14-11-2021||India||Schools in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar to be closed till November 17 owing to pollution||The Haryana government has decided to shut all schools in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar till November 17 amid increasing pollution levels in Delhi-NCR. The order comes into force with immediate effect and shall remain operational till November 17, the government said. The decision comes a day after Delhi decided to suspend physical classes for a week starting from November 15 to shield the children from the adverse impact of the pollution.Apart from closing schools, the Delhi government has asked government departments to switch to 100% work from home and urged the private offices to work from home as much as possible for a week.The Haryana government has also advised all government and private offices to switch to work from home so that at least vehicles plying on roads can be reduced by 30%. The government has also put a complete ban on all types of construction and development activities in these four districts, where the pollution situation is nearly as hazardous as Delhi. "No trash burning by Municipal bodies will be allowed and stubble burning will be prohibited. No manual sweeping of roads will e allowed," reads the order.The pollution situation in Delhi and surrounding areas including Gurugram worsened in the last few days with the Air Quality Index reaching 471 on Friday, the worst of this season. The Supreme Court on Saturday expressed concern over the situation and said people are wearing masks even inside their houses. Drawing attention to the suffering of the children who have started attending physical classes after a long gap owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the apex court nudged the governments (Centre and state) to immediately draw up an action plan.The AQI of Noida and Gurugram on Saturday was worse than Delhi as Noida recorded an AQI of 587 and Gurugram 557.The AQI of Delhi-NCR is likely to improve within a few days as the calm weather has aggravated the pollution. Once the wind gathers velocity, the AQI level is expected to be better. According to the met department, an improvement in the condition is likely only after Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-in-gurguram-faridabad-sonipat-to-be-shut-from-nov-17-for-pollution-101636893755634.html
14-11-2021||India||Kerala’s Idukki Dam shutter opened as incessant rain continues to plague state||Amid widespread rainfall in Kerala, a shutter of the Idukki dam was opened by 40 centimetres at 2pm on Sunday in order to ease pressure. No untoward incident has so far been reported as a result, and people living near water bodies downstream of the dam have also been alerted. This was the second time the dam was opened this year.Notably, Kerala irrigation minister Roshy Augustine is campaign in Idukki as well.As part of releasing water from the swollen dam, 40,000 litres of water will be released in a second. The dam has only been opened five times since its construction in the 1960s. Earlier on October 19, as many as three shutters of the Idukki dam were opened.Heavy rain battered multiple regions of south Kerala on Saturday, leading to minor landslides, massive waterlogging and traffic disruption between Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari at three points. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded a red alert in three districts of the southern state – Idukki, Thrissur and Ernakulam. On Saturday, the IMD issued a red alert in Thiruvananthapuram and an orange alert in six districts.Meanwhile, the Mullaperiyar dam is also expected to be opened if rains continue in Kerala.According to the latest bulletin by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), light to moderate rainfall with isolated extremely heavy falls is very likely over south Kerala for the remaining of Sunday, and isolated very rainfall has been forecasted on November 15. Furthermore, isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Kerala on November 16 as well, the IMD bulletin added.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-idukki-dam-shutter-opened-as-incessant-rain-continue-to-plague-state-101636893142777.html
14-11-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate 'first world-class’ railway station in Madhya Pradesh on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the revamped Rani Kamlapati Railway Station, formerly known as Habibganj railway station, on Monday during his visit to Madhya Pradesh. The redeveloped railway station has been rechristened after the Gond queen Rani Kamlapati.With modern airport-like amenities, Rani Kamalapati Railway Station was redeveloped at a cost of ₹450 crore under Public Private Partnership mode in three years. Touted by the Railways as the first world-class railway station in Madhya Pradesh, Rani Kamlapati Railway Station has been designed as a green building and also takes into account ease of mobility for disabled persons.
14-11-2021||India||Manipur ambush brings China role in Northeast back in focus||A deadly ambush near the Myanmar border in Manipur that killed five soldiers including a colonel, his wife and their eight-year-old son on Saturday has brought China’s possible support to insurgencies in India’s Northeast back in focus, and the neighbour may be plotting to foment trouble in the region amid border tensions, China watchers and security officials said on Sunday. This is not the first time that Chinese links with insurgent groups have come under scrutiny. Questions about Beijing’s involvement have been raised previously too including in October 2020 when China’s propaganda machinery warned India against a trade pact with Taiwan saying Beijing could retaliate by supporting Northeast separatists and stop recognising Sikkim as a part of India. “The possibility of China fuelling insurgency in the Northeast exists. Insurgent outfits in the Northeast, including Manipur, have links with armed groups such as Arakan Army and United Wa State Army in Myanmar from where Chinese weapons are finding their way into the Northeast,” a senior official said. China has also provided safe havens to insurgent leaders including United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA) commander Paresh Baruah and National Socialist Council of Nagaland (IM)’s Phunting Shimrang who live in Ruili in Yunnan Province across the Myanmar border with China, said another official. Armed militants ambushed an Assam Rifles convoy in Manipur’s Churachandpur district on Saturday when the commanding officer of the 46 Assam Rifles, Colonel Viplav Tripathi, and his quick reaction team (QRT) were returning from the Behiang border post and heading to the battalion headquarters at Khuga. The Revolutionary People’s Front (RPF), a group under which the People’s Liberation Army Manipur operates, jointly claimed responsibility for the ambush along with the Manipur Naga People’s Front but said it wasn’t aware of the presence of family members in the convoy. China may have re-established its links with PLA Manipur and other like-minded groups in the backdrop of the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), said Lieutenant General Shokin Chauhan (retd), who headed the Assam Rifles in 2017-18. “This may have been done to unleash mayhem in the Northeast and tie down the security forces,” he said. The attackers first triggered an improvised explosive device (IED) and then brought the Assam Rifles personnel under heavy fire to inflict maximum casualties, bringing back memories of the June 2015 Chandel ambush in the state in which a Dogra battalion of the Indian Army lost 18 men. The latest ambush came at a time when the security situation in the Northeast had improved significantly in the army’s assessment, and a planned and gradual drawdown of soldiers is underway there. China may not have previously interfered directly but things could change amid tensions at the LAC as insurgent groups in the Northeast have Chinese links, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd), who commanded the Leimakhong-headquartered 57 Mountain Division in Manipur in 2009-10. India and China have hardened their positions on LAC in Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh going by increased military activities on both sides of the boundary, infrastructure development, surveillance and combat manoeuvres by their armies. The two sides have been locked in a border row for more than 18 months. Given the situation on LAC, there is a possibility of China making attempts to wage a different form of warfare in the Northeast to put pressure on India, said Lieutenant General Konsam Himalay Singh, who retired in 2017 and is the first army officer from the Northeast to reach the three-star rank. “Insurgent groups have access to Chinese-made weapons and some self-styled commanders are living in China. But the exact scale of Chinese support to these groups is hard to establish,” said a top official who specialises in security dynamics of the Northeast. The Chinese link with Northeastern groups was raised by Indian national security advisor Shivshankar Menon with state councillor Dai Bingguo at the 15th India-China Special Representative talks almost a decade ago. Dai denied the Chinese involvement and instead accused India of training and funding Tibetan insurgents against China. The latest attack is also an attempt by insurgents to re-establish their relevance at a time when violent incidents have come down, officials said. Security forces have launched a massive manhunt for the insurgents who carried out the ambush but they may have slipped across the border into Myanmar. The aftershocks of the hit were felt in New Delhi, with the government vowing swift action against the insurgents on Saturday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the attack and said the sacrifice of the soldiers and the family members will never be forgotten. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the perpetrators of the attack would be brought to justice swiftly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-ambush-brings-china-role-in-northeast-back-in-focus-101636891328423.html
14-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi transfers ₹700 crore to Tripura PMAY-G beneficiaries and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi transfers ₹700 crore to Tripura PMAY-G beneficiaries at virtual eventPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday transferred the first instalment of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana - Gramin (PMAY-G) to more than 1.47 lakh beneficiaries of Tripura via video conferencing. Read more.No minister present at Nehru anniversary event at Parliament, complains CongressNo ministers on Sunday attended the Jawaharlal Nehru birth anniversary event at Parliament, the Congress alleged. Read more.DCW chief writes to Prez Kovind urging Kangana's Padma Shri be taken backDelhi Commission of Women (DCW) chairperson Swati Maliwal on Sunday said she had written to President Ram Nath Kovind urging that the Padma Shri awarded to actor Kangana Ranaut be taken back in the wake of her recent comments on India’s Independence. Read more.Priyanka Gandhi visits Mayawati, offers condolences for her mother’s deathCongress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday visited Mayawati in Delhi to offer her condolences after the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader’s mother died from heart failure the previous day. Read more.T20 World Cup final, New Zealand vs Australia key stats: Form guide, head-to-head record and players to watch out forNeither of them were even among the top four favourites for the title a month back, yet here they are, all geared up for the final on Sunday at the Dubai International Stadium. Read more.These wholesome stories of kindness may leave you emotional“Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible,” a post shared on Instagram about strangers helping others perfectly exemplify these words by Dalai Lama. Read more.Next-generation Suzuki S-Cross spotted in wild, reveals massive makeoverMaruti Suzuki S-Cross is among the premium crossovers in the country, but the car has been unable to grab a strong foothold in the domestic market despite being here for a long time. Read more.Sanjana Sanghi is our Sunday fashion hero in ikat strapless maxi with thigh-slitBest suited for brunch or get-togethers with friends or family members, ikat ensembles are a rage in ethnic wear but giving it her own sultry spin this weekend is Bollywood actor Sanjana Sanghi who is our Sunday fashion hero in ikat print maxi with thigh-slit. Read more.Kangana Ranaut questions why Winston Churchill was never ‘tried in independent India’s courts for his crimes’Actor Kangana Ranaut, who stirred up a storm with her controversial comments on India’s freedom struggle, shared a lengthy Instagram post and explained why she stands by what she said. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-transfers-rs-700-crore-to-tripura-pmay-g-beneficiaries-101636887187745.html
14-11-2021||India||Govt removes defence procurement ban on AgustaWestland, parent company Leonardo||AgustaWestland and its parent company Leonardo, previously Finmeccanica, were dropped from the list of firms with which defence procurement was suspended by the Union ministry of defence.The government banned Leonardo (then named Finmeccanica) from all future military contracts in 2014, following the alleged scam around the VVIP chopper deal. The ministry had issued a list of companies that were either debarred, suspended or put on hold earlier on November 12.As many as six companies—Singapore Technologies Kinetics Ltd (STK), Israel Military Industries Ltd (IMI), TS Kisan & Co Pvt Ltd, New Delhi, RK Machine Tools Ltd, Ludhiana, Rheinmetall Air Defence (RAD), Zurich, and Corporation Defence, Russia—were debarred, according to the ministry’s list.Defence Ministry issues a fresh list of firms with whom dealings have been suspended, put on hold, or suspended. The fresh list has excluded AgustaWestland and its parent firm Leonardo. The Defence Ministry had lifted the ban on them with conditions earlier this month pic.twitter.com/dFBExiePfqMeanwhile, doing business with 13 firms has been put on hold or suspended. These include IDS, Tunisia, Infotech Design System (IDS), Mauritius, IDS Infotech Ltd, Mohali, Aeromatrix Info Solution Pvt Ltd, Chandigarh, Shanx Oceaneering Inter Spiro India Pvt Ltd, Inter Spiro India Pvt Ltd, Experts Systems, Unitech Enterprises, Kelvin Engineering, Atlas group of companies including Atlas Telecom and Atlas Defence Services, Offset India Solutions (P) Ltd and its Group companies/functionaries, Pilatus Aircraft Ltd, Switzerland and Vectra Advanced Engineering Pvt Ltd (VAEPL).Procurement has been restricted from two companies namely Rolls Royce and its allied and subsidiaries companies and Tatra Trucks of the Czech Republic, the ministry’s statement showed.The ministry’s notification comes as the opposition Congress party on Monday raised questions about the reported lifting of the ban on procurement from Finmeccanica, according to a report by news agency PTI.In 2014, New Delhi cancelled its contract with AgustaWestland, Finmeccanica’s British subsidiary, for supplying 12 AW-101 VVIP helicopters to the Indian Air Force (IAF) for alleged breach of contractual obligations and allegations of kickbacks paid by the company for bagging the deal. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacked the then Congress government for corruption, according to the PTI report.“Earlier Agusta was corrupt, now it is clean after it got washed in the BJP laundry,” Congress leader and MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted.“What is the 'secret deal' between the Modi Government and Agusta/Finmeccanica?” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted. “Is it okay now to deal with the company which (Narendra) Modi and his government called ‘corrupt-bribe giver, fake’,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-blacklists-6-firms-suspends-13-others-from-engaging-in-business-101636887989552.html
14-11-2021||India||5 Assam women who left homes to ‘join’ banned ULFA-I still missing||Days after they went missing reportedly to join the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I), police in Assam are yet to trace the whereabouts of five women including two who took part in national-level kickboxing meets. As per missing complaints lodged by family members of the women with the police, there’s no trace of them since the past week. After a video of them trekking inside a forested area surfaced online on Friday, it has been speculated they might be on their way to Myanmar to get trained in ULFA-I camps there. The video showed kick boxers Nayanmani Chetia of Tinsukia district, Sabita Chetia of Dhemaji district and another woman identified as Sarmistha Saikia of Lakhimpur district. The identities of the two other women in the video, said to be from Majuli and Marigaon districts, aren’t disclosed yet. According to statements by Nayanmani’s brother to local media outlets, her husband works in Assam Police and she has a 5-6 year old son. Before disappearing, she had told family members that she’s going for a kick boxing tournament with other girls. “Ever since reports surfaced and complaints were received about the missing women on November 11, we’ve been trying to trace their locations. But that hasn’t been possible yet. Their mobile phones are also switched off,” said Additional DGP (Special Branch) Hiren Nath. He mentioned that it won’t be possible to comment whether the missing women have actually joined the banned outfit. Nath added that investigations are underway to verify the location of the video and when it was clicked. “We’ve found that the missing women had a strange relationship with family members. One would disappear from home for 15-20 days at a stretch and another had very irregular timings and often used to reach home very late at night without informing family members,” said Nath. “It’s not uncommon for young people in some areas of Assam to leave their families to join insurgent outfits. We’ve been able to catch many who were on their way to training or were being indoctrinated to join. Recently we arrested 14 such young men in Upper Assam,” he added. On Saturday, ULFA-I publicity cell member Rumel Asom sent an email to an Assamese daily accusing a few media outlets of “outburst” on the “normal” issue of few women joining it. He accused them of speculating that one of them had joined the outfit due to romantic relations with an existing cadre. “There’s no need for such outburst on the women joining ULFA-I. It’s very normal that some members of the public, who are attracted by the goal and ideals of our outfit, come and join us,” the email, which was published on Sunday’s Amar Asom, read. On Sunday, ULFA-I chairman Paresh Baruah announced through a statement that the outfit had extended its ceasefire for another three months in “public interest” and it would refrain from all kinds of “military activities” during the period. Since May this year, when the second Bharatiya Janata Party-led government assumed office in Assam, there have been speculations that ULFA-I, which seeks an independent Assam, could join peace talks with the Centre. The outfit, has, however maintained that the issue of Assam’s sovereignty should be part of talks. Citing the Covid-19 pandemic, ULFA-I declared an unilateral ceasefire in May for three months. It was extended by another three months in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-assam-women-who-left-homes-to-join-banned-ulfa-i-still-missing-101636888507630.html
14-11-2021||India||Centre brings in ordinance to extend tenure of CBI, ED chiefs up to 5 years||In a controversial decision, 15-days before Parliament’s session is due to begin, the Centre on Sunday brought in an ordinance amending the Delhi Police Special Establishment (DPSE) Act and the Central Vigilance Act (CVC) to extend the tenure of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) chiefs up to five years. The extension includes the fixed two year terms for the directors of both the premier investigation agencies. The development comes two months after the Supreme Court ruled that extensions beyond the date of superannuation of an individual should be rare, in exceptional cases only. The apex court had asked the Centre not to further extend the tenure of current ED Director Sanjay Kumar Mishra, whose already extended tenure ends in a week’s time. The decision of the Court in September came on a petition filed by NGO Common Cause which challenged the government’s decision of November 13, 2020 to retrospectively grant an extension to Mishra by converting his original tenure of two years beginning November 19, 2018 into a three-year one. The decision met the approval of the High-Powered Committee chaired by Central Vigilance Commissioner in the interest of supervising some important investigations handled by ED that were at a crucial stage.However, the latest ordinance is likely to circumvent the SC ruling and make Mishra eligible for another two years’ extension. The ordinance, amending Section 25 of the CVC Act, states that the extension of five years will include the original appointment of fixed two-year tenure. Both CBI and ED chiefs have a fixed tenure of two years. The ordinance has been promulgated by the President of India. Currently, Subodh Kumar Jaiswal is the Director of CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-brings-in-ordinance-to-extend-tenure-of-cbi-ed-chiefs-up-to-5-years-101636886107166.html
14-11-2021||India||PM Modi transfers ₹700 crore to Tripura PMAY-G beneficiaries, says entire northeast witnessing change||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday transferred the first instalment of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana - Gramin (PMAY-G) to more than 1.47 lakh beneficiaries of Tripura via video conferencing. Speaking at the virtual event, PM Modi said that the first instalment of PMAY-G has given new morale to the dreams of Tripura and the entire northeast is witnessing change. He thanked Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb for “changing the government culture” and “old ways of working.”“I thank Biplab Deb and his govt for changing the government culture, old ways of working, and old attitude within such a short span of time. The youthful energy with which Biplab Deb is working, that energy can be seen across Tripura today,” he said.PMAY-G is an ambitious mission of the Modi government aimed at providing “housing for all” by 2022 when India completes 75 years of Independence. According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), more than ₹700 crore was to be credited directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries on the occasion.Criticising the previous governments at the Centre, the prime minister said that earlier policies were formed behind closed doors in the national capital and “unsuccessful attempts were made to fit the northeast in this.” He told the PMAY-G beneficiaries in Tripura that the closed-door policies led to segregation which the country has fixed in the last seven years with a new mindset and new approach.“Now policies are formed as per the needs of the region, and not only as per Delhi,” he added.Referring to the BJP-led governments at both Centre and in the state, PM Modi said that the “double engine” government is working together for the development of Tripura with “all their energy and honesty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-transfers-700-crore-to-tripura-pmay-g-beneficiaries-says-entire-northeast-witnessing-change-101636883004331.html
14-11-2021||India||4 Indians killed in Nepal's Rautahat district as vehicle crashes into pond||Four Indians have died after the vehicle they were travelling in crashed into a pond in southern Nepal's Rautahat district near the border with India, police said on Sunday.The driver and other occupants of the vehicle are suspected to have been under the influence of alcohol.The deceased were all natives of Bihar, identified as Dinanath Sah (25), Arun Sah (30), Dilip Mahato (28) and Amit Mahato (27).The driver lost control of the car, which bore an Indian number plate, on the Gaur-Chandrapur Road Section in Jhunkhunwa village, swerving into a pond late on Saturday night, officials said.Security personnel tried rescue attempts, shattering the windshield of the submerged car but the victims were pronounced dead at a nearby hospital.The deceased were identified based on identity cards found on them.Rautahat Police contacted the Indian Police and sent photographs of the deceased to contact their families.The kin of the deceased arrived at Rautahat on Sunday morning and confirmed the identities.The police said the victims were returning home after celebrating Chhath puja at their their brother-in-law's home in Dewani Gonahi in the district. The family members had advised them against driving at night and wait till next morning.The vehicle has been lifted out of the pond using a crane, further investigation is underway, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-indians-killed-in-nepal-s-rautahat-district-as-vehicle-crashes-into-pond-101636883485957.html
14-11-2021||India||Centre brings ordinance to extend the tenure of CBI, ED chiefs up to 5 years||The Centre has brought two ordinances to extend the tenure of CBI and ED directors for up to five years. The present tenure of the central government agency chiefs is two years."Provided that the period for which the Director of Enforcement holds the office on his initial appointment may, in public interest, on the recommendation of the Committee under clause(a) and for the reason to be recorded in writing, be extended up to one year at a time," the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance 2021 said."Provided further that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period of five years in total including the period mentioned in the initial appointment," the ordinance said.The other ordinance 'The Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021' also has the similar amendment and comes into force at once.The Congress criticised the decision as Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi tweeted, “Double whammy regarding  5 yr tenures for misused agency heads. Ordinance Raj, the favourite route of the Modi govt, bypasses Parliament scrutiny 14 days before Parliament meets. Extensions per se frowned upon by apex court. Fresh new appointments not extensions under new Parliament Act not Ordinance should have been done,” Singhvi wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-brings-ordinance-to-extend-the-tenure-of-cbi-ed-chiefs-up-to-5-years-101636882860949.html
14-11-2021||India||No minister present at Nehru anniversary event at Parliament, complains Congress||No ministers on Sunday attended the Jawaharlal Nehru birth anniversary event at Parliament, the Congress alleged. The Chairman of the Rajya Sabha and the Speaker of the Lok Sabha were also absent, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, calling the situation "extraordinary". "Can it get more atrocious than this?" the Rajya Sabha MP said. Extraordinary scene today in Parliament at the traditional function to mark the birth anniversary of those whose portraits adorn the Central Hall. Speaker Lok Sabha absent. Chairman Rajya Sabha absent. Not a single Minister present. Can it get more atrocious than this?!"Extraordinary scene today in Parliament at the traditional function to mark the birth anniversary of those whose portraits adorn the Central Hall. Speaker Lok Sabha absent. Chairman Rajya Sabha absent. Not a single Minister present. Can it get more atrocious than this?!" he tweeted.Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and other leaders paid floral tributes to Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary at the Central Hall in Parliament.
14-11-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi visits Mayawati, offers condolences for her mother’s death||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday visited Mayawati in Delhi to offer her condolences after the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader’s mother died from heart failure the previous day.In a video released by the party, Gandhi is seen having a short conversation with the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, which ended with Gandhi saying, “I will visit again.”When news about Mayawati’s mother’s demise broke on Saturday, the Congress leader tweeted, “Received the sad news of the demise of Smt. Ramrati ji, the National President of Bahujan Samaj Party and mother of former Chief Minister of UP, Ms @Mayawati. May God give her a place near Him and give courage to the family members to bear the pain during this grief. Om Shanti.”This comes during the often bitter election campaign ahead of the UP elections next year. When Priyanka Gandhi announced that women will get 40 per cent of the election tickets, Mayawati called it nothing but “election drama”. She added that if the Congress party was really concerned about inclusion, then why did their government not make a law to give 33 per cent reservation to women in Parliament and legislative assemblies.Priyanka Gandhi also lashed out at Mayawati, saying that she failed to raise her voice during the Hathras rape case and the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. “Where is Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati? For the last two years, whether it was the Hathras incident or (recent incident in) Lakhimpur Kheri, it's only Congress which raised issues in Uttar Pradesh,” she said.With the UP assembly elections coming up in February 2022, tensions between political parties have risen especially with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-visits-mayawati-offers-condolences-for-her-mother-s-death-101636879124315.html
14-11-2021||India||Russia starts delivery of S-400 to India. Here’s all about the surface-to-air missile system||Russia has started delivering the S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile system to India, the director of the Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation (FSMTC) Dmitry Shugaev has said."The supplies of the S-400 air defence system to India have started and are proceeding on schedule," Shugaev told Sputnik ahead of the Dubai Airshow.The S-400 Triumf air defence missile system will give a major boost to India’s capabilities to take out enemy fighter aircraft and cruise missiles at long range. The Indian Air Force (IAF) will induct the first unit of S-400 systems at a time when India is locked in a standoff with China in the Ladakh sector.China has already deployed two S-400 squadrons at Ngari Gar Gunsa and Nyingchi airbase in Tibet, across Ladakh and Arunachal Pradesh respectively.Also read | Putin to visit India, S-400 may be in towNews agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the development that the air defence system have started reaching India. They added the system will be first deployed at a location close to the western border of the country from where it can tackle threats from both parts of the borders with Pakistan and China.The S-400 air defence system was contracted for by India in a deal worth around ₹35,000 crore and five squadrons would be provided to India for tacking air threats.Also read | Growing realisation in US on India’s compulsions for S-400 air defence dealThe news agency reported citing the people mentioned above that system is being brought to India through both sea and air routes. The first squadron deliveries are expected to be complete by the end of this year.The air defence system would give India an edge as they would be able to take out enemy aircraft and cruise missiles from a distance of 400km.The S-400 missile defence system is equipped with four different missiles, which can engage enemy aircraft, ballistic missiles, and Airborne Warning And Control System (AWACS) planes at 400km, 250km, the medium-range 120km and the short-range 40km.Also read | US senators urge Joe Biden admin to exempt India from CAATSA curbsThe IAF, whose officers and personnel have trained in Russia on the system, will start focusing on the eastern borders along with providing resources for training of personnel within the country after the first squadron is deployed, the officials told ANI.India signed a $5.43 billion deal with Russia for five S-400 regiments in October 2018 and officials have said that all deliveries are to be completed within five years.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-starts-delivery-of-s-400-to-india-here-s-all-about-the-missile-system-101636878296283.html
14-11-2021||India||Cyber crimes against children in 2020 rose over 400% from 2019: NCRB report||Cyber crimes committed against children witnessed a sharp rise of more than 400 per cent in 2020 from those committed in 2019, according to the latest numbers released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). Most such offences related to publishing or transmitting materials showing children in sexually explicit acts, the report said.Stating that a total of 842 instances of cyber crime targeting kids were reported in 2020, the report stated that among these, 738 or nearly 87 per cent depicted minors engaged in sexual acts. In comparison, a total of 164 cyber crimes against children were reported in 2019, 413 per cent lower than those in 2020. The corresponding figures for 2017 and 2018 stood at 79 and 117, respectively.As per the NCRB's 2020 data, Uttar Pradesh, at 170, recorded the highest number of online offences against kids, followed by Karnataka and Maharashtra, where 144 and 137 crimes of this nature took place. Kerala (107) and Odisha (71) stood fourth and fifth on this list.Speaking on the numbers, Puja Marwaha, CEO, CRY (Child Rights and You), said that spending more time on the internet for educational and communication purposes has, unfortunately, also resulted in children becoming more vulnerable to multiple risks, including those related to online sexual abuse. “There is a limited understanding among caregivers, educators and society regarding the risks that kids may face online. There is a need to make them understand what children should know, so that the former can appropriately guide the latter,” Marwaha said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyber-crimes-against-children-in-2020-rose-over-400-from-2019-ncrb-report-101636876552282.html
14-11-2021||India||Cheating complaint against Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra at Bandra police station||Actor Shilpa Shetty, her husband Raj Kundra and Kaashif Khan, director of SFL Fitness Pvt Ltd, have been booked by the Bandra police on the complaint of a Pune youth who alleged he was cheated of ₹1.51 crores by them. According to the Bandra police,Yash Nitin Barai (25) has complained that Kaashif Khan, along with Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra and others, allegedly asked him to invest money in the fitness franchisee they wanted to open on his plot at Indraprasth, Hadpasar in Pune and promised a share in profits from the business. As Yash was then a minor, his father gave Khan ₹1.51 crores over a period of three months in 2014. Barai’s complain further alleges that the project did not materialise and when he asked for his money, he was threatened.Also Read: Shilpa allows paparazzi to click pics, fan asks ‘Where’s Raj Kundra?’The Bandra police have registered a case against the three for cheating, criminal intimidation, threatening and criminal conspiracy.“We have registered a case on the complaint of Barai and have also recorded his full statement. We are now investigating the case and verifying all the documents and bank statements,” said an officer from Bandra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheating-complaint-against-shilpa-shetty-raj-kundra-at-bandra-police-station-101636877585776.html
14-11-2021||India||DCW chief writes to Prez Kovind urging Kangana's Padma Shri be taken back||Delhi Commission of Women (DCW) chairperson Swati Maliwal on Sunday said she had written to President Ram Nath Kovind urging that the Padma Shri awarded to actor Kangana Ranaut be taken back in the wake of her recent comments on India’s Independence.Maliwal said the national award-winning actor deserved treatment and not award for disrespecting the martyrdom of Mahatma Gandhi and Bhagat Singh and the freedom attained through the sacrifice of thousands of others.Ranaut stoked a major controversy last week when she said India's Independence in 1947 was not freedom but "bheek" (alms) and the nation "got real freedom only in 2014”, a reference to the Narendra Modi-led BJP coming to power at the Centre.कंगना रनाउत ऐसी महिला है जिसे गांधी भगत सिंह की शहादत मज़ाक़ लगती है और लाखों लोगों की त्याग तपस्या से हासिल आज़ादी भीख लगती है! इसको पुरस्कार की नही इलाज की ज़रूरत है! मैंने राष्ट्रपति को पत्र लिखा है कि तुरंत रनाउत का पद्म श्री वापिस लेके उसपे राष्ट्रद्रोह की FIR होनी चाहिए! pic.twitter.com/GqlwwUSpfKRecalling a number of chapters in the country’s freedom struggle, including the revolt of 1857, Khilafat movement, Champaran Satyagrah, Quit India movement, Maliwal said the Bollywood actor belittled many more such historic events.“How can we forget thousands who had assembled in the Jallianwala Bagh to protest the British rule and the massacre that followed? Are those chapters in our history a bheekh?” she further wrote to the President.Also read | Vishal Dadlani reminds Kangana Ranaut of Bhagat Singh ‘so she never again dares to forget’Maliwal said this was not a stray incident and Ranaut did not appear to be in sound mind as she habitually spewed venom against people of her own country. “She repeatedly used vile language to attack those she does not agree with,” the DCW chief said.She further said Ranaut’s behaviour was in no way befitting of the recipient of the highest award in the country and was also an insult to the stalwarts who received the awards with and before her.Ranaut was awarded the Padma Shri earlier this month along with a host of other artists.Politicians across the spectrum, including BJP member of Parliament Varun Gandhi, Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, have criticised Ranaut for her statement.Defending her statements, the actor said she was ready to return her Padma Shri if someone could enlighten her about what took place in 1947.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dcw-chief-writes-to-prez-kovind-urging-kangana-s-padma-shri-be-taken-back-101636877254138.html
14-11-2021||India||BJP leaders meet PM Modi over reopening of Kartarpur Corridor||A delegation of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday to seek his intervention for the reopening of Kartarpur Sahib Corridor for Sikh pilgrims on December 19, which is the Prakash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev, the founder of Sikhism and their first guru.TThe 11-member delegation which was led by party Vice President, Saudan Singh pushed for the reopening of the corridor that was inaugurated by the PMs of both India and Pakistan in 2019 but has been closed down since March 2020 following the outbreak of the Covid Pandemic. The corridor allows pilgrims visa-free access to the final resting place of Guru Nanak, which is just four kilometers from the international border. The construction of the corridor has been touted by the BJP as one of the many accomplishments of the Modi Government, and recently came up for mention in the national executive committee meeting of the BJP.Bikramjit Singh Cheema, who was part of the delegation, said the Sikh community feels that Kartarpur corridor should now be reopened with precautions. He said that the issue is of reverence not only to the Sikh community but to all those who follow the Guru’s teaching. Also Read: Tamil Nadu extends Covid lockdown till Nov 30; CM warns of dengueHe said the community also expresses gratitude to the PM for setting up a special investigation team to probe into the 1984 Sikh massacre. He said while the Congress had gone on to depute some of those accused of being involved in the riots as ministers, it was PM Modi who took the lead by setting up the SIT. The delegation also thanked the PM for helping in the evacuation of the Granth Sahib from Afghanistan after the Taliban take over. Rajinder Mohan Singh Chinna said the delegation thanked the PM for helping rescue the Afghan Sikhs and for their safe passage to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-meet-pm-modi-over-reopening-of-kartarpur-corridor-101636876505952.html
14-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid lockdown till Nov 30; CM warns of dengue, other seasonal diseases due to rains||With the existing Covid-19 related norms set to end at 6am on Monday (November 15), the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday extended the restrictions until November 30. The lockdown has also been extended in view of the widespread rainfall in the state due to the northeast monsoon and the risk of diseases like dengue spreading, the government said in its order.Chief minister MK Stalin stressed on the adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour (CAB) in places such as shops and the wearing of masks and usage of hand sanitisers and maintaining physical distancing.Stalin also urged the people above 18 years of age, who are yet to receive the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, to inoculate themselves against the disease. He also urged those who are partially vaccinated to not miss their second doses.The government also directed local administrations to only allow essential activities within containment zones. Door-to-door monitoring of the disease transmission would be done by medical teams. The government also advised the people to boil drinking water during the rainy season citing the risk of the spread of water-borne diseases.Also read | Tamil Nadu conducts 8th mega Covid-19 vaccination camp today in 50,000 centresWhat’s allowed?What’s not allowed?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-lockdown-till-nov-30-cm-warns-of-dengue-other-seasonal-diseases-due-to-rains-101636875144460.html
14-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Piyush Goyal says India on track for ‘historic high’ on exports and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘We’re back in business’: Goyal says India set to hit historic high on exportsPiyush Goyal, the Union minister of commerce and industry, said on Sunday that India is on its way to hitting a historic high on exports of goods and services this year. Read moreTamil Nadu conducts 8th mega Covid-19 vaccination camp today in 50,000 centresThe eighth mega vaccination camp against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) started in Tamil Nadu on Sunday in 50,000 inoculation centres across the state. The drive was initially slated for November 6 but was deferred due to the onset of the northeast monsoon. Read moreRani Mukerji says she was scared to look into Aamir Khan’s eyes during Ghulam’s romantic scenes: ‘Pyaar na ho jaaye’Rani Mukerji said that she was ‘nervous’ about shooting romantic scenes with Aamir Khan and Shah Rukh Khan because she developed a crush on them after watching Qayamat Se Qayamat Tak and Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge. Read moreOla Electric confirms it'll work on e-motorcycles, cheaper e-scooters next yearOla Electric CEO Bhavish Aggarwal has confirmed that the cab-aggregator-turned electric vehicle startup will start developing electric motorcycles and cheaper electric scooters from next year. Read moreShilpa Shetty celebrates Children's Day with Viaan in cute video: Always keep the child in you aliveToday is Children's Day, and as Shilpa Shetty celebrates the special occasion with her kids, she has an important message for her followers - to "always celebrate the child in us". The actor took to Instagram to post an adorable video of herself enjoying quality time with her son, Viaan Raj Kundra. Read moreGuinness World Records’ video on world's biggest vegetables will make you jaw dropGuinness World Records (GWR) often takes to Instagram to post different videos of varied records. Their latest share is the same and it shows something incredible - world's biggest vegetables. And, there is a chance that the clip will make your jaw drop in wonder. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-piyush-goyal-says-india-on-track-for-historic-high-on-exports-and-all-the-latest-news-101636874619986.html
14-11-2021||India||Sonu Sood’s sister Malvika to contest Punjab elections, to declare party’s name later||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood announced on Sunday that his sister Malvika Sood will contest the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, saying she was ready to serve the people of the state, according to reports.Sood, however, did not name the party she will contest from but added that their decision will be “revealed at the right time”. “Malvika is ready. Her commitment to serving people is unparalleled,” Sood said at a press conference at his home in Moga, according to the Indian Express.Sonu Sood said that Malvika will most likely contest from the constituency of Moga.The actor said he recently met Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and that he was also open to meeting other political leaders, including the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP’s) Arvind Kejriwal and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Also read | Sonu Sood on pandemic: I think people still take Covid lightly“But it is a big decision of life when it comes to joining a political party, it is more about ideologies not casual meetings,” he was quoted as saying by the Indian Express.The actor’s meeting with Delhi chief minister Kejriwal sparked rumours that he could make a political debut in the Punjab polls scheduled to be held next year on an AAP ticket. Sood, however, said Kejriwal and he did not discuss anything political.He has been named the ambassador for the Delhi government’s ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ initiative, which aims to provide career guidance to school children.The actor has been praised for his help to the poor, especially migrant workers, during the Covid-19 induced lockdown as he booked tickets for them on buses, trains and even flights so that those stranded could go back to their home states.Sood helped people by arranging oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and other medical equipment during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonu-sood-s-sister-malvika-to-contest-punjab-polls-to-declare-party-name-later-101636872160191.html
14-11-2021||India||Bitcoin scam: Congress set accused free in 2018, says Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday hit out at the Congress over a major Bitcoin scam that has been unearthed in the southern state. Bommai said that while his government took all necessary actions, including arresting the culprit and handing him over to federal investigating agencies, the Congress had set the accused free and did not conduct a proper inquiry when in power.Slamming Congress leaders, including Randeep Surjewala, who have accused the BJP government of a cover-up in the multi-crore Bitcoin scam, Bommai said, “They (Congress) say that matter is from 2016. If there was anything related to Karnataka, why did Surjewala not ask the then ministers and CM about it? Why did they not notice the issue then?”Also read | In PM Modi's meet on crypto, concerns expressed over terror-financing, misleading youthThe Congress has alleged that 'influential politicians' are involved in the scam after officials seized bitcoins worth ₹9 crore from a city-based hacker, Srikrishna alias Sriki, who is also accused of hacking into government portals, sourcing drugs through the dark net and paying for it through cryptocurrency. It has demanded an independent investigation conducted into the matter by a Supreme Court-monitored SIT with former party chief Rahul Gandhi stating the scam is big but the cover-up is much bigger.However, Bommai said, “In 2018, they caught the accused but then they set him free. You did not do a proper inquiry on him. In 2020, our government caught him in a drugs case. We thoroughly investigated him and then we got to know about the hacking issue”We're fair, we investigated, we caught the culprit, we're the ones who referred it to ED & CBI. We have given it to CBI and Interpol. ED investigation is going on. We have given, whatever informed needed, to CBI. We will not spare anyone who is involved in the case: Karnataka CM pic.twitter.com/VoM74dqFoM“You could have done it in the 2018 case itself. Why didn't you do a proper inquiry? When you were in power, you left him free and the issue became bigger. Now you are questioning us,” he was further quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We're fair, we investigated, we caught the culprit, we're the ones who referred it to ED (Enforcement Directorate) and CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation). We have given it to the CBI and Interpol. The ED investigation is going on. We have given whatever information is needed to the CBI. We will not spare anyone who is involved in the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bitcoin-scam-congress-set-accused-free-in-2018-says-karnataka-cm-bommai-101636871396759.html
14-11-2021||India||Tamil Nadu conducts 8th mega Covid-19 vaccination camp today in 50,000 centres||The eighth mega vaccination camp against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) started in Tamil Nadu on Sunday in 50,000 inoculation centres across the state. The drive was initially slated for November 6 but was deferred due to the onset of the northeast monsoon and a request by the state healthcare workers on account of Diwali.“The 8th "Mega Vaccine Camp" is scheduled to be held at 50000 centers under the guidance of the Hon'ble Chief Minister (MK Stalin),” state health minister Ma Subramanian tweeted earlier in the day. The minister is also scheduled to inspect various vaccination camps at Chennai and the adjoining Tiruvallur district.Of the 50,000 centres across the state, 2,000 centres are being operated in Chennai, the city’s civic body said. “2,000 vaccination camps are being held across Chennai. Get yourself vaccinated against Covid. Medical teams are on standby everywhere,” the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) said.Also read | India's active Covid-19 caseload drops to 17-month low; country sees 11,271 fresh infectionsVaccination camps are being conducted by the state to increase the immunisation rate against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and also to create awareness about the drive. The state has been holding such camps since September alongside the daily inoculations.In the seventh camp, which was conducted on October 30, more than 1.7 million people received a shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to a report by news agency PTI. This included the 626,955 people who received the first dose and the 1,087,156 who got the second jab.The state saw 809 new cases of Covid-19 and 14 related deaths as the total confirmed infections reached 2,714,025 and the death toll climbed to 36,273, a bulletin from the state health department showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-conducts-8th-mega-covid-19-vaccination-camp-today-in-50-000-centres-101636869953478.html
14-11-2021||India||100% 1st dose administered, now, Mumbai eyes full vaccination||Three hundred and one days after the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme was rolled out on January 16, Mumbai achieved 100% first dose coverage on Saturday, November 13. By 10pm Saturday, the city had overshot its target to vaccinate the eligible adult population of 9,236,546 with at least one dose by 0.18% and administered 9,253,647 first doses and 6,033,148 double doses, according to the Central government’s CoWin dashboard, taking the city’s full vaccination coverage to 65%.To be sure, Mumbai may have statistically achieved the milestone of 100% first dose coverage, but the city will have to administer many more doses to truly cover its entire adult population. The reason: An estimated 10-20% people who have got the Covid-19 vaccine in Mumbai are likely to be from other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) or the rest of Maharashtra.“We are definitely accounting for this slight mismatch. Therefore, our vaccination drive will continue aggressively,” said Mumbai’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. “We will have to go much beyond 100%,” she added.Absolute coverage may therefore be a few more days away, experts said, and a small percentage of the population could still choose to remain unvaccinated due to personal choice, hesitancy or other reasons. “No other district in the country has managed to reach the 100% target in such a short time,” said Mumbai’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “It has been a collective effort. We achieved it because of the sincere contribution of all municipal workers, private hospitals, NGOs and people on the ground.”Mumbai reached the 1 million doses (both doses included) mark on March 25. The 9 million doses landmark was attained on August 24. On September 4, Mumbai became the first district in India to administer 10 million doses, and on November 10, it crossed the 15 million mark. As of Saturday, Mumbai had administered 15,286,627 combined doses.According to Kakani, decentralising vaccination centres played a crucial role in achieving the target. As the city moves to increase its first dose coverage beyond 100% and achieve the second dose target, new micro strategies are being designed.Infectious disease expert and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force Dr Om Srivastava said that 100% first dose coverage is “great news.” “It means the city is better protected than earlier. But we cannot let our guard down. The virus is unpredictable, and there are countries that are seeing large number of cases even now. France has announced it is experiencing a fifth wave,” he said.Also Read | Mumbai civic body official: Initial phase and last mile are the most challengingOn Friday, World Health Organisation (WHO) chief Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that Covid-19 cases were not only surging in eastern European countries with lower vaccination rates, but also in western Europe, which is among the world’s highest vaccinated geographies.Vaccination in Mumbai first began on January 16 along with the rest of the country for healthcare workers, which was expanded on February 5 to include frontline workers; on March 1 for citizens above 60 years of age; on April 1 for citizens in 45-59 years age group; and on May 1 for all adult citizens. Vaccination for lactating mothers began on May 26, and for pregnant women, it began from July 14.On day one, Mumbai had just 10 vaccinations centres, but that number has grown to 462, including public and private vaccination centres, with a combined capacity of administering over 123,000 doses per day.Dr Naveen Thacker, vaccination expert and a former civil society organisation representative to GAVI, the vaccine alliance, said, “Mumbai has shown 100% vaccination is achievable. Other districts in the country should follow suit. This should be a barrier between the city and the anticipated third wave,” he said.So far this month, in Maharashtra, Covid numbers seem to be declining gradually. The first 13 days of November saw a 61.14% drop in cases compared to the first 13 days of October. Similarly, while on October 13, active cases in the state totalled 29,555, it had dropped by 58.65% to 12,219 by November 13. The corresponding active cases for Mumbai were 5,997 and 3,577, a drop of 40.65%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-1st-dose-administered-mumbai-now-eyes-full-vaccination-101636868345173.html
14-11-2021||India||Top Maoist leader Milind Teltumbde killed in Gadchiroli encounter||Milind Baburao Teltumbde alias Deepak Teltumbde, the central committee member of the CPI (Maoist) and head of the newly formed MMC zone (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence) zone of the rebels, was among the 26 killed in Saturday’s encounter in Gadchiroli, officials said on Sunday.“As per the primary identification, Teltumbde was one of the 26 Maoists killed in Saturday’s encounter,” Gadchiroli superintendent of police Ankit Goyal said on Sunday, adding the identification of other slain rebels was underway.At least 26 Maoists were killed in the gunbattle that took place on Saturday morning at Korchi in the Mardintola forest area of eastern Maharashtra. As per the primary identification of the slain Maoists, Lokesh alias Mangu Podiyam, commander Company 4, and Mahesh alias Shivaji Ravji Ghote, DVCM, Kasansur squad were killed too along with Teltumbde, people aware of the developments said. The encounter ensued during a search operation of the C-60 police commando team, led by additional SP Soumya Munde.Teltumbde alias Jeeva, one of the senior-most functionaries of the CPI(Maoist), was the special zone secretary for outfit’s MMC zone. Milind was also an accused in the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad violence case, in which his elder brother Anand Teltumbde, a well known academician, is an undertrial placed in judicial custody. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) in its October 2020 charge-sheet filed in the Elgar Parishad case said Milind was inspired by his elder brother to join the Maoist ranks. “Milind alias Deepak is expanding the Naxal movement of Maoist in urban areas with the help of his elder brother Anand Teltumbde on the international level and took guidance from him. Milind was inspired by his brother to join the CPI (Maoist) movement,” the NIA charge-sheet said.Also read | ‘Well-informed, well-read’: Deepak Teltumbade is the man tasked to form new Maoists’ zoneHe was given the task to create a new territory that allowed rebels easy passage from east to west and vice-versa and a safe abode for the senior rebel leaders.Senior intelligence officers believed Teltumbde had been visiting the MMC areas regularly and had recruited about 100 locals for a commando unit, called Vistaar Dalam, of MMC.Teltumbde used to move with heavily armed bodyguards and a platoon of Maoists in the forests. According to senior Maoist leader Pahaad Singh, who surrendered in 2018, he took all major decisions of the outfit regarding the zone.“He was the person who pushed the idea to develop Amarkantak as ‘base area’ of MMC, in a meeting in 2016, in which Central Committee Members (CCM) of the CPI(Maoists) including him were present,” a senior Indian Police officer (IPS) officer who interrogated Pahaad Singh, said.Weapons recovered so far include five AK-47s, one AK with UBGL or under barrel grenade launcher, nine SLRs (self loading rifles), one Insas (Indian Small Arms System), three .303 rifles, nine 12 bore pistols. Further search is on, police officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-maoist-leader-milind-teltumbde-killed-in-gadchiroli-encounter-101636867384344.html
14-11-2021||India||‘What we need is a generation of peace’: Rahul leads Congress tributes to Pandit Nehru on his birth anniversary||Congress functionaries on Sunday paid their tributes to India's first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru on his 132nd birth anniversary.November 14 is celebrated in India as Children's Day as a mark of respect to Nehru and tributes pour in every year for the stalwart politician across party lines. A number of activities such as games and competitions are organised for students in schools nationwide, while government bodies pay their tributes to the late prime minister and organise commemorative events on this day.On Sunday, Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi paid her tribute to Nehru at Shantivan in the national capital. From its official handle on Twitter, the party posted a footage of the Congress president paying tribute to the first prime minister of independent India.Congress President Smt. Sonia Gandhi pays her tributes to India's first Prime Minister, Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary. #RememberingNehru pic.twitter.com/PWrhYLMyybRahul Gandhi, former Congress president and a Parliamentarian from Kerala's Wayanad, remembered the values promoted by Nehru – truth, unity, and peace.Taking to his personal Twitter account, Rahul posted a quote of Nehru – “What we need is a generation of peace”, a message that the Congress stalwart had sent during his time guiding India on the path of governance.“What we need is a generation of peace. - Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. Remembering India’s first Prime Minister who greatly valued truth, unity, and peace,” posted Rahul Gandhi on Twitter.“What we need is a generation of peace.”- Pandit Jawaharlal NehruRemembering India’s first Prime Minister who greatly valued truth, unity and peace. pic.twitter.com/h89MpL39PhSeveral local units of the Congress also paid their tribute to Nehru, calling him a great leader and patriot whose farsighted vision and strong leadership continued to inspire generations. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor penned a profile on Nehru in a news publication, looking back at the latter's “legacy of democratic institution-building that made our political transformations possible”.On Jawaharlal Nehru's 132nd birthday, I look back at his legacy of democratic institution-building that made our political transformations possible: https://t.co/Eu0FVn4mgA#RememberingNehruTribute to the first Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru aka Chacha Nehru on Children's Day."Children Are Like Buds In A Garden And Should Be Carefully And Lovingly Nurtured, As They Are The Future Of The Nation And The Citizens of Tomorrow." -Jawaharlal Nehru pic.twitter.com/65DIKaw5jfIndia's first and longest serving Prime Minister, Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru, was a man of vision. His thoughts still inspire us.#RememberingNehru pic.twitter.com/6njOikjhqHRemembering the architect of modern, secular & sovereign India Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary.Only way we can pay tribute to the great soul is by imbibing scientific temper & reasoning in building our nation.#Nehru #ChildrensDay pic.twitter.com/Nw3KkKb6ptNehru was fondly called 'Chacha Nehru' and was known for emphasising the importance of giving love and affection to children. After he passed away, it was unanimously decided to celebrate his birthday as ‘Bal Diwas’ or Children's Day in India.Nehru was born on November 14, 1889, in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj, he became the Prime Minister on August 15, 1947, following an active role in the country’s freedom struggle. He breathed his last on May 27, 1964.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-pays-tributes-to-jawaharlal-nehru-on-his-132nd-birth-anniversary-101636862825229.html
14-11-2021||India||Mild tremors reported in Visakhapatnam, people rush out of homes||Mild tremors shook parts of Visakhapatnam on Sunday morning prompting people to run out of their homes in several areas of the city in Andhra Pradesh.According to reports residents of high rise buildings and apartments rushed out of their homes in Sagar Nagar, MVP Colony, Peda Waltair, One Town, Akkayyapalem, Kancharapalem, NAD, Gajuwaka and Vepsginta areas of Visakhapatnam.The National Center for Seismology said it was an earthquake of magnitude 1.8.The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) tweeted asking people to take “precautionary steps” after the tremors were reported at 7:13am.“Dear Citizens, The treamor was felt across the city around 7.14 am today. It's requested to take precautionary steps to avoid possible earthquake impact,” GVMC said in the tweet.“In case of any earthquake like experience, come out of houses and stay in open safe spaces . Dont panic, Be Safe,” it also posted.
14-11-2021||India||India's active Covid-19 caseload drops to 17-month low; country sees 11,271 fresh infections||India's active caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) fell to 17-month low while 11,271 more people tested positive for the viral illness, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Sunday. The national active caseload currently stands at 135,918--the lowest in 522 days--falling by 390 cases, and accounts for just 0.39 per cent cases in the cumulative infection tally of 34,437,037, the health ministry noted in a statement.As many as 11,376 more patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, the latest daily bulletin showed, adding that the country also logged a further 285 fatalities due to Covid-19. Till now, 33,837,859 patients have been discharged, while 463,530 deaths have been recorded till now, it showed. Recovery rate is at 98.26 per cent, while fatalities comprise 1.35 per cent of the overall caseload.Kerala saw 6468 new cases, contributing 57 per cent to the latest national single-day rise in cases.The daily positivity rate, meanwhile, was recorded at 0.9 per cent, as 1,255,904 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Friday, With this, a total of 623,751,344 samples have been tested thus far, data released by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) showed.The cumulative vaccination coverage has surpassed the 1.12 billion mark, as 5,743,840 doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-drops-to-17-month-low-country-sees-11-271-fresh-infections-101636862383190.html
14-11-2021||India||China expert Pradeep Rawat will be India’s new envoy to Beijing||China expert and former head of the East Asia division in the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Pradeep Kumar Rawat, an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of the 1990 batch, is expected to take over as India’s new envoy to Beijing with the incumbent Vikram Misri returning to New Delhi as a secretary. Rawat is the envoy to the Netherlands since January 2021.Fluent in Mandarin Chinese, Rawat has spent the majority of his diplomatic career either in China or handling Beijing from Delhi and was the joint secretary (East Asia) from 2014 to 2017. He was posted to Indonesia as an ambassador from 2017 to 2020.Rawat’s posting comes at a time when India and China are facing serious friction all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with the People's Liberation Army (PLA) ramping up military infrastructure and weaponry. The Indian Army and PLA are fully deployed along the 1597 km LAC in Ladakh after Beijing decided to unilaterally change the status quo on the north banks of Pangong Tso in May 2020. The Chinese aggression led to a clash in Galwan in June 2020 where the Indian Army lost 20 personnel, including Colonel Santosh Babu, but not before giving a reply in equal measure to the PLA.In Rawat’s appointment, the Modi government has put faith in a diplomat who has huge institutional memory on the bilateral relationship as Beijing is known to twist historical facts to suit its purpose. Pradeep Rawat, who has worked with now external affairs minister S Jaishankar as his East Asia division head when he was the foreign secretary, has handled all the bilateral mechanisms and is known for his calm and professional demeanour.Incumbent Vikram Misri returns to Delhi as the secretary in the MEA after a successful tenure in Beijing, where he handled the Ladakh crisis with equanimity. Misri, a 1989 batch IFS officer, will be able to provide his acquired expertise on China to the ministry as it will be quite sometime before the bilateral relations between the two countries get normalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-expert-pradeep-rawat-will-be-india-s-new-envoy-to-beijing-101636862632086.html
14-11-2021||India||Zoogu-Khairan, J&K's first ‘tourist village’, inaugurated in Budgam||The first tourist village ‘Zoogu-Khairan’ in Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam was inaugurated on Saturday. District development commissioner (DDC) Shahbaz Ahmed Mirza inaugurated the village and said the area has vast potential to emerge as a new tourist destination.“This is a big occasion for Zoogu-Kharian Village and its adjacent habitations as this day mark the new beginning of socio-economic upliftment of this area,” he said.“The area has been brought on a tourism map, which shall go a long way in shaping the future of Zoogu-Kharian,” the development commissioner said, according to the department of information and public relations, Jammu and Kashmir.“Faith and efforts together made this day possible, the public of this area will see the difference in the near future,” he said. First Tourist Village Zoogu-Khairan inaugurated at District Budgam, Area has vast potential to emerge as New Tourist destination:DC Budgam. DC Bgm also conducted Public outreach programme at Ringzabal, Budgam.@diprjk @shahbazmirza9 @OfficeOfLGJandK pic.twitter.com/gVvIpk5yRhSpeaker further, the DDC said, “To materialise this, cooperation, sincerity, attitude, hospitality, honesty, and strong commitment is very much required in changing the whole socio-economic dimension and diversity of this area.”He also urged the local youth to grab the golden chance and utilize this opportunity in boosting the footfall of tourists in the area.“Your responsibility will be to form and establish local youth clubs, the government is committed to supporting you,” Mirza said.“Each youth club will be given the support of ₹10 lakh, of which ₹5 lakh will be provided by the government,” the commissioner said.He explained that this money shall be used to create requisite infrastructure in chosen destinations where facilities are required for a tourist to stay for the night.Interested individuals, entrepreneurs can also be provided financial support under various government-sponsored schemes which aspiring youth need to give impetus to start any kind of entrepreneurship, he added.“Youth can play a vital role as tourist guide assignment, since being local they all are well versed of the area in every aspect and their engagement will prove highly beneficial for them in earning livelihood hood,” Mirza said.The DDC also visited Ringzabal, a far-flung area where he was welcomed by a huge gathering with thundering applause.During the interaction, the locals of the area individually as well as in deputations apprised the visiting authorities about their grievances, demands, and other issues that are presently required to be addressed.The issues included improvement of roads, improvement in water supply, implementation of welfare schemes under tribal sub-plan up-gradation of Middle School Ringzabal to the level of high school, and improvement in health infrastructure facilities.The departments shall initiate the process of early redressal. However, some big issues are there which may require some time and documentary process to address them also on a fast track basis, the DC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zoogukhairan-j-k-s-first-tourist-village-inaugurated-in-budgam-101636860142691.html
14-11-2021||India||Burnt body of Bihar missing journalist writing on ‘fake’ clinics found on highway: Report||A 23-year-old journalist working on a scam involving medical clinics in Bihar’s Madhubani district was found dead days after he went missing. His burnt body was reportedly found tossed by the roadside near a village in the district.An NDTV article said Buddhinath Jha or Avinash Jha was working for a local news portal and his recent work on “sham” clinics had led to the closure of several such stores in the area. Two days before he disappeared, the Right to Information (RTI) activist had written a post on Facebook in which he mentioned such clinics.Jha was also said to have received threats and bribe offers worth lakhs as went about digging deeper into the issue.The article further said Jha was last seen on Tuesday around 10pm near his house near Lohia Chowk in Benipatti, about 400m from the local police station.According to footage available from close circuit cameras installed near his house, Jha walked out of his home a number of times towards the nearby lane talking over the mobile phone. He left his home one last time at 9.58pm with a yellow scarf around his neck. He then walked past the local chowk, another house and the Benipatti Police Station. A local said he saw Jha between 10.05 and 10.10pm in the market.There had been no trace of him since then. After his family lodged a missing complaint on Wednesday, police searched for him in vain until Friday morning when his cousin received a call regarding a body found along the highway passing through Betoun village.Jha’s remains were identified by a ring on his finger, a mark on his leg and a chain around his neck.His last rites were conducted on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/burnt-body-of-bihar-journalist-writing-on-fake-clinics-found-on-road-report-101636860607490.html
14-11-2021||India||News updates from HT: Modi to transfer over ₹700 crore to PMAY-G beneficiaries in Tripura and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Modi to transfer over ₹700 crore to housing scheme beneficiaries in TripuraPrime Minister Narendra Modi is all set to transfer on Sunday the first installment of the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana - Gramin (PMAY-G) to more than 1.47 lakh beneficiaries of Tripura. Read more‘Globally, 6 times more Covid-19 boosters administered every day’: WHO chief wants 'scandal' to endWorld Health Organization (WHO) director-general Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyes has described as a ‘scandal,’ what he said was more people across the world receiving booster doses of a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine as compared to those receiving primary doses in low-income countries, calling for the practice to be stopped. Read moreHasan Ali issues statement for first time since dropped catch and Pakistan's defeat to Australia in T20 World Cup semisPakistan fast bowler Hasan Ali has issued a public statement for the first time since the second semi-final of the T20 World Cup 2021, in which Pakistan lost to Australia by five wickets to mark the end of their fabulous campaign. Read moreRajkummar, Patralekhaa's wedding celebrations kick off with romantic engagement; Farah Khan, Saqib Saleem attend. WatchRajkummar Rao and Patralekhaa are finally tying the knot this month. The couple got engaged on Saturday in an intimate ceremony which had white as the theme for the night. While Rajkummar got down on one knee to propose to Patralekhaa, she, too, asked him to marry her. Read moreTwilight star Taylor Lautner is engaged to girlfriend Tay Dome: All of my wishes came trueTwilight star Taylor Lautner is engaged to his longtime girlfriend, Tay Dome. The actor took to social media to announce the big news with his fans and followers and revealed that he popped the big question on Thursday. Read moreDelhi pollution: Schools shut, construction halted. Kejriwal acts after SC prodDelhi govt announced a series of measures to be implemented amid rising pollution after SC prod. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a one-week action plan to be implemented from Monday. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-modi-to-transfer-over-rs-700-crore-to-pmay-g-beneficiaries-in-tripura-and-all-the-latest-news-101636859155312.html
14-11-2021||India||PM Modi to transfer ₹700 crore to rural housing scheme beneficiaries in Tripura||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will transfer the first installment of the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana - Gramin (PMAY-G) on Sunday to more than 1.47 lakh beneficiaries of Tripura. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) issued a notification in this regard earlier this week, stating, “more than ₹700 crore will be credited directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries on the occasion.”The scheme is an ambitious mission of the Modi government aimed at providing “housing for all”. It aims to achieve the housing objective as India completes 75 years of Independence by 2022.The definition of what qualifies as a “kaccha” house (having structures constructed of bamboo, clay, grass, flax, pebbles, mulch, crop residues, and the likes) has been changed specifically for a state, the PMO said, considering the unique geo-climatic condition of Tripura. This was done following the direct intervention of the Prime Minister, and it has enabled a large number of beneficiaries living in “kaccha” houses in the state to get assistance to construct a “pucca” house (consisting of strong structures made of wood, bricks, cement, iron rods, and steel).Last year, Tripura was adjudged the ‘best-performing state’ in the north-eastern region and hilly states category under the central government’s flagship Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) scheme. Now, the PMAY-G scheme aims to improve the lives of beneficiaries in the rural areas, too.The PMAY-G was created to provide pucca houses to every homeless poor in rural areas. The Centre’s performance audit this year had noted that Chhattisgarh, Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu have huge gaps in pending sanctions and need to expedite the daily rate of sanctions to achieve the target.The audit added that “while the lockdown due to Covid-19 was largely an unavoidable factor”, intense follow-ups are being done with the states/UTs which are lagging behind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-transfer-over-rs-700-crore-to-housing-scheme-beneficiaries-in-tripura-101636856412253.html
14-11-2021||India||Jawaharlal Nehru birth anniversary: PM Modi pays tribute to first Prime Minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tribute to Jawaharlal Nehru, as the nation observed 132nd birth anniversary of the country's first Prime Minister. “Tributes to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji on his birth anniversary,” PM Modi tweeted. Tributes to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Ji on his birth anniversary.The Congress, too, paid tribute to Pandit Nehru, who served multiple terms as its national president. “Every word, every act, every sacrifice Pandit Nehru Ji made exemplified true nationalism--an unwavering dedication to our nation's unity, to our nation's diversity, to our nation's prosperity,” the party posted on its Twitter handle.
14-11-2021||India||Top Maoist leader Milind Teltumbde among 26 rebels killed in Gadchiroli encounter||Milind Baburao Teltumbde alias Deepak Teltumbde, the central committee member of the CPI (Maoist) and head of the newly formed MMC zone (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence) zone of the rebels, was among the 26 killed in Saturday’s encounter in Gadchiroli, officials said on Sunday.“As per the primary identification, Teltumbde was one of the 26 Maoists killed in Saturday’s encounter,” Gadchiroli superintendent of police Ankit Goyal said on Sunday, adding the identification of other slain rebels was underway.At least 26 Maoists were killed in the gunbattle that took place on Saturday morning at Korchi in the Mardintola forest area of eastern Maharashtra.The encounter ensued during a search operation of the C-60 police commando team, led by additional SP Soumya Munde.Teltumbde alias Jeeva, one of the senior-most functionaries of the CPI(Maoist), was the special zone secretary for outfit’s MMC zone. Milind was also an accused in the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad violence case, in which his elder brother Anand Teltumbde, a well known academician, is an undertrial placed in judicial custody. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) in its October 2020 charge-sheet filed in the Elgar Parishad case said Milind was inspired by his elder brother to join the Maoist ranks.  “Milind alias Deepak is expanding the Naxal movement of Maoist in urban areas with the help of his elder brother Anand Teltumbde on the international level and took guidance from him. Milind was inspired by his brother to join the CPI (Maoist) movement,” the NIA charge-sheet said.Also read | ‘Well-informed, well-read’: Deepak Teltumbade is the man tasked to form new Maoists’ zoneHe was given the task to create a new territory that allowed rebels easy passage from east to west and vice-versa and a safe abode for the senior rebel leaders.Senior intelligence officers believed Teltumbde had been visiting the MMC areas regularly and had recruited about 100 locals for a commando unit, called Vistaar Dalam, of MMC.Teltumbde used to move with heavily armed bodyguards and a platoon of Maoists in the forests. According to senior Maoist leader Pahaad Singh, who surrendered in 2018, he took all major decisions of the outfit regarding the zone.“He was the person who pushed the idea to develop Amarkantak as ‘base area’ of MMC, in a meeting in 2016, in which Central Committee Members (CCM) of the CPI(Maoists) including him were present,” a senior Indian Police officer (IPS) officer who interrogated Pahaad Singh, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-maoist-leader-milind-teltumbde-killed-in-gadchiroli-encounter-101636857965361.html
14-11-2021||India||Trains travelling to religious sites to receive ‘sattvik' certification: Reports||In what will be the first initiative of its kind, passengers on selected railway routes, especially those connecting religious sites, are likely to experience a ‘pure vegetarian’ environment throughout their journey. According to the Sattvik Council of India, which describes itself as the ‘world’s first vegetarian food safety and regulatory compliance for vegetarian and allied adherents,’ the Indian Railways Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has entered into an agreement with it for ‘sattvik certification' for services on trains travelling to religious destinations.It is important to note here that the IRCTC, Indian Railways or the Ministry of Railways is yet to issue any statement on this. However, several media outlets have published reports in this regard.According to Sattvik Council, it will launch the ‘sattvik certification scheme’ with the IRCTC on Monday. Under this, services such as IRCTC base kitchens, executive lounges, budget hotels, food plazas, travel and tour packages, Rail Neer plants etc. will be ‘sattvik certified’ to ensure vegetarian-friendly environment, the NGO said in its statement. Additionally, according to reports, items such as cleaning agents, will be of a ‘neutral’ material. Also, pantry staff serving food will not have handled non-vegetarian food.The first train to receive such a certification will be the Delhi-Katra Vande Bharat Express, which connects the national capital with the holy Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu and Kashmir. In the coming days, 18 other trains will be certified under this scheme.In addition to the certification scheme, Sattvik Council and IRCTC will also jointly develop a handbook on ‘vegetarian kitchens,’ the former said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trains-travelling-to-religious-sites-to-receive-sattvik-certification-reports-101636856113386.html
14-11-2021||India||Salman Khurshid says Hindutva and ISIS not same, but similar amid book controversy||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid has said that he never called Hindutva and ISIS same in his new book, but similar as a major controversy continued over the issue.Speaking at an event at Kalki Dham in Sambhal, Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, the former Union minister said the enemies of Hinduism were those who tried to defame the religion."I am visiting Kalki Dham. I would not be here if I would have any issue with any religion. I believe that Hinduism spreads peace in the world," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | 'Some do politics, others write': Salman Khurshid says new book about unity"It seems that some people are trying to defame Hinduism. They are enemies of Hinduism and are afraid that their truth will come out. They will ban any book which reveals their truth," he said."ISIS and Boko Haram defame Islam but no Islamic followers opposed it. I had not said ISIS and Hindutva same, I had said that they are similar," he added.Meanwhile, an injunction suit has been filed before a Delhi court seeking a bar on publication, circulation, and sale of the book, titled ‘Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times’, for allegedly hurting the sentiments of a large section of society. The suit was filed by right-wing group Hindu Sena's president Vishnu Gupta.Khurshid’s book was released last week following which he got embroiled in a controversy for allegedly comparing a "robust version" of Hindutva to the jihadist Islam of terror groups such as ISIS and Boko Haram.While the saffron camp has strongly reacted to the issue and the BJP claimed that the Congress leadership nursed a "pathological hatred" for Hinduism, Khurshid has stood his ground and received support from party leader Rahul Gandhi, who said Hinduism and Hindutva were "different things" as he slammed the Sangh’s ideology “of spreading hatred in India”.Some of Khurshid’s party colleagues like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Harish Rawat have also criticised the contents of the book.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/salman-khurshid-says-hindutva-and-isis-not-same-but-similar-amid-book-row-101636851606376.html
14-11-2021||India||BJP fooling traders in the name of tax rebate: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations of allegedly tricking traders by first raising different taxes and not refunding those who have already paid up despite offering a rebate ahead of elections.AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said, “On October 25 last year, the BJP-ruled MCDs stated in an order that the increased rates of (commercial) property tax will be reduced till March 31, 2022, but those who have deposited extra tax will not be refunded. The BJP has come up with this new trick to fool people ahead of the MCD elections. And, if they come back to power, then they will again charge 17 times the tax.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-fooling-traders-in-the-name-of-tax-rebate-aap-101636844046434.html
14-11-2021||India||Lift operator found dead in Saket court complex||The body of a 31-year-old man was found on the seventh floor of the Saket court complex on Saturday morning, with police saying that they do not suspect any foul play in the death as they await the post-mortem report.Courts in Delhi have been on high alert since the shocking murder of gangster Jitender Gogi inside the Rohini court complex nearly two months ago.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said, “A sweeper had spotted the body, lying on the seventh floor of the fire exit staircase of the building, while cleaning. The deceased was identified as Yogesh Kumar (31), a resident of Dakshinpuri...”DCP Jaiker said that Kumar was a drinking problem and had not reported for duty in the last three-four days: “Crime and forensic teams have inspected the crime spot. No foul play is suspected as no external injury was found on the body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lift-operator-found-dead-in-saket-court-complex-101636842589226.html
14-11-2021||India||Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar release peon, hold sub-engineer captive||A government peon was released by Maoists, two days after he and a sub-engineer were abducted while surveying an under-construction road in Bijapur district of Bastar region, police said on Saturday.According to the police, sub-engineer Roshan Lakra is still being held captive by Maoists and attempts to ensure his safe release are underway.On Saturday, Lakra’s wife, through the media, appealed to the Maoists to release her husband.“I have been told that my husband is being held captive by Maoists, I appeal to the cadres to release my husband because he is the sole breadwinner of his family and the family is dependent on him,” said Arpita, Lakra’s wife.Lakra (35), who works for the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna (PMGSY) and his department’s peon Lakshman Partagiri (24) went missing on Thursday when they had gone to survey a road about to be built between Bijapur town and Gorna-Mankeli.When Lakra and Partagiri did not return till Friday evening to the Bijapur district headquarters, a search operation was launched by the police and administration.“On Friday night, Maoists released abducted PMGSY peon Laxman Pratagiri from Kanhaiguda village, four kilometers away from Gorna village, where he along with a sub-engineer was abducted by local militia cadres. Sub Engineer Ajay Lakra, is still in the custody of Maoists. Efforts are on to ensure his safe release,” said Inspector General of Police, Bastar Range, Sunderaj P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-in-chhattisgarh-s-bastar-release-peon-hold-sub-engineer-captive-101636833711136.html
14-11-2021||India||63-year-old widow in Odisha’s Cuttack wills her house, jewellery to loyal rickshaw-puller||A 63-year-old widow in Cuttack city of Odisha has made a will bestowing her landed properties, including the house where she lives in the name of a rickshaw-puller who has been loyally serving her family for the last 25 years.Minati Patnaik of Sutahat Christiansahi area of Cuttack on Friday willed her three-storeyed pucca house and all her belongings and her gold ornaments worth more than a crore to the family of Budha Samal, a 53-year-old man who makes a living out of pulling a rickshaw in the meandering bylanes of the city.“After losing my husband and daughter in quick succession last year, I am all alone and waiting for death. I have always wanted to donate to a poor family and decided to donate everything to Budha and his family who are living in a slum. Budha has done so much for me and my family over the last 25 years and I am really grateful to him. I wanted him to have a shelter of his own,” said Minati.Minati had lost her 70-year-old husband Krushna Kumar Patnaik, a businessman, last year when the latter developed a tumour which turned cancerous. Six months later, her 31-year-old daughter Komal Kumari was injured while lighting an oil lamp and had a cardiac arrest soon after. Disconsolate after the twin deaths, Minati lost her desire to live and skipped her meals when Budha made her lunch and dinner. From taking her to the hospital or looking after her needs, Budha and his family devoted themselves to serving the widow in every possible way.Minati said her family has always felt safe with the rickshaw puller since the last 25 years. “When my daughter was in school, Budha would take her and bring her back. My husband always trusted him. After my daughter’s death, neither my in-laws nor anyone from my parental family called me to inquire about my health or responded to my calls. It was for the last 25 years that Budha and his family stood by me. They have always given me respect and taken care of my family,” she said.The rickshaw-puller said that he was taken by surprise when Minati told him about her decision to will her property. “I had never dreamt of the property. But I always made it a point to ensure that my family always looked after Minati after her husband died. We will continue to look after her as long as she is alive,” said Budha, whose family includes his wife, three children, two sons and a daughter and his parents.In 2018, a 60-year-old businessman of Koraput district living in a rented home had donated over 2.3 acres of land among 250 landless people to fulfil his promise that he made to himself. Muguda Suryanarayan Achary, who ran a metal fabrication unit in Jeypore town of Koraput, became the talk of the town when it was revealed that he had been donating patches of land to destitute for over a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/63yearold-widow-in-odisha-s-cuttack-wills-her-house-jewellery-to-loyal-rickshawpuller-101636832870792.html
14-11-2021||India||Comedian Munawar Faruqui’s show in Goa cancelled after pressure from vigilantes||Comedian Munawar Faruqui, who is being hounded by right wing activists, saw yet another show, scheduled to be held in Panaji next week cancelled by the organisers after pressure from the Hindu Janjagriti Samiti which had called for cancellation of the show. Faruqui was scheduled to do a stand-up show at a mall in the state capital next week, but the organisers have announced that the show has been cancelled. The decision to cancel the show comes amid increasing discontent in the state over Chief Minister Pramod Sawant’s unwillingness to rein in right wing groups that is being seen as a sharp departure from his predecessor Manohar Parrikar, who had even banned Sri Rama Sene leader Pramod Muthalik from entering Goa, a ban that is in force to this day. The organisers LVF Comedy have confirmed that the show has been cancelled, but founder Warren Viegas declined to comment on the development.The agency’s decision to cancel the show, was taken after a meeting with officials at the Panaji police station on Saturday where the police told them they anticipated a law and order problem if the show was held. The Hindu Janjagriti Samiti had in a representation to the state alleged that Faruqui should not be allowed to go ahead with his show as he “has made vulgar jokes about Hindu gods”.“He has targeted them. He was behind bars for 37 days in Madhya Pradesh for insulting the Hindu religion,” Samiti spokesman Jayesh Thali said.“There are elections in Goa and such events could create acrimony in the state. If Pramod Muthalik can be banned in Goa, why is Munawar allowed in Goa,” he asked.Faruqui has seen several shows cancelled across the country under sustained pressure from self-styled vigilantes who have vowed not to allow him to perform anywhere in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comedian-munawar-faruqui-s-show-in-goa-cancelled-after-pressure-from-vigilantes-101636830890986.html
14-11-2021||India||Congress looks to corner BJP over Karnataka bitcoin case||The Congress on Saturday alleged a multi-crore Bitcoin scam and its cover-up by the BJP government in Karnataka and demanded that an independent investigation be conducted into the matter by a Supreme Court-monitored SIT.Former party chief Rahul Gandhi alleged that the scam is big but the cover-up is much bigger.Taking to Twitter, he said, “Bitcoin Scam is big. But Bitcoin Scam Cover-up is much bigger. Because it has to cover up someone’s fake big ego.” Addressing a press conference, Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala posed a set of six questions to the prime minister and asked what was the role of Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who was the state’s home minister when the scam took place.He asked why international investigative agencies, including the Interpol, were not informed about the stolen Bitcoins.“India’s biggest ever ‘Bitcoin Scam’ has been unearthed in Karnataka. Instead of conducting a fair investigation, the BJP government of Karnataka appears to be preoccupied with ‘Operation Bitcoin Scam Coverup’,” he alleged.“This is not a money laundering crime alone, this is an international crime. Considering how shoddily and compromised the investigation has been done, I don’t think that the ED (Enforcement Directorate) or Karnataka Police can do a fair job. That is why we demand that an SIT (special investigation team) should be set up and monitored by the Supreme Court which should investigate this case and bring out the truth,” the Congress leader said.Surjewala also questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the case and claimed that the prime minister was told by the FBI about it during his recent visit to the US.“It is a multi-country investigation and the truth must come out. The government is either colluding or is working shoddily in the investigation.... There are doubts being raised on the reputation of Basavaraj Bommai and his political career and reputation are at stake and that is why he should write to the government for constituting an SIT monitored by the SC to probe this,” he said.Surjewala, along with party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, alleged that an alleged hacker, Sri Krishna, was arrested along with his associate Robin Khandelwal by the Karnataka Police on November 14 last year and was kept in police custody for over 100 days by repeatedly arresting him in at least five criminal cases registered one after the other. He was released on bail on April 17 this year.He alleged that Sri Krishna made a voluntary statement before the Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru, sometime in December 2020, wherein he has allegedly given the names of various foreign companies/portals which were hacked by him, and millions of dollars earned illegally.The Congress leaders also alleged that Sri Krishna was involved in alleged hacking of Bitcoin/Cryptocurrency exchanges and websites that includes from Bitfinex, registered in noted tax haven, the British Virgin Islands and reports suggest that it was hacked on August 2, 2016 and 1,20,000 bitcoins were stolen. However, in his voluntary statement, he admits to having taken 2000 Bitcoins.He said ‘Whale Alert’ is a Twitter account which tracks large scale cryptocurrency transactions and it reflects that on December 1, 2020, and on April 14, 2021, Bitcoins from the 2016 hack of Bitfinex Bitcoin exchange were transferred and its value comes out to be USD 704.8 million USD (equivalent to ₹5,240 crore).“Despite multiple international crimes of significant magnitude, Interpol was not informed for over five months. Only on April 24, 2021, more than five months after the initial arrest, did the Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru wrote to Interpol Liaison Officer (CBI) asking to inform Interpol and other agencies. Even ED/CBI/SFIO were not informed by the Karnataka’s BJP government,” Surjewala said, adding that Bommai was the state’s home minister between August 20, 2019, to July 28, 2021.“Should the then Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai be punished for not taking action in the case,” he asked, alleging that the fraud happened under his watch and when the accused was kept in custody.“Who are the actors in the “Bitcoin Coverup Scam”? Were the stolen bitcoins transferred from the wallet of alleged hacker Sri Krishna? How many bitcoins and of what value? How does the Bengaluru police then suggest (in its third Panchnama dated 22nd January 2021) that the 31 and 186 Bitcoins allegedly transferred to police wallet were lost or were found to be fake transactions,” he asked.He also asked what was the role and responsibility of Bommai and others in the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-looks-to-corner-bjp-over-karnataka-bitcoin-case-101636829573324.html
14-11-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meet on cryptocurrency amid concerns over terror financing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a meeting on the way forward for cryptocurrency amid growing concerns over its use for money-laundering and terror financing.According to two persons familiar with the matter, at the meeting, there was a consensus that the government should not make any private digital currency, as legal tender and unregulated cryptocurrencies have exposed gullible Indians to financial risks.“While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is open to using the technology behind cryptocurrencies, it is not in favour of making them legal tender as these currencies are highly volatile and a threat to the financial stability. Most of the government departments concur with RBI, but they are under pressure from various lobby groups who want a status quo. A final view will, however, be taken by the top leadership,” one of the persons cited above said on condition of anonymity.The crucial meeting comes two days after RBI governor Shaktikanta Das sounded alarm on cryptocurrencies, cautioning investors on the potential pitfalls of the digital currencies.The central bank has repeatedly reiterated its strong views against cryptocurrencies, saying they pose serious threats to the macroeconomic and financial stability of the country and also doubted the number of investors trading on them as well as their claimed market value.The currency is, however, not legally banned and the government is in the process of enacting a law in this regard.In March this year, then Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur had said that the government would be extra careful while taking any decision regarding cryptocurrencies as they are highly volatile and could have security implications. The government, however, could embrace the blockchain technology of virtual currencies, he added.Last year, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had told the Rajya Sabha that the government did not consider cryptocurrencies as a legal tender. Quoting from the Budget speech for 2018-19, she said: “The government does not consider crypto-currencies legal tender or coin and will take all measures to eliminate use of these crypto-assets in financing illegitimate activities or as part of the payment system. The government will explore the use of block chain technology for ushering in the digital economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-meeting-on-cryptocurrency-amid-concerns-of-terror-financing-money-laundering-101636829330687.html
14-11-2021||India||Bhopal’s Habibganj station renamed after tribal queen||The revamped Habibganj railway station in Bhopal has been renamed after Gond queen Rani Kamlapati, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced on Saturday, while thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the decision. The Prime Minister is scheduled to inaugurate this renamed railway station, redeveloped with modern airport-like amenities, on November 15, during his visit to the state capital. The station was revamped at a cost of ₹450 crore under Public Private Partnership mode in three years. Hailing Rani Kamlapati as the pride of the Gond community, Chouhan, in a statement, said: “Rani Kamlapati is the pride of the Gond community and the last Hindu queen of Bhopal. Her kingdom was usurped by Afghan commander Dost Mohammed by deceit under a conspiracy. When she saw that victory was not possible, she committed ‘Jal Jauhar’ (a practice of committing suicide) to save her respect.” The chief minister added that Rani Kamlapati’s son Naval Shah had been killed at Lalghati, a part of Bhopal. On Friday, the state government had written to the Ministry of Home Affairs about renaming the station, stating that it will honour the legacy and bravery of the widow of the Gond ruler of Nizam Shah. Following the Centre’s decision, a gazette notification was issued in this regard on Saturday.“She was the last Hindu queen of Bhopal. Habibganj railway station has been named ‘Rani Kamlapati’ after her. It is a matter of great satisfaction and joy for me. Prime minister shri Narendra Modi I thank you from my heart,” the chief minister later tweeted. The Gond community comprises the largest tribal group of India with more than 1.2 crore population.The Centre’s move evoked a mixed response. While the tribal community objected to the “distorted” facts about the queen, a few experts claimed Rani Kamlapati had not done anything for Bhopal.“Habibganj railway station was located in a village which was named after Habibullah, grandson of Nawab Sultan Jehan Begum. After the death of his father Nasirullah Khan, Habibullah was about to become a ruler of Bhopal but Sultan Jehan Begum interfered and ensured the rule for his youngest son Hamidullah Khan in 1926. Later, Habibullah left Bhopal. He remained a bachelor and died in Pune,” Ashar Kidwai, history professor at Safia Arts College in the city, said.“It is true that Habibullah did not do much for the city, so his name can be changed, but like Habibullah, Rani Kamlapati had also not done anything for the development of the city. It should be named after any member of the Nawab’s family or in the name of Barkatullah, a great freedom fighter from Bhopal. The Bharatiya Janata Party has tried to push the agenda of impressing the tribals and calling them Hindu by doing this,” Rizwan Uddin Ansari, a historian from Bhopal, said.The tribals were upset for referring to Rani Kamlapati as a “Hindu queen”. “Rani Kamlapati’s real name was Rani Kamlavati Pallam. The Gond kingdom was spread from Mandla to Bhopal. A queen of Gond Johnson from Jabalpur, Rani Durgavati was a glorious queen of the kingdom for fighting fiercely with the Mughals. Rani Kamlapati, who was a wife of Nizam Shah, was the last queen of the Gond Kingdom but she was not a Hindu queen,” Devraven Bhalavi, an activist who works for the community, said. “In our constitution, the tribal community has a separate identity but the BJP is not missing any chance to call them a Hindu. We believe in the Constitution and the BJP is following its own constitution. Their intention is very clear, to woo tribals and later, declare them as a Hindu,” Vibhuti Jha, an expert in history of the tribal community, said. The opposition Congress also sought to know the reason behind the need to rename the station.“Habibullah Khan gave land and also money for the construction of a small railway station in the 1920’s. Later in 1969, the state government constructed it as a second railway station in the city after Bhopal railway station in the name of Habibullah only. They are unnecessarily changing the name to end the identity of Nawab’s family, who developed it beautifully,” Congress MLA from Bhopal, Arif Masood, said. BJP MP from Bhopal, Pragya Thakur, who wanted the station to be renamed after former prime minister late Atal Bihar Vajpayee, also welcomed the decision. “It is a matter of pride for us that the railway station will be named after the last Hindu Gond queen of Bhopal. I am happy that our demand to change the name has been accepted by the central government,” BJP MP from Bhopal, Pragya Thakur, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhopals-habibganj-station-renamed-after-tribal-queen-101636829150509.html
14-11-2021||India||UP elections: Akhilesh Yadav takes on CM Yogi from his turf in Gorakhpur||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday targeted the Centre over inflation and unemployment, and claimed that his party will come to power in the state where elections are due early next year.The SP leader was speaking at the launch of the third phase of his Samajwadi Vijay Yatra from Madapur area in Gorakhpur, which is chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s home turf, when he exuded confidence that his party will win the elections with a huge mandate.Referring to the huge turnout at the rally, the former chief minister said: “This great excitement, enthusiasm and support, that too in Babaji’s (a reference to the chief minister) region, shows that this government (BJP) is on its way out as it has insulted and cheated the people. No one has ever made such large numbers of fake promises as this government has done.”“The SP will win over 400 seats in Uttar Pradesh. Inflation and unemployment have increased. The public has made up its mind for the elimination of the BJP,” he said, adding that the change will start from Gorakhpur.Attacking the ruling party in the state over its “failure” to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, the former chief minister said: “Do you remember how our labourers walked on foot to home in huge numbers from various parts of the country, including Gujarat and Maharashtra? However, this government did nothing for them.”“Back then, the poor desperately needed hospitals, medicines and oxygen but the government failed to supply them, leading to uncountable deaths,” he added. Targeting the Centre over rising fuel prices, he said: “The BJP leaders had promised that common people can travel by air. But the people owning two-wheelers are also upsetReacting to the SP leader’s claims, BJP (Gorakhpur) spokesperson Satendra Sinha said: “People had rejected the SP in 2019 and then in 2017 and this time too they will be rejected by voters. The BJP is confident of winning again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upelections-akhilesh-yadav-takes-on-cm-yogi-from-his-turf-in-gorakhpur-101636829035481.html
14-11-2021||India||Dubai Expo: Both Covid recovery, economy showing resilience, says Jaishankar||There is every sign that the Indian economy is faring well as the growth is back, which is seen not only in numbers reported by businesses, but also on the streets in terms of spirit, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Saturday.India has crossed 1.1 billion Covid-19 vaccinations and there has been confidence that in the next few weeks, all the eligible people will get the shots, which will leave the country in a good shape to tackle any exigency, he said at the India Pavilion of EXPO2020 Dubai, which has seen a footfall of over 300,000 in 43 days.“There are two parallel processes going on simultaneously. One is the recovery from Covid and the other is the recovery of the economy. Both are showing resilience in different forms. In terms of lives and livelihoods,” a statement of Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) said, quoting him. Ficci is one of the partners in the India Pavilion.Jaishankar said there is every sign that the economy is faring well. “The growth is not only back in numbers seen in company reporting, but also on the streets in terms of spirit. I would say we are well-poised and part of the reason why we are well poised is that a lot of effort was made in creating the capacities to handle Covid — hospitals, ventilators and even the vaccination. Part of it is also because of the resilience and foresight with which we responded,” he said.“We husbanded our resources well and reacted in the balanced and right manner. We recovered and at the same time we recovered in a very responsible manner. So, that creates a fair degree of confidence and optimism in India as we look into 2022,” he said.The minister said India’s trade recovery with its partners such as the UAE is robust. “Trade recovery has been very strong and we don’t think that it is just because of pent up demand. The recovery remains very strong,” he said. Jaishankar also visited the UAE and Israeli pavilions.Commenting on achieving 300,000 footfall at the Indian pavilion, he said: “In many ways, the Indian pavilion covers the tradition and the modernity of the country. It is challenging but that has been successfully done. The footfalls are reflective of the good work that has been done.” Ambassador of India to the UAE, Pavan Kapoor, and Consul General of India in Dubai Aman Puri were also present at the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubai-expo-both-covid-recovery-economy-showing-resilience-says-jaishankar-101636828614629.html
14-11-2021||India||Security beefed up in Mumbai after railway cop gets phone call about possible bomb attack||Security has been beefed up at railway stations and other vital installations across Mumbai after the Railway Police on Saturday received a phone call from a Dubai based caller informing the security agency about a possible bomb attack in Mumbai.Commissioner of police (Railways) Quaiser Khalid on Saturday night tweeted, “Information about possible bomb attack in Mumbai has been received today telephonically by Bandra RPS. The caller has been contacted. Security has been beefed up. All sister agencies have been informed. We are enquiring into the matter. No need to panic or worry.”He later tweeted an update: “We @grpmumbai have verified the bomb threat information. The caller is staying in Dubai with his mother and is of unsound mind. Last week he had similarly called one officer in Gandhidham Gujarat and had given similar information. We spoke to his relatives. They have confirmed about the habit of the caller in giving such information. We are enquiring further.”Railway police officials said that the caller is a Kandivli resident, who works in Dubai. On Saturday evening, he contacted railway cops from Dubai and shared information allegedly as an alert citizen. The police are tight-lipped and not sharing specific details about the information received from him. The police have contacted him and taken all the details and are working on the matter.The Mumbai Police is coordinating with the Railway Police and trying to find out more information on suspicious activities and individuals.Units of dog squads from BDDS units of Railways and Mumbai police are scanning various vital installations across the city. Nothing suspicious could be found till late Saturday night. The searches continued into the night. City crime branch’s Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) officials will also carry out a parallel enquiry as the specialised unit looks into all major bomb threat/hoax calls. The police have requested citizens to contact police control rooms in case they come across any suspicious activities or sensitive information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/security-beefed-up-in-mumbai-after-railway-cop-gets-phone-call-about-possible-bomb-attack-101636828371762.html
14-11-2021||India||‘Good quality legal aid possible only if senior lawyers join outreach drive’: SC judge justice Uday U Lalit||The National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) has been in a power-drive mode ever since justice Uday U Lalit took over as its executive chairperson in June this year. New records were made in disposal of cases in Lok Adalats as the Supreme Court judge infused renewed vigour and use of technological tools to facilitate settlement of cases without overstretched trials. Justice Lalit has a vision – to make access to justice not just a slogan but a reality for the person living in the remotest part of the country. In his interview to Hindi Hindustan’s Shashi Shekhar and Shyam Suman, the judge, who is in line to become the Chief Justice of India in August 2022, highlights the achievements of NALSA and the need to spread awareness, besides improving the quality of legal aid.How difficult was it to initiate the work as NALSA’s chairperson during the Covid-19 pandemic?It was virtually impossible to have physical interactions with officials of NALSA during the pandemic. Therefore, I immediately started having day-long interactive sessions with chairpersons of state-level services authorities and committees virtually to come to a common platform on areas that we needed to focus on. Following several rounds of deliberation, we were able to devise what is called a common module after identifying the major challenges before us.What emerged as chief areas of concern for NALSA that was set up to ensure fair and meaningful justice to the marginalised and disadvantaged sector?There were three or four issues that we could zero in on. First, we found out that legal aid in criminal cases constituted just about 1% of total cases. At a pre-arrest stage, legal aid cases constituted not even 1% of the total 1%. Therefore, the entire apparatus of legal aid seems to come to the rescue of a man only after his arrest. Why? We realised that awareness is something which is terribly lacking. We then took several measures. We got in touch with the Union ministry of home affairs to see that all first information reports (FIRs) give information that every suspect or accused is entitled to free legal aid, which can be secured through legal aid services clinics, etc. The MHA agreed and such instructions were issued to the home departments of all the states. FIRs now have such endorsements for awareness of those fearing arrests or arrested. We also said that all police stations should display information about free legal aid and the MHA has agreed to this.To spread awareness in rural areas, we had meetings with the department of post and telegraph and they have also agreed that every post office will display such information. Magistrates have also been asked to ensure that all those being produced before them in custody are provided legal aid before their cases are taken up. We are also ensuring those in jails get legal aid to move appropriate petitions and applications before courts. When I visited Cherlapally prison in Hyderabad, I saw inmates getting psychological help to ensure mental well-being. We also sent NALSA director Puneet Sehgal to Bulandshahr prison in Uttar Pradesh in July to collect inputs about capacity of prisons and prison management systems so that we can bring about necessary reforms for the inmates.Are there any special programmes for awareness and assistance to women and children?This is an area that has drawn our serious attention. We need to have para legal volunteers who can help women in the rural setups to raise their voice against domestic violence so that adequate legal aid can be provided. For children, we are focussing on providing them good quality education as enforcement of their constitutional right to education. For juveniles who are in conflict with law, we are going to focus on continuation of their education, besides access to rights as per the law. We are also mulling programmes for children with special needs in order to see that there is an inclusive setup.How has the endeavour to spread awareness worked so far?Spreading awareness is the most important step. In July this year, we had to organise the first Lok Adalat after I took over. During discussion, it was agreed that before the cases are considered in Lok Adalats, litigants and parties should be contacted so that they come prepared with terms of amicable settlements and the disputes can be laid to rest in just one sitting. We could, thus, settle 2.9 million cases in Lok Adalats held in July. This was as against the previous highest of 1.4 million cases. We utilised the virtual platform and technological tools to our advantage. While we initially thought that disposal of 2.9 million cases in July could be a result of the backlog of the Covid period, we were pleasantly surprised when we disposed of more than 4.2 million cases in the Lok Adalats that were held in September.What are your views on the quality of legal aid?There must be good quality legal aid. And good quality legal aid will be ensured only if senior advocates and established lawyers become part of the legal outreach programmes. People don’t come for legal aid because they are not assured of good quality assistance. If good seniors get associated, it will always ensure that. If a lawyer’s ability does not inspire confidence in a litigant, then however strong your outreach programmes are, they are not going to fructify in actual rendering of legal aid in court-based litigation. Some high courts call for records in cases where lawyers appeared as pro bono when they are considered for being designated as senior advocates. That kind of emphasis must be everywhere. We are also working on a module where a senior lawyer and a junior lawyer can be bracketed together in certain kinds of cases for a more effective representation.Has NALSA been able to reach every nook and corner of the country?As part of this programme, today, every village has been covered by our legal services authority. I have visited 13 states personally. I visited Ladakh in the north, Kanyakumari in the south, Kutch in the western front and Agartala and Mizoram on the eastern front. I must congratulate all persons who are part of the legal services. To commemorate 75 years of Independence of our country, NALSA devised a six-week long pan-Indian legal awareness and outreach campaign. In the last three phases, between October 2 and November 7, we have visited more than 1.5 million villages through door-to-door visits, interacting with around 630 million people and organising 464,000 legal awareness programmes. This programme culminates on November 14. We will galvanise all our resources and manpower in action and will reach every nook and corner by then.In a country as vast as ours, how do you see law colleges and students playing a role in the legal outreach programmes?In medical colleges, we have internship programmes that contemplate giving back to society whatever you have learnt. But there is no such internship in law colleges. Rather than making it compulsory, we got in touch with the Bar Council of India (BCI) with an idea that every law college adopt three talukas in the vicinity and send their law students as participants in the legal outreach programmes. Budding lawyers’ horizons are ever-expanding. If you indoctrinate law students, when they become lawyers, they are the surest sort of crop for you to induct in your legal aid service clinics. Fresh talent will keep coming in. The BCI has accepted this suggestion and has given us the list of colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-u-u-lalit-interview-good-quality-legal-aid-possible-only-if-senior-lawyers-join-outreach-drive-101636828193113.html
14-11-2021||India||Inaction on farm fires, slow Grap keep toxic haze hanging||s the Capital’s residents got no respite from poisonous air on Saturday, the Delhi government announced closure of all schools, colleges, other educational institutions and its offices in desperate measures necessitated by an all-round failure to combat the ecological emergency.The familiar script of too little, too late played out once again this year as graded response action plan (Grap) measures came into effect on the 10th day of the air quality being severe or in the upper end of the very poor category — the lowest reading over the period was 372 — even as the Punjab and Haryana governments turned a blind eye to the problem of farm stubble burning.The crisis again laid bare how a reactive approach falls woefully short in addressing Delhi’s bad air problem that requires proactively working on long-term issues such as cropping patterns and desertification, responding quickly with short-term measures when the AQI deteriorates, and collaboration between different states in the region — there has been failure on each aspect.No action has been initiated on the ground so far against farmers openly violating government directives on stubble burning. On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal convened an emergency meeting hours after the Supreme Court suggested that the Centre and the Delhi government consider imposing a lockdown for two days in view of the hazardous pollution levels in the national capital. Kejriwal said there will be no immediate lockdown.“We are not imposing a lockdown in Delhi now. It is an extreme step, and for pollution such a measure has not been taken in the city so far. We will be preparing a proposal after thorough consultations with all stakeholders... Once ready, we will submit the proposal to the Supreme Court,” Kejriwal told reporters after the meeting.Senior officials in the Delhi government said the proposal will delve into aspects such as banning all private vehicles and shutting industries, among other things. “Private offices will also be mandated to work from home in that case. But, just as the chief minister said, nothing can be decided without consultations with the L-G and the central government,” one of the officials said on condition of anonymity.New measures that will kick in from Monday include closure of physical classes in all schools, colleges and educational institutions for a week. All Delhi government offices, agencies and companies will also shift to complete work from home mode for a week starting Monday.“Schools will be shut so that children do not have to breathe polluted air by stepping out. Virtual classes will continue. Also, the entire Delhi government will shift to WFH for a week as well,” Kejriwal said.For private offices, the Delhi government will issue an advisory urging them to promote WFH as far as possible. However, senior government officials on condition of anonymity said the advisory will not be binding on any private office, unless a lockdown is imposed at a later stage.The government also imposed a blanket ban on all construction activities till November 17 (Wednesday), until further orders. “As per weather reports, there will be no wind to disperse pollutants in the air between November 14-17 and smoke from stubble burning in the neighbouring states will continue to come. It looks like the situation during these day could worsen. So, during this time, all construction activities will be shut,” the chief minister said.Delhi’s air quality saw only a minor improvement on Saturday. CPCB recordings showed that the overall air quality index of Delhi was 437. While this was a marginal improvement from Friday’s 471, which was the highest recording for the season, this was the third consecutive day that the Capital’s air remained in the dangerous zone, posing severe health risks to residents.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned that while Saturday’s improvement in air quality was a result of slight improvement in wind speeds and reduction in moisture levels in the atmosphere, this relief is only temporary. From November 14, winds will start slowing down again and remain so till November 17.“The winds picked up today (Saturday) and by afternoon reached around 12kmph. This helped clear out the haze a little. The impact of these winds will be seen till Sunday morning but after that wind speeds will reduce again and pollution levels will start rising,” said VK Soni, head of the IMD’s environment and research centre.Kejriwal said pollution levels in Delhi were satisfactory till September 30. “But the air quality started deteriorating due to stubble burning from neighbouring states. This is not the time to play a blame game. The Centre will do what it needs to and the same goes for other states,” he said.Based on IMD’s forecast, the sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM) for the implementation of Grap conducted a meeting on Saturday but no additional measures were suggested. The sub-committee, however, has asked government agencies to “be prepared” to implement emergency measures listed under Grap “in short notice” looking at the unfavourable weather forecast. The minutes of the meeting also indicated that if pollution worsens some additional measures that will be “deemed necessary” to control the rising levels will also be put in place.School administrators in Delhi said they will comply with the government orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inaction-on-farm-fires-slow-grap-keep-toxic-haze-hanging-101636828129784.html
14-11-2021||India||Freedom fighter grandfather inspired deceased Colonel Tripathi to join army||Colonel Viplav Tripathi, who was martyred in an ambush set by militants in Manipur on Saturday, was inspired by his freedom fighter grand-father who was also a member of the Constituent Assembly.Kishori Mohan Tripathi died in 1994 when Viplav was 14. It was his grand-father who inspired Viplav to don the army uniform, his maternal uncle (`mama') Rajesh Patnaik told PTI here.Colonel Tripathi, the Commanding Officer of Khuga Battalion of Assam Rifles, his wife Anuja (36) and son Abir (5) besides four personnel of the paramilitary force were killed in an ambush by militants in the north-eastern state.The Tripathi family hails from Raigarh in Chhattisgarh.“Viplav joined the Indian Army with the goal of serving the nation, taking inspiration from his grandfather, a great freedom fighter. His father, a senior journalist, and his mother, a social activist, also encouraged him. He has sacrificed his life while serving for the country. We are proud of him,” Patnaik said.Viplav was attached to Kishori Mohan, and had even visited the Rashtrapati Bhavan with him when Giani Zail Singh was President, he said.Born on May 30, 1980, Viplav went to the Sainik School Rewa (Madhya Pradesh) after passing class V at a school in Raigarh town. His father, Subhash Tripathi (76) is a senior journalist and editor of the local Hindi daily 'Dainik Bayar' and mother Asha Tripathi is a retired librarian.After schooling, Viplav got admission to the National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla and then joined the Indian Military Academy (IMA), Dehradun, Patnaik said.In 2001, he was commissioned as a lieutenant in the Kumaon Regiment in Ranikhet. He later passed a command course from the Defence Service Staff College (DSSC) Wellington.Viplav's younger brother Anay Tripathi, who also studied at the Sainik School Rewa, is also an army officer, now posted as lieutenant colonel in Shillong, Patnaik said."Anay, who had arrived in Raigarh on Friday night, got the shocking news about his brother through his army colleagues around 12:30 pm today," an inconsolable Patnaik said.“The entire family had celebrated Diwali this year in Manipur, where Viplav was posted. His parents returned to Raigarh on November 6," he said.Anay has left for the Eastern Command headquarters of the army in Kolkata, and mortal remains of Viplav, his wife and son would be brought to Raigarh on Sunday, Patnaik said.A pall of gloom descended on Raigarh town when the news reached, with locals rushing to his house to express their condolences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/freedom-fighter-grandfather-inspired-deceased-colonel-tripathi-to-join-army-101636827873378.html
14-11-2021||India||Policemen gun down 26 Maoists in Maharashtra||At least 26 Maoists were killed in an encounter with security forces in the dense forests of Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district, officials said on Saturday evening, in one of the deadliest counter-insurgency operations in the region since 2018 when 42 Maoists were killed in two encounters.People aware of the developments said that four police officials were seriously injured in the gunbattle that lasted for about 10 hours, and were airlifted to Orange City Hospital in Nagpur for treatment.The major offensive came after specific intelligence about the movement of the Maoists from Chhattisgarh to the forests of Mardintola and Kotgul, under the Gyarapatti police station, for a meeting, the officials said.The site of the encounter is over 900km away from Mumbai and borders Chhattisgarh.A special police party with jawans of the C-60 force, an elite anti-Maoist squad of the district police, led by additional superintendent of police Soumya Munde, raided the Maoist hideouts at around 6am, the officials said.“Police had received secret information that there was a camp of Naxalites in the Gyarapatti-Kodagul forest of Korchi, on the basis of this, the C-60 unit of Gadchiroli Police started the search operation in Gyarapatti-Kodagul forest from 6am on Saturday morning,” Gadchiroli superintendent of police Ankit Goyal told news agency ANI.During the raids, the left-wing extremists started firing at the security forces that retaliated the gun fire, the official said. The encounter continued till 4.30pm, he said. A special combat force of the district police was sent to the forest to aid the security efforts, Goyal said.“We have recovered the bodies of 26 Naxals so far from the forest,” Goyal said, adding that toll may increase as a search operation in the area is still going on, amid sporadic gunfire. The slain Maoists include women commanders, the official said. The bodies of the slain Maoists will be brought to Gadchiroli for post-mortem examination, Goyal said.Officials believe that the heavy casualties suffered in the encounter will have disastrous impacts on the Maoist movement. Gadchiroli is one of the dozens of Maoist hotbeds dotting central and eastern India.“Gadhchiroli, after being developed into a strong zone, became the pivotal point in the Maoist dominated areas particularly in Bastar, enabling supply of logistics, medicines and medical treatment to the cadres, “ a senior Chhattisgarh Police official said. Over the past few years, the extremists have attempted an expansion into the MMC zone (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence) -- a new area adjoining the Kanha reserve that they are seeking to enter.Gadhchiroli also offered a safe passage for cadres and senior leaders of the outfit’s central committee to travel to MMC zone. “The gradual decimation of Maoists in Gadchiroli will have disastrous impact on growth of Maoists in MMC region. Maoists in Bastar will be isolated with pressure across Gadchiroli, Telangana, AP and Odisha,” another official in Chhattisgarh said. While the identities of the Maoists are yet to be ascertained, people familiar with the matter said that many senior members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in the operation.Milind Teltumbde, a central committee member, who was once the secretary of the Maharashtra unit of the CPI (Maoist), is suspected to have been one of the targets in the encounter, the people cited above said.Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil told PTI that the police were verifying if Teltumbde was among the slain rebels. Teltumbde, along with his brother, Anand Teltumbde, a Dalit ideologue, is an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. “We will be able to provide all the details tomorrow after the identification,” Goyal said.A police official in Chhattisgarh said Teltumbde was tasked with the consolidation of the MMC zone.“After the identification of MMC zone, Milind Teltumbde was appointed as the head of the zone and Gadhchiroli division was tasked to oversee the expansion and consolidation of the MMC zone”, the official said.The police have recovered a huge cache of arms and ammunition, and Maoist literature from the encounter site, Goyal said.Saturday’s encounter is the one of biggest operations since 2018, when around 42 cadres of the Maoists were killed in two separate encounters with the Gadchiroli police in Rela-Kasnasur and Nainer forests on April 22 and 23, 2018.Srikant alias Srinu, the in-charge of the south Gadchiroli division of the CPI(M), and Dolesh Madhi Atram alias Sainath, were among those killed in the twin encounters.The encounter has dealt a blow to the extremist forces. Bose, alias Kishan Da, was arrested along with his wife Sheela Marandi, a central committee member of the banned outfit. According to official records, 43 CPI(M) members gave up arms in Gadchiroli between 2019 and 2021.Apart from this, Maoists of the Dandakaranya Zonal Committee have claimed that 96 members of the outfit died between July 2020 and July 2021. Of these, they said, 27 were women cadres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policemen-gun-down-26-maoists-in-maharashtra-101636828070478.html
14-11-2021||India||Colonel, wife, 8-yr-old son among 7 killed in Manipur||Armed militants on Saturday ambushed an Assam Rifles convoy near the porous India-Myanmar border in Manipur’s Churachandpur district, killing five soldiers including a colonel, his wife, their eight-year-old son, and injuring six personnel of whom four are critical and battling for their lives at a medical facility in the state, people familiar with the developments said.The commanding officer of the 46 Assam Rifles, Colonel Viplav Tripathi, and his quick reaction team (QRT) were returning from the Behiang border post and heading to the battalion headquarters at Khuga when the militants ambushed them at S Sehken village under Singhat sub-division at around 11am, said one of the officials cited above. Apart from Tripathi, his wife Anuja and son Abeer; Riflemen NK Nayak, Suman Swargiary, RP Meena and Shyamal Das were killed in the planned attack. Family members of soldiers being hit by insurgents is a rarity and has sent shock waves through the military community.In May 2002, terrorists killed 31 people at an army base in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kaluchak area, including three soldiers and 18 family members (the youngest a two-month-old girl).The attackers first triggered an improvised explosive device (IED) on the single-lane road in a densely forested area and then brought the Assam Rifles personnel under heavy automatic fire to inflict maximum casualties, bringing back memories of the June 2015 Chandel ambush in the state in which a Dogra battalion of the Indian Army lost 18 men, said a second official. Five days after the Dogra unit was attacked in broad daylight in the Moltuk Valley, India’s Special Forces responded with a cross-border raid into Myanmar where they targeted and destroyed two insurgent camps.The Revolutionary People’s Front (RPF), a group under which PLA Manipur operates, on Saturday night claimed responsibility for the ambush, but said it wasn’t aware of the presence of family members in the convoy. The RPF statement added that family members should not be moving around in a disturbed area.“These insurgent outfits do not normally target women and children… The latest attack is an attempt by insurgents to establish their relevance at a time when violent incidents have reduced significantly in Manipur. A nudge by China cannot be ruled out,” said lieutenant general Konsam Himalay Singh, who retired in 2017 and is the first army officer from the Northeast to reach the three-star rank. The RPF statement was in Manipuri, and General Singh interpreted it for HT.Security forces on Saturday launched a manhunt for the insurgents but they may have slipped across the porous border into Myanmar, officials said.Tripathi’s unit, 46 Assam Rifles, had disrupted several drug trafficking rings in the area and may have been targeted by the insurgents because of its successes in curbing the illegal money-spinning trade, HT has learnt. The aftershocks of the hit were felt in New Delhi, with the government vowing strong action against the insurgents.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the attack. “Their sacrifice will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with the bereaved families in this hour of sadness,” the Prime Minister wrote on Twitter.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the perpetrators of the attack would be brought to justice swiftly. “The cowardly attack on an Assam Rifles convoy is extremely painful and condemnable. The nation has lost five brave soldiers including CO 46 AR and two family members. My condolences to the bereaved families,” Singh said.State chief minister N Biren Singh said security forces had launched a hunt for the militants and would be brought to justice.The security establishment had earlier suspected that the People’s Liberation Army of Manipur carried out the attack.At least half a dozen main insurgent groups are active in the state including PLA, People’s Revolutionary Party of Kangleipak (PREPAK), Kanglei Yawol Kanna Lup, Kangleipak Communist Party, Kuki National Army and Kuki National Front.“Insurgents may have carried out the attack to impose caution on the Assam Rifles as this unit was extremely successful in busting drug-trafficking networks in the area. These insurgent groups are involved in illegal narcotics trade,” said Lieutenant General Shokin Chauhan (retd), who headed the Assam Rifles in 2017-18.The road on which the ambush took place is one of the alternative routes from Myanmar to Imphal, and is used for drug trafficking.Like General Singh, Chauhan also didn’t rule out a Chinese angle to the attack. “The People’s Liberation Army of Manipur is known to be in sync with China. It is within the realm of possibility that it was ordered to carry out the hit to force India to deploy more forces in the area at a time when there’s tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China,” he said.He added that the attackers would have known that civilians were part of the Assam Rifles convoy but still carried out the daytime hit. (HT spoke to Chauhan before RPF issued the statement.)According to figures obtained by HT in 2018, the average annual operations launched by the army and Assam Rifles in Manipur involve setting up 52,000 check posts, 42,000 patrols, over 10,000 ambushes and 550 special operations.IEDs are one of the biggest challenges confronting soldiers deployed in insurgency-hit Manipur and mitigating that threat is a top priority for the security forces. The weapon has killed, maimed or injured hundreds of soldiers in the north-east over the last three decades.The vast area that the security forces operate in, the state’s topography and a 398km porous border with Myanmar are among the challenges faced by soldiers who operate from 180 bases scattered across Manipur, officials said.The latest ambush comes at a time when the security situation in the North-east had improved significantly in the army’s assessment, and a planned and gradual drawdown of soldiers is underway there.In February 2021, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said two army divisions had been pulled out of counter-insurgency and internal security duties in the Northeast, and were solely focused on their operational role along the China border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/colonel-wife-8-yr-old-son-among-7-killed-in-manipur-101636828069758.html
14-11-2021||India||Gadchiroli op may deter Maoist expansion plans||Gadchiroli, located on the eastern border of Maharashtra, holds key logistical importance for the guerilla Maoist movement as its forests and hilly terrain provide a safe route for the cadre and transportation of resources. Saturday’s security operation, in which 26 Maoists, including possibly some of their key leaders, were killed, was likely to provide forces an edge in the area, officials said.The major offensive came after specific intelligence about the movement of the Maoists from Chhattisgarh to the forests of Mardintola and Kotgul, under the Gyarapatti police station, for a meeting, the officials said.The site of the encounter is over 900km away from Mumbai and borders Chhattisgarh.According to officials familiar with the matter, over the past few years, the extremists have been attempting an expansion into the MMC zone (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence) — a new area adjoining the Kanha reserve that they are seeking to enter.  “After the identification of MMC zone, Milind Baburao Teltumbde alias Deepak Teltumbde was appointed as the head of the zone and Gadchiroli division was tasked to oversee the expansion and consolidation of the MMC zone,” the official added.Gadchiroli is one of the dozens of Maoist hotbeds in the country.“Gadhchiroli, after being developed into a strong zone, became the pivotal point in the Maoist dominated areas particularly in Bastar, enabling supply of logistics, medicines and medical treatment to the cadres,” a senior Chhattisgarh Police official said.In May 2019, at least 15 security personnel and a civilian were killed in an IED explosion triggered by Maoists in the area.The area also offered a safe passage for Maoist cadres and senior leaders of the outfit’s central committee to travel to MMC zone. “The gradual decimation of Maoists in Gadchiroli will have disastrous impact on growth of Maoists in MMC region. Maoists in Bastar will be isolated with pressure across Gadchiroli, Telangana, AP and Odisha,” another official in Chhattisgarh said.While the identities of the slain Maoists are yet to be ascertained, people familiar with the matter said that many senior members of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) were killed in the operation and the encounter will have disastrous impacts on the Maoist movement in the area.Milind Teltumbde, a central committee member who is the secretary of the Maharashtra unit of the CPI (Maoist), is suspected to have been one of the targets in the encounter, the people cited above said.Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil told news agency PTI that the police were verifying if Teltumbde was among the slain rebels.Teltumbde and his brother, Anand Teltumbde, a Dalit ideologue, are accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. He was instrumental for the growth of Maoist movement in Gadchiroli, Rajnandgaon and Gondia.“We will be able to provide all the details tomorrow after the identification,” Gadchiroli superintendent of police Ankit Goyal told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadchiroli-op-may-deter-maoist-expansion-plans-101636828010616.html
14-11-2021||India||16-year-old girl dies by suicide in Tripura village, family alleges rape||A 16-year-old girl died by suicide, days after she was allegedly raped by a 21-year-old man in Tripura’s Dhalai district, police said on Saturday.According to the police, the incident happened on November 4, but the victim’s mother approached the police on Friday night.According to the complainant, one Sourav Shil (21) raped the victim on November 4 in a village in Dhalai district, when she was visiting a relative’s house. The minor girl later told her mother about the assault, it added.On November 6, the minor consumed poison and was rushed to a local hospital. She was later referred to Govind Ballabh Pant hospital where she succumbed to her injuries.“We registered a case based on the complaint. The delay happened due to post-crematorium rituals of the deceased. We have started our investigation,” said a police official of Kamalpur Police Station, who refused to be named. The accused is currently absconding, the official added.A member of the district Child Line said that they met the victim’s parents.“ We are waiting for reply from the Child Welfare Committee on the issue. After that, we will decide our next step,” said the member. (If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16yearold-girl-dies-by-suicide-in-tripura-village-family-alleges-rape-101636827530204.html
14-11-2021||India||TN teacher held for sexual assault on student who died by suicide||The Tamil Nadu police on Saturday arrested a 31-year-old teacher of a prominent school in Coimbatore for allegedly sexually assaulting a Class 12 student, who died by suicide on Thursday, officials familiar with the matter said.The police have also booked the school principal under the Pocso Act for allegedly not acting on the student’s complaint. Police said the 17-year-old also named two other people, including the main accused’s wife — a teacher at the same school— in her suicide note.“The sexual assault happened between March and May this year. Two months later, the victim shared her ordeal with one of her friends and they informed the principal. The wife of the accused also knew about the alleged assault,” Coimbatore police commissioner Deepak Damor said.According to police, the accused Mithun Chakraborthy asked the student to come to school when classes were being held online on the pretext of conducting special classes and assaulted her within the institute’s premises. The victim’s mother told the police that they shifted her to a different school in September after she repeatedly asked them to do so, officials said. The teenager, however, did not specify why she wanted to be moved to a different school, the police quoted her mother as saying.The accused also resigned from the school in September but continued to harass the girl, police said. A case has been registered against Chakravarthy under IPC Section 306 (abetment of suicide) and relevant sections of the POCSO Act.Chief minister MK Stalin expressed grief over the student’s death and promised stringent action against the culprits. He said the act of “some human beasts” has taken away a life.“Schools should ensure sexual assaults do not happen. (we) will arrest the culprits and bring them before the law... will ensure the safety of women,” he said in a tweet||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-teacher-held-for-sexual-assault-on-student-who-died-by-suicide-101636827410391.html
